05-06-2020||News||The RTI regime failed India during Covid-19||In the lethal jaws of a pandemic, when lives and livelihoods are at stake, the information law of a democracy is expected to live up to its responsibilities — to empower the citizens and to ensure transparency and accountability. Free flow of information is an essential component of crisis management. And this is a crisis like no other.However, during these trying times, instead of proving its rigour and tenacity, the Right to Information (RTI) regime failed to deliver. People merely turned into passive consumers of media reports, TV debates, advertisements, and press releases churned out by various departments which cannot replace the regime of transparency upheld by the RTI Act. The need of the hour in such adversity is to share data nationwide and reply to RTI queries to clarify doubts, dissipate insecurity, and bolster people’s faith in the information system. After the lockdown was imposed on March 25, the Central Information Commission (CIC) was perhaps the only one out of the total 29 commissions in the country to start work on April 20. As per a telephonic survey conducted by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), during the first and second phase of the lockdown, the State Information Commissions (SICs) just remained dormant. Information on critical issues eluded the public. A query, under the RTI, seeking details of PM Cares fund was denied by the Prime Minister’s Office, stating it is not a public authority and the State Bank of India refused to give these details on the ground that it was third party information held under fiduciary capacity. This violates the basic axiom that the public must have access to the details of a public fund. The CIC, in two separate decisions, had directed that information to queries on PM and CM Relief Funds must be given. The matter is pending in the high court since 2018 but no stay was given on CIC’s decision. Some other queries have fared no better. A query filed with the department of financial services (DFS) seeking details of suo motu disclosure of details of actual access to PM Garib Kalyan Yojna by beneficiaries has taken a rollercoaster ride from DFS to the ministry of rural development to the department of economic affairs, back to DFS and again to rural development. While RTI queries regarding the list of district-wise coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment facilities were being transferred from one department to another, the health minister issued a press release on the nationwide health care facilities. Tens of thousands of migrant labours, rendered jobless and homeless, walked on the highways and railway tracks towards their homes in the blazing summer heat with their children and humble belongings. Many perished, unsung and unlamented, on their way. However, in reply to a query under the RTI Act, the office of the Chief Labour Commissioner (CLC), under the Union ministry of labour and employment, claimed that it does not have state-wise and district-wise data with respect to the migrant labourers. This, despite the CLC directing the regional heads based in 20 centres across the country to enumerate every migrant worker stranded due to the lockdown within three days during the second week of April. The CIC has directed CLC on May 27 to post the information on the website.A few videos showing police brutality in enforcing restrictions on people’s movement had gone viral. The citizens need to know the truth and action taken against those policemen. Such information can be available only if a robust regime of RTI prevails and the relevant portals are updated with suo motu disclosures.During the Covid-19 scare, bewildered citizens deserve to be taken into confidence. They have the right to know more about the country’s health care system. For instance, who is being held accountable for approving the purchase of faulty testing kits by the government that jeopardised the testing of Covid-19 for days, and for providing poor quality Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to frontline health care workers who are contracting the infection? Those in lockdown need to access the outer world. State-wise data about the movement of food grains and other essentials was given in press releases. But people need to check out the distribution data at the district and fair price shop level. They need to know whether there has indeed been any diversion of food grains, as alleged. The SICs could have done yeoman’s service at this time hearing such matters on priority.Each of these queries relating to health care, PM Cares fund, welfare programmes and migrants ought to have been on the website portals. A broken RTI system during Covid-19 times could not respond to correct the malaise. SICs remained dormant and the CIC did not bring to book those responsible for the lapse. The current health hazard is fast transforming into a socioeconomic crisis of an immense proportion and government-public interaction as well as information sharing need to increase befittingly. Ministers and government spokespersons cannot remain the sole disseminators of information. There has to be an institutional response through the RTI regime already in place.RTI queries increased by 83.83%, from 8,86,681 in 2012-13 to 16,30,048 in 2018-19, indicating the rising faith of our people in the RTI system. But it is in times of such a crisis that the regime is really tested. The political executive and information commissioners, therefore, need to reflect deeply and bolster the RTI machinery in the interest of the people and the nation at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-rti-regime-failed-india-during-covid-19/story-B1zj5939aPdl1Z5MwA1AoK.html
05-06-2020||News||Covid-19: A historic opportunity to redefine the Indian school system||Respected Dr Ramesh Pokhariyal ‘Nishank’ ji,I write to you not just as the education minister of Delhi but also as a citizen and parent concerned about the future of millions of children of our country. After a prolonged closure of schools due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), it is heartening to know that ministry of human resource development is devising basic guidelines for reopening schools. The Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, said some time ago that “we need to learn to live with corona” and reopening of schools with reasonable precautions is a welcome step in that direction. While the pandemic has created an unprecedented challenge for humanity, it also offers a unique opportunity to re-imagine our schools. In the new way of life post-corona, we need to think afresh about the role of our schools. We can transform schools from being a mere implementers of directions from the directorate or district headquarters to having a central role in our society. And, it would be a historical blunder if we miss this opportunity by not entrusting our schools with a bigger and bolder role to prepare children for a better life and not just for lessons from their textbooks. In this regard, here is what I would like to suggest. First, we need to assure every child, irrespective of age and social class, that they are important to us and all of them have an equal right to the physical and intellectual space of their respective schools. The clamour of online teaching or older children coming to school first and not the younger ones should be put to rest. Online teaching can only complement the learning in school, not replace it. Similarly, in being mindful of ensuring access with equity for all children, students of secondary grades should not be prioritised over primary-grade children. Learning at all stages is important, whether it is preparing for board exams or learning to read and write.Here, I envision two distinct approaches for children of different age groups.To learn to live with the virus, what better place than the school to learn that lesson and which better grades than the early grades from nursery to Class 8. Children of this age group (with reasonable distancing and supportive supervision norms) are among the least likely to be infected and this needs to be communicated to parents. Parents should be taken into confidence and should not be hurried or compelled to send their child to school. Further, the emphasis for children between three to 14 years should be on establishing the foundation of lifelong learning. The focus should exclusively be on the child’s happiness, support for responsible behaviour (without preaching) and building foundational learning skills instead of just completing the remaining syllabus. The goal should be that our children “learn to learn”. The only thing for which a teacher be held accountable is to ensure that every child stays connected with the school and enjoys the new teaching-learning format.For secondary and senior secondary grades, my suggestion is that National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) be asked to remove the stranglehold of syllabus and rote-learning oriented examinations from the academic life of a child. To begin with, NCERT should reduce the syllabus by at least 30% across all grades and subjects. Let there be more depth in learning and understanding rather than spreading the curriculum far and wide. Similarly, CBSE should move away from the one-time high-stakes exam of class 10 and 12 towards a model of continuous evaluation and anytime exam. In this context, I have another suggestion about redefining our approach towards teachers’ training. We cannot expect a fundamental change in education and examinations unless our teachers are prepared for it. This would entail international level training with exposure to innovative practices across the world. Apart from training, emphasis should also be on research so that new techniques of teaching-learning can be understood and implemented at the school level. We can learn so much from Singapore’s model of teacher training, and the approach of the International Baccalaureate (IB) board towards assessments.With a broad framework in place, we should let the schools re-imagine their role, by taking their context and resources into account, and propose their plan of reopening by consulting with their key stakeholders. In the process of learning to live with the coronavirus, there will be major changes in schools across the world. It is for us to decide whether we reorganise our schools based on the need of our society and learnings from our nation’s great history or that we wait for other countries or some other societies to do something and then we copy-paste those solutions here. In my view, we need to take decisive steps now to place the school right at the centre of the community. I am fully aware that this is not easy, and schools will require a lot of support but just like children, our schools, education systems and policymakers like us also need to learn, grow and be responsible.I hope you will consider my suggestions and together we will give back a better and more caring school to all our children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-a-historic-opportunity-to-redefine-the-indian-school-system/story-isXZ8YoTqrPAxR1TPE1jYK.html
05-06-2020||News||Public servants on official duty need not worry. They have adequate safety guaranteed in law||On May 23, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman announced that banks should automatically extend loans to eligible micro, small and medium enterprises sector borrowers without the fear of 3Cs – CBI, CVC, and CAG (Central Bureau of Investigation, Central Vigilance Commission, and Comptroller and Auditor General, respectively). The FM’s statement highlighted the widely perceived apprehension among public servants that they can be later prosecuted for their bona fide decisions.Good governance, which allows public servants to be innovative in their planning and execution, should not be subservient to the repeated assurance of protections by the political executive.Corruption by public servants is undoubtedly a menace to society. It subverts democratic processes and the rule of law, adversely affecting the social and economic development. At the same time, society must protect honest and upright public servants to enable them to function freely and fairly. An efficient and fearless bureaucracy is a must for the country’s growth and it can only be ensured by providing public servants with adequate legal protection.The need of the hour is to instil belief among the public servants as well as the public that existing legal framework balances both the aspects: It punishes the corrupt and protects the honest and upright.In India, the statutory framework relating to anti-corruption laws dates back to 1860 when it was made part of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Later, it was supplemented with another statute – the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (1947 PC Act). Both of these were finally replaced by a consolidated law, the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (1988 PC Act). Delinquent public servants are generally prosecuted under the 1988 PC Act and, sometimes, also under IPC or other penal statutes. These anti-corruption statutes prescribe stringent punishments to create a deterrent effect on corrupt public servants.Under the existing statutory framework, a public servant on official duty is protected from frivolous prosecution at three levels. First, the enactments generally prohibit the initiation of any legal proceeding against a public servant for actions taken by them in good faith. Second, they require prior approval of the concerned government before initiating an enquiry or registering a case for acts done in discharge of his official function or duties. And, third, they require prior sanction from the government for the court to take cognisance of the offence.The above protections, however, cannot be taken as absolute. The authority’s decision to grant or refuse sanction to prosecute, in principle, is final, but such decisions are supposed to be made after scrutinising the evidence in a free and fair manner. Courts have consistently held that the prior sanction is a safeguard for public servants making bona fide decisions, but not a shield for the corrupt. Therefore, at the sanctioning stage, the authority is expected to act in a free and fair manner.At times, public servants are caught in a political quagmire or legal logjam, and, along with political executives, become an undesirable victim of prosecution. Scrutiny of court cases and media reports show that a change in government has on many occasions led to the prosecution of public servants who, as part of their official duties, executed policy decisions of previous regimes.The inadequacy of the existing legal framework in protecting bona fide decisions of public servants brought in an amendment in the PC Act in 2018.These Amendments brought paradigm shift and introduced three significant protections to allay the fears of honest public servants. One, the deletion of Section 13 (1) (d), which allowed even honest decisions to be termed as corrupt on the ground that the decision made was not in the larger public interest. It made public servants liable for prosecution without any mens rea or allegations of quid pro quo. Two, the amendments made the prior approval of government compulsory to initiate an enquiry or investigation against a public servant for decisions taken in discharge of their official duty. And, three, the amendments made prior sanction compulsory for the prosecution of even retired public servants.The 2018 amendments in PC Act, thus, afford among the highest protection in the world to public servants in India. These protections come into play the moment a complaint is brought against the public servant. As there are adequate statutory safeguards available, public servants need not worry about 3Cs while executing policies of the government in an efficient, free, fair and legal manner. But if they are still unable to perform, the fear of 3Cs can only be termed a ruse to avoid responsibility.Amit Anand Tiwari is an advocate in the Supreme Court. He is Special Counsel for CBI, and has extensive experience of handling cases related to the Prevention of Corruption ActThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/public-servants-on-official-duty-need-not-worry-they-have-adequate-safety-guaranteed-in-law/story-Iym4m6Oa7JlKfb9k6fUCbP.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||NDMC forms staff welfare cell for providing assistance to Covid positive officials||In light of a large number of employees at New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) testing positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the civic body on Friday set up an eight-member ‘Staff Welfare Cell’ to facilitate treatment and provide necessary assistance to its Covid-19 positive officials and staffers.The municipal body has also formed a four-member ‘Core Group’ to review the Covid-19 situation in the NDMC and also deal with critical cases. Director (welfare), NDMC, RP Gupta will serve as the nodal officer of the welfare cell—which would be responsible for providing all necessary assistance for proper medical treatment to Covid-19 positive officials and employees of the municipal body“All HODs (heads of departments) of NDMC will provide details of Covid-19 positive or suspected case to NDMC Staff Welfare Cell. The Cell will maintain department-wise detail of such officials and contact the patient or his family members for facilitating treatment for Covid-19 including testing, consultancy, and hospitalisation if required. A regular follow-up will also be done by the members of the Cell,” an NDMC statement said.At least 57 employees of NDMC, included six people that tested positive on Friday, have contracted Covid-19 so far. Out of these, four employees have died, while two have succumbed to the deadly infection. On May 28, the NDMC had to seal its headquarter building on Sansad Marg after six employees had tested Covid-19 positive there. The headquarter building was opened on Monday (June 1).The newly-formed welfare cell will ensure that the families of the infected employees have access to the supply of essential goods and medicine. According to the NDMC statement, it will also be responsible for arranging psychological counselling, providing moral support to the infected employees and their family members with assistance from director(medical services), Charak Palika Hospital.Meanwhile, the ‘Core Group’ set up by the NDMC will include medical officer( health), director(MS), director(welfare), and director(coordination, Covid cell).”The Core Group will meet on every alternate day to review the situation of Covid-19 cases. The Core Group is also mandated to suggest ways and means to further contain the Covid-19 cases for better management,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-forms-staff-welfare-cell-for-providing-assistance-to-covid-positive-officials/story-6vUEdyvlLifrLSYYEGYMdP.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||After campus protest, JNU tells teachers: Don’t break Covid rules, sully varsity image||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Friday appealed to its faculty members not to “sully the image of the university” by violating the Covid-19 guidelines, two days after some of them has held a protest on the campus against the arrests of students in connection with the north-east Delhi riots and protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).In a statement Friday, JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said, “It’s come to the notice of the administration that a few faculty members of the JNU had held a protest against CAA on the campus on June 3, 2020. While right to protest is well recognised and respected, violating the Covid-19 guidelines sets a wrong example, particularly when it is staged by intellectuals of a prestigious university such as the JNU.”“The protesting faculty members are requested not to sully the image of the university by violating the Covid-19 guidelines when the nation is working hard to contain the spread of the coronavirus,” the notice said.Several student groups across the country had participated in a nationwide protest against the “repression of anti-CAA activists” demanding a release of all such arrested persons. The protesters posted pictures on social media and gathered at different spots in the capital in small numbers while maintaining physical distancing. Members of the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said the faculty members did not violate any guidelines and the protest was held by maintaining proper social distancing. “The image of the university will only be sullied if the university community is silent in the face of injustice seen all around,” JNUTA secretary Surajit Majumdar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-campus-protest-jnu-tells-teachers-don-t-break-covid-rules-sully-varsity-image/story-qlfoyDQlwJTZ1NPOQdoVFK.html
05-06-2020||City||Hotels in Darjeeling, Bengal’s top tourism destination, to shut indefinitely from July 1||Hotels in Darjeeling, arguably Bengal’s top tourist destination, have decided to down their shutters indefinitely from July 1, a decision that may affect the livelihood of 10,000 families associated with the industry in the hill station and its outskirts. There are 380 hotels in Darjeeling town and its outskirts that accommodate nearly 4.5 lakh tourists every year.Though the West Bengal government has allowed the reopening of hotels and restaurants from June 8, the Darjeeling Hotel Owners’ Association says it is not feasible to operate with only a few tourists arriving due to the pandemic.“We do not see any tourist arrivals in the hills in the near future,” said Sangay Tshering, president of the Association. The decision was taken during the association’s meeting on Wednesday. “It would be untenable to keep the hotels open during the off-season,” said another hotelier who did not want to be named. The summer is the peak season for Darjeeling, and monsoon makes the dull season for the hill stations’ tourism industry.Those in the tourism industry, including travel and tour operators, say the decision would impact tourism industry in the whole region extending to the restaurants and the transport sector. The north Bengal tourism circuit comprises Darjeeling, Kalimpong hills and the foothills called the Dooars. Hotel owners in Kalimpong and Dooars, however, have not taken any such decision yet. Raj Basu, convenor, association for conservation and tourism, said he expects the tourism industry to be amongst the last to revive after the coronavirus crisis.“Though homestays having more than 6,000 rooms in Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills are unlikely to be affected, their owners are finding it difficult to get clearance from local villages to reopen. Under such circumstances, the decision to close Darjeeling hotels would also adversely affect the tourism business in other destinations,” Basu said.According to Sandipan Ghosh, secretary of eastern Himalaya travel and tour operators association (EHTTOA said he was still optimistic that the hoteliers’ association would revoke its decision. “Otherwise it would be difficult to market the region, as the itinerary would not be complete without Darjeeling.Ajoy Edwards, a spokesperson for the hill-based political party Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), threatened to move the Calcutta High Court against the decision. He said, “The decision to close down hotels is inhuman and against the business ethics.”Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators of the semi-autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, said, “The matter is very serious and we would soon call a tripartite meeting to find a middle path.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-in-darjeeling-bengal-s-top-tourism-destination-to-shut-indefinitely-from-july-1/story-0JbmuX2rHm6eETNLe3ILaN.html
05-06-2020||City||TMC initiates campaign to dispose of masks, gloves properly||On World Environment Day, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and RNisarg Foundation launched a campaign, Unlock Responsibly, on Friday. This aims at creating awareness among residents to be aware of their surroundings and safely dispose of masks and gloves.“As the unlock process begins, people will have to use masks and gloves regularly. To reduce the waste and to make sure that it does not contaminate others, we have released guidelines on the social media platforms,” said Manisha Pradhan, pollution control officer, TMC.“As shops have opened and people have started moving outdoors, there will be more usage of masks and gloves. It is essential to dispose of this properly. Hence, we started the campaign. But, we promote cotton masks which will just need to be washed,” added Pradhan.TMC has also released a video highlighting the impact of irresponsible disposal of plastic waste, masks and gloves. “The video shows how those picking up such waste and even stray animals and birds can be prone risk of virus. It can also clog nullahs and other river bodies. Hence, it is essential to throw it in the trash by following a proper process,” said a volunteer from RNisarg foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-initiates-campaign-to-dispose-of-masks-gloves-properly/story-T16K1uH2VC3gAzIQ8y580I.html
05-06-2020||Kolkata||Bengal to plant over 85 million saplings to restore damage caused by cyclone Amphan||The West Bengal government will plant over 85 million saplings of trees, including 50 million mangrove saplings, across the state in the next six months to restore the damage caused by cyclone Amphan.While chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that that 50 million mangrove saplings would be planted in the Sunderban – the world’s only mangrove where tigers live – another 35 million would be planted across the state.“We will plant around 50,000 saplings in Kolkata alone. Another 35 million saplings would be planted across the state. This apart 50 million saplings of mangrove would be planted in the Sunderban over the next six months,” she said while addressing a government program organised on the World Environment Day on June 5.Lakhs of trees have been either uprooted or severely damaged by the storm which had ravaged through eight districts in West Bengal. Around 100 million people have been affected. “At least 16,000 trees have been uprooted in Kolkata alone. The Sunderban have also suffered massive damage. Around 1600 sq km out ofthe 4200 sq km of forest area has been damaged in the Sunderban,” the chief minister said.The Sunderban the world’s largest mangrove delta and sprawls over India and Bangladesh. The Indian part comprises 102 islands, of which 54 have human settlements while the rest have forest. It has around 4200 sq km of forest crisscrossed by rivers and creeks. There are around 100 tigers in the Indian part of the Sunderban.“While planting in saplings in Kolkata we have to keep in mind the species which needs to be planed. I have seen huge trees uprooted, while slim and young Neem trees were safe. We have to plant young and hardy trees,” she added.Taking lessons from the cyclone, the city’s civic body is planning to change the pattern of tree plantation. It was found that most of the trees that got uprooted were Gulmohar, Eucalyptus and Indian almond.These trees earlier got a preference because they grow quick and help the city’s beautification. However, since it has been found that these trees are not strong enough to withstand strong winds, Kolkata municipal authorities will henceforth focus on planting, mango, neem, saal, Giant Crape-myrtle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-to-plant-over-85-million-saplings-to-restore-damage-caused-by-cyclone-amphan/story-MIcADCj3EknpwqqRP11L7O.html
05-06-2020||City||AC technician dies after falling from 7th floor||Gurugram A 38-year-old air-conditioner technician fell to his death while servicing an air-conditioner on the seventh-floor balcony of a private office in Galleria market in DLF-4 on Thursday afternoon. The police said they have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure(CrPC) after a probe revealed that it was a case of accidental death. According to the police, the incident was reported around 1.30pm, when the victim, Ritesh Bhutani, a resident of Jacobpura, along with a colleague, was conducting the servicing of the air-conditioner in the balcony area of the office on the seventh floor.The police said while servicing, the victim had climbed onto a parapet when he lost balance from a grille and fell from the seventh floor. The victim suffered multiple injuries and died on the spot. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival, said the police. Manoj Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 29 police station, said the post-mortem examination was conducted on Friday. “The probe has found that it was a case of accidental death. He was conducting servicing work when he lost his grip and fell,” said SHO Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ac-technician-dies-after-falling-from-7th-floor/story-AELtukqysMFKix0S5nazkO.html
05-06-2020||City||Automobile workshop in Sector 18 catches fire||Gurugram: An automobile workshop at Sector 18 caught fire on Friday evening, fire department officials said, adding that no casualty was reported in the incident.As per the fire officials, the fire occurred around 7.15pm at a single-storey service centre of an automobile company when the staff were closing operations for the day.It took 10 fire tenders nearly one hour to douse the fire, the officials said.“The blaze was significant, but was confined to one corner of the building. We were, hence, able to contain the fire before it spread quickly. Two vehicles suffered minor damages, and a few materials used in repairing vehicles were gutted,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.Kashyap said that the building had a valid no objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. He further said that the exact cause of the blaze is yet to be determined, but added they are suspecting fuel or oil leakage which might have ignited from a spark or a short-circuit in the electrical unit of the building.“We have a few theories for the cause of blaze. However, we will be able to determine only after our investigation is complete,” said Kashyap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/automobile-workshop-in-sector-18-catches-fire/story-GXNiQ77JiKmmHVZYsgBpBI.html
05-06-2020||City||45-year-old gardener found murdered in his room in Farrukhnagar||Gurugram A 45-year-old gardener was found murdered at his rented room in Farrukhnagar on Thursday night. The police said a preliminary probe has revealed that he was hit on the head with a heavy object and bled to death. According to the police, the victim, Ramesh, a native of Saraiya, Bihar, had been living in Farrukhnagar for over a decade and worked at his landlord’s garden and his shop. The police said he was in the process of shifting to another room in the neighbourhood. His son, Rakesh, who works at a grocery store in Farrukhnagar, said that on Thursday, he and his father had moved some of his luggage to the new accommodation. In the police complaint, Rakesh, said, “Some of the stuff was still in his old room. I went to work around 8am and had returned to have lunch with my father. After lunch, I went to work at the store. At 8.30pm, I received a phone call from a friend informing me that my father was lying in a pool of blood in his room,” said Rakesh. The police said they received information of the incident around 9pm and rushed to the spot. Savit Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Farrukhnagar police station, said, “ “The victim suffered injuries on his head and neck. Probe suggests that he was beaten up with a heavy object. We are checking for any CCTV footage in the area to identify the suspects, who may have visited the victim at his room. The reason for the alleged murder is not known.” The police said the victim’s body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination on Friday. A case was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the Farrukhnagar police station on Thursday night, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-gardener-found-murdered-in-his-room-in-farrukhnagar/story-u7J42r9no9zL5ePWRBjOML.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Excise officials destroy 8,500 litres of lahan during raid in Ludhiana village||Acting on a tip-off, a team of officials of the excise department conducted a raid and destroyed 8,500 litres of lahan (illicit liquor before distillation) by throwing it in the Sutlej river at Bholewal Jadid village of the district.This raid was led by excise inspector Navdeep Singh Hadiwal and the team comprised several officials from the department as well as the police commissionerate, Ludhiana.Hadiwal said the officials also confiscated four empty drums, one gas ‘bhati’, eight plastic tarpals, two tin utensils, four rubber tubes, two distillery pipes, two bags of jaggery (40 Kg each) from the spot.He said the persons, who had prepared the lahan, managed to flee from the spot. He said such raids would continue in the coming days as well and no person would be allowed to prepare illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/excise-officials-destroy-8-500-litres-of-lahan-during-raid-in-ludhiana-village/story-UEsIwJ7Zaawt7wDpOxOo8O.html
05-06-2020||City||Private schools reimagine the classroom space ahead of a possible reopening in July||Gurugram After staying closed for over two months now, schools in Haryana are expected to reopen in July. While private schools in the city await specific guidelines from the government, some of them have started reimagining the classroom space and working on protocols that would be in place as and when schools reopen. Many parents, however, continue to be sceptical about sending their children back to school as Covid-19 cases rise steadily in the city.SOP for schoolsExcelsior American School, Sector 43, has created a standard operating procedure (SOP) which will be in place whenever the school reopens. As per the SOP, school buses and staff will be sanitised before leaving the campus, the staff will wear gloves and masks at all times. Students will occupy two seats in the bus and will be directed to keep their hands on the lap and not touch any surfaces, among other measures.Pranita Verma, director, admissions and marketing, said that the school’s average class strength was around 15, which would work in its favour while ensuring physical distancing within the classroom space. “Physical distancing within the classroom might not be a major challenge for us. However, for other common places such as the cafeteria, we are planning to employ more staff to handle operations so that distancing norms are complied with during lunch hours,” said Verma.The school plans to have sanitisation stations at every floor while a sanitisation room for groceries has already been created. Verma said that the school will be holding workshops prior to the resumption of classes to sensitise children against touching surfaces.Other schools, meanwhile, are treading cautiously and awaiting specific directions from the government before they can take a call on the resumption of classes on premises. “We don’t know by when we will be able to open the schools again. The situation is changing daily and in case there’s a spike, as expected, I doubt if the government will even ask schools to open,” said Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45.Misra said that even parents might have concerns about sending children to school before the actual flattening of the curve begins. “Parents are also a little tense about the manner in which schools will be opened. Schools saw a spiking of cases in France and Germany after opening. We will need to factor these things in,” said Misra.Preparing for the BoardsThe schools, meanwhile, will be opening for board exams from July 1 to 15 and has been sanitised for the same. It has also started prepping up infrastructure to meet the demands of the changing nature of imparting education. “Arrangements have been made for having stronger Wi-Fi signals in schools, in case there’s an arrangement of having some children in school, while others stay at home. We could record the interaction and make it available for those at home or we can work out an arrangement were classes are beamed directly into the homes of children,” said Misra.Enforcing social distancingMisra said that while physical distancing norms could be put in place, the bigger challenge lied in ensuring that students complied with distancing norms amid the changing classroom dynamics. “Little children hug their teachers as soon as they enter the classroom. Telling children to not hug their teachers will be difficult. These are ingrained everyday experiences and we will need to start training for dealing with such things months before the actual school starts. Parents will have to talk with them often. Teachers will have to talk to them in the course of their lessons and convey, ‘I love you but I can’t hug you’,” she said.The school has plans of investing in posters with messages that will be plastered across the school. “We will have messages all over which will make the child feel loved and wanted without being touched. The element of touch will have to go,” said Misra.Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said that based on the government guidelines, the school would be assessing the population of children and teachers in the school that come from Delhi and other NCR cities and consult parents. “We will have to go through the SOP that will be issued by the government and see how well-equipped we are to enforce the measures. We will have to assess the situation in NCR before reopening schools. If there are students and teachers in containment zones, we will have to plan accordingly,” said Bhadoo.Infrastructure challengesBhadoo said that implementation of physical distancing practices would be challenging, with infrastructure becoming a possible bottleneck. The school has been working on mock classroom setups with physical distancing norms in place on the lines of the SOPs being implemented in other countries. “We have been looking at the best practices and SOPs that countries abroad have implemented. While working on mock classroom setups, we realised that even with huge rooms in schools, we would only be able to accommodate 12-13 children in a classroom. For a school like ours, this would mean splitting the classroom in two,” said Bhadoo. The school has 20-25 children in a classroom.Bhadoo said that based on government guidelines, schools will have to see if they are opting for a mechanism of having classes on alternate days or following a blended model of both online and offline classes. He said that the school would have to factor the interests of the teachers also. “Do teachers feel safe about coming to school? Would they want to come to school and risk community transmission? We will have to consider these questions. If the situation doesn’t improve, we might opt for a blended model with both online and offline classes, said Bhadoo.Parents speakMost parents, especially those with children in smaller classes, expressed concerns over the reopening of schools amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city. Rakshanda Fatima, a parent, said that it was better for schools to continue with online classes for younger children. “We can expect older children to maintain distancing norms and hygiene but monitoring younger children all the time is going to be a difficult task,” said Fatima.Tripti Singh, another parent, said that parents were worried with the rise in cases and it was too soon to open schools. “Schools have to start at some point but convincing parents to send children so soon will not be an easy task for schools. Any student, teacher, or staff member could be a carrier. I feel that schools should wait till the end of June and see how the situation develops,” said Singh, adding that online classes could continue for some more time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-reimagine-the-classroom-space-ahead-of-a-possible-reopening-in-july/story-10DnfEZXHf2ejlb50RWNDJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Gurugram notifies six new containment zones||Gurugram: Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, the district administration on Friday added six new areas and apartments to the list of containment zones, while three areas were denotified. Now, the number of containment zones in the district has increased to 66 from 63, officials said. The new containment zones are – Lagoon Apartment (DLF City Phase 3), Princeton Estate (DLF Phase 5), Nitin Vihar, Hans Enclave (Lanes 1 to 6 and 11 to 13), Saraswati Vihar (Maruti Vihar Gate) and Rajiv Colony ( Lane 2).“Six new areas have been added. Three areas – Jharsa Village, Chanden Vihar, and Godrej Frontier Society – have not reported any new cases in the past 28 days. These areas have been denotified now,” said Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for containment zones. He said that the health department is considering an area as a containment zone only if five Covid-19 cases are reported from there. Earlier, even if a single patient was reported, then that particular lane where a patient stayed was declared as containment zone.“It is due to the rapid increase in the Covid-19 cases that we are considering an area as a containment zone only after five Covid-19 positive cases. These cases have to be reported within the 1-kilometre perimeter of the epicentre, where the first infection has been reported,” said Singh. The district administration last month revised the perimeter of the containment zones to one kilometre from three kilometres. Other affected areas continuing from the last list are Govt Middle School, block C Palam Vihar; street number 1, Panchwali Colony in Daultabad; area around Nathuram market, DLF Phase 4; Orchid Garden, La Lagune Apartment and Olive Tower in Sector 54; Aggarwal Store, Yash Public School and RBS school in Palam Vihar Extension; Tau Gopi wali Gali in Rajendra Park; House numbers 685 to 789 and 915 to 919 in Chakkarpur; slums in Sector 53; community centre in Gurgaon village; Sadhguru Enclave and streets numbers 4,5,6 in Noble Enclave; streets on Old Railway road near Kalinath temple; Jwala mill parking wall in Sector 22; streets in Prempuri in sector 32; house numbers 219-223 of Indra Colony in Sector 52; Nilu ki Dhani in Shikohpur; Yadav Bhawan area in Rajiv Colony.Some areas like Sirhaul, Dundahera, Rajiv Nagar, Shakti Park, Krishna Nagar, and Jyoti Park, among others are also included in the list, having at least 20-40 active Covid-19 cases.The areas notified in Pataudi are Hari Mandir, Chotta Baazar in ward number 8 and some parts of village Dadawas. In Sohna, street number 6, N block, Naya Gaon and Mohan Nagar were notified as containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-notifies-six-new-containment-zones/story-y5fGpgfUKctZINaqK5jNNK.html
05-06-2020||Gurugram||HSVP sets up control room for contact tracing, monitoring PHCs||The urban development authority Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has set up a 24-member control room to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients in Gurugram, which has seen a surge in the coronavirus disease patients in the last few days.With the health department already engaged in Covid-19 management, Gurugram divisional commissioner Ashok Sanwan tasked senior officials of the urban development authority with tracing contacts, monitoring the 19 public health centres (PHCs) and support rapid response teams. The control room will start functioning from Saturday. Their responsibilities will involve calling Covid-19 patients in different containment zone assigned to it and coordinating with public health centres (PHCs) for information, and assisting the rapid response teams (RRTs).At each PHC too, one HSVP employee will act as a nodal officer whose duties will be to compile data, coordinate with health department and assist other Covid-19 teams in surveillance and sample collection.“The control room is at HUDA Gymkhana club. The staffers will create a comprehensive database on Covid-19 patients. We will also ascertain about high risk and low risk contacts and how they are quarantined and where they are staying,” said Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP. “The objective is to get information so that spread of Covid 19 is prevented by effective contact tracing.”The data will then be shared with concerned authorities.The HSVP team that has been constituted for the management of control room includes Vivek Choudhary and Nitin Mudgil, who are nodal officers of control room, Sanjay Kumar Verma and Pankaj, who will monitor all PHCs, Sandeep Singh to compile all data, Manoj Kumar and Krishan will facilitating rapid responde teams (RRTs), Gaurav Kumar shall prepare reports for high risk contacts, Gurdeep Kumar and Kamal Kumar will manage the transport for PHCs.The HSVP employees were earlier deployed at relief centers to assist migrant workers who were rendered homeless during the country-wide lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of the disease.“The HSVP control centre and its employees will act as a link between patients and the health department. We will assist the rapid response teams, map patients and ensure information flows ceaselessly for improved performance,” administrator Yadav addressed his staff during a meeting at sector 14 on Thursday, Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 1, HSVP, said that systems have been put in place to ensure all the data is centralised and made available at the click of a button. “We have teams of two persons each for preparation of final reports in a specific format, we would also assist in sampling of high risk contacts and transport management for the health department employees,” he said.Apart from contact tracing, the HSVP officials also said that they have also planned a number of steps to manage the containment zones in an effective manner. Gogia said, they will ensure proper barricading, coordination with local police officials, installation of display with does and don’t’s, maintain a logbook for keeping record of visitors, keeping a check on movement of persons in these zones. Health department officials said their team of doctors, ASHA workers and ANMs will coordinate with others from various departments in compiling the data and sharing the ground report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-sets-up-control-room-for-contact-tracing-monitoring-phcs/story-6Ndtxbq2il7igzXEoaEvwL.html
05-06-2020||City||‘We’ve applied for permission to administer RT-PCR tests in Gurugram’||Dr Asruddin, director, health services (training), who has been deputed from Chandigarh by the state government to monitor the Covid-19 situation in Gurugram and Faridabad for a week, speaks to Archana Mishra about issues such as addressing gaps in administrative work, strengthening health facilities and limiting the time gap between sampling and testing to tackle the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city.Q. What is the aim of your visit? Is there a specific aspect related to Covid-19 that you are focusing on?The purpose of my visit is to streamline the functioning of the health department and the Civil Hospital and supervise the overall strategy to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the city. After observing the team’s procedures, I will try to address gaps, such as the lack of coordination between different teams—sometimes there is a duplicity in assigned roles—and issues related to the Civil Hospital, to deliver better output with time.Q. What challenges are you facing in addressing these issues?There is a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Therefore, immediate contact tracing of the patients and their isolation is crucial. For this, the existing health facilities need to be strengthened. Several people who have been tested, or their family members, often want to meet the chief medical officer himself, which is not possible. So, we have to let people know exactly whom to contact for their needs and queries. For the referral of ambulances, we will launch 16 telephone lines with the help of the district administration and constitute teams to work in three shifts. Also, 20 more ambulances from private hospitals will be roped in to reduce the response time after a person tests positive. To overcome the time difference between sample collection and testing, we will start to administer RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests in Gurugram itself. We have applied to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for permission. Meanwhile, we have installed 95% of the requisite machines at Civil Hospital and sent lab technicians to PGIMS Rohtak for training. This way, we will be able to do 192 tests in 10-12 hours.Q. How will assigning duties to senior officials from different government agencies aid in addressing some of these issues? The health team deployed on the ground will continue surveilling patients and tracing their contacts. We will assign duties to senior officials to streamline work, take quick action and check data reports to avoid anomalies. The team will ensure that negative Covid-19 reports are immediately sent to the patients while those who test positive are first approached by a local health team, which can then suggest home isolation or hospitalisation based on the severity of the symptoms.Q. Why do you think there has been a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last week? Most of these cases have been reported in the congested areas of the city. Also, there is a spillover of infection from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-ve-applied-for-permission-to-administer-rt-pcr-tests-in-gurugram/story-2NOdtdxFbQuOEG8a7mkykK.html
05-06-2020||Patna||Bihar govt red-faced, top cop retracts letter linking migrants and crime||Following a major embarrassment to the state government, the Bihar Police brass Friday hastily withdrew a controversial letter earlier issued by its headquarter, which had warned district police chiefs and senior police officers of a likely spurt in crime because of influx of migrant workers returning home and even stated it would not be possible to give jobs to them despite claims by the government. The one-line retraction, though dated June 4, was issued shortly after Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav held a press conference on the issue Friday and accused the government of insulting the migrant workers. Assembly elections in Bihar are due later this year.Only days ago, chief minister Nitish Kumar had taken exception to the use of word “migrants” to refer to natives of Bihar working in other states, saying they were all citizens of the country.The controversial letter, which came into public domain on Friday, was issued on May 29 by additional director general (law and order) Amit Kumar. “Despite government’s best efforts, there is a possibility that all migrant workers will not get desired job opportunities. They may resort to anti-social activities to maintain their families, creating law and order problems,” the letter, sent to district magistrates and superintendents of police, read.After the letter became public on Friday, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav called a press conference to attack the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar is also in charge of home department. If such a letter is issued right under his nose, it shows it has been done with his nod. Migrant labourers are our brothers and sisters and they came here because it is their state,” he said.All India Congress Committee’s media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the letter was a reflection of the anti-labourer mindset of the ruling dispensation.Shortly after the RJD leader’s presser, state’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey addressed a virtual press conference. “We keep on getting information from different sources and this particular information also came through a source and was disseminated. Bus as soon as we realised it was a mistake and the information was not worth disseminating, we withdrew the letter,” Pandey said at the presser lasting a few minutes.The retraction letter, signed again by ADG Amit Kumar, said, “The May 29 letter was issued by mistake. It’s retracted with immediate effect.”Senior officials in the state’s home department said that it was the first time in the last 15 years that the police headquarters had to withdraw any order soon after it was issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-red-faced-top-cop-retracts-letter-linking-migrants-and-crime/story-d0TcbIMQwRxArQ1dJULVfK.html
05-06-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar police deploy two ACPs for ensuring women’s safety in district||In a bid to tighten safety of women and children in the district, the Gautam Budh Nagar police commisionerate has put in place a new working structure. According to the new structure, two assistant commissioners of police (ACP) have been appointed especially for ensuring women’s safety in the district.Envisaged under the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s directives to focus on issues of women and children, the new initiative is one of a kind system in any police commissionerate system across the country, senior police officers said. The commissionerate had already appointed a deputy commissioner of police in January, this year when the new policing system was introduced in the district.“Thew new system is a push towards specialising investigative skills and policing services. The CM had first laid down the scheme while announcing the formation of commissionerate system that was expected to take effective initiatives to stop crimes against women and children,” said Alok Singh, commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.According to the new structure, that came into effect on June 9, every police station in the district will have a women’s safety unit and which will take cognisance of issues faced by women and children and take necessary actions to address them. Each unit will have two sub-inspectors along with constables to investigate all relevant cases.“Two ACPs have been appointed especially for women safety. One of the ACPs will sit in the Sector 6 office, and the other at the Sector 108 office. We will also ensure that no investigating officer has more than 40 cases per year to ensure quality investigation as well as timely resolution of cases,” said Vrinda Shukla, DCP (women safety).“An ACP rank officer will handle dowry cases, sexual offences against SC/ST community, while the ACPs will handle serious and heinous crimes and cases of prevention of immoral activities act against women. The DCP will monitor pre-existing units, women support, anti-human trafficking unit, special police juvenile unit, 1090 etc,” said a police statement.The new initiative also includes a family dispute redressal centre in Knowledge Park police station where counselling is provided in cases of marital dispute. The police department will also issue patrol vehicles for women and child safety. Senior police officers said they hope to create better synergy with the child welfare committee, juvenile justice board, child helpline and NGOs working on women and child safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-police-deploy-two-acps-for-ensuring-women-s-safety-in-district/story-loPQ2J0a87ruKHLjfSDBlJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar colleges directed to plant medicinal trees||On the occasion of World Environment Day, the regional higher education officer (Meerut and Saharanpur divisions) on Friday directed government colleges in the Gautam Budh Nagar district to plant medicinal trees and plants during the annual plantation drive to be held this year.“I have directed the colleges to plant Ayurvedic and medicinal plants. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has changed our mindset and made us more health-conscious. Even schools can plant medicinal plants on their campuses. I have appealed the residents also to plant medicinal plants in their balconies and terrace gardens,” Dr RK Gupta, regional higher education officer said.Dr Pratibha Tomar, who teaches botany at Kumari Mayawati Government Girls Post Graduate College, said, “We have already planted several medicinal plants in our college campus. We will plant more of such plants as per the new directions.”Dr Sanghmitra, botany teacher, Government Post Graduate College said, “We have planted some medicinal plants and arranging more medicinal plants for the plantation drive.” “Medicinal plants such as aloe, tulsi, neem, turmeric, and ginger cure several common ailments. Herbs such as black pepper, cinnamon, myrrh, sandalwood, ginseng, red clover, burdock, bayberry, and safflower are used to heal wounds, sores, and boils,” said Sanghmitra.District forest officer PK Srivastava said, “Planting medicinal trees and herbs can be useful, and once planted colleges should properly maintain the saplings.”In January this year, the district administration planned to hold a plantation drive in July and set a target of planting over 10 lakh trees within a week’s time to increase the green cover in the district. Last year, over 8.5 lakhs trees were planted by the administration in the annual drive.Dr Rajindra Khedekar, principal, Ishan Ayurvedic Medical Colleges & Research Centre, said, “We have a herbal garden in our college campus. We will help colleges in planting herbal trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-colleges-directed-to-plant-medicinal-trees/story-MPWH5iColYhVQxttOL3pxL.html
05-06-2020||Noida||Commuters urge cops to open up more lanes to ease traffic at borders||The chaos of the last few days at the Noida-Delhi borders eased slightly on Friday as traffic volume reduced, but commuters said opening up more lanes would be the only permanent way to kill the snarls.Noida has sealed its border with Delhi in April and despite the relaxations announced by the Union home ministry on interstate travel, Gautam Budh Nagar continues to keep its borders sealed in an effort to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases within the district. On June 1, Delhi also sealed its borders with all neighbouring states for a period of one week. This worsened the situation at the border points, as commuters had to face hour-long snarls on both sides specially during rush hour.“The situation has slightly eased, but congestion still persists on both sides. Traffic is moving slowly because of the police checking IDs and passes of the commuters. Only one lane is functional on the DND Flyway at present, and opening more lane will further help ease congestion,” Rishi Oswal, a Delhi resident who commutes to Noida for business, said.Currently, both states allow only those involved in essential services and those with administration-issued passes to cross the state lines.“Police are keeping only one lane open specifically to turn around vehicles that don’t have a valid pass. Traffic chaos depends on the time of travel. Traffic is heavy during peak hours, but during the rest of the day, it remains comparatively easy,” Anita Singh, a Greater Noida West resident who travels to Delhi daily, said.Before Delhi had sealed the borders, commuters coming in to Noida would face longer snarls, while it was easier for those going to Delhi.“Entering in Delhi is still easier despite only one functional lane. Noida side has more lanes open but it is slow moving. Crossing the DND Flyway often takes more than 30 minutes. If they open up more lanes that would further ease the situation. Officials could also have specific lanes for emergency vehicles,” Anit Arora, a daily commuter from Sector 50, said.Police insist that depending on the traffic volume, they do open more lanes.“The traffic volume has drastically reduced this week but there is still the peak-hour congestion. And whenever there is congestion, we open up more lanes to ease the flow. But we can’t open all lanes until the border is de-sealed,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma said.The Supreme Court on Thursday, while hearing a petition, had directed the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to resolve the border chaos within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/commuters-urge-cops-to-open-up-more-lanes-to-ease-traffic-at-borders/story-vlHwpyt3gfjRpPiIauTBwN.html
05-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad residents protest health dept’s decision to convert colleges into covid centres||Ghaziabad: The district health department’s decision to convert several colleges and hostels into Covid care centres has started attracting protests from the residents. On Friday, a group of residents in Model Town took out a silent protest against the conversion of city’s MMH College to a Covid care centre. On Thursday, some students of a government hostel in Nandgram had raised objection to the conversion of their hostel as Covid care facility.As the Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly in the district, the health department is scrambling for increasing the L1 category hospital beds. According to the official figures, the department has proposed conversion of seven colleges across the city into Covid care centres with a combined capacity of 2,000 beds. The UP chief minister had recently directed the authorities to increase the number Covid beds in the state to about 100,000.Amol Vashistha, a former councillor, said that the residents made a silent at the gate of the MMH College. “About 20-22 thousand people are living in close vicinity of the college campus. If it gets converted into L1 category Covid care facility, there will be movement of health care staff, patients and others, which may pose risk to the local population. We have also submitted our representation at district magistrate’s office,” said Vashistha.Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, a resident of Model Town, said, “The administration, instead of opting for Covid care centres in middle of the residential areas, should try to acquire colleges located adjacent to Delhi-Meerut Road and NH-9. Once these get converted, the colleges in city areas can be acquired. But it would require stringent sanitization and cleaning procedures to be taken up.”On Thursday, the students of Nandgram government hostel, meant for students of Scheduled Caste category, had raised objection and submitted a representation to district officials.District officials said that they are conducting an inquiry into the representation given by hostel students. “If they are residing in the hostel, the facility will not be converted. Though some colleges, including MMH College, are proposed as Covid care centres, they are not getting converted on an immediate basis,” said Shiv Praksh Shukl, city magistrate.Notably, the district on March 31 had only seven Covid-19 positive cases which rose to 66 on April 30, and the tally further increased to 319 as on May 31. Till June 4, the tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 378 in the district.“The beds at ESI hospital in Sahibabad, an L1 category facility, are almost full with 72 patients admitted there. We are trying to open another hospital at Niwari with 200 beds, but we need to find a vendor who can provide daily food for patients and doctors. The hospital is far from the city, but we are trying to find vendors. The L1 hospital at Murdnagar that has 30 beds is also not functioning at present,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“In such a situation, we will now open up a 60-bed hospital at a hostel which we have acquired in Nandgram. We have also proposed to set up 2,000 beds in seven different colleges, but people have raised objections. We are trying our best to get more L1 category hospitals. We have a target of creating 4,000 beds at all L1, L2 and L3 facilities,” the CMO said.Apart from the operational L1 hospital, the city at present has 100-bed L2 category hospital at Sanjay Nagar which is operational and another L3 category hospital at Santosh Medical College which has been made operational last week. The L3 hospital is meant for critical care.Overall, Uttar Pradesh has 403 L1 category hospitals having 52,924 beds, 75 hospitals of L2 category with 16,212 beds (along with oxygen and ventilator facilities), and 25 hospitals of L3 category which have 12,090 beds. Besides, the state has other attached hospitals with combined capacity of 101,236 beds available for Covid patients, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-residents-protest-health-dept-s-decision-to-convert-colleges-into-covid-centres/story-iPAHlM3hbBpRKoKcaXyHKP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body opposes Chandiagrh MC’s proposal to set up animal carcass incineration plant at Sector 25||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has opposed the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s proposal to set up an animal carcass incineration plant in Sector 25, Chandigarh, where the south campus of the varsity is also located.The teachers’ body has expressed its discontent over the MC’s move and written to UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore.In the letter, PUTA said that the decision taken by the MC has resulted in protests by various resident associations and other community organisations. “PUTA has been approached by teaching and non-teaching staff of the campus who have expressed their deep anguish and apprehensions over the decision taken by administration, completely ignoring the fact that PU’s south campus is situated in Sector 25, comprising a number of hostels, departments, institutes and residents of faculty members,” the letter states.The copy of the letter has also been given to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and registrar Karamjeet Singh.The teachers’ body has also expressed shock over the project being shifted from Industrial Area Phase 1 to Sector 25.“We request you to issue directions to the MC to cancel this proposal immediately and identify an alternative site for setting up the plant,” the letter to Badnore states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-opposes-chandiagrh-mc-s-proposal-to-set-up-animal-carcass-incineration-plant-at-sector-25/story-mfjBNz00mQLzKM4C8MVQKL.html
05-06-2020||City||MLA wants relaxation in sealing measures in Khoda, Vaishali and other Ghaziabad areas||Sahibabad member of the legislative assembly (MLA) Sunil Sharma on Friday wrote to the Ghaziabad district magistrate requesting that the sealing measures in Khoda, Vaishali and other areas of Jhandapur and Kaushambi be relaxed. He said that a population of 1 million cannot be under such restrictions for a long time.The district had sealed various areas under its jurisdiction that showed a surge in Covid-19 cases under the sector scheme. The restrictions meant that people could not move in or out of these areas unless they were from essential services or had movement passes. It was a virtual extension of the nation-wide lockdown enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19. While Khoda has been sealed since May 10, Vaishali was sealed from June 1.“I requested the district magistrate to seal particular lanes, and convert areas with cases into containment zones. Today, because of the sealing, residents, shop owners and traders continue to suffer as their premises remain shut even after two months of lockdown,” said MLA Sharma.The traders and residents had earlier met the district administration on Thursday and suggested measures to relax sealing conditions. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had then said he would review these measures with the health department.On Thursday, residents of high-the rise Gateway Towers in Vaishali sector-4 protested after the administration sealed the society after a Covid-19 case was discovered on May 29.“Instead of sealing one tower in which the case was discovered, it sealed the entire high-rise. This is in contravention of the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary’s May 31 order which said that only a particular tower will be sealed in case of one case. We were sealed on June 3. We have about 147 flats in four blocks with each having 13 floors and population of about 700 people,” said Mohammad Fuzail Khan, a resident who is also a lawyer.He added that he will also challenge the move to seal Vaishali in court.“The sealing activities will be reviewed and the district magistrate will take a call. Our intent with sealing is to contain any spread of Covid-19 infection,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.On Friday, the district officials also claimed that sector scheme in Khoda, Loni and Vaishali have yield results.Before the sealing exercise, Vaishali’s positivity rate (number of positive case per sample tested expressed in percentage) was 28%, a statement from the district magistrate claimed. “After sealing sampling was doubled and 5% cases of total samples turned positive. So there is an improvement in Vaishali,” it read.When contacted about the figures, Gaurav Singh, the spokesperson at the district magistrate’s office, assured that sampling and Covid-19 figures will be provided but he did not respond till late Friday night.On Friday, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls when tried to contact him over the issue of sealing and improvement in results of Covid-19 cases after sealing activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mla-wants-relaxation-in-sealing-measures-in-khoda-vaishali-and-other-ghaziabad-areas/story-g9QdugIPH5L8jGcdBzgLfK.html
05-06-2020||City||Ludhiana reports nine more active Covid-19 cases, total count 235||Nine more people, including four women, one of them pregnant, and a 12-year-old boy, were tested Covid-19 positive here on Friday evening.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, confirming that nine more cases were reported in the city, said the 26-year-old pregnant woman hails from Kuldeep Nagar, Rahon Road. She had mild symptoms of the virus, he added.A 12-year-boy and his 36-year-old woman, both from SAS Nagar, located behind Sangeet Cinema, are brother and mother respectively of the Covid-19 patient, who is admitted to Rajendra Hospital in Patiala.A 40-year-old woman, a resident of Prem Nagar, who has returned from Rajasthan, tested positive of Covid-19 following a mandatory test.While 61-year-old husband, 31-year-old daughter and 28-year-old son of a woman from Ishwar Nagar near Gill Road, undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, were also tested coronavirus positive.Two men, 42 and 50, who are relatives of a positive pregnant woman of Prem Nagar, were also tested positive. Both of them are asymptomatic.The district now has a total of 235 Covid-19 cases, of which 160 patients have been discharged, registering a recovery rate of 68.85%.As many as nine patients have died, a fatality rate of 3.82%. This leaves 72 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-reports-nine-more-active-covid-19-cases-total-count-235/story-KtHgTZqIIKldebmWJW4TdJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Noida gets fifth Covid facility with 200 beds, reports 27 new Covid-19 cases||NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday recorded 27 more Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally of positive cases to 570 in the district. Health officials said that as many as 48 positive cases in the district were reported as cross-notified to other districts of Uttar Pradesh and other states.Also, on Friday, the district administration started the fifth Covid facility of L-1 category at the Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). “This facility has 200 beds. With this, a total of 700 beds are now available for Covid-19 patients in the district. Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida has 200 beds, the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPGTI) has a capacity of 50 beds, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) has a 150 beds while Kailash Hospital has 100 beds. It clearly indicates that the district is all set to take care of Covid-19 patients in an effective manner,” district magistrate Suhas LY said.However, the district health department is yet to ascertain the cause of death of two patients who died on Friday at Sharda Hospital, as the reports of their samples have not yet come from the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB).District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that of the 570 positive cases till Friday evening, 353 patients have been discharged from different hospitals after being treated and eight patients have so far lost their lives. “As a result, the district now has 209 active cases. Besides, 48 have been cross-notified from other districts and states,” he said.Ohri further said five patients – including a four-year-old boy, a 32-year-old woman, a 59-year-old man, a 28-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman – were discharged after being cured from Sharda Hospital on Friday.The CMO further said that a 70-year-old male patient, who was a resident of Jewar, and a 25-year-old female resident of Muradnagar in Ghaziabad, died in Sharda Hospital today. “Since the results of samples of the deceased are lying pending with the NIB laboratory, the cause of death is yet to be ascertained,” he said.Ohri also said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 678 patients were screened today and nine of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of 48 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, district surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohre said that while 14 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh has also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While five patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 26 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-gets-fifth-covid-facility-with-200-beds-reports-27-new-covid-19-cases/story-ICq0b7BNiAOI7lE6HEL7OP.html
05-06-2020||Noida||Residents want GB Nagar administration to be prompt with sealing measures||The Gautam Budh Nagar District Development Residents’ Welfare Association (DDRWA) has written to the district magistrate and other senior officials, alleging that the administration is delaying the sealing and containing areas from where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been reported. “We have been observing that the administration is not promptly acting in areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. As per the protocol, the sector or society where one or more than one people have tested positive should be sealed immediately and sanitisation drive should be conducted. But the officials are delaying the implementation of these provisions,” said NP Singh, president of Gautam Budh Nagar DDRWA, a residents’ welfare body.RWA office-bearers also said that the administration was not properly communicating the details of Covid-19 positive cases with the respective RWAs.“When a sample is taken of a resident and that person tests positive, then the administration should share the information with the RWA immediately so that we can pass on the information to fellow residents for precautions. But the coordination from the administration is completely missing. Nobody knows about who tested positive. It creates confusion and residents suffer,” said Sanjeev Kumar, vice president of the Federation of Noida RWAs (FONRWA), and the general secretary of Sector 51 RWA.DDRWA said that in sectors 2, 19, 76 and 45, among others, the administration delayed the sealing of societies and did not communicate the details with the respective RWAs.“The administration sealed the floors, towers and sectors two to three days after the patients tested positive. There is no point in sealing or containing a zone after two to three days because people keep using the common areas, which might have been used by the Covid patients,” said Singh.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said that they follow all the required protocols in sealing and containment zone plans.“They (RWAs) can get all information on the government portal. They can immediately request details from the portal. Officers have also been deputed specifically. There is a separate containment zone category. They can report their issues there as well. The portal and Twitter are better for communication on Covid-related issues,” said Suhas LY district magistrate, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-want-gb-nagar-administration-to-be-prompt-with-sealing-measures/story-SSgKoaZt0Ho0ME4X4ZX0yK.html
05-06-2020||Noida||Noida authority administrative office shuts two sections after 3 test positive||The Noida authority’s main administrative building located in Sector 6 shut down two of its sections—commercial and accounts—after one officer and two other employees tested positive for Covid-19.The senior officer was part of the commercial department and the two employees were from the department of accounts.“The three tested positive, so we closed the sections concerned. The office shall remain closed over the weekend after intense sanitisation today (Thursday) evening and will reopen on Monday,” Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of the Noida authority, said.Health authorities took samples from the three employees on Tuesday after they experienced some symptoms. The reports arrived on Thursday evening. “We sanitised the commercial and accounts departments immediately after the three tested positive,” Maheshwari said.The authority’s Sector 6 administrative building comprises two floors. The commercial department is located on the ground floor just next to the main entry.The health department is tracing all family members and colleagues who could have come in contact with these three. These three are the first cases reported from the Noida authority that takes care of the city’s development and civic affairs. The Noida authority’s health department s engaged in sanitisation work in all sectors where Covid-19 cases are reported from. The authority also has to deliver essential services including milk, grocery, medicine and vegetables.Around 5,000 members of staff, including sanitisation employees and those involved in waste management, have been demanding random tests to determine if any of them were infected so that they could be treated.“The health department will take appropriate action on the employees’ demand,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.The Noida employees association (NEA), which has also been demanding random tests, has requested for camps to be set up.“We have been requesting the health officials for random tests. Since three persons have now tested positive, we demand that the health department set up camps to test staff,” Dharmendra Sharma, vice-president of NEA, said.Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer, said, “We will follow protocol and take suitable action on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-administrative-office-shuts-two-sections-after-3-test-positive/story-IDV5NSXMI0Tm3CJxYcuZTK.html
05-06-2020||City||Sex test centre busted in Patiala, 2 held||The police on Friday busted a sex determination centre in Patran here with the help of state health department.They arrested the owner of the centre and his agent, while a woman doctor fled from the spot.During the joint raid, police and health officials recovered ₹7,000 from the agent.The arrested accused have been identified as clinic owner Dr Ashok Malhotra and his agent Naib Singh. Dr Davinder Kumari, the owner’s wife, is still on the run. The couple are BAMS doctors, said the health department.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the health department team that conducted the raid with the police included Fatehgarh Sahib family welfare officer Dr Karan Sagar and Tarn Taran family welfare officer Dr Sumit Singh.“The clinic owner charged ₹25,000 from a dummy patient to conduct sex determination examination. Of the amount, ₹7,000 were recovered from the agent. The woman doctor who conducts the sex test fled from clinic with rest of the money and ultrasound machine. During the raid, the teams also recovered some tools being used for abortion and 1,170 tramadol tablets,” said the civil surgeon.He added, “We have written to the police to register a case under the relevant sections of the PNDT Act and NDPS Act against the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sex-test-centre-busted-in-patiala-2-held/story-VgtdDu5NRleAOAc27cTDhP.html
05-06-2020||City||Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna authority offices work in three shifts to prevent Covid-19||NOIDA: The three industrial development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar district -- Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway -- have introduced staggered timings in their respective administrative offices to maintain social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The three authorities have changed timings for their staff and made three shifts -- from 9am to 5pm, 10am to 6pm and 11am to 7pm, officials said.The move comes after the directive from the Uttar Pradesh government that wants all offices in the state to maintain social distancing.“The staff at the Noida authority offices follow all standard operating procedures and maintain two 2-metre distance from each other. The use of face mask is compulsory for all the employees, and we are sanitising our offices regularly to prevent the Covid-19 spread,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority. The authority from June 1 has decided to do all property related work such as issuance of occupancy certificate, transfer memorandum to sell a plot or flat, approval of building map and mortgage permission, among others.There are at least 5,000 employees of the Noida authority, who are engaged with health department and horticulture wing. Apart from its main office in Sector 6, the authority also has offices located in sectors 5, 19 and 39. All staff members are told to follow the state government guidelines to make sure they stay away from infection, the officials said.Similarly, the Greater Noida authority has also asked its staff to use face mask mandatorily and sanitize hands at the gate before entering the administrative building in Sector Knowledge Park IV.“We have also restricted the entry of visitors. Without appointment, the visitor will not be allowed to enter the premises,” said KK Gupta, additional chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority.The authority has around 400 employees who work at its main administrative office, said the officials. With around 200 staff in its office at Sector Omega 1, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is also trying to reduce the number of visitors.“We have started doing all our work online so that individuals, realtors, industrial plot owners and other investors do not need to come to office. Now, we are allotting the land via online in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-greater-noida-yamuna-authority-offices-work-in-three-shifts-to-prevent-covid-19/story-yr48yPnwnAYdVG0N1ng1GP.html
05-06-2020||City||Retired armymen object to web series, demand case against producer||Several retired army officials from Thane filed an application with the deputy commissioner of police, demanding a case be registered against TV/ film producer Ekta Kapoor for insulting the dignity of army officers in her new web-series.They want a a case be registered against her for insulting the dignity of army officers in her new web-series XXX 2.Ex-army officer D N Sagle said, “The web-series shows armymen in a bad light. It is an insult to the soldiers who are guarding the country’s borders.”Deputy commissioner of police, Avinash Ambure said, “We have taken the complaint of ex-army officers on the objectionable content of the web-series. We are yet to file an FIR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-armymen-object-to-web-series-demand-case-against-producer/story-ntrPRguqoZjZ0u9T5neoXN.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||12% penalty a year for rent defaulters in Chandigarh’s rehabilitation colonies||Chandigarh: People living in Chandigarh’s rehabilitation colonies will now have to pay 12% penalty per annum for defaulting on rent for their small flats/dwellings unit to the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB). The UT housing department notified the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020 on June 2 under which defaulters will have to pay CHB 12% penalty per annum on delayed/outstanding rent for small flat/dwelling unit allotted under the scheme. The department aims to recover around Rs 15 crore in rental arrears through the amendment notified on June 2 to the Chandigarh Small Flat Scheme 2006.No penal interest previouslySignificantly there was no provision of penal interest in the 2006 scheme.“Many allottees were not paying rent due to the CHB for some years. The outstanding amount had crossed over Rs 30 crore over several years. While earlier allottees could get away with non-payment or delays, now they will have to pay penalty. We expect greater compliance with the rental norms,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.CHB last year organised special camps for rent recovery in the rehabilitation colonies in Dhanas, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Sector 38, Sector 49 and Sector 56. The board recovered Rs 18 crore from these camps which were spread over 10 days.Another three-day mini camp was organised at Industrial Area phase 1, after which the department prepared a list of about 250 defaulters.Allotment of some people who had defaulted on rent were also cancelled. “Under the small flat scheme, CHB charges small amount of rent, but despite this, many allottees are not depositing the same. The monthly rent is Rs 800, which is increased by 20% after every five years. The board has asked all the allottees to pay their rent soon to avoid action,” said the offical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-penalty-a-year-for-rent-defaulters-in-chandigarh-s-rehabilitation-colonies/story-0ubbFN8iO8ZySrmgjh60kM.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Malls, hotels, eateries to open in Chandigarh on June 8, with caution||Paving the way for opening of hotels, restaurants and malls from June 8, after a gap of more than two months, the UT administration on Friday released the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for them to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of coronavirus disease.The administration also notified ₹500 fine on commercial establishments for violation of social distancing norms.The SOPs are based on the central government’s guidelines issued on Thursday.Even as hoteliers and restaurant owners welcomed the SOPs for the hospitality sector, they were cautious about future of the industry in the city.Manmohan Kohli, chairman, Hotels and Restaurants Association, Chandigarh, said: “The SOPs have struck a right balance by making both the host hotel and visitor equally accountable for ensuring the guidelines are followed. We will be entering a new paradigm from June 8, because in hospitality industry the tradition is to pamper the visitor, but now we will also have to educate them.”Hospitality industry has been one of the worst-hit sectors due to the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Some in the industry expect that while most hotels will become operational from June 8, not many restaurants are likely to open. “Even though the SOPs are conducive for opening both hotels and restaurants, but for restaurants, the night curfew timings and restrictions on serving liquor will act as big dampeners. Most customers come for dinner, but with night curfew starting from 9pm, it will be tough to attract them,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.UNCERTAINTY OVER ELANTE OUTLETSMeanwhile, there is also uncertainty over opening of restaurants and shops at Elante Mall in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. The tenants have reportedly requested for revised rental terms and even rent waiver from the mall management before they could open their outlets. Manish Goyal, director, Swagath, one of the restaurants in the mall, said: “We would like to open the restaurant. But we have requested for survival plan from the Elante management, given the tough situation we all are in because of the pandemic.”A spokesperson of the mall said: “Elante will open its doors to public on June 8, as per notification issued by the administration. Elante, home to over 200 brands, will be open from 10am and operate till 8pm. We are absolutely thrilled to welcome all our patrons whilst ensuring social distancing norms are strictly implemented.”The spokesperson said: “While we are confident that all our partners will smoothly resume operations, we also anticipate the reopening to be a gradual process as SOPs are understood and get adhered to 100%. Although permissions have been granted for opening up, some parts of the mall including multiplex and entertainment centres will start only upon receiving specific permissions from the administration. We hope this happens very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/malls-hotels-eateries-to-open-in-chandigarh-on-june-8-with-caution/story-r3blLv3NEgy22btobvgElM.html
05-06-2020||City||Accused of raping his fiancée, hosiery worker attempts suicide in Ludhiana||Accused of raping his fiancée, a hosiery worker attempted suicide by consuming phenyl at his house in Subhash Nagar on Friday morning. He was rushed to the ESIC Hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.Before trying to end his life, he left a suicide note, in which he accused his fiancée, a resident of Muktsar Sahib, of forcing him to take the extreme step. The Basti Jodhewal police have initiated investigation.The man’s brother told the police that his brother got engaged six months ago, but they severed ties. Thereafter, the woman lodged a rape case against his brother in Muktsar Sahib, before lockdown was imposed in the region in March due to the outbreak of coronavirus. On Thursday, the Muktsar police summoned him for questioning.He alleged the woman and her family had been threatening them of sending their entire family behind the bars, and were demanding Rs 10 lakh to withdraw the complaint. After returning from Muktsar, his brother was depressed. On Friday morning, he went to his room and consumed phenyl.In his suicide note, the man mentioned that he had developed physical relations with the woman with her consent. However, later she implicated him in a rape case.His family has filed a complaint at the Basti Jodhewal police station.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at the Basti Jodhewal police station, said the police will take appropriate action after investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-of-raping-his-fiancee-hosiery-worker-attempts-suicide-in-ludhiana/story-1GOYzafSlQR4GM0eZfT1RP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Long-route Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses likely to run from June 8||The UT transport department is preparing to start Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) long-route buses from June 8.Consent for starting the service has been received from the Haryana government, and the same is expected from the Punjab government by Monday.“Initially, we will run the CTU buses on 50% of the routes, at 50% capacity as per the central government guidelines. A list has been prepared of the routes that pass through Punjab and Haryana,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport.A consent from Delhi is yet to be received. For now, buses will ply to areas like Karnal, Panipat and Ambala, but not Delhi. Similarly, Himachal Pradesh is yet to give clearances for the Chandigarh-Himachal long route buses, Gupta said.The long-route buses will depart from ISBT, Sector 43, for the meantime. The department expects the vegetable and fruit market to be shifted from ISBT, Sector 17, back to Sector 26 by June 15. After that, both local and long-route buses will depart from ISBT-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/long-route-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-buses-likely-to-run-from-june-8/story-4Md9nsyTyxmvRWdDi1LUiJ.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rainy weekend on the cards in Chandigarh||Light rain is likely in Chandigarh over the weekend before dry weather sets in from Monday onwards. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), western disturbances will remain active in the region and rain up to 20mm with winds blowing at speeds up to 40km/hour can be expected, especially on Saturday. Meanwhile, maximum temperature went down from 36.4°C on Thursday to 33.2°C on Friday. Minimum temperature went down from 23.2°C to 23°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 37 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 24 and 26 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainy-weekend-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh/story-nFTHC6uaqLHuYsX94NC6DI.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Active cases in Chandigarh down to 31 as 7 found +ve, 51 discharged||Seven people, including four children, tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Friday.With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the city reached 309.However, with 51 people being discharged — marking the highest number of recoveries in a day — the number of active cases dropped to 31.So far, 273 people have won the battle against this deadly infection while five have succumbed to it. Among the new cases, six are from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. With 232 infections so far, this congested locality accounts for 75% cases of the city. Among those infected, there are two 10-year-old boys, a three-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy.The seventh case was reported from Sector 21, that of a 57-year-old woman.Meanwhile, a 34-year-old man from Sector 56, who was reported positive on May 5 and had fled to his native village, has now been cured and discharged.Apart from him, 50 residents of Bapu Dham Colony have been cured and moved to the post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, on Friday.New case in PanchkulaIn Panchkula, a fresh case was reported, taking the total count to 28. The 19-year-old is the son of a 52-year-old man who had tested positive earlier. The Sector 12 residents had recently visited Delhi. Both are admitted in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, Sector 6, and are the two active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/active-cases-in-chandigarh-down-to-31-as-7-found-ve-51-discharged/story-Baj3LY6nbIAsd4hzNGOOLK.html
05-06-2020||City||85-year-old Karnal woman recovers from Covid-19 in 10 days||After a ten-day battle with Covid-19, an octogenarian woman was discharged following her recovery on Thursday evening.“I have defeated coronavirus disease because I want to live to see the wedding of my grandsons,” said the 85-year-old Prabhi Devi of Karnal.A resident of Takhana village here, Prabhi had tested positive for the disease on May 28.She was admitted to a Covid-19 hospital in Ambala district’s Mulana and was discharged in just 10 days after her second consecutive report came out negative.Speaking about her fight with the invisible enemy in old age, Prabhi praised the doctors and paramedic staff who treated her at the hospital.“I am alive because of the dedication of the doctors and nurses who looked after me day and night,” she said.Her nephew Dev Singh said she is the oldest member of the family and everybody’s favourite, and her recovery has come as a big relief to all of them.“There are multiple factors behind the recovery of a patient from Covid-19. Besides treatment, her strong immunity and will power to fight the disease helped in her recovery,” said Karnal chief medical officer Dr Ashwini Ahuja.However, her source of infection remains a mystery as she had no travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/85-year-old-karnal-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-in-10-days/story-7ft2NKOAWz3LkIiHjlHz2M.html
05-06-2020||City||Covid-19 cases in Kangra hit 100, Himachal tally jumps to 393||Ten more people were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking Himachal Pradesh’s total tally to 393.Of these, three cases were reported from Kangra, two from Hamirpur and one each from Una, Shimla, Chamba, Bilaspur and Kullu.With this, active cases in state are at 199, and eight people have recovered on Friday, said special secretary (health) Nipun Jindal.KANGRA CASES BREACH 100-MARKWith three more cases, Kangra, the most populous district of the hill-state, breached the 100-mark.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that among the new infections is a couple from Nurpur area in district.Sample of the 34-year-old man and his 31-year-old wife, who had returned from Delhi on May 27, came out as positive on Friday, said Prajapati.Their two-year-old child had tested positive last Sunday and is admitted at the covid care centre in Baijnath.Apart from this, a 40-year-old man hailing from Nurpur subdivision has also tested positive for the virus. His son is already undergoing treatment for the disease.Prajapati said that the total tally in district has climbed to 101 including 50 active cases, 50 recoveries and one death.“On Friday, three members of a family recovered. They include a pregnant woman, her husband and her mother-in-law, who had returned from Mumbai on May 17,” he said.TWO CASES IN HAMIRPUR, ONE IN SHIMLAMeanwhile, two cases were reported from Hamirpur and one case each from Shimla and Una.The Shimla patient, a 47-year-old man, originally belongs to Palampur and was under institutional quarantine at Shogi, near Shimla.Three more cases were reported late evening—one each from Chamba, Bilaspur and Kullu.Active cases in Himachal stand at 199. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh are affected by Covid-19. The tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti is the only Covid-free district so far.The state’s tally is 393 cases with five fatalities, including three men and two women.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 120 cases followed by Kangra with 101 cases. A total of 41 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 29 in Chamba, 21 in Bilaspur, 20 in Mandi, 12 in Shimla, 11 in Sirmaur, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur. Till date, a total of 185 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-in-kangra-hit-100-himachal-tally-jumps-to-393/story-myr0j3AO3EBlgh923D67IK.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pay up ₹500-₹3,000 for violating Covid-19 safety norms in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Friday imposed fines ranging between ₹500 and ₹3,000 for various violations of Covid-19 safety norms.Now, those found flouting home quarantine instructions will have to pay up ₹2,000. Violation of social distancing norms by bus owners will invite ₹3,000 fine. Car owners will have to pay ₹2,000 while auto-rickshaw operators and those on two-wheelers will have to cough up ₹500 as penalty.Buses are allowed to run with only 50% passenger capacity. Cars can have only two people other than the driver. In autos, only one passenger is allowed. Two-wheelers can have no pillion rider.Meanwhile, violation of social distancing norms by owners of shops and commercial places will also invite ₹500. The same fine will be imposed on those spitting at public places.“Non-payment of the fine will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and immediate arrest. Tehsildar and naib tehsildar, additional/joint commissioner of the municipal corporation, medical officer of the MC, medical officers as designated by director health and family welfare, station house officers and any other officer or official designated by the deputy commissioner from time to time will be responsible for implementing these directions,” the order stated.Earlier on June 2, the administration had decided to slap a fine of ₹500 on those not wearing a mask in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-up-500-3-000-for-violating-covid-19-safety-norms-in-chandigarh/story-LVqRbFsX0yeCk1QEVSuBqK.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||HC orders south Delhi municipality, police to carry out inspections in Sainik Farms||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the police and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to carry out separate inspections of Sainik Farms area to figure out if any new unauthorised constructions had taken place in the area.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad directed Delhi Police and the south municipality to file separate status reports on their inspections, after a plea was filed by a private individual alleging that fresh unauthorised construction had started in Sainik Farms, in the garb of carrying out minor repairs which was permitted by the high court in May last year.The court warned the two authorities that if there was any violation of its earlier order — passed in May 2019 — subsequent to the inspections, “the concerned officers shall be held personally responsible”.The plea is being treated as part of main petition moved in 2015 by the convener of the area development committee of Sainik Farms for regularisation of all unauthorised colonies.The main petition is still pending in the high court as the Delhi government and the Centre are yet to take a decision on whether Sainik Farms is to be regularised.The matter will now be heard on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-orders-south-delhi-municipality-police-to-carry-out-inspections-in-sainik-farms/story-oGEQbK6dGGdPt8QyLpwa5N.html
05-06-2020||City||5 doctors among 182 Covid-19 cases reported in J&K||Five doctors were among 182 Covid-19 cases reported in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.For the past couple of days, there has been a spike in infections across the UT, especially in the Kashmir division.Total 108 people tested positive in the valley on Friday, while 74 in Jammu division, taking the total number of cases in J&K to 3,324. This is the second highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in the UT.On Thursday, 285 (highest in a day so far) Covid-19 cases were reported in J&K with majority of them being from Kashmir division.A woman had died in Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, Srinagar, on Thursday. It was the ninth death in Srinagar district and 36th in J&K. Most Covid-19 deaths have taken place in 10 districts of Kashmir.The highest number of cases (42) was recorded in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday, followed by Udhampur (26) and Srinagar (22). So far, 1,086 patients have recovered and been discharged from the hospitals. As many as 1,98,933 samples have been tested in J&K and 2,04,900 are under observation. While Kashmir has 1,573 active cases, there are 629 in Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-doctors-among-182-covid-19-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-papzjRxoNIryYQW9mmIbUN.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cutting corners, roadside barbers in Chandigarh skip safety protocol||Despite serving customers in close proximity, roadside barbers are not giving two hoots to safety precautions against Covid-19.As per UT’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for salons and barber shops, issued before they were allowed to reopen on June 2, all workers need to wear head cover, face mask, gloves and apron at all times. Besides, customers also need to protect themselves with a face mask.A drive through the city revealed several barbers with lowered face masks/ handkerchiefs, with even customers sitting in chairs without masks and getting their beard and moustaches neatened. Salim, who sits in Sector 52, right opposite the Sector 43 ISBT, said the searing temperatures were not conducive to wearing face masks while working. “I sanitise all my instruments before serving a new client, but they don’t seem very concerned about it,” he said, wearing his mask properly as a customer arrived.Dilsaf, who has a stall at the Sector 35 market, said his clients weren’t cautious about Covid-19. “While we have been told not to do shaves, many customers insist for it. Most even refuse to wear a face mask,” he said, pointing to a customer from Kharar, who wanted a shave and was not wearing a mask.Owners of the various city-based salons have sought action against such hairdressers. Guneet Swani, proprietor of Stylush Salon in Sector 9-C, and a core committee member of the Tricity Salon and Spa Association said, “I have invested lakhs to sanitise my salon and equipment, while roadside barbers and home salon operators are given a free pass. The association has written to the administration to take note of this.”However, not all is lost. Some roadside hairdressers are going the extra mile to abide by the SOP. Anish, who sits on the Sector 42 and 43 dividing road near Attawa village, swears by wearing the proper safety equipment. “I urge customers to bring their own towels and don’t use any products that involve me touching their face. I am taking care, but, of course customers find it excessive,” he said.NO NODAL OFFICERWhile the SOP details guidelines to be followed and that strict legal action will be taken against violators, it does not specify the nodal officer appointed to ensure enforcement of rules.UT deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cutting-corners-roadside-barbers-in-chandigarh-skip-safety-protocol/story-HTWLV3vQFuic39RUudVmfO.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Summer vacation extended in Chandigarh: Government, govt-aided schools to remain closed till further orders||The UT education department on Friday decided that government and government-aided schools in Chandigarh will remain closed till further orders.The decision for the extension in summer break was taken just two days before the schools were to resume operations on June 7 after remaining closed for over two months in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision was taken keeping in view the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. Confirming the development, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The schools in Chandigarh will remain closed till further orders. As per the MHA guidelines, we cannot open the schools in June.” The decision regarding the reopening of schools will be taken in July.District education officer Alka Mehta said, “We have been instructed to keep the schools closed in the city till further orders. Teachers, however, can visit the schools in case of any work.”This is the fourth time since the lockdown that the summer break has been extended. Initially, the breaks were announced from April 14 to May 14. On May 18, DEO Mehta had released an order instructing that the summer vacations had been extended till May 31. Another extension in the summer break was announced on May 29 till June 7.Also, on May 29 the UT education department had constituted a committee to go through the fresh guidelines of the MHA and decide whether to reopen the schools or extend vacations. Special buses for Class 12 studentsThe UT education department has directed the heads of schools to arrange for special buses to transport Class 12 students when they come to take the board examinations scheduled from July 1 to 15. The department in its order has also said that in case the schools are unable to provide transportation, students can avail CTU bus facility on the day of examination by sending their details to the district education office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/summer-vacation-extended-in-chandigarh-government-govt-aided-schools-to-remain-closed-till-further-orders/story-SHKuiutFUNrkAkcMVaFHWO.html
05-06-2020||City||Distribution of free textbooks to government school students in Haryana begins||Haryana government has set June 15 as the deadline to complete the process of providing free textbooks and workbooks to government school students of Class 1 to 8.An official spokesperson said the total budget to the tune of Rs 35 crore is expected to be spent on these textbooks which will be distributed among 15, 38,546 students during the 2020-2021 academic session.Though the books had to be provided to children urgently for the session, the printing work was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The printing press of four printers, who were allotted contract of printing books, falls under the hotspot areas in Noida, Delhi and Faridabad, the spokesperson said. “Now, with the efforts of education department officers, the printers have completed the work and have started distribution of textbooks from June 1 in all government schools of Haryana. The authorities have also been directed to open schools throughout the week, including holidays upto at least 7pm to receive these books so that the distribution can be completed by June 15,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/distribution-of-free-textbooks-to-government-school-students-in-haryana-begins/story-P3SfiIYapqb8gl67SJV4qM.html
05-06-2020||City||SGPC asks Punjab to release pending scholarship amount||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Friday urged the Punjab government to release Rs 40 crore, the pending scholarship amount for Dalit students studying in the educational institutes under it.After a meeting of SGPC educational committee at Sri Guru Ram Das Dental College, Longowal said, the state government is not releasing the amount of the scholarship and it should release it at the earliest so that these institutions could be run better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-asks-punjab-to-release-pending-scholarship-amount/story-MAsOPt69MbC20wyYp9vN4H.html
05-06-2020||City||Revoke SRO 202, come up with employment policy: Rana||Seeking immediate revocation of discriminatory SRO 202 in the larger interest of those in employment and likely to be appointed, provincial president National Conference Devender Singh Rana on Friday urged the Jammu and Kashmir administration to come up with a comprehensive employment policy in tone with the commitments being made for nearly a year now since the imposition of the Central rule to combat the burgeoning unemployment problem and spell out the road map for promoting employability at the strength of skill development.He feared that the administration has no clue about the level of unemployment and unemployability in the absence of an authentic verified data-base.This exercise too was sabotaged, as a result of which the policy planners remain ignorant about the magnitude of the issue in Jammu and Kashmir, Rana said in a statement.“No tangible road map has been prepared despite liberal promises being made on the employment front,” Rana said, hoping that the administration will take youth into confidence in this regard with assurance about safeguarding the interests of permanent residents and providing equitable opportunities to all belonging to different regions and sub-regions of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly the far-flung, remote and backward areas.On SRO 202, the Provincial President said the rule has been demoralising for the employees selected under this proviso and also the aspiring candidates as it brings parity among the government servants. He urged the administration to revoke the SRO 202 with retrospective effect.The controversial SRO 202 was issued by the then chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed on June 30, 2015, during PDP-BJP combine.Under the SRO, those getting government jobs had to be kept on probation for five years, had to be regularized only after qualifying certain ability tests and training. Besides, the appointees were entitled to a minimum scale of pay. It had come under sharp criticism of various political parties and student organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/revoke-sro-202-come-up-with-employment-policy-rana/story-8Z5KSZ93CuA9zYgZsfXZLP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Mohali couple booked for duping man of ₹6 lakh||A husband-wife duo was booked for duping a Chamkaur Sahib resident of ₹ 6.1 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.The accused have been identified as Ekam Singh and Baljinder Kaur, residents of Sunny Enclave in Kharar. The couple was running an immigration firm in Phase 5, Mohali.The complainant, Ram Singh, told police that the accused duped him of ₹ 6.1 lakh on the pretext of sending him Canada.A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 24 of the Immigration Act at the Phase 1 police station.The accused are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-mohali-couple-booked-for-duping-man-of-6-lakh/story-CrA8pqNvQftjY6lIm6zJWJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Man stabbed to death in Rohtak||A man was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of five people near Gohana bus-stand in Rohtak on Thursday night while his cousin sustained injuries in the attack, police said.The deceased was identified as Ramandeep and his cousin as Robin, who is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital.In his complaint, Robin said he had received a call from his friend that the accused Vishal, his brother Sumit and three others had attacked Ramandeep. “ When I went there and tried to intervene, they stabbed me near the chest. After we raised an an alarm, the attackers fled the spot. The locals rushed us to the civil hospital where doctors declared my brother dead on arrival,” he said.Inspector Roshan Lal said Sumit, Vishal and three unknown persons have been booked under Sections 148,149, 323, 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.“The victim’s body was handed over to his family after an autopsy. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-stabbed-to-death-in-rohtak/story-lkhSUeKCiGc7r00W53uiRM.html
05-06-2020||City||Suspicious husband killed woman found dead in Dera Bassi pond: Police||The woman found dead in a pond in Saidpura village of Dera Bassi on May 15 was murdered by her husband who suspected her of infidelity, police said on Friday.The accused, Jagmohan Singh, was arrested from Barwala Road on Friday and had confessed to killing his wife, Veena Devi, 28, said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi.Police had already arrested Jagmohan’s mother and sister on June 1.The SHO said Jagmohan was a native of Khushepur in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district. The couple and their two daughters were living in a rented accommodation in Saidpura village for four years.“On May 12, the accused had a heated argument with his wife, and in a fit of rage, hit her head with a small LPG cylinder, killing her on the spot. He took the body on a cart and dumped it in a village pond,” the cop said.After the incident, he fled to Yamunanagar with his two daughters and later left the children at their relatives’ place in Pehowa, Haryana. He was returning home on Friday to pick some things when police intercepted him on the way and arrested him.Jagmohan has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.He will be produced in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspicious-husband-killed-woman-found-dead-in-dera-bassi-pond-police/story-ZUUeu9fLhJOk6FuGTicSSP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lure of government job for daughter costs BBMB engineer ₹1.8 lakh||A junior engineer working with Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) was duped of ₹1.8 lakh on pretext of getting his daughter a central government job.Ashok Kumar of Sector 35, Chandigarh, in his complaint to the police alleged that one Shukanto Dass of Laxmi Nagar, Delhi, who had claimed to be the director of Pride Sports Management Limited, had promised to arrange for a central government job for his daughter under sports quota in September 2019.Kumar said that he had come in contact with Dass through a relative, and was assured that his daughter would get a class-B government job with a salary of around ₹60,000. Dass had asked Kumar to deposit ₹1.1 lakh as processing fee and later asked for another ₹70,000. After depositing the money, Dass took father-daughter to Delhi’s Safdarjung to get her medical examination done where Kumar handed over all his daughter’s documents required to process the job.But the duo never heard from Dass again. When Dass stopped taking his calls, Kumar approached the police. A case under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (forgery) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lure-of-government-job-for-daughter-costs-bbmb-engineer-1-8-lakh/story-8YKdjNTObekTRex3Nk6PxK.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||6 mother-child hospitals to be functional in Punjab by July||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday said that six newly built mother and child hospitals in the state would become functional by July. The hospitals are situated at Dasuya in Hoshiarpur, Samana and Rajpura (Patiala), Khanna (Ludhiana), Nakodar (Jalandhar) and Pathankot.Presiding over the meeting, Sidhu said the government is all set to fill 7,055 vacant posts of medical, paramedical and other posts. “These posts include those currently vacant, getting vacant after promotions and getting vacant on September 30, 2020 after relieving the employees on extension. He said that he will put up the file in next Cabinet Meeting to get a nod to commence the recruitments,” said Sidhu.The minister said that to provide better health services to the general public, specialties such as medical officer (microbiology), medical officer (SPM), medical officer (forensic medicine) would also be created after nod from government.Creation of 732 new posts in 122 urban primary health centres, 528 posts in newly constructed urban community health centres in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar, was also discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-mother-child-hospitals-to-be-functional-in-punjab-by-july/story-OLfLqtFTsNNGEsajPn8hAN.html
05-06-2020||City||GMADA returns with e-auction of properties after four months||Last held four months ago, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will hold the e-auction for residential and commercial properties from July 1 to 10.The authority had last conducted an auction in February, after a gap of three months, and had managed to sell just 32 of the 67 properties, despite slashing the reserve price by 20%.A senior officer of GMADA said though the exact number of properties to be auctioned had yet to be calculated, most of them were in three group housing societies in IT City, Sector 66 and Medicity. Besides, a school site in Eco City, a nursing home site in Sector 69 and a petrol pump site in Medicity, New Chandigarh and 13 residential sites in Eco-City will also be up for grabs.Of the 32 properties sold in February, 15 were residential, six booths and SCOs, eight commercial sites in Sectors 83 and 101 and three hotel sites in Sector 66-B, fetching GMADA a total revenue of Rs 234 crore.Among the 15 residential sites auctioned, a 352 square metre plot in Sector 65 had gone for the highest price of Rs 1.93 crore against a reserve price of Rs 1.85 crore. GMADA had also sold three hotel sites in Sector 66-B. Two of them sized at 8,134 square metres each were sold for Rs 25.8 crore. They had a reserve price of Rs 25.53 crore each. The third one, at 16,228 square metres, was auctioned for Rs 51 crore against a reserve price Rs 50.94 crore.Besides, an industrial plot of 20,882 square metres was sold for Rs 32 crore against the reserve price of Rs 28 crore. “Due to recession, GMADA should slash the reserve price further and advertise the auction on unipoles for a good response this time. However, an open auction will encourage better competition and could help GMADA earn more,” said Shailander Anand, former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA).GMADA additional chief administrator Rajesh Dhiman said they were hoping for a better response this time as the auction was being held after four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-returns-with-e-auction-of-properties-after-four-months/story-7zVJHEdm2VeYmd0a05NWAP.html
05-06-2020||City||L-G chairs University of Kashmir council meet||L-G Girish Chandra Murmu, chancellor of the University of Kashmir, chaired a meeting of the university council, through video conferencing, on Friday.He sought a detailed report on activities and initiatives taken up by the university and advised the authorities to adopt a futuristic approach for upgrade of infrastructural, and academic and research programmes on varied subjects. It was informed that Rs 50 crore has been approved under the RUSA for research and innovative hub.He complimented the University authorities for achieving high position under the NIRF ranking and securing the 53rd rank among universities, besides being the topmost university in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-chairs-university-of-kashmir-council-meet/story-4r7Og0sYpx9M1ilCtI8GXJ.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mission Fateh: 5,000 jobless youths get registered online in Mohali||Mohali’s district bureau of employment and entrepreneurship (DBEE) under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission is proving guidance and counselling services to the unemployed youth of the district to prepare them for the job market. Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said the DBEE is establishing contact with the youth digitally and 5,000 have registered on the portal www.pgrkam.com. She added that the bureau has set up an online link to collect vacancies from various companies which is helping people get jobs through online or telephonic interviews. The bureau as part of online career counselling is providing information about job avenues in various sectors and self-employment opportunities. Through video-call, the counsellor provides guidance as per aptitude, interest and skill. The bureau also helps the youth acquire loans to start their own ventures. Those interested in availing the services can call on the helpline number 7814259210 or contact the bureau via e-mail on dbeemohalihelp@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mission-fateh-5-000-jobless-youths-get-registered-online-in-mohali/story-6rCUNmiwlZi7Dh829jGC1K.html
05-06-2020||City||Four-year-old murder case of retired JBT teacher in Ludhiana solved, three arrested||The Mullanpur police claimed to have solved the murder of retired JBT teacher Harbans Singh, 78, after four years with the arrest of three persons on Friday. The victim was found murdered at his house in Mohi village on April 12, 2016.The main conspirator of the crime, Sukhwinder Kaur alias Kindo, 51, who was a domestic help at the house of the victim, died recently on May 2 following illness.Those arrested have been identified as Gobind Singh, alias Moshan, of Indira Colony of Mullanpur, Sandeep Kumar, alias Sippy, of Mullanpur and Vicky of Prem Nagar, Mullanpur.The accused confessed to have executed the crime on the information that there was a lot of money and gold in the house, but they found only Rs 5,000 and some silver jewellery. The stolen cash and jewellery has yet to be recovered from the accused, the police said .Ludhiana senior superintendent of police (SSP, rural) Viveksheel Soni said the case was lying unsolved for four years. So, he shifted the investigation from Jodhan police station to Mullanpur Dakha police station and deputed its SHO inspector Prem Singh to investigate the case.“Admitting to have committed the crime, the accused told the police that Sukhwinder Kaur, alias Kindo, who was a domestic help at the house of Harbans Singh, had told them that the elderly man was lending money to people after mortgaging their gold jewellery and that he had lots of money and jewellery at home,” said the SSP.“The accused then planned the robbery and barged into Harbans’ house after scaling the wall on April 11, 2016. They tied Harbans with a cot and bludgeoned him to death with a baseball bat. But, later found only Rs 5,000 in cash and some silver jewellery in the house,” he added.The SSP added accused Sandeep and Vicky were already facing trial in six criminal cases. They had also robbed cash and gold from a dera of eunuchs in Ferozepur.Following the murder in April 2016, a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified accused at the Jodhan police station.The accused will be produced in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-year-old-murder-case-of-retired-jbt-teacher-in-ludhiana-solved-three-arrested/story-7lWjUXwq0rcFKPRbbMCzsN.html
05-06-2020||City||Congress threatens HP CM of legal action for making false statements against the party||State Congress on Friday warned chief minister Jai Ram Thakur of legal action for making false statements against their party.CM had given a statement where he stated that state Congress has produced bills of ₹12 crore to Congress High Command claiming to spent on Covid-19 crises in the state.State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore has asked CM to produce a valid document for his allegations against the Congress party or else he will have to face legal consequences.Hitting out at CM, Rathore said that it is very childish behaviour of a person who is holding the post of CM as he is making media statements based on social media posts and an unsigned letter.Rathore has alleged that the state government is trying to protect its corrupt leaders and is trying to mislead the public by spreading fake information against Congress party.Rathore has demanded the resignation of CM Jai Ram Thakur for alleged scams in the health department and has also demanded the state government to issue a white paper regarding purchases made during the present coronavirus pandemic.Rathore said that if the state government is not guilty then why are they hesitating from ordering a judicial probe into the alleged scam.He added that Covid-19 has drastically hit the economy of the state and sectors like tourism, horticulture and others have not been benefited by the state government during the ongoing pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-threatens-hp-cm-of-legal-action-for-making-false-statements-against-the-party/story-gpidry8dmxk6G6dPf4oeMM.html
05-06-2020||City||Special prayers to mark beginning of Amarnath Yatra held in Jammu||The top officials of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) on Friday performed ‘pratham pooja’ here on the occasion of Jayestha Purnima, signifying the commencement of the annual pilgrimage.During the chanting of Vedic mantras and havan, J&K L-G principal secretary and SASB CEO Bipul Pathak and SASB additional CEO A K Soni at Chaitanya Mahaprabhu Ashram were in presence.The pooja was jointly organised by SASB and Baba Amarnath and Buda Amarnath Yatri Niyas.“It signifies commencement of the annual pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Shri Amarnath. The yatra, however, shall begin on July 21 for a shorter duration of 14 days and end on August 3,” sources said.The pilgrimage to the 3,880m-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir will now be conducted from the shorter Baltal route only, they added.While the Ganderbal deputy commissioner has already pressed men and machinery into clearing of the Baltal track, workers from the SASB will start leaving from Jammu on Monday for assisting in the track clearance and laying bailey bridges over streams.The decision to cut-short the yatra was taken during a meeting held by J&K L-G GC Murmu last week.The government had in February decided to hold the annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine.The yatra was scheduled to begin from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23. The pilgrimage was to end on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the pilgrimage was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-prayers-to-mark-beginning-of-amarnath-yatra-held-in-jammu/story-ouWvPcO5iUf2gez4dBGB0J.html
05-06-2020||City||11 gamblers held with Rs 19.82 lakh cash, weapons and cars in Jalandhar||Eleven gamblers were arrested with Rs 19.8 lakh cash, four weapons and five cars from a house in New Amardass Colony in Jalandhar.The accused have been identified as Sucha Singh, 52, of Dialpur, Sandeep Sharma, 43, of Mitha Bazar, Davinder, 33, of Adampur, Vishal Bhalla, 41, of Babbia Mazar Katra Dullo, Mohit, 28, of Katra Dullo , Ricky, 36, of Hazat Nagar, Kamal Kumar, 37, of Tirath Road, Bhanu, 34, of Khoo Bambe Wala Gate, Kaushal Kumar, 33, Manohar Lal, 34, of Ram Bagh Kot Aatma Singh and Parveen Mahajan, 41, of Kharas Wali Gali near Amritsar bus stand.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that following a tip-off, the cops raided in a house on Street No-3 in Guru Amar Dass Colony and arrested the accused. Police recovered Rs 19.82 lakh cash, three .32 bore revolvers, a .45 bore pistol, five cars and two gambling card boxes from their possession.As per the police, the accused, Sucha Singh and Sandeep Sharma, are property dealers. They had sold the house, from they were arrested, to an NRI but had not handed over the keys to him.The revolver seized from Sandeep belongs to one Joginder Pal, who is yet to be arrested. Both had been arrested with 30 others in Ludhiana in 2017 when cops had seized Rs 34 lakh.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005, 13-3-67 Gambling Act and 25,27, 54 and 59 Arms Act in Police Station-1 has been registered.The enforcement directorate and income tax department have also been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-gamblers-held-with-rs-19-82-lakh-cash-weapons-and-cars-in-jalandhar/story-2BQDYca1mPcpUqeTCcq5WI.html
05-06-2020||City||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur sings paeans for PM Modi||On one-year completion of his government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi won accolades from Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. Describing Modi’s second term as “ historic” Thakur one after other counted achievements of the National Democratic Alliance government.“Not only the country progressed under the dynamic leadership of Narendra Modi but he has set an example for the international community,” the CM said. He referred to the achievements of the Modi government whether it was a surgical strike, amendment in the triple talaq bill abrogation of Article 370 and 35 (A), by bringing in Citizen amendment Act, apache helicopters to defence, unique health service to the people of the country Ayushman Bharat has been important achievements.“It was due to Modi Ji’s bold decision that the government abrogated Article 370 in Kashmir,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur addressing mediapersons in the government-run Hotel Peterhoff. Thakur also praised then government for introducing a health insurance scheme for the countrymen.He said the policies of the Union government under the leadership of Narendra Modi has played an important role by curbing terrorism, bringing unity in J&K, and providing health services and insurance to the citizens.Thakur also lauded Modi for combating coronavirus across the country. Starting from Janata curfew, Modi Ji took laudable measures to facilitate the countrymen during the grave humanitarian crisis, he said adding that Shramik trains were started by the Centre to transport migrants and those stranded in several parts of the country to their native places. He said that due to endeavors of the Modi government, 52 lakh persons were benefitted across the country.He said that the PM is working towards making India self-reliant amidst the corona crisis.The Economic package of ₹20 lakh crore has also been helpful for the people across the country. The CM added that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 enacted by the Centre would ensure a life of dignity for the suppressed minority communities including, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christian who fled to India from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan.He said that the November 9, 2019 judgment of the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of Ram Mandir and the Modi-led government has formed a trust in consonance of the court order.He said that the initiative by the Modi-government to abolish and criminalise the evil practice of triple-talaq has provided much relief to the Muslim women. The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 will further empower them, said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-sings-paeans-for-pm-modi/story-8lFJe4LG62AHe5rm1RWfNP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel recommends conducting entrance tests from July-end||A Panjab University panel on Friday recommended that all entrance tests of the university should be conducted from July-end till and conclude within the first week of August.The panel was constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and the recommendation is subject to his approval.PU conducts entrance tests including CET-UG, CET-PG, MET, PU-THAT and PU-MEET every year which are taken by thousands of students.A committee member, on condition of anonymity said, “Some people were of the opinion that entrance tests should not be held this year but we cannot compromise on quality. We have also learnt that a large number of students have applied for both UG and PG entrance tests,” he said.The committee also recommended that the examination centres for the entrance tests should be established at various locations outside Chandigarh based on the number of students in that area. “Examination centres can be set-up at places where the number of students is high and other students can take their examination in nearby centres,” a member of the committee said.The members of the panel also said that proper precautionary measures should be taken during the examinations and safety protocols should be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-recommends-conducting-entrance-tests-from-july-end/story-8EOq4U66hcCwhLikUvPwYL.html
05-06-2020||City||Paddy seed scam: Names of varieties leaked even before launch by PAU: Probe||The investigation in the spurious paddy seed scam has revealed that names of the newly developed varieties, to be sown on trial basis, were already known to the accused even before they were officially launched for cultivation by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).Ludhiana chief agricultural officer (CAO) Narinder Singh Benipal, probing the scam, said under the protocol, seeds are given with a code and name of the variety to be released for trial is not shared with farmers.“But in this case, Baljinder Singh and others, who mass produced the seed and even sold it before its official launch, knew the name of the new variety even before it was launched by the university. We are writing a letter to the university to explain the lapse,” said Benipal.The matter came to light during the investigation of Harvinder Singh Brar alias Kaka Brar, who runs the seed store in front of Gate No. 1 of PAU, Baljinder Singh of Bhundri village of Jagraon, a Kisan Club member of PAU, who was given seed on trial basis by PAU, and Lakhwinder Singh alias Lucky Dhillon, owner of Karnal Agri Seeds of Dera Baba Nanak, Batala.PR 128 and PR 129 varieties were approved during a meeting of the State Variety Approval Committee, held under the chairmanship of Dr Suntantar Kumar Airi, director of agriculture, Punjab, on February 19.PAU director of research Dr NS Bains was not available for comments, but head of the plant breeding department Dr GS Mangat said, “The university was adhering to the protocol strictly and farmers are not shared the name of the varieties, which are given on trial basis.” Meanwhile, Harvinder Singh alias Kaka Brar and Baljinder Singh, who were arrested on May 31 and June 2 respectively, were produced before a court and they were sent to police custody till June 8.Brar was booked after a Moga-based farmer had alleged that the store was selling PR 128 and PR 129 seeds for Rs 200-250 per kg whereas PAU was selling the same at Rs 70 per kg only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-seed-scam-names-of-varieties-leaked-even-before-launch-by-pau-probe/story-TbX3ZKBg5TBdPmjyAd8JYK.html
05-06-2020||City||Srinagar admn meets stakeholders, seeks suggestions on reopening religious places||The district administration has started holding sessions with the stakeholders seeking their feedback on gradual opening of the city and its religious places.While some restrictions were eased on June 1 and more traffic was seen on the roads in Srinagar, most shops in the summer capital remain shut.In a meeting with some religious heads here on Friday, the administration sought their opinion on the easing of restrictions and opening places of worship and shops.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary, who chaired the meeting, said that officials sat together with representatives of mosques, temples, gurdwaras and churches in Srinagar. “We got proactive response on following the Covid-19 protocols. They promised to reach out to everyone,” he said.“Yes, such a meeting was held by the administration and we gave our suggestions to the officials. It’s up to them to consider our suggestions,” said a religious preacher from the old city area.Most of them who attended the meet expressed their concern over the growing number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir. On Thursday, 185 positive cases were reported from different parts of the valley, which caused panic among the people. With eight deaths, Srinagar district has the highest Covid-19 fatality rate in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-admn-meets-stakeholders-seeks-suggestions-on-reopening-religious-places/story-52ZqTaSK6zUEDtAeHxkYQK.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Thane shops open amid confusion over rules||After the initial chaos over opening of shops in Thane’s market area of Naupada after two months, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) revised the order as per the police’s suggestion.On Thursday night, TMC came up with a list of shops from Court Naka to Jamli Naka and Thane station area which will open on odd and even days. On Friday morning, around 500 shops on either side of the road opened as per the odd and even plan. After this allotment was opposed by the police, the TMC amended it.A few hours after opening, the shops shut after 1pm for a few hours. They were allowed to open after the TMC officials and police officers met to revise the list.The Thane Nagar police demanded that shops on only one side of the street remain open on one day so that the other side can be used for parking. They said this will ensure social distancing as well.Ramrao Somvanshi, senior police inspector of Thane Nagar Police station, said, “While allotting odd and even days, TMC had left out small bylanes. We could see shops open on both the sides of the street. We conducted another survey with TMC and the list was revised.”He said around 60% shops were open on Friday. “We expect people to come out and shop from tomorrow and will ensure social distancing is maintained,” he added.Traders said they did not get many customers on Friday.Mitesh Shah, member of Gokhale Road Traders’ Union, said, “There was confusion till yesterday so even residents wouldn’t know which shops will be open today.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said that the earlier list was made as per the convenience of the traders and the odd and even parking slots. “However, the police said it would be difficult for them to patrol if shops on both sides are open. As per the new order, shops on one side will remain open on odd dates and another side of the street on even dates.”Shops on 18 roads in Mumbra which were outside containment zones also opened. A police officer from Mumbra said, “There are 44 containment zones in Mumbra and more than 500 Covid positive patients. Only essential shops will be allowed to open in containment zones. We have allowed shops to open on 18 roads at Mumbra which not in containment zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-shops-open-amid-confusion-over-rules/story-BAi3EkrBTO7PyVY2WC4GOO.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Subsidise PPE kits for private hospitals, don’t make patients pay||Combine medicine and humanitarianismHaving proved time and again that these are solely money minting setups, private hospitals leave no stone unturned to add extra charges to a patient’s bill. Most patients who do not know anything about medical science pay up without arguing. Healthcare providers have no right whatsoever to charge for PPE kits they use while treating patients. The great thing about our country is that we can encash every opportunity and the same is happening now. Give the common man a break, his patience is wearing thin. Governing bodies should find out what’s happening at these institutes. Not everyone who visits a private hospital can afford to be overcharged, especially in the current scenario with widespread unemployment. Medicine and humanitarianism should be combined in times like these.Madhav Bansal , ChandigarhLet the government helpHospitals are not being fair to patients by overcharging them for safety kits. The government should step in and provide funds for such equipment to all hospitals.Saikrit Gulati , ChandigarhStringent action against hospitals requiredThe medical fraternity, including doctors,nurses and their supporting staff are the frontline warriors fighting to save precious lives by risking their own. While good samaritans are donating masks, gloves and sanitisers in slums and colonies on the city’s periphery, some private hospitals are fleecing patients in this crisis. Medical authorities should take stringent action against such institutes.Usha Verma, ChandigarhHospitals have to ensure a patient’s safety, they should payPrivate hospitals work on a profit motive and will charge a patient extra if any additional facilities are provided. The problem however is that such institutes are already handing over hefty bills to patients so expecting them to pay additional costs when the hospital is duty bound to ensure a patient’s safety, is not fair. The government should specify a cost ceiling for such items.Avinash GoyalResponsible people take care of their own expensesAs the Indian economy has been hit because of Covid-19, people should become responsible citizens and pay for treatment, which includes protective equipment of the healthworkers.It is the time for people to start taking care of their own expenses.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.Charges justified in unprecedented Covid scenarioThe whole world has by now experienced the devastating effect of the coronavirus on the lives of people, social and political fabric, and the economical and behavioural aspects of our daily life. So the financial component in day to day life cannot be ignored. As nothing comes free, except for unsolicited advice.Private hospitals as well as private clinics have the legitimate right to charge for the PPEs in this Covid scenario. The Corona situation has imposed too many protocols in terms of space, equipment, manpower and other logistics in addition to significant reduction of available operating time and OPD slots. Factually, the extra financial burden cannot be simply passed on as PPE charge, but can be billed as a ‘Covid charge’, to cover the multiple financial implications. Going by the country’s health care system, around 80% is being looked after by corporate hospitals, nursing homes and other small private practices. These have to survive and serve on a model, which cannot match the health budgets of government institutions such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences or the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Even these institutions, while charging the fixed hospital charges, often ask patients to buy medicines, consumable supplies (gloves, syringes, surgical wraps) and medical devices (implants, intraocular lenses and cardiac stents). Private hospitals can always and will be increasing their fee for different procedures, but they do so after following certain administrative procedures. Currently, under the declared fee and contract, there is no choice for them but to put expenses for Covid safety as a separate charge, which was never foreseen. The fact remains that well meaning and understanding patients should be willing to pay the extra charge without any hesitation, so long as it is reasonable and justified.Ashok Utreja, ChandigarhLet state govt, NGOs step in to helpIn the wake of the pandemic when the masses are already grappling with financial crises, burden of payment of PPE kits should not be imposed on public. It is the duty of all hospitals to bear such costs. Alternatively, the state government can start a policy to contribute a limited amount for the kits. NGOs can come forward to donate kits or to contribute funds for the kits. As all of us have to learn how to live for a longer term with coronavirus and make up for financial losses. The government should make suitable arrangements to provide PPE kits in all the hospitals without burdening the common man.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliIt shouldn’t be must for the patients to pay for PPEThere has been a great loss of lives amid the Covid-19 pandemic, and the numbers are expected to rise. People need quality medical care. We have also seen that due to the pandemic many have lost their jobs, some haven’t been given salaries or have faced pay cuts.In this scenario how can we expect them to pay for PPE kits and other expenses? Now only the well off can afford to pay expensive hospital bills, definitely not all, so they must not be charged for safety kits used by healthcare staff. One solution to this should be that the government should provide adequate safety kits to the hospital to ease the burden on patients. Komal Sharma, ChandigarhCash, kits donated, ask UT authorities for helpAs the coronavirus is not a man made calamity, all facilities and the best possible treatment must be given by private hospitals at discounted rates to patients. They must not treat the onslaught of Covid-19 as an opportunity to make more money. As regards the cost of PPE kits used by the treating paramedics, there is reportedly enough PPE stock with the UT health director and government hospitals, courtesy liberal donations for this purpose by various socially conscious NGOs.Our resident welfare association at Modern Housing Complex, Sector13, donated Rs 2 lakh for the purpose on April 6, 2020, to the UT administration and PPE kits etc were given. Private Hospitals will do well to approach the authorities concerned to obtain these PPE kits free of cost instead of making their patients pay for it.SC Luthra, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-subsidise-ppe-kits-for-private-hospitals-don-t-make-patients-pay/story-SdRiBY1cKnIlfUbRRH8h8M.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||National conference on financial impacts of Covid-19 on Indian economy concludes at Ludhiana college||A three-day national conference on “Financial implications of Covid-19 on India with special reference to Punjab” organised by community college and postgraduate department of commerce of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College concluded on Friday.On Day 3, three technical sessions were held. The resource person of the first session was Lily Bhushan, MH Shroff College of Commerce, Mumbai. She spoke about the measures that need to be undertaken to reshape the industry and infrastructure. She said there is an urgent need to ensure proper functioning of the supply chain and reopening of units. She suggested measures like one-time (loan) restructuring, additional institutional funding, waiver of penal interest, policy innovations for triggering consumer demand, controlling cartelisation of raw material and changing criterion of affordability for GST applicability to help the industrial sector. The second resource person was Bikram Singh Virk, professor at the department of commerce, NJSA Government College, Kapurthala. He spoke on the financial implications of the Covid lockdown and curfew on Punjab’s economy, industry and trade. He added that daily wage workers and those employed by small businesses have taken the worst hit. These include hawkers, roadside vendors and construction workers, he added.The third resource person was Harpreet Singh, principal, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, Ludhiana. He focused on measures to revive consumer and industrial demand. He said that to enhance demand, measures like time-bound implementation of infrastructure projects announced by the government and packages for steel consuming industries like auto and infrastructure, besides a ban on imports of seconds, defectives and re-rollable scrap steel, should be implemented.The valedictory session started with a welcome address from SP Singh, president, Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council and former vice-chancellor, GNDU, Amritsar. He said that this conference has connected with people and helped them understand the financial implications of Covid- 19 on industry, trade and commerce effectively.Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor of Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the chief guest of the valedictory session. He spoke about the financial impact of the Covid- 19 on the Indian and Punjab’s economy. He said that the people of Punjab, especially in rural areas, are in a state of palpable unrest over issues including unemployed rural laborers, the poultry sector as well as police treatment of the masses amid the lockdown. Small and marginal farmers as well as farm laborers are the most affected in the state due to the breakdown of supply chains, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/national-conference-on-financial-impacts-of-covid-19-on-indian-economy-concludes-at-ludhiana-college/story-CLOLb5UbuN1nzvTZraktqJ.html
05-06-2020||City||PSPCL CMD retires, A Venu Prasad assumes charge||After a two-year eventful stint, Baldev Singh Sran, retired as chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Senior bureaucrat and principal secretary power, A Venu Prasad, has assumed charge in his place.Sran, a power engineer, was known for taking decisions on merit, ignoring political considerations. His drive against power theft drew the ire of some ruling party MLAs, with the public welcoming such moves. He brought down the transmission and distribution losses of the PSPCL, and also worked to use resources of private thermal plants for banking of power in winters, for the state to draw in summers. He remained at loggerheads with private thermal plants over coal-washing and fixed charges. Vocal and firm, Sran took several decisions against the wishes of the state government, including the suspension of a chief engineer. He is privy to the ‘White Paper’ on establishment of private thermal plants. The Congress government did not present the White Paper in the House in the last assembly session, as some top bureaucrats are reportedly shown in adverse light in the report. In his failures, he could not restart the Pachwara coal mine in Jharkhand for the utility’s use and could not set up a new power project under the state sector. Before assuming charge as CMD, he had consistently raised the demand for such a project. A section in the distribution wing of power engineers also remained non-cooperative in the implementation of his ideas. Before demitting office, Sran wrote a letter to PSPCL staff, thanking them for their cooperation.The new CMD, Prasad, had served in this post for more than a year before the selection of Sran. “I have assumed charge and ensuring proper supply during paddy sowing is my first priority,” said Prasad, who is also principal secretary for water resource and mining, and financial commissioner, excise and taxation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-cmd-retires-a-venu-prasad-assumes-charge/story-w3pVmIdb7zJfaDsSGPW6dJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Resumption of Vaishno Devi yatra may take a while as shrine officials await SOPs||Amid the Centre’s nod to reopen religious places from June 8, spadework has already begun at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra here. However, pilgrimage to the holy cave may take a little longer to kick off.It is likely to be resumed in the second week of June.“Sanitisation drives are being conducted on twin tracks, sanctum sanctorum and in Katra town. Circles are also being marked outside Yatra Parchi counter, the bhawan and at the helipads in Katra and Sanji Chhat to ensure social distancing. However, the final call on resumption of the yatra may take a day or two,” said sources.They informed that the famous pilgrimage may not be resumed from June 8.“SOPs are yet to be finalised and a decision on it is likely at the state administrative council meeting going to be chaired by Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu on Saturday. The call to suspending the yatra on March 18 due to Covid-19 pandemic had also come from the administration,” they added.Sources said circles have also been marked at gates 1,2 and 3 of the sanctum sanctorum and white-wash has been expedited.It has been learnt that initially, only local pilgrims will be allowed to visit the cave shrine.“The pilgrimage remains suspended since March 18 and it’s very depressing to see the deserted sanctum sanctorum, twin tracks and Katra town. We are eagerly looking forward to the pilgrims, who are also waiting anxiously to pay obeisance at the shrine,” the sources said.Apart from the helicopter service, the shrine board also provides battery cars and ropeway services to the pilgrims.CHOPPER FARES LIKELY TO BE HIKEDAs per sources, the chopper firms engaged by the shrine board may hike their fares by 60% following the resumption of the pilgrimage.Earlier, the one-way fare from Katra to Sanji Chhat was ₹1,045 and ₹2,090 for a to-and-fro journey, but now it may go up to ₹1,730 for one-way and ₹3,460 for two- way travel.NO CALL YET ON ANNUAL CHAMLIYAL MELA AT INDO-PAK BORDERUncertainty also looms over annual Chamliyal Mela, which is celebrated on the last Thursday of June every year at the Indo-Pak border in Samba district, due to the Covid- 19 pandemic.“We are still not clear and await instructions from top authorities,” said officials from the Samba district administration.Every year, thousands of devotees from either sides of the international border participate in the separate fairs at the Hindu shrine of Baba Dalip Singh Manhas, popularly known as ‘Baba Chamliyal’.For the past two years, Pakistan Rangers have not participated in the fair due to escalating tension between the two countries.On June 12, 2018, Pak Rangers had attacked the Chamliyal border outpost, killing four BSF personnel, including an assistant commandant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/resumption-of-vaishno-devi-yatra-may-take-a-while-as-shrine-officials-await-sops/story-GAGKFUOZxn830bwkeMJ1VM.html
05-06-2020||City||BJP ready for J&K assembly polls: Party’s national vice-president||Stating that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set for assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, Bharatiya Janata Party’s national vice-president Avinash Rai Khanna said polls will be conducted as soon as delimitation process is done. “The pandemic has delayed the electoral process. If the situation normalises in sometime, we may have the election in 2020 itself,” said Khanna while addressing a press conference in Ludhiana to list out the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government that has completed one year in office. He added that the second term of the Modi government has witnessed “historical events” and “it was due to Modi’s strong leadership that the country managed to tackle the pandemic situation”.CONDEMNS CAPT AMARINDER SINGHThe BJP vice-president also hit out at Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, stating that the government had burdened the residents of the state with hefty fines. He praised the local cloth manufacturing industries for becoming the wheel of change and helping the government in the battle against the pandemic.He said that once the country has sufficient personal protective equipment (PPE) and face masks, the government would encourage its export.HITS OUT AT RAJIV BAJAJThe BJP leader also lashed out at industrialist Rajiv Bajaj who had criticised the nationwide lockdown.“He is not an expert on the pandemic. An opinion of single individual holds no value. We have to look after the well-being of the entire country. Besides, the lockdown was extended with some major relaxations,” said Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-ready-for-j-k-assembly-polls-party-s-national-vice-president/story-EUgIkeI4iidzsnVKb8rBUK.html
05-06-2020||City||Badlapur residents hit by 27-hour power cut||The residents of Badlapur (East) had to face power cuts for more than 27 hours after a transformer was damaged on Thursday. The area was without power on Wednesday because of the cyclone and power supply was again disrupted since Thursday morning. The supply was restored around 3.30pm on Friday.The residents said the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) should have at least informed them about Wednesday’s power cut.“Since 12 noon on Thursday, there is no power in our area. We thought it would be restored by evening. But, it continued the next day, causing inconvenience for us,” said Sameer Gharat, 37, a resident of Vivekananda housing society in Badlapur.“We finally got electricity around 3.30pm on Friday, more than 27 hours after the disruption,” added Gharat.According to MSEDCL, following the cyclone alert, there were precautionary power cuts in different parts of Badlapur for at least six hours. “The transformer was damaged so there was no power at Vivekananda and some parts of Katrap. We restored electricity by Friday afternoon,” said Anil Kamble, chief public relations officer, MSEDCL, Mumbai.Residents complained that they have been facing long hours of power cuts in the past two months.“In the past two months, there have been long hours of power cuts to change wires and transformers. Most of us are working from home and all work stops because of no electricity. Besides, no prior notice or schedule of power cuts has been provided to residents to help us prepare for it,” said Ganesh Ghorpade, 48, a resident of Vivekananda housing society.MSEDCL, Badlapur, cited manpower shortage for the long power cut on Thursday and Friday.“The work was delayed due to lack of manpower amid lockdown. The damage in the transformer was found on Thursday evening. We had to install a new transformer which took time,” said an official in-charge of MSEDCL, Badlapur, adding that one of their workers has tested positive for Covid, which has affected all work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-residents-hit-by-27-hour-power-cut/story-1sV0G3Bj6qm0Y7YXKlXNvN.html
05-06-2020||City||Haryana government’s new rice shoot policy is anti-farmer: Congress leader Surjewala||Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday attacked the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for its new rice shoot policy, terming it as anti-farmer. The rice shoot policy was primarily instituted to provide extra water to paddy growers during the monsoon.Referring to the “anti farmer” conditions in the new policy, Surjewala said according to the policy, no rice shoot will be permitted on all channels in Haryana which has a discharge of less than 10 cusecs of water. “Rice shoot fee has been increased by 100 % to Rs 300 per acre. Rice shoots will not be provided in Haryana on less than 20 acres of land. There will also be a condition that paddy cannot be planted in more than 15 acres of land out of those 20 acres. The new rice shoots have been completely eliminated in the Bhakra Command system with the exception of areas where the Yamuna or Ghaggar river water is available,” he said.“The quantity of water allocated every year for rice shoots in districts like Yamunanagar, Karnal, Panipat, Jind and Rohtak through Western Jamuna Canal system will get reduced from the existing water share of 25 % to 3 % by 2024,” he said.Surjewala said it seems that the BJP-JJP government wanted to lock out farmers of Kaithal, Jind, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts by creating obstacles and restrictions for farming in northern Haryana.Quoting the agriculture department data, Surjewala said paddy is cultivated on 35.13 lakh acres in Haryana and the state produces about 5 million tonnes every year. “However, the latest rice shoot policy issued on June 3 intends to destroy paddy cultivation. The goal of this rice shoot policy seems to completely eliminate paddy cultivation in Haryana and hit the farmer hard,” he alleged.The Congress leader said on one hand the state government shelved the Dadupur Nalvi recharge canal project and on the other rice shoots were being stopped. “Why is it so when excess water is available during the rainy season? Will it not encourage ground water exploitation via tube-wells. It is clear that the BJP-JJP government is following the policy of taking ‘two steps forward and two hundred steps back’, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-government-s-new-rice-shoot-policy-is-anti-farmer-congress-leader-surjewala/story-PrCYlmewS6oz1EwbpgqhTI.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 30 is no more a containment zone||The UT Administration on Friday decided to remove containment zone restrictions from Sector 30B.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida in his capacity as the chairperson of the state executive committee of the state disaster management authority issued the order with the stipulation that regular screening and monitoring of the area will continue. These orders came into force with immediate effect.Meanwhile, 31 people from three adjacent houses have been shifted to institutional quarantine centres. Their vacant houses are being sanitised.This is fourth of six localities in the city to be declared containment free. Parts of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and Kachi Colony, Dhanas, are the two remaining containment zones. Kachi Colony is slated to lose the containment tag on June 8.MOVE FOLLOWING RESIDENTS’ PROTESTThe fresh decision to remove the containment zone came after the affected area committee comprising senior officials met on Thursday to discuss the issue.For the last two days, residents of the area were protesting against the administration’s plan to extend containment restrictions in the area beyond June 5.Welcoming the decision, local councillor Devinder Singh Babla said: “Residents got a big relief today as the area got unsealed after nearly 50 days. People went through difficult times during this period. They became unemployed, there was no food to eat and they had no money to pay house rent and school fees of their children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sector-30-is-no-more-a-containment-zone/story-BQcUC84zGSKhcidJ4A4FBI.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Pets can be taken out for 20 minutes per day during lockdown: State informs HC||In a major relief for pet owners in the city, the state has informed the Bombay high court that they will be allowing owners to take their pets outdoors for 20 minutes per day, as per the June 1 guidelines issued by the Animal Welfare Board (AWB). The state has, however, said that while the 20 minutes slot will differ from area to area, the same will not be applicable in containment zones and a circular on such zones will be issued later in the day.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayyed were hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by animal activist Vineeta Tandon seeking directions to the state to lift restrictions imposed on taking pets outdoors for a walk during the lockdown. They were informed by the advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that a circular was issued by the state government in this regard and restrictions had been lifted partially.While apprising the bench of the decision, Kumbhakoni said that the Animal Welfare Board which is a statutory body constituted under section 4 of the Cruelty to Animals Act had issued guidelines for taking pets outdoor to answer nature’s call during the lockdown. Kumbhakoni informed the bench that as per the guidelines the state had decided to lift the restrictions and allow owners to take their pets outdoors for 20 minutes per day. However, he said that the guidelines would not be implemented in its entirety in containment zones and a separate circular would be issued.The state through additional government pleader Manish Pabale informed the bench that as all the prayers raised in the petition had been addressed, the PIL could be disposed of.Apart from allowing pets to be taken outdoors, the petition had sought directions to the police to allow feeders to feed strays during the lockdown and to allow movement of veterinary ambulances and private vehicles to take ailing animals to veterinary hospitals.Pabale said that as instructions were already issued to the police to permit feeders and to issue requisite passes to ambulances and private vehicles to operate, the non-compliance of the instructions by the police could not be the grounds for continuing the PIL.After hearing the submissions, the bench accepted the stand of the state and said that it had concluded hearing arguments in the case and would pronounce its order later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pets-can-be-taken-out-for-20-minutes-per-day-during-lockdown-state-informs-hc/story-F4xzrpEb3fYRJVNiQ7FREK.html
05-06-2020||City||Teachers absent from exam duty: Haryana board asks schools to deposit Rs 5,000 fine each by June 10||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has issued notices to 132 private schools across the state to deposit a penalty of Rs 5,000 each by June 10 as their teachers had skipped the board invigilation duty during the 2020 board exams.Board chairman Jagbir Singh said teachers from 800 private schools out of 3,300 had remained absent for the exam duty during the board exams for Class 10 and 12. “As many as 668 schools, whose teachers skipped the board exam duty, have deposited a penalty of Rs 5,000 each with the board so far. A total of 132 schools are yet to deposit the penalty amount and we have given them the last deadline of June 10. If they fail to do so, the fine will be increased to Rs 1 lakh each and the board can cancel the affiliation of these schools,” Singh said.Board secretary Rajiv Prasad said they had issued notices to 999 private schools last year for the same violation. “Nearly 2,000 teachers had missed the exam duty last year. The schools had paid the last year’s fine in February this year after we had held the admit cards of their students,” Prasad said.A board official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Over the past few years, private school teachers have made it a habit to skip exam duty. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) imposes a fine of Rs 5 lakh on schools where teachers skip the exam duty. We have been imposing a fine of Rs 5,000 only since past many years. It is difficult for us to arrange new teachers immediately for exam duty after a few of them skip it at the last minute,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-absent-from-exam-duty-haryana-board-asks-schools-to-deposit-rs-5-000-fine-each-by-june-10/story-1a8A4tMr4ck1tGpjQOcfvN.html
05-06-2020||City||Himachal: FIR registered over ‘false accusation’ on ventilator purchase||A spokesperson of the state government said that an FIR was registered against those who were trying to malign the image of HP State Electronics Development Corporation (HPSEDC), alleging that substandard and low cost ventilators were purchased by the corporation at Rs 10.29 lakh per unit whereas the actual price was Rs 3.50 lakh in private sector.The spokesperson said that no such purchase of ventilators was made by the HPSEDC. He said that the state government is intolerant towards such false accusations, thus, an FIR was registered against people who made false allegations towards the corporation and action will be taken against people involved in this conspiracy.He said that committees were constituted for purchase of the ventilators at level of directorate of health services. He said that before purchase of the ventilators rates and standards of ventilators were studied on GeM portal. Besides this, the committee also studied the process of purchase of ventilators adopted by other states. He said that the ventilators were purchased keeping the rate and technical standards into consideration and full transparency has been adopted in purchase of the ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-fir-registered-over-false-accusation-on-ventilator-purchase/story-SArWta8aVvgUUsTCgA5OnJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Unlock 1: Punjab School Education Board restarts evaluation of Class 12 answer sheets||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided to restart the process of evaluating Class 12 answer sheets from Saturday and directed evaluators to check and recheck answer sheets themselves and upload the marks online in 10 days.Earlier, evaluators used to get eight days to complete the process and other teachers were deputed for rechecking. But this time, an evaluator has to check the answer sheets allotted to them, recheck them and upload the marks online.The board had stopped the evaluation process in March due to imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown, though answer sheets of two subjects -- English and Punjabi -- were checked and marks uploaded. Now, the centres will receive bundles of other subjects. Teachers need to collect bundles of answer sheets from designated marking centres and return them there after evaluation at home. In Ludhiana, these centres are situated at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), PAU; GMSSS, Model Town; Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Khanna; and Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Jagraon.The board has also asked the centre coordinators at marking centres to provide hand sanitisers and soaps in washrooms. A sum of Rs 300 can be used from the Rs 1,650 sent to coordinators for the marking process.Sanjeev Thapar, principal of GMSSS, PAU, said, “We have received instructions from the board and after receiving bundles of answer sheets, will hand them over to the teachers. We will take all precautions, such as social distancing, while handing over answer sheets to evaluators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-1-punjab-school-education-board-restarts-evaluation-of-answer-sheets/story-hkGkydwb3GqQeoqhyJwmTK.html
05-06-2020||City||SFI to protest against varsity regarding recruitment application fee||Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) will stage a protest against the university administration on June 8 for allegedly charging excessive recruitment application fee.The SFI will demand the varsity administration to withdraw the excess fee and implement the state government’s decision of free applications for women in all competitive examinations for these recruitments.The SFI has accused the university administration of making recruitment application fee a source of income. SFI state president Raman Tharta said applicants who belong to poor and middle-class families will be deprived of an opportunity of getting a job in the university due to excessive recruitment application fee.The SFI suggested that if the university administration is unable to conduct recruitment examinations, it should hand it over to the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission which conducts other competitive examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sfi-to-protest-against-varsity-regarding-recruitment-application-fee/story-sf2pEhBeolx2LtbAQMGlWI.html
05-06-2020||City||Changaliwala Dalit murder: Sangrur court dismisses bail plea of accused||The Sangrur court dismissed the bail plea of Yadwinder Singh alias Lucky, arrested in the murder case of a Dalit construction worker. The victim, identified as Jagmail Singh, 37, was allegedly tortured and forced to drink urine. Police had also arrested three others, including Kamalpreet Singh alias Rinku, his father Amarjeet Singh, and Balwinder alias Binder, all from Changaliwala village, last year. The case was registered under Section 302 (murder) and other sections of the IPC and SC/ST act at Lehra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/changaliwala-dalit-murder-sangrur-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-accused/story-wcTz7QJUOalPPSTIxqTsPK.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||NIA court adjourns bail plea hearing of Varavara Rao, as jail authorities fail to submit medical reports||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday adjourned the plea hearing of Telugu poet P Varavara Rao to June 10, as prison authorities at Taloja jail have not submitted his medical reports.Rao, booked in connection with Elgar Parishad case, had approached the special court for interim bail on May 15 amidst the spread of Covid-19 disease in Mumbai jails.The plea came up for hearing on May 22, whereby the court directed the jail authorities to submit a report on his medical condition. Rao’s lawyer claimed that the authorities have still not submitted his medical report even after several reminders from the court.Rao fell unconscious in jail on May 28 and was taken to JJ Hospital. The family and his lawyer had moved a plea, seeking direction to the hospital for medical report and documents of Rao. The hospital submitted their reports , while jail authorities failed to submit the report even then.The court had sent a direction again to the prison to submit the report and scheduled the hearing on Friday. However, even on Friday, no report was received. The court has now scheduled the hearing on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nia-court-adjourns-bail-plea-hearing-of-varavara-rao-as-jail-authorities-fail-to-submit-medical-reports/story-s4S79rwWRCMLxM1EYL0cII.html
05-06-2020||City||Man booked for raping 7-yr-old girl in Faridkot||The district police have booked a man for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl in Faridkot on Friday.The accused has been identified as Jagsir Singh, her neighbour. The victim’s mother told the police that the minor had gone out to play in the evening. After sometime, she allegedly returned crying. On being asked, the girl revealed that the accused had taken her to his house and raped her.Based on the woman’s complaint, police have registered a case against the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Investigation officer Ravinder Kaur said, “The girl is currently undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.” She added that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-7-yr-old-girl-in-faridkot/story-u3Lm4rypYHJ4aj0Ail5SjN.html
05-06-2020||City||Three of family among four fresh Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mohali on Friday, taking the district’s count to 127. Three of those infected are wife, 34, father, 66, and mother, 61, of a 36-year-old man who had tested positive on June 3 after returning from Delhi recently. The family resides in Sector 78.The fourth patient is a 61-year-old man from Sector 70.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “All patients have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are in a stable condition and responding well to the treatment. We are trying to trace contacts of the Sector 70 man. They will be sampled on Saturday.”Meanwhile, one more patient was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Friday, taking the number of recoveries in the district to 107. With this, only 17 cases remain active. Three people have died of Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-family-among-four-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-mohali/story-NKEzUpb275i4DwBDfWCrWM.html
05-06-2020||City||2 held for smuggling illicit liquor into Punjab, 7 cops transferred||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly smuggling illicit liquor into Punjab’s Fazilka from Rajasthan, on Friday. As many as seven cops were transferred on charges of helping the illicit liquor traders. A departmental inquiry has been marked against them. Fazilka senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harjit Singh said the transferred personnel include assistant sub-inspectors-rank officials, head constables and constables. “Further action will be taken against them after departmental inquiry,” said the SSP.Detailing about the arrests, the SSP said that a police team nabbed a liquor trader, Karamvir alias Gaggi, with 311 litres of smuggled liquor. “Gaggi had been smuggling liquor from Haryana for the last two years and was instrumental in causing sales drop in Abohar area,” he said.Another team led by Balluana deputy superintendent of police (DSP) booked Anand Kansal, a liquor trader of Abohar, who used his driver, Bhani Bhaat, to smuggle 77 litres of liquor from Rajasthan side for illegal sale in Abohar area, added the SSP.Both Karamvir and Anand Kansal have legal liquor shops in Rajasthan but the higher rates in Punjab prompted them to smuggle liquor into the state, said the SSP.As many as 105 cases have been registered and 78 persons held with 6,000 liters of liquor in the last fortnight alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-smuggling-illicit-liquor-into-punjab-7-cops-transferred/story-IAdUun7qvva7mx93FRxtxK.html
05-06-2020||City||Two days after PSA revocation, Shah Faesal under house arrest||Two days after the revocation of Public Safety Act (PSA) against him, former IAS officer-turned-politician Shah Faesal is under house arrest.Faesal, along with former minister Sartaj Madni and Mehbooba Mufti’s former political secretary Peer Manoor, were released after spending close to 10 months in detention on Wednesday, following the UT administration’s decision to revoke PSA against them.After his release, Faesal went to his house in Ompora, Budgam, but was asked to move to his official residence in Jawahar Nagar, Srinagar, where he has been put under house arrest with policemen guarding him. Some of Faesal’s close associates alleged that they were not allowed to meet him even after his ten-month detention.The revocation orders of Shah Faesal and other two PDP leaders were signed by J&K home secretary Shaleen Kabra on Wednesday. PSA was first slapped on Faesal in February this year, which was extended for three months on 13 May. However, only after 20 days the former bureaucrat was released.Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, National Congress (NC) general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager and former J&K ministers Nayeem Akthar and Hilal Akbar Lone continue to be in detention. Former J&K chief ministers and NC leaders Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah were released earlier this year.Faesal was first detained at the Delhi airport on August 14, 2019, and was sent back to Kashmir. In Srinagar, he was detained at the Centaur Hotel and later at the MLA hostel. Apart from him, several NC and PDP leaders had been put under house after their release from the MLA hostel.A senior police officer said certain restrictions have been imposed on Faesal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-days-after-psa-revocation-shah-faesal-under-house-arrest/story-soU66rY8DMpaqQDu3iEPGP.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Now, a portal that can predict requirement of beds, PPEs||A group of researchers from premier scientific institutions in the country have developed a web tool that can project the requirement of medical inventory such as ICUs, PPE kits, ventilators doctors and body bags, in the weeks to come. As per developers, the district-wise mathematical projections are meant to help plan for a worst-case scenario.The portal, launched on April 21, has been developed by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), Jawaharlal Nehru Centre For Advanced Scientific Research, Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore and Armed Forces Medical College in Pune. The project was facilitated by the office of the principal scientific advisor to the Union government. The portal is available at https://covid19medinventory.in. One can choose the state and district to view the projections for the requirement of medical inventory for four weeks. The projections include the number of ICUs needed, Covid-19 mortality rate, 10-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, doctors, nurses and paramedics, ventilators, infusion pumps, full Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) kits for frontline and supporting staff and body bags. For example, the model predicts that Mumbai city will require 590 doctors and 520 ventilators in the week starting June 17.“We have used a statistical model to make the projections based on the data available in the patient database from covid19india.org, which is a crowd-sourced (sanitised and self-correcting) public database of reported Covid-19 positive cases in the country,” said P Sunthar, professor at the chemical engineering department at IIT-B. The web tool will help government agencies to prepare in advance. Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and other industries working in the production and supply chain of essentials, too, may use these projections to support their local government administration.States such as Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi have used these projections to prepare for the weeks ahead, said sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/now-a-portal-that-can-predict-requirements-of-beds-ppes/story-MeTidOcKifL3qDiI5onLyO.html
05-06-2020||City||Plastic water bottles less than one litre banned from public meetings: Jai Ram||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said that plastic water bottles less than one-litre capacity would be banned in public meetings in Himachal Pradesh and tourists visiting the state must be sensitised to use jute or paper bags instead of polythene bags.While presiding over state-level World Environment Day function of the department of science environment and technology,CM said that this day was the “people’s day” for doing their bit to take care of the Earth and it should not be a ceremonial occasion, but something concrete must come out from this. He said that polythene was rampantly polluting the water bodies, harming marine life and posing a threat to human health and Himachal Pradesh became the first state in the country to ban the use of polythene bags.He said that the state government has also imposed a complete ban on the use of thermocol cutlery as it was also non-biodegradable and causing harm to the environment and has promoted the use of ‘pattals’ and ‘dona’ made of leaves. The state government has also launched a polythene buyback scheme under which polythene was being purchased from the people at the rate of ₹75 per kilogram.The main objective of this scheme was to ensure that the polythene does not get into the environment and could be recycled and reused. He said that the used polythene was being utilised for the metalling of roads.CM said that polythene was also one of the major causes of pollution of water resources and the choking of water supply.He said that the water crisis in Shimla town during the summer of 2018 was due to the pollution and degradation of water catchment areas, rivers, and water bodies supplying water to the town.Jai Ram Thakur said that Himachal Pradesh is rich in biodiversity as it houses 5,721 species of fauna and about 3,295 species of flora, which comes to about seven percent of the biodiversity of the country. He said that the state government was committed to the conservation of our rich biodiversity and as many as 3,871 Biodiversity Management Committees have been constituted in the state at the panchayat level.Cm presented ‘Pattal Making Machines’ to two self-help groups and distributed Environment Leadership Awards 2019-20 to the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plastic-water-bottles-less-than-one-litre-banned-from-public-meetings-jai-ram/story-UtB0a55fEfO43yzgiQxZcL.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||In a first, three women appointed cash custodians for ATMs in J&K, Ladakh||For the first time in the country, three women have been appointed cash custodians for ATMs.Banking automation company AGS, which looks after the working and maintenance of ATMs, has appointed three women - two in J&K and one in Ladakh – as ATM cash custodians. The three women - Sayeeda Begum, Zakia Banoo and Belqis Banoo - are responsible for loading of cash into the ATMs. The company has chosen to start with Srinagar, which is “the most difficult place because after that it can only get easier”.33-year-old Syeeda Begum of Rajouri who lives in Jammu with her 13-year-old daughter and businessman husband says, “Initially, I was hesitant to take the job. Even my family had reservations. It was my husband, however, who encouraged me to give it a try. I appeared for an interview and was selected for the job last year.” Syeeda said her shift begins in the morning when she gets cash from the bank: “Accompanied by a gunman, driver and a fellow custodian, I refill the ATMs assigned to me,’’ she says. Her shift lasts for eight to nine hours.A postgraduate in history, Sayeeda was teaching in a private school before she switched careers. ‘PEOPLE WERE SURPRISED TO SEE A WOMAN LOAD CASH’“Not used to seeing a woman load cash into an ATM, people usually stare at me. It bothered me in the beginning, not so much now.” These days women are excelling in every field and I hope more women take up jobs in the cash industry,’’ she says. Zakia Banoo, 27, is the eldest among five siblings. Her parents are farmers and the job has given her family hope for a better future. ‘A friend told me about the post and after seeking my family’s permission I applied for the post and was selected. Each day, accompanied by a guard, I load the ATM in Kargil town in Ladakh.” Dedicated to her job, at times Zakia also refills cash on Sunday, in case there is a shortage of cash. “It was quite a unique experience for me and initially it seemed difficult but now I have got the hang of it,” she says.‘METICULOUSNESS, HONESTY ONLY REQUIREMENT’ Captain Partha Samai, group head, HR, AGS Transact Technologies Ltd says, “The work of an ATM officer is not rocket science. It needs meticulous counting, diligence and honesty, which both men and women can posses. It is a baseless idea that this particular job can only be done only by men and not women.” “The success of our female cash custodians has made us realise that the idea can be replicated in other states of the country,” Samai says. “Once the lockdown ends, we will start advertising more posts for women as cash custodians across the country. We manage around one lakh ATMs across the country and have more than three thousand vehicles,’’ he said, adding that it was decided to start the scheme from J&K and Himachal Pradesh as fewer women from the states were part of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-a-first-three-women-appointed-cash-custodians-for-atms-in-j-k-ladakh/story-Q92gbwB073cgvaIxLU6EAK.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||Bundelkhand women’s protest focuses on river health||On June 1, over 12 women and a few men with masked faces in Khapatiya Kala village in Pailani tehsil of Banda district waded into the river Ken. Maintaining social distance, they began their ‘Jal Satyagraha’-- standing waist-deep in the water to protest illegal sand mining and environmental hazard in the village.The protest sent the district administration into a tizzy and within hours, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Pailani reached the spot with police. After an hour of negotiations, the officials took a memorandum of demands from the protestors, assured them of probe and immediately ordered stopping of sand mining. The women walked out of the water and went home.Suman Singh, a farmer and Usha Nishad, another villager led the protest.Suman Singh alleged that the miners had begun straying out of the area that the district administration had leased them for mining and started digging sand from villagers’ and Gram Sabha land.Suman said: “The two mining companies operating here have over-exploited the land leased to them. Now they have started digging sand out of our land. They neither informed us nor asked us. When we attempted to confront them, their men issued us life threats and said they would implicate us in cases. They also threatened sexual harassment cases against the men in the village.”Suman wrote all this in an application and gave it to the SDM, Pailani, Ramkumar. He said he had asked the circle officer, Banda, the mining officer, Banda and the tehsildar, Pailani, to investigate the allegations and send the report to district magistrate Amit Singh Bansal. The DM’s phone was unresponsive for his comment on the issue.SDM Ramkumar said: “The report has gone to the DM. Prima facie the allegations of illegal mining appear true, but villagers’ or village land doesn’t seem to be involved.”Two companies--one each from Agra and Etawah have five-year licence--valid till 2024--to mine sand from the land leased to them in the village. Villagers are moving the high court this week over the illegal mining and environment issues.“It is the red sand which is commonly called ‘moram’ and figuratively called ‘red gold’. The four districts of Bundelkhand--Banda, Hamirpur, Mahoba and Chitrakoot are a hub and sand is mined indiscriminately here from the Ken, Betwa, Yamuna, Baghe and Mandakini rivers. The use of machines--according to the RTI application reply that I got sometime back--is prohibited for sand-mining. But the miners use heavy earthmovers in the river beds as a norm than the exception,” said Ashish Dixit ‘Sagar’, an RTI and Bundelkhand rights activist based in Banda. The Jal Satyagrah by the women once again brought into focus the issue of illegal sand mining and environment hazard to Bundelkhand region’s rivers. The people and some activists here have started demanding the replacement of machines by people for manual mining--all the more since a large number of migrants have returned to the region under Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bundelkhand-women-s-protest-focuses-on-river-health/story-V2ghN79JvgRJbEDnB8HydP.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||‘Was happier during lockdown peak’||Under a neem tree on Cantonment road in Udaiganj, Mohammad Tahir has a makeshift bicycle repair shop. No shed, not even a tarpaulin for cover, Tahir just spreads his tools and paraphernalia on the pavement and works.“I was the first pavement person to resume my shop when the first ‘bandi’ (lockdown) ended. Roadside bicycle shops were allowed to reopen. A policeman in the street had informed me about it. Otherwise, I was ill-informed and was scared to resume,” said Tahir, adjusting his face mask.Interestingly, Tahir, 55, says he was happier in the second, third, and first half of the fourth lockdown. “Because, apart from the money that I earned here, the Nagar Nigam and some voluntary organisations gave us excellent, packaged food here. And they gave it in plenty. I have a family of five; I am the only bread-winner. So, both in the afternoon and evening, I collected five packs of food. I earned Rs 200 - 250 cash, and got wholesome meals for my family twice a day. From Day-1 of the second lockdown till last week, my wife cooked only breakfast.”So, why is he not as happy as he was a week ago?“My earnings are hardly what they used to be because a significant number of my clients were school and college-going children. They are missing. While incomes are low, the Nagar Nigam and volunteers have stopped food supply. They don’t show up anymore. So every day, while going home, I buy groceries from my day’s income,” he said. As he sat tracing a puncture in a bicycle tube, Tahir said, “In the 21-day lockdown period, I exhausted most of my cash at home that I had saved over the months. But thankfully, unlike many others, being a pavement bicycle mechanic, I could resume earlier. I started getting my daily earnings--though just half of what I used to get before this Corona-thing happened.”“But happy or unhappy, the biggest solace is working here every day. Confined to home for over 21 days in the first lockdown was sickening and worrisome,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/was-happier-during-lockdown-peak/story-bhOCFOKxCSlzeaYp1tpGQK.html
05-06-2020||Ranchi||Maximum 50 people at weddings, 20 in last rite rituals: Jharkhand’s new guidelines||A maximum of 50 people are allowed to take part in wedding ceremonies and 20 in last rite rituals in Jharkhand, according to the fresh guidelines issued by the state government for non-containment zones.All the those attending both the rituals should wear face covers or masks and ensure social distancing, as per the guidelines issued late Thursday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageActivities barred in the notification issued on June 1 would continue to remain suspended, including the closure of all religious places, it said.Large gatherings at social, political, sports, entertainment, education, culture and religious programmes would remain banned, it added. Asking the people to maintain a six-feet distance at public places, the guidelines said people over the age of 65 and those below ten, besides pregnant women, should remain indoors unless they have to go out for health reasons.Spiting in public places and drinking are strictly prohibited. Having paan, gutka and tobacco products in the public are also banned.Some other guidelines issued by the Centre were also mentioned in the states notification, as the country eases through ‘Unlock-1’ to reignite economic activities after the over-two-month-long coronavirus-forced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maximum-50-people-at-weddings-20-in-last-rite-rituals-jharkhand-s-new-guidelines/story-1g1dnkIucElMwapgTbV6xM.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three-storey house gutted in Shimla||Four families were rendered homeless when a three-storey wooden house was gutted in Himri village of Kotkhai on Thursday.The families of Roshani Devi, Daulat Ram, and Gyanand Rajesh Kumar were affected. However, no loss of life was reported. The incident took place around 4pm. Police reached the spot and put out the fire with the help of local residents. Fire tenders could not reach the village as there is no road connecting the houses.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Omapati Jamwal confirmed the report and said the cause of fire and total loss suffered were being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-storey-house-gutted-in-shimla/story-8V9hiWq36KEryCoY60V3fN.html
05-06-2020||Patna||Bihar Covid-19 death toll reaches 28, cases climb to 4,452||Bihar reported three Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, taking the overall death toll in the state to 28, the health department said. Also, 126 fresh cases pushed the state’s tally to 4,452, it added. The department said in a statement that the latest deaths were reported from Begusarai, Sheohar and Nawada districts. It, however, did not provide details like age, sex, travel history and co-morbidities, if any, suffered by the deceased and whether they died before or after testing positive. Of the 28 deaths, Khagaria and Begusarai account for three each followed by Patna, Vaishali, Siwan, Bhojpur and Sitamarhi (two each) and Munger, Rohtas, East Champaran, Nalanda, Samastipur, Saran, Bhagalpur, Jehanabad, Madhepura, Jamui, Sheohar and Nawada (one each). Of the 126 fresh cases reported, 94 are from Wednesday, test results of which were received on Thursday morning. Districts which have reported the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 cases are Patna (267), Khagaria (257), Begusarai (254), Rohtas (217), Madhubani (201), Bhagalpur (204), Jehanabad (173), Munger (159) and Katihar (156). Covid-19 cases have been reported from all 38 districts of the state. Of the total 4,452 Covid-19 cases in the state, 2,304 are active, 2,120 have recovered while 28 persons have died. The number of samples tested till date is 88,313. Although the state had reported its first case in March, more than 3,000 people tested positive in May, the spike attributed mainly to the influx of migrants by special trains and other modes of transport. According to data released by the health department, the number of migrants who have tested positive since May 3 is 3,187.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-28-cases-climb-to-4-452/story-ZsY05kPzyHuHSkaf66iUNK.html
05-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat tests negative for Coronavirus||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has tested negative for Covid-19, days after he went into self-quarantine following a meeting with the state tourism minister who had contracted the virus.Official sources said on Friday that the chief minister’s test reports confirm that he is not infected with the virus.   The chief minister and his three cabinet colleagues had gone into self-quarantine immediately after state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, his wife and five other members of their family tested positive for the disease last week.Rawat had chaired a meeting of the state cabinet on Friday last which was attended by Maharaj.However, state health secretary Amit Negi had clarified that the ministers and officials, who had attended the cabinet meeting, were low-risk contacts of Maharaj and did not need to be quarantined.Still Rawat and his three cabinet colleagues remained in self-quarantine.The other three ministers including Subodh Uniyal, Harak Singh Rawat and Madan Kaushik came out of quarantine and resumed their normal duties on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-tests-negative-for-coronavirus/story-brT04x1KZHzMSDbSHO55VP.html
05-06-2020||Ranchi||Take pledge to conserve biodiversity: Jharkhand CM Hemat Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday appealed to the people to take a pledge to respect nature.Extending greetings on World Environment Day, Soren called for creating a green Jharkhand for the future generations.Let us take a pledge to conserve biodiversity, respect the nature and protect forest cover for the generation next, he said, according to a statement released by the Chief Minister’s Office.He also urged the people to plant saplings and nurture them till they become trees.We have always been there for protecting the environment. Playing with the nature is disastrous for human life, Soren told reporters late on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/take-pledge-to-conserve-biodiversity-jharkhand-cm-hemat-soren/story-LzP0TTOhPX3vVa39JxNejJ.html
05-06-2020||Bhopal||Can’t allow sanitisers in temples, has alcohol: Bhopal priest||A priest in a temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal has said he is against the use of sanitisers at places of religious worship, which will open on Monday, June 8, in the first phase of Centre’s Unlock 1 plan amid the coronavirus pandemic.The government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) which include physical distancing of at least six feet, mandatory use of face covers; frequent hand washing with soaps for at least 40-60 seconds, use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and covering mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing.“The task of government is to issue the guidelines but I am against the sanitiser machine in the temples because it contains alcohol,” Chandrashekhar Tiwari, the priest of Bhopal Maa Vaishnavadham Nav Durga Temple, said, according to news agency ANI.“When we cannot enter a temple after drinking alcohol, then how can we sanitise our hand with alcohol and go inside,” Tiwari added.He then gave another option for people to maintain personal hygiene at public places.“The machines for washing hands can be installed outside all the temples and soaps can be kept. We will accept that,” the priest said.“Anyway, a person enters the temple only after taking a bath at home,” he said.The Centre has said in its directives that shoes or footwear should be preferably taken off inside own vehicle. Touching of statues idols and holy books are not allowed. Physical offerings such as prasad distribution or a sprinkling of holy water have not been allowed, the Centre has said.Recorded devotional music and songs have been recommended but inviting choirs or singing groups is not advisable, it said“Avoid physical contact while greeting each other. Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees should bring their own prayer mat or piece of cloth which they may take back with them,” said the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/can-t-allow-sanitisers-in-temples-has-alcohol-bhopal-priest/story-gLr198KWAd643W2iWKH6OO.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran reports first Covid-19 death||A 45-year-old man succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a private hospital in Amritsar on Thursday night.The man, a resident of Patti, became the first Covid-19 fatality in Tarn Taran, health officials said on Friday.Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said, “The patient was suffering from chronic diseases such as asthma and liver infection. The patient consulted a private hospital in Amritsar on Thursday after he experienced difficulty in breathing. The private hospitals sent his samples to be tested for Covid-19 and the results came positive on Friday morning. The patient, however, suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away on Thursday night.”“The patient has been cremated as per protocol in the presence of health officials,” the civil surgeon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tarn-taran-reports-first-covid-19-death/story-03YVIbhYshf2Nzx6LEbGYI.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pashmina production to get a fillip in Himachal, govt to distribute 638 goats||Hoping to double the production of Pashmina wool over the next five years, the department of animal husbandry will distribute 638 Chegu and Changthangi goats among families below poverty line in Himachal’s snow-bound high-altitude valleys. Animal husbandry minister Virender Kanwar said the goats will be distributed under the centre-sponsored national livestock mission. “Under the mission, 29 units, each comprising ten does and one buck, will be distributed in Lahaul-Spiti, Pangi Valley and Kinnaur,” Kanwar said.The cost of each unit, approximately Rs 70,000, will be borne by the Centre and the state government.CENTRE TO BEAR 90% COST “The Centre will bear 90% of the cost while the state government and beneficiaries will share the remaining 10% cost in equal proportion,” the minister said. The tender process has been completed and the livestock will be distributed later this year, he said.At present, Himachal annually produces 1,000kg of exquisite fine yarns of pashmina wool, which are largely associated with Kashmir. Pashmina is predominantly produced in Darcha, Yochi, Rarik-Chika villages and Mayar valley in Lahaul valley, the Kibber, Langza region and Hangang valley in Spiti valley, Nako, Namgya and Leo villages in Kinnaur district and certain areas in Pangi valley of Chamba.10 MANUFACTURING UNITS IN STATE There are around ten organised shawl manufacturing units in the state, which make products out of Pashmina wool, in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu and Kinnaur.Around 90% of Pashmina wool is used in apparel such as shawls, stoles and mufflers and 10% in other products including high-end tweed coats. The wool is mainly sold through retail outlets and private buying by processors in the state. The Pashmina is white and naturally grey in colour. The current market price of Pashmina wool is ₹ 3,500 per kilogram.Kanwar said that the wool is in high demand in national and international markets and its prices were increasing.“This will boost the economy in remote valleys,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pashmina-production-to-get-a-fillip-in-himachal-govt-to-distribute-638-goats/story-6ioTM37Pls7qZwZ5kJ8kMM.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Haryana, Delhi likely to receive rainfall today: IMD||Isolated areas in Haryana and a few parts of Delhi are likely to be battered by rains in the morning, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.“Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Kaithal (Haryana), Roorkee (Uttarakhand), Ballabhgarh (Haryana), isolated places of Delhi during next 2 hours,” the MeT department stated in its Weather Warning Bulletin.In its advisory, the IMD further predicted that North-east part of the country is also likely to receive rains later in the day.“Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 40-50 km per hour) at isolated places over Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura.”“Heavy to very heavy rainfall are likely at isolated placed over Sikkim, Assam, Manipur, Mizoram and Meghalaya,” it stated.Strong winds speed 45-55 km likely to prevail over west-central and southwest Arabian Sea. The organisation has advised fishermen not to venture in to these areas for the next couple of days. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/haryana-delhi-likely-to-receive-rainfall-today-imd/story-S6CnN9AH0T0EUeBnjB7DJI.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Temples prepare to reopen on June 8||With relaxations in lockdown restrictions, temples in Uttar Pradesh are preparing to reopen on June 8.Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh Government had said that all religious places and places of worship for public, hotels, restaurants, and other hospitality services, and shopping malls will be permitted to open from June 8.Click here for full Covd-19 coveragePawan Sharma, a priest at Chamunda Mandir in Moradabad, said, “According to the guidelines given by the government, the temples will be reopening from June 8. The devotees won’t be allowed to touch the idols and they will not get any prasad.”Mahant Anoop from Mata Vaibhav Lakshmi temple, Kanpur, said, “As per the guidelines, the temple administration has made preparations for the temple to reopen from June 8. The management has made arrangements for thermal screening and sanitation, and offerings have been prohibited at the temple.”Dwarika Tiwari, Secretary of Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur, said, “The temples will open with some restrictions, and devotees have accepted that. The devotees were constantly calling and asking us to reopen the temple, so they welcome the government’s decision of reopening the temple from June 8.”Pramod Rao, a devotee said, “Given the situation, we will not get prasad, but we are happy that the government has ordered the temples to reopen from June 8.” The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday issued a Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) on preventive measures to be taken to contain the spread of coronavirus at religious places.Religious places all over the country are allowed to open from June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-temples-prepare-to-reopen-on-june-8/story-3pXG8EzrTU2wqgPyOuVGEN.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||With health measures in place, Delhi’s Kalkaji Temple prepares to reopen on June 8||Authorities at Delhi’s Kalkaji Mandir are taking necessary precautionary measures against Covid-19 as religious places prepare to open on June 8 after relaxations in lockdown.The Centre has issued a set of guidelines that need to be followed by the religious institutions in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, to prevent the spread of the virus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAuthorities at the Kalkaji shrine have said that they are taking necessary precautionary measures, and the devotees have been asked to avoid bringing any offerings. Surendra Avdhoot, head priest at the temple told ANI, “Temple administration will follow the guidelines which have been issued by the government. We are installing sanitisation tunnels at the entry of the shrine. We appeal to the devotees to wear masks while entering the temple, and not bring any offerings to the temple as the Central government has directed.”“We have marked the signs for social distancing, as it is the only way to stay safe. Devotees should co-operate with us and maintain the social distancing,” he added.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday issued standard operating procedures on preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus at religious places.Religious places in the country are allowed to open from June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-health-measures-in-place-delhi-s-kalkaji-temple-prepares-to-reopen-on-june-8/story-1eiigtQ16UrM2sEU6LNgoO.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||Around 31 Lakh migrant workers returned to Uttar Pradesh: Report||Around 31 lakh migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh through trains and other means with state road transport corporation buses alone ferrying over 2.30 lakh people in last three days, an official said on Thursday.Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awsathi said about 31 lakh people have come to the state by trains and other means.In addition to this, 52,000 passengers were ferried by Uttar Pradesh Road Transport Corporation in 2,200 buses on June 1, 68,000 passengers in 3,100 buses on June 2 and 1.10 lakh passengers June 3, he added. Awasthi said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday also reviewed the works of UPSRTC and expressed his satisfaction over its operations in ferrying the migrant workers from various states during the Covid lockdown. He said the chief minister noted the fact that employees of the corporation are maintaining full Covid-19 protocol with emphasis on sanitisation. Bus stations are being sanitised every six hours besides proper sanitisation of buses is being done, he said/ Awasthi said so far 1,617 trains have arrived in the state and five trains will later during the day. We have also been successful in bringing workers from the southern states, he said, adding maximum 274 trains reached Gorakhpur, followed by Junpur (139), Varanasi (119), Lucknow (113) and Deoria (103), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/around-31-lakh-migrant-workers-returned-to-uttar-pradesh-report/story-9UP0mimvkPF2kWuPAHboBP.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||9 killed as SUV collides with truck in UP; cutters used to pull bodies out||Nine people from the same family, including two children, were killed and another was injured when the vehicle they were travelling in collided with a truck in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh district early on Friday, police said.Abhishek Singh, Pratapgarh’s superintendent of police, said the accident took place at around 5.30am near Wazidpur village under the limits of Nawabganj police station. All the nine people died on the spot, he added. Singh said the victims were on their way to Bhojpur in Bihar from Rajasthan and that their identity is yet to be ascertained.One of the injured has been rushed to the state capital of Lucknow for treatment, he added.Police had to use gas cutters to cut open the SUV to extract the bodies and rescue the injured with the help of locals.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed shock and sadness over the accident and ordered immediate and proper treatment of the injured.Caption: The badly mangled remains of the SUV is seen after the accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh’s district. Nine people were killed on the spot after the SUV rammed into a truck||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/9-including-2-kids-killed-as-suv-collides-with-truck-in-up-s-pratapgarh/story-OEWCt6pjuA3q4p74dKoSdN.html
05-06-2020||Kolkata||We must work together to restore greenery devastated by cyclone Amphan: CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday urged people to come forward and work together to restore the greenery of the state which has been devastated by cyclone Amphan last month.She said the cyclone caused incalculable ecological damage in Kolkata and the districts and uprooted thousands of trees when it made landfall on May 20.On World Environment Day, she urged the people to save green to save lives.Best wishes to all on #WorldEnvironmentDay. Save green, save life. After the cyclone, incalculable ecological damage has occurred in #Kolkata & south #Bengal. Tens of thousands of trees have been uprooted. We must all work together to restore the greenery in our State, Banerjee tweeted.Banerjee has announced that her government would plant five crore mangrove trees within a month in the Sunderbans, ravaged by the cyclone.The chief minister is scheduled to launch the project at a programme in Harish Park near her residence.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation, the Kolkata Police and the West Bengal Police have also decided to plant saplings in the city and other parts of the state along with the environment department on the occasion.World Environment Day is celebrated to encourage awareness about protecting the environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/we-must-work-together-to-restore-greenery-devastated-by-cyclone-amphan-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-lysAKiELekzSZ7tg7QvPHI.html
05-06-2020||Ranchi||Labourers in Jharkhand need to give details to govt before going to work outside state: Hemant Soren||The Jharkhand government has decided that a labourer going outside the state for work will have to provide personal and job details to the administration so that it could reach out to the person in any eventuality, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said on Thursday.The move comes after the government underwent a tedious process of registering stranded migrant workers to facilitate their return to Jharkhand from far-off places such as Ladakh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“Labourers generally go outside with the help of their acquaintances and the state government did not have any idea about their whereabouts. So, we have decided that if a labourer goes to other states to work, they should have the consent of the state government so that arrangements can be made for their safety when required,” Soren said.More than seven lakh people of Jharkhand work in states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Nagaland.Of these, nearly five lakh have returned by Shramik Special trains, buses and flights, official sources said.“The migrant labourers include women and there were reports that crimes were committed against them. The state government would like to make efforts for their safety as well. We can make safer arrangements for them,” the chief minister told reporters.There are some far-off places in the country where it is not possible for common people to reach but workers go to such areas, he said.“Restrictions and strict laws exist to work in border areas. When labourers go to such places, the state government should have their details so that assistance could reach them in any eventuality,” Soren said.On whether all stranded migrants have reached Jharkhand, the chief minister said many were yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/labourers-in-jharkhand-need-to-give-details-to-govt-before-going-to-work-outside-state-hemant-soren/story-dAbvIeWLLBjhRHBuz3mm9N.html
05-06-2020||Lucknow||Non-Covid patients’ suffering: A ‘private’ issue out in open||It has been over a month since Manish Kumar Tyagi, a ward boy at a government hospital, lost his three-year-old son who was refused treatment in at least two private nursing homes in the state capital.“Had they treated my child, he might have been alive today,” Manish laments as he curses private hospitals daily. For he was in quarantine when his son took ill at night and precious time was consumed as his family visited private hospitals which refused treatment.What kind of a doctor are you if you can’t treat a patient in an emergency,” he asks.Manish has his reasons to be furious but when his family was desperately pleading with private nursing homes to admit the infant, private medical practitioners and nursing homes were struggling to come to terms with a government directive that required them to sign an affidavit issued by the chief medical officers and which among other things stated they could be booked under the Epidemic Act if found violating the rather ambiguous infection prevention protocol. “It’s not just a case of one or two persons. Hundreds of non-Covid people have suffered during the lockdown because the private practitioners and nursing homes felt threatened and found it better to either close down temporarily or refuse to see patients showing any symptoms that remotely resembled Covid-19,” a private practitioner said requesting anonymity.Dr Devesh Maurya, secretary, UP Nursing Home Association, had on May 20 written to principal secretary medical and health Amit Mohan Prasad about the need to ensure that no FIRs were filed against doctors for treating non-Covid patients who later turned positive. On May 12, the government issued an order saying no police action would be initiated and no nursing home sealed even if infection was found in patients treated in hospitals following the infection prevention protocol.But Devesh’s May 20 letter to the government is proof that despite government’s instructions, harassment continued locally. “The order by CMO Lucknow asking for a signed affidavit which basically opens the doctor/nursing home to the possibility of police action is against the orders of the chief minister and the assurance given by health officials and hence needs to be modified,” Maurya said in his May 20 missive to the principal secretary medical and health.“There is a revised order in place now,” said UP’s health minister Jai Pratap Singh who has just returned after touring 8 districts. The problems, doctors admitted, existed with local administration.Like while doctors elsewhere feared harassment, in Kanpur, district magistrate Brahmadev Tiwari wrote to the CMO about the need to allow home quarantine to doctors if a patient they treated for non-Covid ailment later tested corona positive.“This letter, a follow up of our visit, has been issued by the DM, instructing officials that the doctors who are treating any patient who later turns out Covid-19 positive should not be treated as per the normal protocol and should not be harassed,” Dr Rita Mittal and Dr Gaurav Dubey said in a message to doctors in Kanpur after the DM’s intervention.“The government’s intention is clear but problem exists locally. Aren’t doctors themselves conscious of their responsibilities” a private practitioner asked. “Despite giving an undertaking that they would follow infection prevention protocol, permission to open nursing homes and clinics in places like Sitapur is subjected to multi-level checks/surveys,” a doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/non-covid-patients-suffering-a-private-issue-out-in-open/story-4rPS1O7WXJvlSczTs6hQlL.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Maharashtra CM takes stock of damage caused by cyclone||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the damages caused by Cyclone Nisarga through video conferencing on Thursday.He also asked officials to file a report of the damage caused by Cyclone Nisarga within two days, in order to assure that speedy help is provided to the farmers and villagers.Apart from Uddhav Thackeray, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Mumbai Suburban Guardian Minister Aditya Thackeray, Urban Development Minister, and Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde, Transport Minister Anil Parab, and Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta were also present in the video conferencing meeting.Noting that six persons have lost their lives due to the natural disaster, Thackeray directed officials to provide aid of Rs 4 lakh to the family of the deceased.He also ordered officials to ensure early resumption of electricity services in the Raigad district, where the uprooting of poles has led to a disruption in the power supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-maharashtra-cm-takes-stock-of-damage-caused-by-cyclone/story-2owVmg10H7b5iM17dv01vI.html
05-06-2020||Noida||Merging traffic, dug-up highway stretch choke barricaded UP-Gate||The gridlock at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghaziabad during peak hours continued Thursday with a serpentine queue extending from Ghazipur in the national Capital till Vaishali in Uttar Pradesh, as vehicles were stopped at the UP-Gate by the police to check for movement passes and IDs.With traffic from at least three major routes converging at UP-Gate, the point has become a choke point as the police have erected barricades. To make matters worse, an alternative route at Kaushambi remains sealed, making UP-Gate the only way to enter or exit Ghaziabad. With traffic restrictions in place at the Capital’s borders resulting in massive jams, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to come up with a movement plan for the national Capital region (NCR).“Although the Supreme Court’s directions are in, it will take some time for relief to come through. Till then, thousands of commuters will continue to suffer at the UP-Gate border. It has become a major choke point as another Ghaziabad border point -- Kaushambi -- was shut and all vehicles from Mohan Nagar, Vasundhara and Vaishali are now converging at UP Gate. Further, traffic from the Hindon elevated road and NH-9 also converges here,” said Mohit Sharma, a resident Vaishali Sector 1. “Police should open the Kaushambi border which will divert much of the traffic away from UP Gate. What I suggest is that checking should be done at some distance and not right at the border. This causes slowdown of traffic and results in jams,” he added.DUG UP ROAD ADDS TO MENACETraffic restrictions were first imposed at UP Gate from April 22 by the Ghaziabad authorities; these were tightened on May 37. Later, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced sealing the state’s borders for a week from June 1.“A major issue which commuters on NH-9 face is a 200 metre of dug up road on the highway. This results in traffic restricting to a single lane which further goes to the underpass of the UP Gate flyover, which has been barricaded. Otherwise, daily commuters from Ghaziabad could have used it to bypass the underpass of the flyover,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a daily commuter from Indirapuram who goes to work at the Qutub Institutional Area in Delhi. “All this leads to a massive jam. It is generally observed when the cops see that there is heavy jam, they stop the checks and allow traffic to pass through,” he alleged.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), meanwhile, said that they are expected to take up repairs of dug up road stretch on the highway in another three days.“The stretch was dug up as the expressway lanes and the highway lanes were not at the same level. This work will get over in another two-three days. But there are three lanes open. The cops have also closed down the flyover. So commuters are moving to the underpass of the flyover. There, all traffic converges into a single lane due to barricading, where checks are taken up by the police,” said Mudit Garg, deputy general manager of the NHAI.CAN’T STRETCH RESOURCES FOR MORE CHECK POINTSGhaziabad traffic police, on the other hand, said they had to shut the Kaushambi border as they could not have stretched their resources by dividing them between two different points.“If we open other borders, checking will become difficult. There is convergence of traffic from different sides at the UP Gate. Since there is rush especially during the peak hours, it causes jams when we start checking vehicles. As per government directions, we have to do this. During morning hours, Delhi Police also check vehicles,” said S N Singh, superintendent of police (traffic). “Without barricading, checking becomes difficult.The barricades at the UP Gate flyover have been partially opened up. So, commuters on NH-9 can now use the flyover to go to Delhi.”District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he will take up suggestions with the police and discuss how they can be implemented.“We will discuss the suggestions with the police. We are also expecting some directions from the state government in light of the Supreme Court’s directive. So we are hoping that there will be improvement,” he added.The NH-9 stretched from UP-Gate to Dasna and caters to about 80,000 passenger car units but NHAI officials estimate that traffic has reduced to about one-fourth during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-converging-traffic-dug-up-highway-stretch-make-barricaded-up-gate-a-gridlock/story-Ast8w1N3ZZj3rm8pk23e0M.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Violence at Jamia was ‘well-planned’, Delhi Police tell HC||The Delhi police on Thursday told Delhi high court that the violence which took place on December 13 and December 15 at Jamia Millia Islamia campus was not “sporadic but a well-planned attack as all rioters were well-armed with stones, lathis and petrol bombs.”While replying to six pleas filed in Jamia violence, Delhi police advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, told court the intention of the mob was to disrupt law and order in the area.Police also said that with respect to the three FIRs on the violence, charge sheets have already been filed in Saket court against 20 accused, none of whom are students of the varsity.The pleas were filed seeking directions to the police to not take any coercive action against the students of JMI university and to quash all criminal proceedings against them.Police said probe revealed local leaders and politicians were instigating protestors and were raising provocative and inciting slogans. “They burnt tyres and threw the same towards police. The CAT ambulance, passing through university road with a patient inside, was also damaged…This unlawful crowd in different groups entered campus on both sides of road and started pelting stones on the force,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/violence-at-jamia-was-well-planned-delhi-police-tell-hc/story-V6IqYJmAi2FZ20Am5IyO1K.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s instrumentation testing facility resumes operations, only staff allowed inside||Panjab University’s sophisticated analytical instrumentation facility (SAIF), which undertakes the design, fabrication and repair of electronic instruments, reopened after two months on Thursday, with a rider that only staff can enter the facility.The centre, which caters mostly to the industry and academia in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, had suspended operations in March following the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 outbreak. Before the lockdown, the facility used to get around 2,000 samples a month for testing. The samples came in from across the country. SAIF director Professor GR Chaudhary said, “We have reopened the facility but users’ entry will not be allowed. They can, however, send us their samples by post. They can also deliver it physically but won’t be allowed to come inside.”Samples will be sanitised immediately after being received. Besides, communication of users with technical staff will be through digital mode only. Users have also been advised to send requisition form online. The form is available for download on the university website. All payments will be received via online mode/digital mode.The centre has also developed UV sanitisation chamber, which has been installed at the entry gate of the department for sanitisation of the samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-instrumentation-testing-facility-resumes-operations-only-staff-allowed-inside/story-mXXna9tfLCAeWwTlyqsuzJ.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases exceed 25,000 mark with 1,359 new infections||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) disease cases in Delhi exceeded the 25,000-mark on Thursday as the Capital added 1,359 new infections, continuing with the trend of reporting more than 1,000 cases daily.The city recorded 44 more deaths from the respiratory illness that took its total fatalities to 650, according to the state’s official health bulletin. Out of these, 22 deaths were reported in the previous 24 hours and the remaining were added as part of a backlog cleared by the death audit committee.With the exception of June 1, the Capital has been recording at least 1,000 new infections daily for the last eight days. Delhi is now in the third scenario for which an expert committee, set up in March-end, had advised the government to prepare for — 100 cases a day, 500 cases a day, and 1,000 cases a day. The government this week also set up a second 5-member expert committee to evaluate its preparedness to handle an increase in Covid-19 cases even as the Capital has been easing lockdown measures in accordance with the Centre’s ‘Unlock 1’ plan.Delhi is also nearing the 10,000-mark in recoveries, with 9,898 patients having recovered from the disease till Thursday, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-s-covid-19-cases-exceed-25-000-mark-with-1-359-new-infections/story-VKcQQhA3no8IArERDp9JhO.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||20 DMRC staffers test Covid-19 +ve||Twenty officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) have tested positive for Covid-19. DMRC administration said these cases have been reported in a staggered manner and are not from a single office. Officials said they are taking all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the disease.Senior Delhi Metro officials said even though the Metro operations are shut, a few employees are coming in to work on rotational shifts from May 18, when the fourth phase of the lockdown kicked in and certain modes of transportation were allowed to function in Delhi-NCR. The DMRC clarified that none of the infected officials was serious and most of them were recovering.The DMRC released a statement expressing solidarity with the infected officials and assuring the public the Metro was ready to resume operations as soon as the government allows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-dmrc-staffers-test-covid-19-ve/story-VQbMXdqHvXNAjRuBelJO8I.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP to highlight Modi govt’s achievements through mass-contact||To mark the completion of one-year of the second term of the Modi government, the local BJP unit will be highlighting the “achievements” of the Union government through a mass-contact programme.City BJP president Arun Sood, in a press conference held at the BJP headquarters in Sector 33, said a three-pronged strategy to connect with people personally, digitally and virtually will be adopted to highlight the achievements. “In an unprecedented activity in consonance with the current scenario, the BJP will hold mass-attended virtual rallies. About 1,000 virtual conferences will be held to be addressed by the state leaders. Every morcha of the party will conduct at least 500 such video conferences to spread information on the achievements of the Modi government,” he said.The city unit will distribute a letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” among the local residents.On the controversy surrounding the setting up of the animal carcass incinerator at Sector 25W, Sood said he preferred it to be set up away from the residential areas, and assured that the issue is re-examined by the MC.On the alleged silence of the opposition party on the school fee issue, Sood said a senior Congress leader owns a leading private school in Sector 40 and that’s why Congress has mum on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/city-bjp-to-highlight-modi-s-govt-s-achievements-through-mass-contact/story-2ZAxKQrXo7NTAWSHi3UulM.html
05-06-2020||City||Taint on khaki: Dismissed Ludhiana cop, aide arrested for snatching phone from migrant labourer||A constable, recently suspended for long absence, and his aide have been arrested for snatching a mobile phone from a migrant labourer.Assistant commissioner of police (South) Sandeep Wadhera said the accused cop, Harpreet Singh, a resident of Lohara, and his aide, Kuldeep, of Shimlapuri, had snatched a mobile phone in Janata Nagar on May 8 when Harpreet was still serving in the police department.The victim, Pawan Kumar, of Janata Nagar, had complained to the police that two men in police uniform had intercepted him outside Sunny Telecom and snatched his mobile phone.Police swung into action after learning that the snatchers were wearing police uniforms.During investigation, police zeroed in on Harpreet, who cracked during questioning and confessed to targeting migrants to buy his daily dose of drugs.The ACP said Harpreet, who was posted at the Civil Lines police station, was dismissed from service on May 30 for remaining absent from duty without information.Police have recovered the motorcycle and police uniforms used in the crime, and are interrogating the accused regarding their involvement in other cases of snatching.The duo was booked under Section 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taint-on-khaki-dismissed-ludhiana-cop-aide-arrested-for-snatching-phone-from-migrant-labourer/story-x4Or950TN91OTkZHfESKnM.html
05-06-2020||City||Foundation stones of projects worth ₹29 crore for beautification of Anandpur Sahib laid||Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh and tourism minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹29 crore for the beautification of the historic town on ThursdaySpeaking on the occasion, Rana KP Singh stated whenever the Congress came to power in Punjab, all-round development of Anandpur Sahib had taken place as chief minister of Punjab Capt Amarinder Singh had always given top priority to the development of the town.He said of the ₹29 crore, ₹6 crore would be spent on the carpeting of roads connecting Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib and Gurdwara Bhora Sahib and Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, ₹4.5 crore on the carpeting of the road leading from Qila Anandgarh Sahib to Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, ₹5 crore on the beautification of the Cheema Park, ₹4 crore on the beautification of surroundings of sub-divisional magistrate’ s (SDM) office near the Naina Devi Road and the civil hospital.He said a tourist facilitation centre, a cafeteria and a parking lot, developed at a cost of ₹6 crore would be soon completed and dedicated to the tourists and pilgrims visiting the town. He a sum of ₹3.5 crore was being spent for expansion of the parking in Virasat-e-Khalsa.Channi said all projects would be completed at the earliest.He said a memorial to Bhai Jaitaji, being constructed at a cost of ₹20 crore in Anandpur Sahib, would soon be thrown open to the public soon. He added a modern technical education institution would be constructed at a cost of ₹12 crore in this constituency and its foundation stone would be laid next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-29-crore-for-beautification-of-anandpur-sahib-laid/story-ka3Ybbn8AvFftSD5lXSY1O.html
05-06-2020||City||Advocate and Urdu poet Om Prakash Malik passes away||Om Prakash Malik, a Gandhian, a Congressman, an advocate and an Urdu poet, died at the age of 88 in Delhi on Tuesday. Suffering from depression for the past few years, he had uneasy breathing for a day and he died on way to the army hospital in the Delhi cantonment. He had been staying with his son-in-law lt col Pratheesh, an army officer, and daughter Pragati since 2012. His only son, presently in the Netherlands, couldn’t attend his cremation on Wednesday. Malik’s wife had passed away in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/advocate-and-urdu-poet-om-prakash-malik-passes-away/story-5aLYcXwyY3kLN1oMLwoBrN.html
05-06-2020||City||Ludhiana tally jumps to 226 with 24 new Covid-19 cases||The district administration confirmed 24 new Covid-19 cases, including five children, on Thursday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the new cases included the two-year-old daughter of the doctor couple from Khanna, who had tested positive two days ago, and their four other contacts.These include two males, aged 44 and 68, and two females, aged 66 and 17, all from Khanna.The doctors, who work at Mohandai Oswal Hospital in Ludhiana, are suspected to have caught the infection while treating ex-serviceman Ujagar Singh, 86, who died of Covid-19 on June 1.As many as six contacts of a Chhawani Mohalla man, Pritpal Singh, 51, who died at DMCH on May 29, were also found infected on Thursday.Among them is a 29-year-old man from Meharban village, who works at the shop of Pritpal’s relative in Gandhi Nagar. Five other contacts of Pritpal reported positive on Thursday. These include four males, aged 52, 40, 21 and 13, and a 43-year-woman, all residents of Chhawani Mohalla. With this, 15 contacts of Pritpal have contracted the infection so far.Besides, four contacts of a 27-year-old man from Baupur village in Khanna, who returned from Manesar near Delhi on May 20, also tested positive. They comprise a 57-year-old woman, a 24-year-old man, and two boys, aged 14 and five.OTHER CASESA 34-year-old Delhi man, who was tested at the Sahnewal Airport, a man and a woman, aged 52 and 43, from Madhopuri, a 38-year-old man, a 37-year-old woman and a four-year-girl from Model Town, and a 35-year-old man from Islam Ganj were also found infected.Apart from them, two patients, a 44-year-old man admitted at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk and a 73-year-old woman admitted at DMCH, were also confirmed positive.The district now has a total of 226 Covid-19 cases, of which 154 patients have been discharged, a recovery rate of 68.14%. As many as nine patients have succumbed to the virus, a fatality rate of 3.9%. This leaves 63 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-tally-jumps-to-226-with-24-new-covid-19-cases/story-teOX8zMfGfcOSQylpyOOxL.html
05-06-2020||City||Cyclone Nisarga effect: Mumbai sees heavy rain, thunderstorms||Less than 24 hours after Cyclone Nisarga passed over the city and the west coast, the after effects of the weather system was witnessed across Mumbai on Thursday morning, with the skies turning cloudy, even as continuous rains lashed the city with occasional thunder.The quantum of rain recorded by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that till 5.30pm, Colaba and Santacruz weather stations received ‘rather heavy rain’ at 49.6mm and 46.5mm respectively. IMD classifies rainfall between 35.6mm and 64.4mm as ‘rather heavy’. Between Wednesday 8.30am and Thursday 8.30am, the city recorded low rainfall at 24.8mm in the suburbs, as compared to 50mm rainfall at the Colaba weather station. Weather experts said south Mumbai received more rainfall because Cyclone Nisarga made landfall to the south of Alibag in Raigad district, which brought its path close to the Island city. According to weathermen, the rainfall, with heavy showers on some occasions, witnessed over Mumbai on Thursday was a combination of the post-cyclone effect and monsoonal winds blowing on the west coast. When a cyclone passes, it leaves a lot of moisture over land. The relative humidity levels at 8.30am stood at 92% in Colaba and 87% in Santacruz.“When such a huge weather system (cyclone) passes, it leaves behind a remnant effect in the form of very high humidity levels and moisture content over the entire coast, including Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. In addition, there are strong westerlies coming over Mumbai and the entire west coast as the Indian summer monsoon season has begun, pumping a lot of moisture,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, Mumbai region, IMD, adding that both these factors can result in heavy showers.By evening, however, the skies cleared and the rains stopped. The maximum temperature recorded in the suburbs was 29.7 degrees Celsius, while Island city recorded 29.2 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperatures at Santacruz and Colaba weather stations were 25.4 and 25.8 degrees Celsius respectively. IMD forecasts cloudy skies with light and moderate rain and thundershowers in the city, and suburbs with heavy rain at isolated places, on Friday.“Skies will be partly clear tomorrow. However, the available moisture and rise in temperatures will lead to a build-up of convective clouds, which is likely to result in short spells of thundershowers at some places in Mumbai,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate and meteorology, Skymet Weather, private met forecaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-effect-mumbai-sees-heavy-rain-thunderstorms/story-e2BttkE9L3kl8l7BsWpV6J.html
05-06-2020||City||Kashid beach: A tourist spot ravaged by the storm||The 1.2-kilometre (km)-long Kashid beach, which lies 20km south of Alibag, was one of the worst cyclone-affected tourist spots in Raigad district. “The width of the beach at Kashid is much smaller than the other beaches, with a number of large coconut trees aligned over the beach. During the cyclone, large coconut trees fell on the structures. The situation is much better at the other beaches in the district,” said Sagar Pathak, disaster management officer, Raigad, adding, “We, however, fear that a few beaches in Shrivardhan taluka may have witnessed even more damage than Kashid, but assessments are currently unavailable, as roads opened only on Thursday evening.”As Cyclone Nisarga made landfall on Wednesday evening, several shacks, food stalls and other structures on the beach were destroyed, after trees fell on them.“After the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, all shack owners were kept away from the beach. However, now we cannot resume work even after lockdown is lifted. Such is the fury of nature,” said Sandeep Belore, a Kashid resident.The impact of the cyclone damaged chairs, tables, kitchen utensils, beds, and other things inside the shacks. “My house and the shack I own, have both been badly damaged. My husband passed away last year. There is no network or electricity to contact my children or any relative. How am I to manage in such circumstances?” asked Sangeeta Sanjay Bhendekar, 50, another resident. District officials said Kashid gets thousands of tourists every weekend. “It will take a few months to recover from the damages, and that is going to have serious impact on this year’s earnings,” Kashid local Rajesh Wagre said.Pathak said that the local officers have been asked to visit the site and ensure that trees are removed and the locals maintain lockdown rules instead of unnecessarily gathering at the beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashid-beach-a-tourist-spot-ravaged-by-the-storm/story-sfww3EpvruHCPoSZjRiLlL.html
05-06-2020||City||SAD leader accuses Ludhiana sewa kendra staff of looting construction workers||High drama was witnessed at a sewa kendra, situated in the Zone B office of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC), on Thursday after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and councillor Jasmeet Kaur’s husband Balwinder Singh accused the sewa kendra staff of looting the people by charging Rs 100 for filing papers for registering construction workers. Singh alleged staff members were also not giving any receipts for the amount being charged.Singh went live on the Facebook inside the sewa kendra and asked the staff to return the amount collected illegally. “Some residents came to my wife’s office to get her signatures on documents. When I asked them about any fee being charged at the sewa kendra, they replied Rs 100 are being charged, but no receipt is being given. I visited the sewa kendra on Thursday in this regard, but the staff failed to give any satisfactory reply,” said Singh, adding that staff members are looting the public, but the administration is not paying heed to the problem. Singh said district president of SAD Ranjit Singh Dhillon has apprised deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal about it and sought action against the staff. The staff of the sewa kendra, however, refuted the allegation and said Rs 50 is the fee fixed for submitting the form. “We could not issue receipts on the spot for the last few days due to some technical reason, but now receipts are being issued to the applicants. The allegation that Rs 100 are being charged is baseless,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-leader-accuses-ludhiana-sewa-kendra-staff-of-looting-construction-workers/story-cTSqhJSLGNqo4FvGlAUVrO.html
05-06-2020||City||Mohali police perform last rites of Bihar man killed in road mishap||A week ago, a 37-year-old migrant worker from Bihar was killed in a road accident in Zirakpur, but due to poverty and the lockdown, his family could not come for the last rites.As per information, Akhilesh Pandit of Araria district, Bihar, who was working as a labourer in Zirakpur, was hit by an unidentified vehicle on May 29 on Kalka chowk and succumbed to injuries on May 30.With no family around, the police performed the last rites of Pandit. Zirakpur station house officer Gurwant Singh said, “We waited for the family to come from Bihar, but when they expressed inability, we performed the last rites. A case under sections 304A (death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving), 427 (mischief causing damage or loss) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unknown driver.”The deceased is survived by a wife and a minor daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-police-perform-last-rites-of-bihar-man-killed-in-road-mishap/story-rfLnxFPqRs30zQ4kPhOyxO.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||mohali deputy commissioner conducts surprise check at fortis hospital||Deputy commissioner of Mohali Girish Dayalan on Thursday conducted a surprise check at Fortis Hospital during peak OPD hours.Seeing a large number of patients waiting in the OPD, the DC directed the hospital administration to stagger the patient inflow and regulate it through a token system in order to limit entry of people. “Barring emergencies, the entire inflow of patients must be controlled via a token system,” said Dayalan.The administration was suggested to propagate the appointment System so that people could come to the hospital only during the time slot given to them in the pre-fixed appointment. The DC said that any lapse in adhering to health protocols advised in the wake of Covid outbreak, especially non-wearing of masks or not maintaining social distancing, in such institutions could play havoc.The overall hygiene and sanitation at the hospital was found satisfactory, but some people were seen without masks and were challaned on the spot. The parking was found haphazard and the superintendent of police present on the occasion interacted with the parking contractor and guided him to regulate the patient drop-off and pick-up.Abhijit Singh, zonal director of Fortis Hospital, did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-deputy-commissioner-conducts-surprise-check-at-fortis-hospital/story-1CCNoKLLdxNRj2FvkyhRnJ.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 5 lakh structures across 8 talukas damaged in Maharashtra’s Raigad district||More than five lakh structures have been damaged across eight of the 15 talukas in Raigad owing to Cyclone Nisarga. A preliminary assessment has revealed that there have been damages to homes, garages, schools and medical care centres across Alibag, Murud, Tala, Shrivardhan, Margaon, Mhasala, Pen and Roha. The rooftops of schools, located mostly in villages, have been blown away or partially dilapidated.“Majority of the affected structures either had tin rooftops that blew away due to the intensity of the cyclone or had very weak foundation during construction. Our estimate of five lakh affected structures may further increase, as there is very little communication with officers from tehsils at the moment, but we will update the losses everyday, said Sagar Pathak, disaster management officer, Raigad.”The Gharats, who live in Navedar Beli village near Murud, lost a floor of their creek-facing house. Prabhakar Gharat, 65, said he and his family were eating lunch on Wednesday afternoon when they heard a loud thud and a gush wind burst into their home. On stepping out of their house and looking up, they saw almost three fourth of their upper floor missing. Gharat’s eye caught the sight of parts of the first floor ceiling, window pane, fan and the entire tin shed flying and landing 15 feet away into the mangrove trees at the edge of the creek. He said he and his wife had saved up for about 20 years to construct the two-room first-floor, which they rent out to tourists during the winter. “We had no idea that the cyclone could cause this much damage. Nobody warned us,” said a teary-eyed Pradnya, Gharat’s wife. Gharat said an official from the collector’s office, who inspected the site, informed the couple that the cost to restore the upper floor is estimated to be ₹4 lakh. “We will also be incurring an annual loss of ₹1.5 lakh, which we used to make from renting out the room,” he said. The family also suffered additional losses after an electric pole landed on their doorstep an hour after the top floor collapsed. “We are lucky that no one sustained injuries,” said Jagannath, Gharat’s son.At Mandad and Kude villages near Diveagar – the cyclone’s landfall site in Raigad – around 400 students across two schools may have to wait longer to attend classes after the lockdown, as the cyclone blew off the roof of their dilapidated school buildings. Chairs, tables and books were scattered on the floor. “We thought that the cyclone will not do much damage, as there are no trees located close to the school. However, after almost an hour, a strong wave battered the entire area,” said Atul Karanje, 16, a student of the high school near Mandad village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-5-lakh-structures-across-8-talukas-damaged-in-maharashtra-s-raigad-district/story-ITf2vcRB8HqtkSH83Xg0pM.html
05-06-2020||City||CVO team visits Ludhiana MC’s Zone D office to inquire about illegal constructions||After the committee, formed to finalise the change of land use (CLU) and external development (ED) charges raised objections over alleged illegal constructions and the imposition of rejected CLU charges in the city, a team from the chief vigilance officer’s (CVO) office, local bodies department, visited the Zone D office of the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday to inquire into the matter. With most of the officials remaining tightlipped on the issue, the team reportedly inquired about the buildings, which were earlier sealed and then opened by the MC.The team also inquired about variations in the imposition of CLU and ED charges for different buildings in the city. Earlier on June 2, members of the MC committee had accused officials of benefitting builders by imposing CLU and ED rates, which were rejected by the General House of the MC. The members had also alleged that the building branch had failed to stop illegal constructions in the city. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had forwarded the proceedings of the committee meeting to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.The building branch officials confirmed that the team also conducted a meeting with municipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand. However, despite attempts made to reach the MTP, she was not available for comments. SUBSTANDARD MATERIAL FOR ROADSWorking on the complaint of RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal against the substandard material being used in the construction of roads in different parts of the city, the state vigilance department has asked the additional chief secretary, local bodies department, to conduct an inquiry into the matter and send a report to the vigilance department. The complaint was made in March when the MC conducted sampling of a few roads and found flaws in their construction. HOTEL SEALED IN MODEL TOWN MARKETAfter receiving a complaint against illegal construction of hotel in the Model Town Gol Market, the building branch of the MC sealed an illegal part of the building on Thursday. As per the complaint, a five-storey hotel was being constructed at a shop-cum-flat (SCF) site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cvo-team-visits-ludhiana-mc-s-zone-d-office-to-inquire-about-illegal-constructions/story-sfsUGK9nXHXgxtcP96LcfL.html
05-06-2020||City||Workforce crisis puts off GMADA’s already-delayed water project by six months||The workforce crisis has delayed Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s (GMADA) project to bring additional water supply of 5 million gallon daily (MGD) from phases 5 and 6 of the Kajauli water works by six months.The previous deadline was December 2020, but now it has been moved to June 2021. This when Mohali is facing a daily shortage of 10 MGD water and the demand shoots up in summers by 12 MGD.The construction work of the water treatment plant at Jandpur village of Mohali under phases 5 and 6 will now be over by June next year. At present, only 25% of the workforce is operational. The construction was already delayed over whether to construct a plant for 5 MGD or 20 MGD supply, but now GMADA has decided to construct a plant for 20 MGD. The cost of the project is ₹60 crore and a Vadodara-based company has been allotted work. GMADA chief engineer Sunil Kansal said, “Earlier, there were 120 workers, but now only 30 are working there. Most of them have gone back to their native places during the lockdown.”On the other hand, Chandigarh has already started getting its additional 35 MGD water supply from the same pipeline under phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli water works. GMADA has also started laying the water pipes that will cover 16 km.For the past several years, Mohali has been reeling under acute water shortage as the gap between demand and supply in the city is 10 MGD daily.MC councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had filed a case in Punjab and Haryana high court regarding water shortage, said, “It is sad that people are suffering while the administration is insensitive and in no hurry to complete the project.”ABOUT THE PROJECTIn May 2012, GMADA had started laying pipelines to supply 80 MGD water to Mohali district and Chandigarh from Kajauli water works (phases 5 and 6) at a cost of ₹200 crore, out of which ₹100 crore was to be borne by Chandigarh. Under phases 5 and 6, 40 MGD water was to be supplied, out of which 35 MGD was reserved for Chandigarh and 5 MGD for Mohali.Mohali gets 10 MGD water from Kajauli water works and 10 MGD from 75 tubewells. The Kajauli water works is located on the Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Ropar district from where water requirements of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/workforce-crisis-puts-off-gmada-s-already-delayed-water-project-by-six-months/story-L3jxxVidQ06cuiEAndtJEK.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Firing at businessman’s house in Chandigarh: Police seek production warrants for gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide lodged in Ambala jail||Police have sought production warrants for Deepu, a close associate of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and presently lodged in Ambala jail, in connection with the case of firing at a businessman’s bungalow in Sector 33.On May 31, a group of unidentified men had opened fire outside the bungalow of hotelier and businessman Rakesh Singla owing to suspected rivalry with his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.Sources in the police said that Deepu will be produced before the court on Saturday. Deepu’s name had cropped up in the investigation after the arrest of Sewak, alias Guri, a gym owner who had provided a vehicle to the five persons involved in firing.“Sewak, alias Guri, was arrested because he provided logistics to the accused involved in the firing,” said Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (crime), Chandigarh Police.Bishnoi who is lodged in Bharatpur jail planned and got the attack executed, and Guri was in contact with Deepu, the police said.Guri had earlier told the police that he had received a call from Bishnoi asking him to arrange a vehicle for his men who were coming to Chandigarh for sightseeing. He had then borrowed a Ford Ikon from one Gurdeep Singh of Banur. It was on Gurdeep’s statement that Guri was arrested, produced before the court on Thursday and remanded to police custody till June 9.MAN HELD WITH 80 LIVE CARTRIDGESPolice have arrested a Sarangpur resident with 80 live cartridges. The accused, Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, 40, is an aide of Guri and an accomplice to the crime, police said. Police said he was arrested on a tip-off from a parking lot near Hotel Toy, Sector 34, and 80 live cartridges were found on him. He, too, was remanded to police custody till June 9.“Kala is suspected to have supplied weapons and ammunition to the accused involved in firing in Sector 33, on May 31. The investigation has pointed out that Kala had dropped three of the five accused after the crime,” said a senior official privy to the matter.Kala had arranged for their stay on a farm in Bhagoo Majra in Mohali, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/firing-at-businessman-s-house-in-chandigarh-police-seek-production-warrants-for-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-s-aide-lodged-in-ambala-jail/story-tg5QCh0jwYcNeebmQBDGHI.html
05-06-2020||City||Delhiwale: A vision in Pahari Rajaan||The mansion looks like an aristocratic lady dressed in sun rays, fussily re-arranging them about her from time to time. The afternoon light—and its shifting shadows—have ignited a gentle glow onto its pale blue walls, turning the concrete into something lighter and softer, something that might perhaps dissolve if touched.It’s a pity that this exquisite piece of architecture goes unnoticed. And not only these days when barely any explorer dares to venture into the crowded, cramped Old Delhi due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The edifice was ignored in the BC (before corona) era, too. Simply because it is located in a side-alley that outsiders rarely care to step in. Even the locals of this narrow street don’t really bother about this graceful structure stranded in their midst—seeing something so hauntingly beautiful every day might have dulled its qualities to their eyes. Besides, one has to crane up one’s neck to gaze upon the building. The sprawling building lies in the hilly Walled City neighbourhood of Pahati Rajaan. More than half of its loveliness comes from its first floor balconies—each has its surface luxuriantly shaped into all sorts of floral patterns, as if it has slyly copied the intricate patterns of a bride’s wedding lehenga. The wooden windows—some are green and some are brown—are closed. A frayed mustard green curtain is swaying out of one of the balconies.Apparently nobody lives inside, the main door is locked. “It was built by a purane raees (old rich),” informs a nearby grocer. “His daughter lives in Noida and still comes over sometimes to check on the place,” he adds.The alley also has the honor of being the address of at least two notable Walled City families—one owns the historic Shereen Bhawan mithai shop, while the other comprise the immediate descendants of late poet Musheer Jhinjhianvi.Just next to the building’s gateway lies its “sehan”, or courtyard, which is now a narrow lane lined with single-room dwellings. They are home to a number of butchers and their families. (Pahari Rajaan is also known as Gosht wali Pahari, or hill of the meat, for having a great number of meat shops.) This crowded tenement is attractive in a very different way, and strikes an ironic contrast to the empty spaciousness of the rest of the house.Regardless, in a time when many old landmarks in Old Delhi are giving way to new multi-storey residential projects, the survival of this mansion makes it a vision of extraordinary fragility.As afternoon changes to evening, the balconies start to become indistinct. As if they were but a legend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-a-vision-in-pahari-rajaan/story-JgoBlPSbitBfyBgTaxbngI.html
05-06-2020||City||Ahead of pending board exams in Ludhiana, 7 school heads appointed nodal officers to gather information||To conduct the board examinations of Classes 10 and 12, the Punjab School Education Board has directed schools to accommodate students in the classrooms maintaining a 6-foot distance and increase the number of classrooms if need be.To follow the instructions sent by the board, the district education officer (secondary) of Ludhiana Swaranjit Kaur has appointed seven nodal officers to gather information from schools that had earlier been turned into quarantine centres.The education department has also sent mails to 216 schools asking for details on the number of classrooms available and how many students can be accommodated as per the guidelines. The schools have to send the information to the DEO office by Friday. The school heads will also send names of the five schools nearest to their school affiliated with the board.The principals will also inform the DEO about the number of teachers available in the schools to perform examination duty and how many of them are deputed on Covid duty.As per sources, many schools in the district face space constraints and will not be able to accommodate enough students.DEO Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have deputed seven principals as nodal officers to collect information from schools so that the consolidated data can be sent to the board. We will follow all the instructions sent by the board at all the centers.” The pending exams for Class 1o and 12 include physical education and sports, home science, math, economics, music (tabla), fundamentals of e-business, computer science, political science, physics, business studies, geography and history.PSEB instructions to centresTo follow social distancing norms, candidates should be accommodated while maintaining a distance of 6 feet. Hand sanitizers should be made available at the exam centers in every room.Cleanliness should be maintained in classrooms and soap should be kept in the washroom.The candidates will cover their mouths and noses with masks/cloth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-pending-board-exams-in-ludhiana-7-school-heads-appointed-nodal-officers-to-gather-information/story-5QS47CfmGaIWtjCvCPotrN.html
05-06-2020||City||Finance committee directs Ludhiana MC to blacklist two contractors for failing to complete works||Acting tough against the contractors, who have failed to complete the projects even after the release of the payment by the municipal corporation (MC), the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) directed the officials on Thursday to commence proceedings to blacklist two such contractors.A meeting of the committee was held at the mayor’s camp office on Thursday evening, where an agenda comprising over 300 resolutions on various projects was tabled. The committee, however, discussed 154 resolutions, while the rest were kept pending for discussed in the meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday. Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said, “I have also sought action against the officials, who had released the payment even before works were completed by the contractors. The contractors got the payments released on the pretext of completing the works, but they failed to do so.” Malhotra said most of the resolutions, discussed during the meeting, related to development works. The committee declined the resolutions regarding construction of a boundary wall around the carcass disposal site (Hadda Rodi) in the Laddowal area as a carcass disposal plant is already being established under the Smart City project, following the completion of which Hadda Rodi would be removed.The NGT monitoring committee had earlier directed the MC to construct a boundary wall around the Hadda Rodi. A resolution for outsourcing 100 employees for expediting recovery of dues from residents was also declined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/finance-committee-directs-ludhiana-mc-to-blacklist-two-contractors-for-failing-to-complete-works/story-mw2mdpOQGzRIxZ761nsoCI.html
05-06-2020||City||Civil contractor shot dead at Ghansoli||A 40-year-old civil contractor was shot dead by an unknown man in Ghansoli on Thursday. The police suspect a business rivalry to be the motive.Pravin Tayde was riding a two-wheeler with his friend sitting pillion when the incident happened. Around 3.30pm, as Tayde was passing through Gamdevi temple in Talavli village, a man approached their bike on foot and shot Tayde on his face at a point-blank range.The accused ran and fled in a car parked nearby. The two-wheeler skidded on the ground. Tayde died on the spot and his friend sustained injuries.“The crime branch is conducting a parallel probe along with the local police station. The motive appears to be business rivalry,” said Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.Police officers said the assailant, who is yet to be identified, was waiting near the spot for Tayde and came towards the two-wheeler as soon as he saw him.Tayde was a resident of Talavli and was handling a few constructions at Ghansoli. Tayde’s body has been sent for an autopsy at Jijamata Hospital in Airoli. The police said they are recording his friend’s statement to get leads into the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-contractor-shot-dead-at-ghansoli/story-5KzOtI2rRbJtoPJO56qdcN.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC suggests state to consider using electric vehicles to transport LPG cylinders to Matheran during lockdown||The Bombay high court (HC) has suggested that electric vehicles be used for supplying LPG cylinders to Matheran.This comes after the court was informed that the railways, which had started trains to deliver essential commodities to the eco-sensitive zone as per HC orders, had refused to transport LPG cylinders as it violated their safety norms.The bench of justice A K Menon, while hearing a petition filed by former NCP MLA Suresh Lad, was informed that as per the court’s previous order railways had started transporting essential commodities to the hill station. Advocate Gaurav Parkar, appearing for Lad, added that the railways has refused to transport LPG cylinders along with other essential commodities. Moreover, the local civic administration had also not hired Bharat IV compliant vehicles which had also been directed by the court, said the advocate.Parkar said that before the lockdown, cylinders were brought on horseback but it was no ideal now, given the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals Act, hence, the arrangement cannot be continued.Advocate T J Pandian appearing for the Central Railway and advocate D P Singh for the Centre, stated that LPG cylinders or any inflammable material cannot be carried on railway wagons as there is an explicit bar against carriage of gas and inflammable materials.After hearing the submissions, the court directed that the monitoring committee should consider the problem and come up with a solution. However, additional government pleader for the state Manish Pabale informed the court that the chairperson of the monitoring committee had retired and other members were busy with Cyclone Nisarga related activities and it would be impossible for the committee to meet before 15 days.The HC then directed the petitioners to apply before the committee when they convened. Before adjourning the matter the court observed, “In the meanwhile it will not be out of place to mention that the viability of using electrically powered vehicle for movement of LPG should not be overlooked. The monitoring committee shall therefore consider the feasibility of such means including by considering a cost analysis study in the interests of the residents which the state is bound to protect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-suggests-state-to-consider-using-electric-vehicles-to-transport-lpg-cylinders-to-matheran-during-lockdown/story-Wo6whRewrrkaNnZwx9xeBK.html
05-06-2020||City||Not allowed to open business, gym owners, trainers stage protest||Out of business for over two months and struggling to pay the rent and salaries of their employees, various associations of gym owners and body builders staged a protest against the government, in Ludhiana on Thursday. Members of the Natural Bodybuilders Union International (NBBUI) staged a symbolic protest by begging on the Jagraon bridge while members of the Gym Ekta Welfare Association exercised in the open near Jalandhar bypass on Thursday evening.NBBUI’s Punjab president Jolly Singh said the government has forced the gym owners to come out on roads by not providing any relief against the losses during the lockdown period. “I have to pay Rs 25,000 rent for my gym in Chander Nagar. I also have to pay the loans, EMIs and salaries to three trainers and staff members. How does the government expect us to bear all these expenses in addition to other household expenses when gyms have been closed for over two-and-a-half months now,” he asked, adding that they will continue their agitation if the government does not allow the gyms to open now. They also stated that they will ensure all precautionary measures are taken to control the spread of the virus. Gym Ekta welfare association director Ramesh Bangar and chief advisor Navneet Singh said, “The government has allowed the markets and transport sector to operate, where the fear of virus spread is much higher. Even the liquor and street food vends have been allowed to open. But the gyms, where people can improve their immunity by exercising, are not being allowed to open.”They further added, “There are over 1,000 gyms in the city and many gym owners pay rent in lakhs. Our staff, including the trainers and housekeeping staff, are even struggling to cater to their daily needs. We have to pay electricity bills, rent, bank EMIs, and school fees of our children and this cannot be done when our business is closed. We are ready to follow all the guidelines and are even ready to allow the entry of customers in phases for maintaining social distancing.” “The future of the fitness industry is in dark. Bodybuilders are also not being able to prepare for different championships,” said Navneet Singh. Tirlok, a gym trainer, said, “Gyms are the only source of income for trainers and we have been jobless for over two months. The owners are also not being able to pay full salaries as there is no business. We urge the government to allow gyms to operate at the earliest. Otherwise, many families will suffer due to its bad policies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-allowed-to-open-business-gym-owners-trainers-stage-protest/story-gOEzO49nfU0WkRMAj1Gd4M.html
05-06-2020||City||84 new cases in Navi Mumbai take tally to 2,557||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Thursday reported 84 new Covid cases, taking the total positive cases in the city to 2,557. Three deaths were also reported.Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 28 new cases, taking the total to 608. Those tested positive include four members of a family from Kamothe, two members of a family from Kamothe, four of a family from Kharghar, two of a family from Kalamboli, two members of a family from Owepeth area of Kharghar and four of a family from Panvel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/84-new-cases-in-navi-mumbai-take-tally-to-2-557/story-UGtQwJUMUVUegB6aTdhVOL.html
05-06-2020||City||Legendary film-maker Basu Chatterjee passes away at 93||Mumbai At a time when a majority of Hindi film heroes were happily showcasing their machismo and heroines were largely stuck in a damsel-in-distress mode, late filmmaker Basu Chatterjee, who passed away in Mumbai on Thursday at 93 owing to age-related ailments, took a nuanced look at the middle class and everyday “ordinary” concerns, instead of focusing his lens on anything “extraordinary” or over-the-top.Armed with his “common-man” sensibilities, Basuda – as he was fondly known as – was happy to have his middle class heroes/heroines travel and romance in buses, local trains; and meet at office canteens or non-descript coffee shops. The result was a number of memorable of films – laced seamlessly with a slice of everyday life – such as Rajnigandha, Piya Ka Ghar, Choti Si Baat, Chitchor, Khatta Meetha, Ek Ruka Hua Faisla, Kamla Ki Maut, Baton Baton Mein, Chameli Ki Shaadi and Shaukeen, among others.Through the ’70s and ’80s, along with contemporaries such as Hrishikesh Mukherjee and Basu Bhattacharya, Basu became an integral part of what’s now commonly known as middle-of-the-road cinema. Born in Ajmer, Chatterjee started his career as an illustrator and cartoonist with weekly tabloid Blitz. Eighteen years later, he shifted to filmmaking when he assisted Basu Bhattacharya in the Raj Kapoor- Waheeda Rehman starrer Teesri Kasam (1966). In 1969, he made his directorial debut with Sara Akash.Chatterjee, who admitted to have been influenced by films such as Bicycle Thieves and Billy Wilder’s socio-romantic comedies, also directed several Bengali films such as Hothat Brishti, Hochcheta Ki and Hothat Shei Din, besides helming hit TV shows such as Byomkesh Bakshi and Rajani (TV series) for Doordarshan. Besides several popular awards through his career, Chatterjee was awarded the National Film Award in 1992 for Best Film on Family Welfare for his film, Durga. He is survived by his two daughters, Sonali Bhattacharya and Rupali Guha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/legendary-film-maker-basu-chatterjee-passes-away-at-93/story-ioT4ge2hFPc9waN83Z3ySJ.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: No power, phone connectivity in 8 talukas of Raigad district in Maharashtra||The landfall of Cyclone Nisarga over Raigad district on Wednesday left eight of the 15 talukas – Alibag, Murud, Pen, Tala, Srivardhan, Margaon, Mhasala and Roha – with no electricity or communication connectivity in many areas. Nisarga, classified as severe cyclonic storm, left a trail of destruction after making landfall at Diveagar, located between Srivardhan and Murud between 12.15pm and 12.30pm on Wednesday, as it passed over Raigad district. The wind speed during and after landfall had touched a maximum of 120 kmph, the India Meteorological Department had said.Sagar Pathak, Raigad’s disaster management officer, estimated the number of tree falls at the eight talukas at 1.10 lakh, and said close to 2,200 power lines (940 large transmission lines and remaining smaller electricity distribution lines) had fallen or been damaged. “This is all preliminary information, as the communication with all affected tehsils is limited. Our officers are taking stock and the figures are likely to rise further,” said Pathak, adding the cellular network as well as electricity supply was likely to be restored by weekend.Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “Maximum damage to coastal settlements, power lines, and tree falls have been witnessed at Shrivardhan taluka located towards the southern end of Raigad district.”HT travelled 150km south of Alibag on Thursday covering areas from Murud to Diveagar (north of Shrivardhan). Two roads leading to Shrivardhan were blocked due to a tree fall and the other by a damaged power line, forcing the team to turn back before sunset. Combined with affected power utilities and tree falls (mostly of mango, coconut and arecanut), local villagers were distressed about lack of information about post cyclone restoration efforts, especially across affected villages in remote talukas. “Not one representative of the state or district has visited us so far and every household in villages in our taluka has witnessed some damage or the other,” said Saurabh Rajendra Kudekar, village leader at Kude village in Taal taluka.Choudhari said it will take time to restore normalcy. “A majority of the district faced a natural calamity. Time is needed to ensure restoration,” she said.Pathak added that major roads connecting affected talukas and major national and state highways have been cleared. However, HT found that the trees were being removed by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and they had managed to reach just south of Murud tehsil till Thursday afternoon. “Additional teams have been deployed in other affected areas and remaining roads in south of Raigad will be functional soon,” said Mahesh Kumar, inspector, NDRF. Meanwhile, there was no electricity or mobile connectivity till Panvel on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-no-power-phone-connectivity-in-8-talukas-of-raigad-district-in-maharashtra/story-wHFNtoHXkkjx0mXwM06fLM.html
05-06-2020||City||Nerul couple helps raise ₹2.09 lakh for migrant workers||In less than two weeks, a Nerul-based couple managed to feed 81 families of migrant workers who were rendered jobless due to the coronavirus lockdown.The couple raised Rs 2.09 lakh through crowdfunding to provide dry rations to the families and will distribute rations to 80 more families in the coming week.Requesting to remain anonymous, the 32-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife, said they chose to do their part after getting pleas for help from some labourers’ families in Belapur. Having previously worked with a skill training organisation, the couple is completing their PhDs in social work from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS).The duo first catered to around 15 families in Belapur and urged their friends and family members to help them raise funds. Each family is given a dry rations’ kit of close to Rs 1,400. It includes 10kg rice and wheat flour each, oil and pulses 2kg each along with sugar, biscuits and menstruation pads for women.“We were overwhelmed with donations and exceeded our target. When we crossed Rs 2.09 lakh, we informed the donors that we are closing funding for the time being until remaining families are identified and handed over rations. We started this in Navi Mumbai as there are fairly fewer organisations to cater to affected migrants here as compared to Mumbai,” the man said.After providing ration kits to 81 families in Nerul and Belapur which should last them around a month, the couple identified another 60 families with the help of a local social worker and will continue distributing the rations in a couple of days.The couple has a policy of not clicking any pictures with the workers accepting food rations to not add humiliation to the workers’ plight most of whom have been self-sufficient, the woman added.“During our first donation, we experienced that most of these workers who were capable of fending for themselves and their families are now forced to accept charity. Some do not even meet the gaze while accepting the ration because they felt undignified,” the woman said.The couple shared that some shopkeepers, upon learning the food is for migrant workers, offered them to buy cheaper quality grains to save money. “We did not want any worker and their family to eat something that we would not. We had to keep a quality check too,” the duo added.Like the couple, even the 69 individual donors who donated to this cause have remained anonymous. Such is the anonymity that two sisters from the same family said they both have donated money for the migrants. Both the sisters had the same request, “Please do not tell my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nerul-couple-helps-raise-2-09-lakh-for-migrant-workers/story-gnT82eCBhRk2LUBK8pYiDI.html
05-06-2020||City||Covid care centres not mandatory for Thane societies: TMC||Following opposition from housing society federation and a few housing societies in the city, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now issued a statement that it is not compulsory for residential societies to set up a Covid care centre to isolate asymptomatic positive patients.The corporation has issued a circular early this week asking housing societies to set up Covid care centres and follow certain guidelines. The society had claimed that these guidelines are not feasible for housing societies to adapt.Several corporators and the Thane district housing society federation has opposed the notion.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “It is not compulsory for the housing societies to implement this decision, it is voluntary. We had issued the directives as few societies have approached us with a proposition for such a centre. So we had issued guidelines for such a centre.”The housing society federation has said that it is a good decision by the TMC to no force the centre on anyone.Sitaram Rane, the president of Thane District Housing Federation said, “We had drafted a letter to the commissioner asking them not to enforce the directives on any society. The civic commissioner has replied positively to this directive. We would like to thank him for the same. However, we are not aware of any society who had approached them with such a proposition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-care-centres-not-mandatory-for-thane-societies-tmc/story-ULOxlJmT65Ddb25kwfYIxJ.html
05-06-2020||City||Atlas Cycles’ closure: ₹120-crore pending in payments, cycle part suppliers in Ludhiana in a fix||A day after the fourth and last unit of Atlas Cycles in Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, shut down its operations, scores of suppliers of cycle parts in Ludhiana are staring at massive losses, leaving their employees in a quandary about their future. As per estimates, Atlas Cycles owes over Rs 120 crore to around 80 vendors in Ludhiana, a number of whom had been its suppliers for several decades. Atlas Cycles (Haryana) Ltd had shut down its operations on Wednesday, celebrated as World Bicycle Day, citing deep monetary crisis.The company, however, has assured to clear all payments soon. “The company has a dispute pending before the National Company Law Tribunal, which will hear the case on June 18. Following the hearing, they plan to sell off a part of their land in Sonepat to clear the debt,” said DS Chawla, president, UCPMA, adding that the senior functionaries of the firm had termed the closure a temporary phase to save day-to-day expenses.Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president, United Cycle Parts Manufacturers’ Association (UCPMA), said Atlas Cycles played an instrumental role in developing the cycle industry and taking it to the world. “It was them who taught the trade to others in Punjab. The government should help them emerge out of the crisis as such revered brands should not fade into oblivion,” he said, adding that closure of the firm’s units will render over 6,000 labourers in Ludhiana unemployed. While Atlas owes Vishwakarma’s firm Rs 20 lakh, payments worth another Rs 65 lakh are pending towards Satnam Enterprises in Focal Point that has supplied bicycle parts to Atlas for two decades. Owner of this firm, Gurkanwal Singh, said Atlas’ closure was bound to have a lasting impact on suppliers in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atlas-cycles-closure-120-crore-pending-in-payments-cycle-part-suppliers-in-ludhiana-in-a-fix/story-nnQdCcvlPXFXGQ9eKqE5SP.html
05-06-2020||City||Kalyan records 47 new cases||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total positive cases to 1,276.Retired hydraulic engineer of KDMC Chandrakant Kolte donated Rs4.5 lakh for the Covid fight. Kolte, who retired last month, gave Rs1.51 lakh to KDMC Covid relief fund, Rs1.51 lakh to Chief Minister’s Covid relief fund and Rs1.51 lakh for Prime Minister Relief Fund.“Even if I have retired, I thought my contribution will make a difference in the fight against the pandemic,” said Kolte..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-47-new-cases/story-wWEVTKDc9mWbV2Sv3mhJwM.html
05-06-2020||City||Cyclone Nisarga: Crops on 8,000 hectares destroyed in Maharashtra||Cyclone Nisarga, which battered the coastal Raigad district in Maharashtra on Wednesday, has destroyed crop on 8,000 hectares across the seven districts of Konkan (including Raigad) and Nashik, Jalgaon and Dhule in north Maharashtra, according to primary assessment by the local authorities. Six people died and 16 were injured in the affected areas.Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has demanded a special package, pegging the losses at ₹5,000 crore. A decision on the relief package is expected next week. Usually, farmers get a compensation of ₹6800 to ₹18000 per hectare for losses. The compensation for repairs and construction of houses ranges between ₹6000 and ₹6 lakh. Meanwhile, the state has announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for the kin of those who lost their lives. The announcement was done after a review meeting of district collectors and divisional commissioners held by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat via video conference on Thursday. Thackeray has asked district officials to submit reports of the extent of damage by Monday. The CM was told that eight of 15 tehsils in Raigad, especially Shrivardhan, Harihareshwar and Diveagar, have lost connectivity due to power outage as the electricity infrastructure has been destroyed. Close to 500 mobile towers and 10 boats have been damaged, and fish-farming on 12 hectares have been destroyed. “More than one lakh trees have fallen and a lakh housing structures have sustained damage. We have opened up state and national highways that were blocked since Wednesday morning. The district and village roads are still blocked and communication is disrupted due to power cut. Thousands of electricity poles have collapsed. Unless we restore electricity, telecommunication will not be established,” said Padmashree Bainade, resident deputy collector of Raigad. Thackeray has asked the state administration to restore power supply in Raigad and put more manpower and resources in the district. He has also asked the administration to provide food and water to those affected at the relief centres. In Ratnagiri, Dapoli and Madangadh have been badly affected with 3,000 trees uprooted, 13 substations shut and 1962 transformers collapsed. Sindhudurg was less affected with 41 homes have sustained partial damages, while no losses to the agricultural crop was reported. Lokesh Chandra, divisional commissioner, Konkan division comprising seven districts, said, “At least 5% of over 1 lakh affected houses in Raigad are fully damaged.” In Nashik, 191 hectares under cultivation has been affected, while 258 houses were damaged. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal held a review meeting in Nashik. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which has been undertaking restoration works in Raigad and Ratnagiri said that work on roads between Alibag and Murud and Roha, Mangaon to Shrivardhan and Harihareshwar and Shrivardhan to Diveagar was undertaken. In the process, 478 trees and 78 electric poles were cleared till Thursday evening. “Almost 170km of roads were cleared of obstruction. The seven teams in Raigad will continue the restoration work for the next two-three days. Teams in other district are on stand-by now,” said Anupam Srivastav, NDRF Maharashtra commandant. Energy minister Nitin Raut visited the areas on Thursday. Thorat praised the authorities for prompt action.According to the divisional commissioner of Nashik, the damage was comparatively less in Jalgaon district. “While cyclones are a common occurrence in the east coast, it has happened along the west coast after several decades,” Thackeray told the state administration. The state received close to 72.5mm average rainfall on Wednesday, with the maximum in Jalna (152mm). In Thane district, 162 kutcha houses were damaged and 360 branches fell, collector Rajesh Narvekar said. In all, 75,191 citizens staying close to the coast were evacuated. In Palghar, two houses were fully damaged while 24 were partially damaged; 16 trees got uprooted and 24 electricity poles collapsed. Kailash Shinde, Palghar district collector, said there was no damage to communication lines. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded immediate relief for farmers and fishermen.CM to visit Raigad todayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit Raigad on Friday afternoon to review the situation and take stock of the damages caused by Cyclone Nisarga. He will visit a few villages near Alibag and hold meetings with officials and elected representatives. State ministers Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh, Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare and other leaders will accompany him, said officials from CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-crops-on-8-000-hectares-destroyed-in-maharashtra/story-4jdtSeYlDRXvn7tt3wbQdO.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||After heatwave, Nisarga to give rain relief to Vidarbha||Areas of eastern Maharashtra that were reeling under severe heatwave last month, received rain on Thursday in the wake of Cyclone Nisarga, bringing the mercury down.On Thursday, the maximum temperature at Akola was 12.2 degrees below normal at 27 degrees Celsius while that of Nagpur was 29.9 degrees Celsius (11.7 degrees below normal). The weather bureau said maximum temperatures are very likely to be below normal (by 1.6 to 3 degree Celsius) in Vidarbha and Madhya Maharashtra for the next two days.Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a deep depression late Wednesday night and further diminished into a depression on early Thursday morning, has been moving at a speed of 23 kilometres per hour (kmph). When it made landfall over Raigad district, the maximum speed was 120 kmph, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather system has currently moved to western Vidarbha, about 110 km west-southwest of Akola, 320 Km west-southwest of Nagpur and 100 km northeast of Aurangabad.“After rain over parts of north Maharashtra including Dhule, Nandurbar and Nashik, districts like Akola, Chandrapur, Nagpur and Bhandara, which were recording over 46 degrees Celsius last month will receive moderate showers over the next 48 hours,” said IMD DG Mrutyunjay Mohapatra.Less than 10 days ago, the weather bureau issued a ‘red alert’ for heatwave conditions for the entire Vidarbha sub-division with a specific ‘severe heatwave’ warning for Akola, Nagpur, Chandrapur and Gondia districts. With the relief in the form of rain owing to the ‘remnant effect’ of Cyclone Nisarga, maximum temperatures across 11 districts of Vidarbha region ranged between 27 degrees Celsius at Amravati (12 degrees below normal) to 34.8 degrees Celsius (6.6 degrees below normal) at Chandrapur.To give a comparison of the drop in day temperatures, Akola on May 26 recorded its highest day temperature of the season at 47.4 degrees Celsius and Nagpur recorded 47 degrees Celsius. The maximum rain in the state over the past 24 hours was recorded at Mahabaleshwar at 187mm, followed by Nashik at 144.2mm. Alibag and Ratnagiri recorded 94.1mm and 52.6mm rain respectively. Mumbai recorded moderate showers of 24.8mm and also recorded passing showers on Thursday morning.Meanwhile, after being battered by the wrath of Cyclone Nisarga, Raigad district witnessed sporadic overnight showers between Wednesday night and Thursday morning while southern talukas, which were the most-affected areas, had partly cloudy conditions. On Thursday, residents who were evacuated returned home and were seen making amendments to damaged portions of their houses or removing tree branches from roads, and even their homes. “The district will take a few days to crawl back to normalcy. Efforts are underway,” said Nidhi Choudhari, Raigad district collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-heatwave-nisarga-to-give-rain-relief-to-vidarbha/story-ABMWE5T2nsn9A3qvFF59HO.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Educationist moves HC, seeks free treatment for all Covid-19 patients||Educationist Sagar Jondhale has moved the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the validity of a notification issued by the Maharashtra government on May 21, on the ground that it has fixed exorbitant rates for the treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals.Claiming that the notification affects the right to life of people – especially of the ones belonging to the lower strata of the society – Jondhale has urged HC to strike down the notification, and direct the state to provide free of cost treatment to all Covid-19 patients. The 42-year-old Dombivli resident has also sought HC’s direction in allowing private hospitals to charge non-Covid patients at the rates fixed under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Health Insurance Scheme.His public interest litigation (PIL), filed through advocate Anand Jondhale, stated that the number of Covid-19 patients is rising rapidly across Maharashtra, even as scores of others have been kept in institutional and home quarantine. The petition added that in most cases, an infected patient’s entire family is also required to undergo the testing and take treatment, if any of them is found positive.Jondhale, in his petition said that the rates prescribed by the state’s notification are beyond the paying capacity of the general public and even if the minimum rates, as fixed under the notification are charged by private hospitals, the bill will range between Rs 75,000 and Rs 1,00,000 for a patient admitted in the general ward of a hospital. The notification under challenge allows private hospitals to charge a maximum of Rs 4,000 per day for patients admitted to regular wards, Rs 7,500 in intensive care units (ICU) without ventilator support and Rs 9,000 in ICU with ventilator. The rates, however, do not include charges for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, interventional procedures, Covid testing, high-end drugs and investigations such as CT and MRI scans.The notification allows private hospitals to charge separately for pharmacy and pathology services, as per the prevailing rates of the hospital, stated the PIL. It is not only the bounden duty of the state to protect the life of every citizen by taking appropriate steps to curb the Covid-19 outbreak, but also to provide free of cost treatment to persons infected by the deadly virus, he said.The educationist, therefore, asserted that the government should provide free treatment, including pathological testing and medicines, to corona positive patients, especially to those who are not covered by any health insurance cover.The PIL will come up for hearing on June 5 before a bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Amjad Sayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/educationist-moves-hc-seeks-free-treatment-for-all-covid-19-patients/story-WgWGsHhBM7AwJV7xhIpRxL.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Damage to antennae stalls reopening of giant telescope||A day after the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), Pune was shut as a precautionary measure in view of high wind speeds due to Cyclone Nisarga, the observatory could not restore operations on Thursday owing to power disruption and minor damage to few antennas.On Wednesday, the world’s largest radio telescope facility operating at low radio frequencies was temporarily shut down since Cyclone Nisarga’s predicted trajectory was close to its array of 30 fully steerable parabolic dishes of 45-metre diameter antennas, spread out over a 30km region about 10km east of Narayangaon town on Maharashtra’s Pune-Nashik highway. All GMRT antennas were parked in the default safe mode pointing vertically upwards with brakes on.As the severe cyclonic storm made landfall, high wind speeds brought trees down on the main power line from Narayangaon, thereby cutting electricity to the centre and far away antennas.A team at NCRA on Thursday assessed that telescopes were damaged.“Our wind recording metres showed wind speeds peaking to 80-90kmph, which is fairly high. There is some damage to the sheds where equipment is housed. While 20 out of 30 antennas seem to be fine (rotating with local power from DG sets), there is a little bit of damage to the mesh attached to a couple of antennas,” said Yashwant Gupta, director, NCRA, adding that the mesh on antennas is used for reflection of radio signals.Gupta said observations were to restart at 8pm on Thursday but have been put off till Friday evening. “Those who were scheduled for observations tonight have been rescheduled for tomorrow afternoon since they requires as many antennas,” said Gupta. “While there is no major damage, a final confirmation will be when we start operating the whole array.”Though the antennas have been designed to withstand wind speed of 100-120 kmph, the maximum operating speed limit for the antennas is 45kmph. The last time when GMRT operations were suspended temporarily was during the pre-monsoon season in 2016 when gusty winds travelled at 80kmph speed. Of the 30 parabolic dishes, 14 are located in a central array in a region of about 1sqkm while the remaining 16 dishes are spread out in Y shape over a much larger region up to 25kms.Built and operated since 2002 by NCRA of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, the GMRT facility is used to by astronomers from more than 25 countries to study a wide range of subjects in modern astronomy including the origin and evolution of the universe, pulsars, quasars, radio galaxies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/damage-to-antennae-stalls-reopening-of-giant-telescope/story-yKSL1gj4aMSYjHGwZnuygJ.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Assailant accused of gunning down Patiala man held in Chandigarh||Probing into the May 21 murder of a 35-year-old Patiala man, police arrested one of the alleged assailants in Chandigarh on Thursday.The accused was identified as Parmod Kumar, who along with his associates allegedly gunned down Shamsher Singh, a resident of Sukhram Colony, Patiala, when he was returning home after celebrating his birthday. During his questioning, Parmod reportedly admitted that he, along with his accomplices, murdered Singh over a rivalry between two groups. “For the last few days, he was active in Mansa and Ludhiana and was planning to come to Chandigarh on the directions of Kanwar Randeep Singh Kharoud, alias SK, who runs liquor shops in Patiala. Kharoud is involved in multiple criminal cases and recently started investing in the liquor business,” said a statement issued by the Chandigarh Ppolice.A notorious gangster, Kharoud had stirred controversy after he joined the Congress in the presence of Patiala MP Preneet Kaur during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Parmod was rounded up by police while investigating the June 2 firing at a liquor shop in Sector 9, Chandigarh. Police had received information that some criminals wanted in shooting cases in Punjab were staying in Chandigarh for a few days and were conspiring to commit crime here.The murder case in Patiala is registered against Kharoud, Parmod, Dutt, Sajan, Abbu, Lali, Chand Mohammad, Phul Mohammad, Pawan, Jatinder Shergill, Vicky, Twinkle, Prince and four unidentified persons at the local Anaj Mandi police station.They were booked under Sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act on a complaint filed by Shamsher’s brother Davinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/assailant-accused-of-gunning-down-patiala-man-held-in-chandigarh/story-tgR6bMR0vNUVWZLteJIzjP.html
05-06-2020||City||55-year-old Covid patient dies; kin blame Bhiwandi hospital||A 55-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died in a Bhiwandi hospital on May 31.The woman and her 62-year-old husband, residents of Gopal Nagar, tested positive a week ago and were admitted to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital.The woman’s relatives alleged that the hospital did not have sufficient ventilators.“My aunt developed breathlessness but the hospital said all ventilators were occupied. We requested them to shift her to a private hospital but the hospital delayed the process and she died before that,” said the 37-year-old nephew. The family wrote to the state government and local authorities, blaming the hospital for the death. “If she would have got medical attention on time, she would have been saved. They did not even alert us on time about lack of ventilators,” he said.Senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya and local officials met on Wednesday after receiving the letter.“The incident occurred because of lack of ventilators and hence it is negligence,” said Somaiya.The family said Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital is the only Covid hospital in Bhiwandi but lacks facilities and is not well-equipped.Dr Anil Thorat, dean, Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, said that the woman was critical when admitted to the hospital. “The family insisted that we shift her so we had to give a transfer letter but unfortunately she died on her way to the hospital.”He added that the hospital has 10 ventilators. “We are well-prepared to handle the crisis,” added Thorat.However, Pravin Ashtikar, commissioner of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation, said, “We had four ventilators till now and six more arrived in the hospital on Wednesday. Based on the requirements, we are making provisions.”Bhiwandi has recorded 321 Covid-positive cases and 12 deaths till now.“Positive cases are increasing in Bhiwandi. The municipal corporation has provided only a 100 beds for Covid patients,” said Shahid Ansari, Right to Information activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-year-old-covid-patient-dies-kin-blame-bhiwandi-hospital/story-gN0HyzaJkueerjsFH9H1aM.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC partners with Uber to help patients track ambulances||Mumbaiites will soon be able to track the live location of ambulances, estimated time of arrival (ETA) along with other details after they book an ambulance on the emergency helpline numbers 1916 or 108.After booking an ambulance, one will receive a message with the information regarding the ambulance. The message will contain the dispatch time of the ambulance along with a link to track it and see the ETA. This will be possible as mobile application-based cab service Uber has partnered with BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) in order to provide technical information and support to automate ambulance availability and dispatch system. Prabhjeet Singh, director, operations and head of cities, Uber India and South Asia, said, “The governmenthas been working tirelessly to contain the spread of Covid-19 and this partnership is our contribution to support the city. By leveraging our global tech expertise we hope to optimise the allocation of BMC’s ambulances and ensure their real-time tracking to help already burdened hospitals be better prepared for incoming patients and emergencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-partners-with-uber-to-help-patients-track-ambulances/story-q2wYoxsIVV2Sdfh0F7J6aK.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 1,439 new cases; case count is now 44,931, death toll 1,465||The city recorded 1,439 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the number of cases to 44,931. Forty-eight new deaths were reported, taking the city’s tally of Covid-19 deaths to 1,465. There are 25,364 active cases in Mumbai while 18,096 have been discharged, according to the state government. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 40.27% and its mortality rate is 3.26%.Out of the 48 deaths reported on Thursday, 33 patients had co-morbidities; 33 were male and 15 were female; 23 were above 60 years old; 18 were between 40 and 60 years of age; and 7 were below 40 years old.The average daily growth rate for Covid-19 in Mumbai is 3.62% with six wards reporting a growth rate of over 5%. These six wards cover Borivli (West), Borivli (East), Kandivli (East), Malad (West), Bhandup and Mulund. The remaining wards have growth rates lower than 5%.Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, said, “Between 40-50% of Covid-19 patients are able to accurately trace who they met in the past few days and help determine where they could have caught the virus, and also help in contact tracing efforts.”In the past 20 days, the mortality rate in Dharavi had come down to 2.67%, with 674 cases and 18 deaths. Since April 1, Dharavi has had 1,872 Covid-positive cases and 71 deaths, with a mortality rate of 3.79%.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant Commissioner of the G (North) ward which has jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “Maintaining a low death rate has been possible due to aggressive testing, looking for suspected patients and testing them at the right time, so that timely medical attention is available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-1-439-new-cases-case-count-is-now-44-931-death-toll-1-465/story-09RyHY4BUBGeGwfqHi04QM.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be affected in Chandigarh||Water supply in Chandigarh will remain partially disturbed on June 6, 9 and 12. While morning supply will be normal, there will be no supply in the afternoon and the evening supply will be at low pressure. The disruption has been attributed to emergency shutdown for urgent repair on the 66 kV Morinda-Kajauli DC line from 9am to 5pm on these dates, due to which there will be no regular pumping of raw water from Kajauli to Chandigarh.The water supply on June 7, 10 and 13 will be at normal pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-affected-in-chandigarh/story-N0bE4lAQE1C5Gm0d720syO.html
05-06-2020||City||Roofs blown away: The wait for schools to reopen to get longer||Around 400 students from two schools in Mandad and Kude villages near Diveagar, where Cyclone Nisarga made its landfall in Raigad, may have to wait to attend classes as the cyclonic storm blew off the roofs of their dilapidated school buildings. Despite the fact that the buildings were made with concrete, parts of the schools were damaged while chairs, tables and books were scattered on floors. “On Wednesday afternoon, when the first wave of strong winds hit us, we thought the cyclone did not do much damage. However, after around an hour, another extremely strong wave battered the entire region,” said Atul Karanje, 16, a student of the high school in Mandad village.Rohit Nayanekar, another student near Kude village who saw the cyclone destroy his school, said, “We could see the roof tiles slowly scraping off one by one, and soon enough, we could see only the layout of our classroom.” “We will always remember how this cyclone impacted our lives,” said Jagannath Tandev, caretaker of the Kude village high school who took shelter at a house next to the school on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roofs-blown-away-the-wait-for-schools-to-reopen-to-get-longer/story-eASThYFzmWmFPQeH2CZCwI.html
05-06-2020||City||Land pooling compensation: GMADA waives surcharge for preferential locations||In its bid to encourage land pooling, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has decided not to levy additional charges on farmers seeking preferential locations for sites received as compensation for land pooled for its Aerocity, Eco City-2, IT City and Sectors 88 and 89 projects.The authority has issued a notification in this regard. The farmers, who had deposited these charges, will get their money back within three months.Giving details, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the decision will benefit a large number of farmers, who had opted for the land pooling scheme. He said earlier, additional charges at the rate of 10% for corner and park-facing plots and 15% in case of two joined plots were levied on land owners, who were mostly farmers. He said farmers had been demanding a rollback of these charges for long, and the chief minister had now fulfilled the promise made to them during the state elections. The existing land pooling policy allows awarding housing and commercial sites in lieu of acquisition of farmers’ land, and is applicable for all new townships under the ambit of GMADA.For instance, in case of acquisition of eight kanals, the land owner has two options: To either choose a 1,000 square yard developed residential site and a 121 square yard developed SCO site or a 500 square yard residential site with a 300 square yard SCO site.Recently, GMADA had decided to offer the land owners a commercial plot of 200 square yards instead of 121 square yards. Final approval is pending with the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/land-pooling-compensation-gmada-waives-surcharge-for-preferential-locations/story-zNw5GZh8cl8ptd3ArDOeXL.html
05-06-2020||City||Zirakpur doctor held for molesting teen at clinic||A doctor running a private clinic in Baltana was arrested on Thursday for disrobing a 19-year-old girl who had come to his clinic for treatment. The accused has been identified as Dr Sumit Singla, who runs Singla clinic in Wadhwa Nagar in Baltana. The girl came to the doctor for treatment with her minor sister, but the doctor sent the younger one back home to get money and allegedly molested the elder one.The father of the victim lodged a police complaint and police arrested him.Zirakpur station house officer Gurwant Singh said a case under sections 354-A (assault or criminal force to women with intent to outrage her modesty) was registered the accused doctor was arrested. “He will be produced in a court on Friday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-doctor-held-for-molesting-teen-at-clinic/story-WhUhSTeOIzehSh6r48DtoM.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh pvt schools challenge constitution of fee regulatory authority in HC||The private schools’ association has moved Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging Chandigarh administration’s order asking schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. Besides this, the schools have also challenged constitution of the Fee Regulatory Authority constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act extended to Chandigarh administration. The law was adopted by the UT in 2018.The petition has been filed by Independent Schools’ Association, a body of 78 private schools in the city. The move comes after on May 22, around 51 schools were issued show-cause notices as to why penalties should not be imposed on them for not uploading balance sheets for the last financial year, which the UT said was violation of the law. The petition was listed on Thursday but hearing was adjourned for Monday.The schools argued that asking schools for uploading the balance sheets violate the rights of schools. Further, it has been argued that fee regulatory body, constituted under the law, does not provide representation to the private schools. The schools have also a stay order on notices put out by the administration wide which schools were asked to upload information about their income and expenditure.Meanwhile, the schools have submitted their replies to the education department on show-cause notices sent to them on May 22. They have stated that the balance sheets are already available with the education department and financial information is also given to the CBSE, ICSE, and questioned the move as to why they should put it on their website. An official said, response of most schools is on the similar lines. They have also reasoned that the association had sought meetings with UT officials in different representations on the balance sheet controversy, but the department did not respond. The show-cause notices were sent as parents hit streets protesting against the fee being charged by schools even as many of the parents are adversely affected by Covid-19 outbreak. The schools not uploading balance sheets despite reminders from the education department was another factor which led to these notices.A committee constituted by the department is in the process of examining replies and preparing a report to be taken up by the fee regulatory authority in its meeting on June 15. Another committee under the accounts branch has also been constituted that will look into the balance-sheets uploaded by various schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pvt-schools-challenge-constitution-of-fee-regulatory-authority-in-hc/story-G5kD12j6qbPryTZQO8fQPI.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||60% Covid patients in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony are aged below 30||Out of every 10 infected people in Bapu Dham Colony, six are below the age of 30, UT’s health department data show. The novel coronavirus outbreak in this congested locality started on April 24 when a 30-year-old operating theatre attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, was tested positive. So far, 226 people have been infected here. The most affected age group is between 21 to 30 years in which 56 people have been found infected, of which 47% are women. Fifty-six people are in the age group of 11 to 20, including 37% women. Around 49% of the infected people in the colony are between the age group of 11 to 30 and experts say this was because of the mobility of the young population. The age group between 1 to 10 constitutes 13% of those infected. The least impacted group among all are women in the age group of 41 to 50 years. Out of total 24 people infected in this group, only 25% are women. Also, only eight persons above the age of 60 have been found Covid-19 positive and one died. Dr JS Thakur, professor at school of public health at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), who has worked on the nature of disease outbreaks in colonies in Chandigarh, links it with the basic nature of migration. “The young people migrate in greater percentage who eventually settle in congested colonies, usually due to lack of resources. So, if a survey of population in these areas is conducted, it is expected that more young people will be living there. Thus, they are the most affected group. However, this needs deeper investigation,” Dr Thakur said. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said the productive age group is the most affected group because they are more exposed to the virus and it reflects in the national trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-covid-patients-in-chandiagrh-s-bapu-dham-colony-are-aged-below-30/story-mlE6QsvMJsSnYJJl43qukO.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cool June: Mercury slips 12 degrees after 12mm rain in Chandigarh||With 12.2mm of rain between 4pm and 5:30pm in the city on Thursday, mercury dropped from day’s maximum 36.4 degrees Celsius to 24.2 degrees at 5:30pm as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. There is forecast for more rain in the city in the coming days.After over 50mm rain on May 31, it has been raining almost daily in the city. The temperature has been on the lower side since then and Thursday was closing to be the warmest among last four days only to take a 12-degree drop in the evening. Last year, maximum temperature went up till 44 degrees C during this period and never below 40 degrees.Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul said due to confluence of low level easterly winds with the western disturbances, the amount of rain during the summer months has been on the higher side. “Monsoon is likely to hit the city by June 30. It is expected that more rain is received this year as compared to last year,” he said. He said summers hadn’t been as warm this year due to continuous spells of western disturbances in the region.More rain likely IMD officials said rain is likely to continue till the end of this week. “A western disturbance is active in the region and light rain up to 20mm and gusty winds up to 40km/h can be expected in the city till Sunday. Drizzling and cloudy weather are likely to continue up to next week and will keep the temperature below normal. Unlike the last week of May, temperature is unlikely to cross 40 degrees C in the coming days,” they said.Maximum temperature went up from 35.4 degrees C on Wednesday to 36.4 degrees C on Thursday, three degrees below normal. Minimum temperature went up from 21.2 degrees C on Wednesday to 23.2 degrees C on Thursday, 2 degrees below normal. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 34 degrees C and 36 degrees C while minimum temperature will remain between 22 degrees C and 23 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mercury-slips-12-degrees-as-chandigarh-witnesses-12mm-rain/story-CfMlbT7W1TBCB3Qj686UpM.html
05-06-2020||City||Tree fall misses house by metres, leaves home infested with insects||At Samarth Wadi village near Revdanda tehsil in Raigad, 54-year-old Mangesh Salaonkar narrated how an age-old mango tree located outside his home, which has been there for generations, collapsed straight into the premises of his house due to the impact of Cyclone Nisarga on Wednesday. Though it did not cause any damage to the house, it left the house infested by insects that his family have been dealing with besides mending the fence. “We were aware of the cyclone and had taken all safety measures around the house. But unfortunately, we can never predict it, as disaster can strike us from anywhere,” said Salaonkar. He added, “If the tree had fallen just about a few metres in the direction of my house, I wouldn’t have a living room anymore.” His neighbours from the village tried helping him remove the tree but it was too heavy for them to lift. “We have been trying to call the local municipal body to help us, but there is no network here,” said his son Gajanan. With no electricity as well, it will be another night of dealing with insects at the Salaonkar’s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tree-fall-misses-house-by-metres-leaves-home-infested-with-insects/story-KsjsYMvycj1Nzh7jjizdQK.html
05-06-2020||City||Ambernath records highest single-day spike with 73 new cases||Ambernath city recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday, with 73 new cases recorded in a span of 24 hours.Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC) has recorded a total of 287 positive cases. The new commissioner, Shridhar Pathankar, said the increase in the number of cases is because residents are not following social distancing norms. The civic body chief has decided to completely seal around five zones, which has the most cases. “We will seal around five zones completely to control the virus spread. We will also sanitise the zones. Most cases are reported due to the spread from close contacts,” said Pathankar. The civic body chief has also appealed to the police to take strict action against violators and has also served notice to Shopkeepers and Traders Association to follow the lockdown norms and maintain social distancing. As per the civic body, most cases are from slums in Ambernath (West). Out of the 73 new cases, 19 cases are from Vandrapada in Ambernath (West). The AMC has recorded seven Covid deaths till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-73-new-cases/story-CVNQZqoBkNLSqUMJjAktdP.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Last Shramik train with migrants expected to depart for Manipur soon||Applications from migrants in Mumbai to head back to their home states have dried up, with only one more Shramik special train expected to leave the city. As per information provided by Maharashtra government, a total of 837 trains have left from the state till Thursday, with around 12 lakh stranded passengers, mostly migrant labourers.The last scheduled train for Manipur is set to leave from Mumbai as soon as the Manipur government permits the same.“A total of 837 Shramik trains have left from Maharashtra with around 12 lakh migrants. One last scheduled train will leave from Mumbai with around 1,000 migrants for Manipur. There is no more demand at present. If we get more applications, we will ask for more trains in the future,” said Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (home special).Incessant rains in Manipur have disrupted train services and Shramik trains have been forced to stop at Guwahati. “We will send the remaining migrants as soon as the Manipur government gives the go-ahead,” Gupta said.Around 8 lakh people have also left the state in buses and cars. A senior Maharashtra police official said, “A huge number of migrants, several lakhs, who did not register with us have left on foot or in trucks and tempos.” Actor Sonu Sood also helped over 1,000 migrants to return to their home state.The entire exercise of sending back labourers, which began on May 2, witnessed several incidents of migrants dying in road and train accidents or due to heart attacks. Migrants also died onboard the Shramik trains due to dehydration.Constable rushes to donate blood to girl amid cyclone Aakash Gaikwad, a constable from Tardeo police station was lauded by home minister Anil Deshmukh for donating blood to a 14-year-old girl for her open heart surgery at Hinduja Hospital on Wednesday. Due to the cyclone and Covid-19 positive cases, doctors and the teen’s family were finding it difficult to get blood. Gaikwad rushed to their help after learning about it.No case of gathering in publicMumbai Police on Wednesday lodged seven FIRs against 12 people and arrested four for lockdown violations. Incidentally, not a single case of gathering in public was reported. This could be attributed to the cyclone warnings which instructed people to remain at home. In the seven FIRs, a maximum of three were for not wearing masks, two for shops operating despite being non-essential services, and one each for unnecessary use of vehicle and another for an unclassified violation. Cop on sick leave dies from Covid-19A 48-year-old constable from Kurla police station who was on medical leave for a year died on Tuesday after contracting Covid-19. This takes the total death toll in the Mumbai Police to 19, and 30 in Maharashtra Police. As of Thursday morning, 1,510 city personnel tested positive and are receiving treatment. A majority of 1, 319 are from the constabulary or assistant sub-inspector (ASI) level. The remaining 191 are officers. Of the 30 deaths, one is of an officer while the remaining are of constables/ASIs.(With inputs from Manish K Pathak, Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/last-shramik-train-with-migrants-expected-to-depart-for-manipur-soon/story-cBZcmRAT8PVzH7Ltv58UmK.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||30-year-old Ludhiana man battling depression after son’s death commits suicide||A 30-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his Jethi Nagar home in Khanna on Thursday.Married six years ago, the deceased was running a laboratory near Khanna’s Sahara Hospital and was also battling depression after the death of his son two years ago.According to a statement from his wife, who found his body in his room, he had also had been getting anxiety attacks for the last few days.The police conducted an autopsy and initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and handed over the body to the relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-year-old-man-running-lab-commits-suicide/story-3rwOSKiFeph0YGwA9ZfTcM.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Wet PPE, N95 masks: Ambulance services struggle to cope with rain and humidity||The difficulties that Covid-19 frontline workers may face during the monsoon became evident on Wednesday when the city recorded moderate rainfall due to Cyclone Nisarga. Employees of the government-run ambulance service provider 108 complained that personal protective equipment is difficult to work in as it gets soaked, and it is difficult to breathe through wet N95 masks. Ambulance workers are on duty for eight to nine hours at a stretch. On Wednesday night, an ambulance attendant had to transfer a Covid-19 patient to BYL Nair Hospital from Malad (East). Due to bad weather, the attendant and his colleague were drenched when they stepped out of the ambulance.“Water got inside our PPE which made it heavy. As it is non-porous, water started collecting inside. Then the safety shoe covers were also filled with water. I had to remove those,” said the attendant.N-95 masks, which are made of non-woven polypropylene fabric, are not waterproof. Once wet, they are difficult to breathe through.“We don’t get waterproof face shields so when the mask gets wet, we have no option but to remove it and wear a new one once inside,” said an another ambulance worker from 108. This means the ambulance workers expose themselves to infection in a contaminated area while changing masks.Additionally, during the rain, there are issues of visibility with the goggles. “On Wednesday, I had to get a patient from the second floor on a stretcher. But as my goggles had become foggy because of the rain, I wasn’t able to see the stairs clearly. This could have led to a mishap,” said the first ambulance attendant.Ambulance workers are also worried that during monsoon, they will have to spend hours in the wet clothes under PPE if they get wet in the rain. “This could lead to us catching a cold and fever. So, if we contract Covid-19, we will assume it’s a seasonal infection,” said an ambulance driver.Dnyaneshwar Shelke, who heads the government-run ambulance service, said talks were on with medical experts to figure out solutions. “We have to see how the employees can use raincoats over PPE. Also, we are trying to bring reusable PPE kits in Wardha. If the expert panel approves it, we will standardise it across the state,” he said.At present, the service runs around 60 ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wet-ppe-n95-masks-ambulance-services-struggle-to-cope-with-rain-and-humidity/story-QTtChUf6t9n6Z3joJDdW3O.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||BKC Covid centre to resume functioning from Friday: BMC||The Covid care centre located at Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) Grounds in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) is expected to resume operations from Friday, civic authorities announced on Thursday.The facility was evacuated in the wake of Cyclone Nisarga and reportedly suffered damages due to the strong winds coupled with heavy rain on Wednesday. Several videos of the damage caused to the BKC facility were shared on social media but the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has denied claims of extensive damage and said the minor repair work is being done on a war footing.Senior IAS officer Manisha Mhaiskar, who is assigned to oversee the detection and isolation of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, said, “Only the outer compound wall, made of makeshift material, came off. There was no damage to the interior of the facility. We have started maintenance work and the centre can be restarted from Friday.”Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani also assured that no major damage was done to the Covid centre. “There is no need to worry. We have already started repair work. We are also planning another facility which is near to this one which will also be a 1,000-bed centre. Let me assure you that there is no impact of the cyclone on our Covid preparedness,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-covid-centre-to-resume-functioning-from-friday-bmc/story-QpIGTQeu4YD2bT8eaK20PK.html
05-06-2020||City||Garages, shops in Thane start opening||With some of the lockdown norms easing since June 3, some of the shops in Thane began opening shutters on Thursday. Thane Municipal Corporation has permitted staggered opening of shops from June 5, but garages and shops selling rainwear and stationery opened on Thursday.It has asked the shops to down the shutters and not open till they are given proper allotment of odd and even day.Areas such as Uthalsar, Khopat, Panchpakhadi and Jambli Naka market area saw shops with half shutter open selling umbrellas and raincoats.Pradeep Sawant, 56, a resident of Uthalsar said, “There was a long queue of people outside these shops in some areas of Uthalsar despite the corporation’s orders to open them only after June 5. Customers were nit following social distancing.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “None of these shops can open before June 5. If any of these shops are found open, I will ask the assistant municipal commissioners to shut them. We have told the shopkeepers to open only after they get proper schedules for odd and even days so that there is no crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garages-shops-in-thane-start-opening/story-TBarnMaeedyM89SqVzdEmL.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||No need for passes as Maharashtra government allows for inter-district movement within MMR||The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to allow inter-district movement in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) without any restrictions from June 5. It means people won’t need passes to travel in the region. From Friday, all shops in Mumbai will be allowed to open, but on alternate days and with certain restrictions to ensure social distancing. The state on Sunday decided to extend more relaxations that will be applicable in three phases in red zones starting from June 3. From Wednesday, it allowed outdoor activities such as jogging, running and cycling and from June 5, shops and market places are allowed to open on odd-even basis. From June 8, private offices in red zones (excluding containment zones) will be allowed to operate.These relaxations are applicable for MMR (comprising nine municipal corporations), Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur – the 19 corporations, which have been earmarked as red zones. All containment zones within the red zones remain excluded from the relaxations. “The inter-district movement of persons within the area of municipal corporations under Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) shall be allowed without any restrictions,” states the order.However, interstate and inter-district movement in other parts of the state will continue to be prohibited. Officials said the relaxations were necessary as the state government is allowing private offices to operate from June 8. The state, however, has capped the number of staff to maximum 10 people in private offices that have been allowed to operate. They will also have to arrange for their own transportation as public transport is still not allowed in red zones.It has further allowed printing and distribution of newspapers, including home delivery, from June 7. “It shall be with the knowledge of receiver for the delivery of newspaper, personnel shall wear mask and use hand sanitizer and maintain social distancing,” said the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday. According to the notification, all educational institutions — school, colleges and universities — have been permitted to operate its offices, but only for non-teaching purposes such as development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results. Also, shops and marketplaces have been allowed to open for full working hours. In Mumbai, BMC has decided to open shops between 9am and 5pm from Friday. “All private offices can operate with up to 10% strength or with 10 people whichever is more, with remaining persons working from home. However, all employers will conduct sensitisation programme to educate employees about adequate precautions on returning home, so that vulnerable group, especially the elderly, is not affected,” the order states further.Earlier, the state had said the private offices can operate with maximum 10% staff.Senior IAS officer and principal secretary Bhushan Gagrani said asthe state has decided to allow private offices to open, it will have to allow the movement as most of people working in Mumbai come from MMR. While the state earlier said all markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, can open on alternate days between 9am and 5pm, on Thursday, it removed restrictions on timings and said that shops on one side of a road or lane will open for full working hours on one day, while all the shops on other side of the road will remain on next day and so on.Gagrani said they have removed the timing restrictions and have left it to the local authority to decide.In Mumbai, shops will be allowed to open between 9am and 5pm. Mumbai will continue to follow guidelines as per municipal commissioner IS Chahal’s circular issued on June 2.Sangeeta Joshi, chief facilitator of BMC’s shops and establishments department, said, “Until we get a revised circular with relaxed timings, we will follow the previous circular. All shops in Mumbai will remain open, on alternate days on alternate side of the road. The decisions will be taken at the ward level by coordinating with retailers associations.” Wards have also been asked to make teams and check if shops are following social distancing rules, and taking other safety measures. If they are found violating these, they will be shut down immediately. Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA), said, “Local area-wise associations of shop owners are deciding which side of the road will remain open on which day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-need-for-passes-as-maharashtra-government-allows-for-inter-district-movement-within-mmr/story-CO6k3CdWr6v1cfU6keB6hP.html
05-06-2020||City||Basu Chatterjee – 1927-2020: ‘Perfect link between parallel and commercial cinema’||(Actor-filmmaker Amol Palekar started his acting career in Hindi films with Basu Chatterjee’s Rajnigandha in 1974 and it ushered in the start of a memorable cinematic collaboration. While Basu was the pioneer of the middle-of-the-road cinema, Palekar became its poster boy. )I am privileged to have had the longest association with Basu da, starting from Rajnigandha to Chhoti Si Baat, Chitchor and Baton Baton Mein to Do Ladke Dono Kadke and Apne Paraye. I have fond memories of those times. It was a very beautiful journey. Our relationship was simple, yet so endearing, just like the films that we used to make together.His films were unique- - very simple, no shouting from the rooftops, there was no melodrama, there wasn’t any villain as the opposite force, all of them (movies) were without any such frills. But life was still so beautiful, so very lovable in all his films. To be able to tell a story with a sense of humour was something very special that Basu da had.Basu da was the perfect link between parallel cinema and hardcore commercial cinema. He started with parallel cinema and continued to do parallel cinema, but wasn’t obscure. His films were extremely appealing even to a common man, so that was his biggest contribution to cinema. I was part of that parallel cinema movement and I enjoyed it totally.In films, we are always in a hurry to put a particular label on a person. We like to have an angry young man and a He-Man and all those kinds of heroes. Basu da broke that and created a new awakening in films. He remained very honest and simple to the core, yet went on portraying the different, lovely layers of simple, day-to-day lives through all his films. He managed it so effortlessly. No one ever really did make films like him again. There is that void and it will always be there, I feel.Basu da was my mentor. I learnt so much from him not just as an actor, but also took a lot of the knowledge that I gained while working with him into my directorial technique. It was a wonderful relationship for so many years. We had a very strong bond, which only ended with his death.(As told to Juhi Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/basu-chatterjee-1927-2020-perfect-link-between-parallel-and-commercial-cinema/story-If923RO4H4is4Uk4clXa6M.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis alleges 50% drop in tests in Mumbai||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday alleged that there had been a 50% drop in the number of Covid-19 tests carried out in Mumbai last month.In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis said it was worrisome that the number of tests in Mumbai where the outbreak of the pandemic was most severe had been reduced even as the mortality rates were increasing in the state. “On May 1, of the total tests carried out in Maharashtra, 56% were from Mumbai, where the pandemic is most severe. On May 15, this rate dropped to 40% and as on May 31, it stands at only 27% of the total tests done in the state,” states the letter.He added that the tests would have to be increased in the city given that the case positivity rate in the city was very high in the range of 31-32%. “In such a scenario, the tests must be doubled, but in this case there is a drop of 50%.”“While there is a capacity to carry out 10,000 tests daily only 3,500-4,000 tests are being done in Mumbai. There is no point in trying to hike-reduce coronavirus numbers to tackle this pandemic effectively. Hope you will look into this issue,” adds the letter.Fadnavis also pointed out that there had been instances where attempts had been made to hide Covid-19 or suspected Covid-19 as cause of death on the death certificate.Priyanka Chaturvedi, Sena Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson, pointed out that testing in Mumbai stood at 15, 695 tests per million, the most done by any city or state in the country currently. “As of June 2, Mumbai was conducting 15,695 tests per million, the highest in any city or the state in the country. The state health department is working along with ICMR and tests have been done transparently and aggressively. This data is shared with residents of the city and state. This is an unfortunate charge made by the Leader of Opposition and we request him to offer his well-meaning advice on the need of higher testing to other states that aren’t doing this or avoiding transparency.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-alleges-50-drop-in-tests-in-mumbai/story-isr1xiY8Bz2zNtb9yZRpCO.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital withdraws controversial circular warning of penalty for ignoring Covid rules||KEM Hospital in Parel has withdrawn a circular that required all medical interns who test positive for Covid-19 to submit a written explanation of the nature of exposure to the virus while treating patients.The circular, issued on Thursday, stated that if an intern is found flouting safety precautions, that intern will be liable to repeat their internship. The same evening, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, confirmed that the circular had been withdrawn following widespread criticism from students and experts.“In view of the increased number of interns getting quarantined due to exposure, the interns are hereby directed to submit a written explanation about the nature of exposure and reason for it,” read a circular authorised by Dr Gajanan Velhal, professor and head of the department of community medicine, Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital. The statement further highlighted that based on the intern’s statement, if the authorities find negligence in following Covid-19 discipline, the concerned person will be liable to repeat his/her internship for the duration of the quarantine period. Experts called the circular a move by the hospital authorities to wash their hands off all responsibility for the health and safety of their own. “Interns have just cleared their MBBS degree and are serving during a pandemic for the first time. Many are falling ill in the line of duty but here is a hospital that wants to blame its irresponsibility on the youngsters,” said a senior doctor.Many also questioned the civic hospital’s role in providing safety for all their employees, including the Class IV employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-withdraws-controversial-circular-warning-of-penalty-for-ignoring-covid-rules/story-2GPBCxXS1rutCiiNYYY5zK.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Explain procedure of disposing bodies of Covid victims: HC to BMC, state||Taking cognizance of the petition filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar, which raised concerns over an incident at Sion hospital where Covid-infected patients were being treated next to the bodies of patients who succumbed to the virus, the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the state government to explain the process of handling and cremating bodies of infected people.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice A A Sayyed, while hearing public interest litigations (PILs) filed by various individuals, organisations and politicos, was informed by Shelar’s advocates Rajendra Pai and Ameet Mehta that several videos from the hospital showing bodies of deceased Covid-patients kept on beds or the floor adjacent to people getting treated had emerged. They sought a direction to the state and the civic body to immediately stop the practice of keeping bodies of Covid-19 infected persons in wards where people are being treated.The advocates said, “Retention of the dead bodies in active wards in Sion hospital is a matter of serious concern. It gives rise to medical as well as humanitarian issues. No civilised society can afford to repeatedly witness such incidents.”In light of these submissions, Shelar sought directions to the authorities to initiate inquiry into the incident and register cases against the hospital staff responsible and to follow the procedure laid down by World Health Organization (WHO) and Central government for disposal of Covid-19 infected persons.After hearing the submissions the court directed the state government and the BMC to respond with details on how bodies of deceased Covid-19 patients were handled and disposed. The matter was posted for hearing next week.‘File separate PILs for issues on fee hike, subsistence packages’The Bombay high court (HC) has also directed BJP MLA Ashish Shelar to file a separate petition seeking restraining orders against schools and educational institutions from hiking fees for the academic year and seeking directions to the state to provide subsistence packages for farmers, industries, shopkeepers and service providers who are unable to make a living due to the lockdown for a period of three months.Shelar in a public interest litigation (PIL) had mentioned that he had received several complaints from parents against schools based in Bandra which had hiked fees by almost 10-30% for the academic year. As many people had lost their means of earning while others faced salary cuts, his petition sought restraining orders against private educational institutions from KG to PG and engineering and medical colleges from hiking fees for the academic year 2020-21.The petition while referring to relief packages announced by various state governments for farmers, Ola and Uber drivers, shop owners and their employees among others, sought directions to the state government to announce similar subsistence packages for a period of three months.After perusing the plea, the court suggested that the issues needed to be heard separately and hence directed Shelar to file a separate petition which included these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/explain-procedure-of-disposing-bodies-of-covid-victims-hc-to-bmc-state/story-OG3WPs4flwNJVHdnQL018I.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown months of April, May see improved air quality in city: BMC||The lockdown months of April and May saw 2020’s cleanest air quality in Mumbai, throughout nine locations where air quality was monitored, data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday evening, showed. The data measured levels of five air pollutants between January and May across the suburbs and island city.Areas of Chembur, Bhandup, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Colaba, Andheri, Malad, Mazagaon, Worli and Borivli, reported satisfactory or moderate air quality in April and May, whereas the air quality was poor or very poor in January, February, and March.BMC gathered data from its three manual stationary air quality monitoring stations, four automatic mobile air quality monitoring stations, and nine System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) operated monitoring stations to study the concentration of particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5), nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide (CO), and ozone (O3). Levels of these pollutants dipped in April and May, in comparison to January, February, and March.Levels of PM10 (smoke, dirt, and dust from factories and roads) fell from 94-205 microgrammes/cubic metre (µg/m3) on average across Mumbai between January and March, to 27-68µg/m3 in April and May. Similarly, PM2.5 (smaller particulate matter from burning garbage or from vehicle exhaust) levels reduced from 48-127µg/m3 to 12-40 µg/m3 for the same periods. Concentrations of the other air pollutants also fell.In April, Bhandup, BKC, Colaba, Andheri, and Mazagaon recorded satisfactory air quality, while Malad, Worli, and Borivli recorded moderate air quality. In May, Colaba, Worli, and Mazagaon recorded satisfactory air quality, whereas Borivli, Malad, Andheri, and Bhandup recorded moderate air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-months-of-april-may-see-improved-air-quality-in-city-bmc/story-O8mmukj55NHImVaKstftWP.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Social distancing during air travel: Bombay HC asks Centre to clarify if Covid-19 can be transmitted by inadvertent touch||A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday sought clarification from the expert committee, headed by the secretary of the Union civil aviation ministry, on whether Covid-19 could be transmitted through an inadvertent touch or through droplets.The division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade called for the clarification after it noted the minutes of the meeting of the expert committee on May 26 to review and further strengthen the public health related protocols of air travel.“The physical distance between two persons helps in minimising the transmission through an inadvertent touch. It was also suggested that if the person sitting adjacent to another person is provided with a protective suit (like a gown covering the upper part of the body and gloves), this can also be very good means of preventing the spread of virus either by droplets or by touch,” the minutes of the meeting, which was presented before the court, read.The expert committee felt that providing protective gowns to intervening passengers (fliers on middle seats) would also minimise the risk of transmission through an inadvertent touch while in the aircraft or during boarding or alighting the aircraft.The bench was hearing a petition filed by Air India pilot Deven Kanani who had complained that the national carrier had violated social distancing norms while getting back Indians stranded abroad on the special Vande Bharat flights. In the last hearing, the court had asked the Centre to provide data of international evacuees who were Covid negative when they boarded the flights, but had tested positive after alighting from the flight in India.In its response, the Centre, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Anil Singh, submitted that 227 (0.38%) of the 58,867 passengers flown in from abroad through the Vande Bharat special flights to 17 cities tested positive for the virus during institutional quarantine and hence there was no proof to corroborate if they had contracted the infection on the flight.The Centre also submitted that 105 flights carrying 11,119 passengers landed in Delhi, 26 flights carrying 3,461 passengers landed in Mumbai, while 31 flights carrying 4,316 passengers landed at Hyderabad airport. However, the data did not provide the details of Covid positive passengers from these three cities, even though together they accounted for 18,896 passengers who came to the country on 162 flights. Kanani’s advocates Abhilash and Jyoti Panickar informed the court that the data provided by the Centre proved that the petitioner’s apprehensions, of the virus spreading on Vande Bharat flights due to non-maintenance of social distancing norms, were right. Abhilash Panickar further said that the lives of passengers had been put to risk by Air India as it had not maintained social distancing norms by keeping a seat vacant between two passengers. Panickar further submitted that the national average of Covid positive persons was 0.16% of the total population, but an average of 0.56% passengers who had travelled by Air India to the 14 cities on Vande Bharat flights had tested positive for the virus, which was alarming. Even if the three cities, whose data was not available, were eliminated, the average of 0.38% having contracted the virus was higher than the national average.On its part, Air India, through senior advocate Darius Khambatta, advocates Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, Arsh Misra and Kavita Anchan, informed the bench that the air quality within the aircraft was equal to that of operation theatres, as the air was filtered through Hepa Filters and hence the apprehensions of the petitioner were unfounded.The counsel for the Centre reiterated the expert committee’s recommendation, that if proper precautions were taken and the passenger on the middle seat was provided with personal protective equipment such as face shield and wrap-around gown, it would negate the chances of the spread of the virus even through an inadvertent touch. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought clarification from the expert committee on whether the virus could be transmitted through an inadvertent touch or is transmitted through droplets and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-distancing-during-air-travel-hc-asks-centre-to-clarify-if-covid-19-can-be-transmitted-by-inadvertent-touch/story-yqkC4Aj7GZoOI06IwdDIjJ.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||State opens up MMR roads as Covid tally goes past 75,000||Maharashtra on Thursday crossed the dreaded 75,000 coronavirus cases mark as inter-district movement in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) got the government go-ahead from today, along with the reopening of shops in the city — a red zone —as part of “Mission Begin Again”. The mission aims to bring the state on track to routine life amid the Covid-19 outbreak. On Thursday, with 2,933 new cases, Maharashtra’s tally went up to 77,793. Of them, 41,393 are active cases, according to the state health department, while the state has also completed over 5 lakh Covid-19 tests.The state also reported 123 deaths, highest in a day, on Thursday, taking the toll to 2,710. Of Thursday’s deaths, 30 were from the past two days, while the rest were between April 30 and June 1, clarified the health department. Forty-eight deaths were in Mumbai, 21 in Jalgaon, nine in Pune, eight in Thane, seven in Solapur, six in Navi Mumbai, five in Aurangabad, three each in Raigad and Nashik, two each in Parbhani and Washim, and one each in Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Palghar, Dhule, Jalna, Osmanabad, Nanded and Yavatmal. Of the day’s deaths, 71 were above 60 years of age, while 44 were in the age group of 40 to 59 years. The remaining eight patients were below 40 years of age. Of the deceased, 92 had high-risk co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and heart ailments, health officials said.As cases are rising, the number of deaths has also started rising over the past fortnight. Statistics showed that the state has reported 1,575 deaths in the past 19 days (since May 18 when the state started recording over 2,000 cases in a day). It came to more than 58.11% of the total deaths — 2,710. This worked out to a daily average of 82 deaths. In more than a week, the mortality rate has also increased to 3.48% (2,710 deaths on June 4) from 3.27% (1,792 deaths on May 26), which is higher than the national mortality rate of 2.80%, with 6,075 deaths till Wednesday, according to the data shared by the state medical education department.However, the state has succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate significantly in the past two months. On April 13, the mortality rate of the state was 7.41% (148 deaths). This indicates improvement of 3.93 percentage points, the data shows.Mumbai recorded 1,439 cases in a day, taking the city’s case count to 44,931, of which 25,364 are active cases. The city’s death count stands at 1,465. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the recovery rate of the state is 43.29% and 33,681 patients recovered and have been discharged from various hospitals so far. “We have succeeded in bringing down the mortality rate by around 4%,” Tope said.“Treating Covid-19 patients is a learning experience for us as the virus is mutating and reacting differently in different patients. We also have no studies available like with other contagious diseases and hence any comparison on mortality rate will not be appropriate at this point of time,” said a senior official from the medical education department.The state health department said that the situation is improving as the compounded daily growth rate (CDGR) for Maharashtra has reduced to 4.17%, as against 7.76% on May 1. The country’s CDGR is 4.74%. The doubling rate has also increased to 17.35 days from 9.27 days on May 1.Data shows that the state is getting more than 2,000 cases in the past 19 days (from May 17). In this period, it has also recorded over 47,256 cases. It means on an average, 2,487 cases are recorded daily in the state.In comparison, the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.To put the steep hike in further perspective, one should consider that the state’s first coronavirus case was reported on March 9 and it took 30 days for the figure to cross the 1,000 mark.Senior IAS officer Bhushan Gagrani said although the cases are rising, there is no surge. “There is rise in cases, but there is no surge in the number of cases. A geometric of exponential progression is called a surge, in which cases starts multiplying. In Maharashtra, there is no such situation,” Gagrani said.He also said the cases are likely to rise as the state has started giving relaxations in three phases, even in red zones. “Rise in cases is likely to happen, which is why we have graded the relaxations,” Gagrani said.Meanwhile, the state government has decided to allow inter-district movement in MMR without any restrictions from June 5. However, interstate and inter-district movement in other parts of the state will continue to be prohibited. The state, however, has capped the number of staff to maximum 10 people in private offices, which have been allowed to operate from June 8.According to the notification issued by the chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, all educational institutions — school, colleges and universities — have been permitted to operate its offices, but only for non-teaching purposes, such as development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results. Also, shops and markets places have been allowed to open for full working hours. In Mumbai, the BMC has decided to open shops between 9am to 5pm from Friday onwards.State currently has 3,804 active containment zones. A total of 19,132 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 72.37 lakh people.So far, 30,623 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,60,303 people have been put under home quarantine.On Thursday, the state also completed 5 lakh Covid-19 tests. The health department said 5,10,176 tests have been conducted at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 4,32,383 people tested negative, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-opens-up-mmr-roads-as-covid-tally-goes-past-75-000/story-Abxu042URyXXgiGGACRdfK.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga leaves behind showers, waterlogged roads ahead of rains||Less than 24 hours after cyclone Nisarga passed over the city and the west coast, the after effects of the weather system were seen with continuous rain and strong winds lashing Mumbai on Thursday morning, even as the city’s waterlogging woes resurfaced ahead of monsoon, mainly in Matunga and Sion.On Wednesday, Nisarga, with winds gusting up to 100-110kmph, had struck Maharashtra’s coastal districts, with Raigad bearing the brunt, killing six people and damaging power-supply lines, roads, houses and trees. On Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Colaba and Santacruz weather stations received “rather heavy rain” at 49.6mm and 46.5mm till 5.30pm. IMD classifies rain between 35.6mm to 64.4mm as rather heavy. As the cyclone threat abated, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sent home more than 5,000 people who had been evacuated before the cyclone’s landfall. Before leaving, they were screened for Covid-19 symptoms. Civic officials said they did not find any suspected cases. On Wednesday, the BMC had evacuated nearly 20,000 citizens, while an expected 30,000 had evacuated on their own after an advisory issued by BMC. The people who were evacuated included those living near the sea and residents of dilapidated buildings. Authorities had decided to keep them till Friday as they were anticipating heavy rain and also wanted to screen all of them for Covid-19. Meanwhile, Mumbaiites blamed BMC’s ill-preparedness in making the city rain-ready as severe waterlogging was reported at LBS Road in Kurla, Goregaon, Andheri, Sion, Chembur, and Bhandup. Gandhi Market on Dr BA Road in Matunga and Sion’s Road No. 24 were under knee-deep water, photographs and videos circulating on social media showed.Nikhil Desai, citizen activist and Matunga resident, said, “For 15 years, the BA (Babasaheb Ambedkar) road is waterlogged during the monsoon. The BMC has still not able to find a solution for it. Also, due to the lockdown, the BMC has another excuse of not being able to work on desilting of drains. However, this area witnessed waterlogging even when the BMC claimed to have completed desilting work in the previous years.”However, civic officials denied there was severe waterlogging (except Gandhi Market), stating that it was temporary waterlogging due to high tide at some locations. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, stormwater drains department, said, “We deny it. Most of the work was carried out. We did not face any problem in all other places, except Gandhi Market in front of DCP office in Matunga. We have operated pumps at several locations. No problems were faced.”When asked about the videos being shared on social media of waterlogging in areas other than Matunga, Velrasu said, “Temporary waterlogging could be there because of high tide in some locations, but no major issues except in Gandhi market. After the work on Mahul pumping station is completed, these problems will be resolved completely.”Waterlogging complaints were received by the disaster management team of BMC from Gandhi Market, Sion Road No. 24, Dadar TT, Matunga, Antop Hill, SIES College in Mulund and Mankhurd Railway station area. The data further stated that 70 tree falls were recorded in the city, including 29 in south Mumbai, 21 in the eastern suburbs and 20 in the western suburbs. BMC also recorded nine incidents of short-circuits.As of June 4, the seven lakes supplying water to Mumbai, including Bhatsa, Tulsi, Modak Sagar, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Tansa and Vehar, have 15.42% of the total required quantum of water stock, which is more when compared to the same date last year. The water stock last year at this time was 9.28 % of the required stock. With a favourable monsoon expected, BMC expects that there would be no water cuts in the city any time soon.Meanwhile, on the screening of the evacuated citizens, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC said, “The screening is an ongoing process, and everyone who is to be released will be released only after their screening is completed. By Friday, all those evacuated will be released from temporary shelters.”The BMC arranged 35 BMC schools where those evacuated were put in. The civic body has been providing them food and water. Those allowed to go home by the BMC are from areas like Colaba, Mahalaxmi, Walkeshwar, Mahim, Worli Koliwada, Kurla and Dahisar. However, people from areas like Borivli’s Gorai, Versova, Juhu, Malad, Kandivli are yet to be released as their screening is pending. According to the initial plan, those evacuated were to be kept under observation till Friday, however, many residing on the seashore forced BMC officials to release them on Thursday, citing the cyclone did not hit Mumbai, and they wanted to return home.A BMC official said, “Many wanted to return on Wednesday evening only as news of cyclone missing Mumbai became official. However, we had to convince them to stay until Thursday morning when we completed their screening, and allowed them to go home.”Of those allowed to go back home, maximum were from Colaba’s Geeta Nagar, where around 3,000 citizens were evacuated, followed by 1,200 from Mahalaxmi, Walkeshwar, 1,200 from Kurla, 150 from Worli Koliwada, more than 500 from Mahim, and over 450 from Dahisar.Meanwhile, Naresh Patil, a fisherman from Worli Koliwada, said, “We had to go back to our homes considering we feared getting the virus with so many people around, and we being away from our home. It is always better to stay inside homes rather than to be out. Also, we have been staying by the sea since years, and we understand when it is safe to go nearby and when it is not.”The 24-hour rainfall data from 8.30am Wednesday to 8.30am Thursday showed less rain (24.8mm) in the suburbs as compared to 50mm rain at the Colaba weather station, owing to the cyclone making landfall to the south of Alibag in Raigad district, which brought its path close to south Mumbai. (inputs from Badri Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-leaves-behind-showers-waterlogged-roads-ahead-of-rains/story-8BJaPNcze0DSDFfWP2XvSM.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||From Big B to Bebo, top stars get together with Punjab CM for ‘Fateh’ of Covid 19||Ludhiana It’s a song for which a galaxy of stars from actors Amitabh Bachchan and Kareena Kapoor to singer Gurdas Mann and cricketer Harbhajan Singh, have come together for one mission: To give people enough hope and courage to vanquish Covid-19. So, the Mission Fateh song released a few days ago by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was again launched by deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal here on Thursday.Its message: To muster up resilience, resolve and discipline to defeat the virus and save Punjab. Agarwal on the occasion urged the officials and residents of Ludhiana district to educate the masses about Covid-19 through the song, which also features local boy Sonu Sood, who hit the headlines recently for sending home migrants to their home states on buses, alongside brave heart and Punjab Police poster boy ASI Harjit Singh, who recently almost lost his hand in an attack while urging people to stay indoors during the lockdown and TikTok sensation Noor. Sung by Punjabi music director and singer B Praak, Fateh’s message is all about maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands regularly.The song also features Soha Ali Khan, Randeep Hooda and Rannvijay besides stars from the Punjabi film and music industry including Gippy Grewal, Ammy Virk, Jazzy B, Binnu Dhillon, Pammi Bai, Jasbir Jassi, Rajvir Jawanda, Rubina Bajwa, Kulwinder Billa, Karamjit Anmol, Singga, Tarsem Jassar, Lakhwinder Wadali, Harjit Harman, Gurnazar, Babbal Rai, Jaani, Kulraj Randhawa, Shivjot, Happy Raikoti, Afsana Khan, Ninja, Aatish, Tanishq Kaur and Aarushi.Sports personalities include cricketer Harbhajan Singh, Anjum Moudgil and Avneet Sidhu. The song will also be broadcast on various television and radio channels to reach out to the masses in PunjabIn the coming days various departments of the Punjab government will work towards spreading awareness of Covid-19 among the people of the states under Mission Fateh, stressing on the fact that the virus still hasn’t been controlled and that people can make small changes in their lifestyle to protect themselves and their families from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-big-b-to-bebo-top-stars-get-together-with-punjab-cm-for-fateh-of-covid-19/story-x4Eap2AW7IIupMLOZtV2cI.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Theft accused ends life in Kurukshetra police custody||A 20-year-old theft accused allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the lock-up at Kurukshetra police’s CIA station on Thursday. A resident of district’s Muradnagar village, he was arrested on Wednesday and put in custody of the crime investigation agency. As per the police, he was wanted in several cases of bike theft. Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi said, “He was kept in the lock-up of CIA-II police station , where he was found hanging from a grille.” She said a judicial inquiry was on and his body was handed over to his family members after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/theft-accused-ends-life-in-kurukshetra-police-custody/story-swUm9l6iIxfOe6eP1kkUOL.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||SBI Chandigarh circle gets new general manager||Chander Shekhar Sharma has joined the State Bank of India, local head office (Chandigarh circle) as the general manager, financial inclusion and micro market.Sharma, 52, had started his career with the SBI as a probationary officer in 1994. In his career of 26 years with the organisation, he has handled important assignments in various fields such as retail banking, credit management, international banking etc.Sharma has come to Chandigarh on promotion from Jaipur Circle. He will be heading the FI&MM vertical of the Bank in the financial inclusion and micro market sector for the states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sbi-chandigarh-circle-gets-new-general-manager/story-WAqCnAWWSumIPRxXBtkY1H.html
05-06-2020||City||Murder convict out on parole shot dead in Rohtak||A 37-year-old murder convict out on parole was shot dead at Gandhi camp area in Rohtak city, police said on Thursday. Joginder alias Jaggi was serving a 20-year term at Sunaria jail and was granted parole amid to Covid-19 crisis. His younger brother Amit said Joginder was returning home when he was gunned down by a group of five. “The assailants led by Anil alias Sonu and his brother Raman intercepted Joginder and pumped bullets into him as he tried to run for his life. We took him to PGIMS, where doctors declared him brought dead,” he added.He claimed that the murder was the outcome of an old rivalry. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jai Bhagwan said they have booked five persons under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. “We have launched a manhunt to nab them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-convict-out-on-parole-shot-dead-in-rohtak/story-MyrNXOqqIrPlweYhyO2wJJ.html
05-06-2020||Mumbai||Defer Class 10, 12 exams planned in July, state tells CBSE, ICSE||In a relief to thousands of Class 10 and 12 students in Maharashtra, the state government has written to heads of CBSE and ICSE boards requesting them not to conduct exams in July as per the new schedule and push them further or to mark students based on their internal evaluation for the entire year.In a letter sent to the boards on Wednesday, the government has said that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it will be difficult for students to travel to their centres and the conduct of examinations would mean risking the health of many. Thus, it stated that it would not be able to permit the boards to hold the exams as there is too much risk involved. The boards have been asked to consider one of the two options-- to conduct exams at a later date after the situation improves or to mark students on the basis of their performance in internal assessments.On May 22, ICSE re-scheduled papers which were earlier set to be held between March 19 and 31. While eight papers of ISC(Class 12) have been rescheduled, six papers of ICSE(Class 10) have been pushed further. As per the board’s revised schedule, the ICSE papers would now be held between July 2 and 12 while ISC exams would be held between July 1 and 14. Similarly, CBSE announced that all the remaining papers would be conducted between July 1 and July 15. A senior official from the ICSE board said that cancellation of exams might not be possible considering too many papers are left. “We have already told students in a circular released last month that in a situation wherein they cannot write the exam, they can send a representation through the school and the board would allow them to appear for it at the time of compartmental exams conducted at a later date. If internal exam marks are considered, many parents would object to it again,” said the official. The government has asked the boards to provide data of students who have appeared for both Class 10 and 12 exams and would conduct a virtual meeting with the heads of ICSE and CBSE on Saturday, June 6. The education department has said that it would plan the upcoming first-year junior college admissions depending on the decision of the two boards. Earlier, the SSC board and the IGCSE board had cancelled their remaining exams owing to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/defer-class-10-12-exams-planned-in-july-state-tells-cbse-icse/story-8NTsdk6NBdo7xzr0AxMWTI.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Police ease checking, traffic snarls down at most Delhi borders||It was a smooth ride for motorists entering the national capital from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana with Delhi Police easing out the checking of movement passes in the border areas, leading to relatively lesser traffic chaos.The Delhi government had on June 1 sealed its borders with all its neighbouring states for seven days to stem the spread of Covid-19. Only people with valid movement passes and those involved in essential services would be allowed to cross, the government said.On Thursday, at the Delhi-Ghazipur border traffic flow remained smooth throughout the day, with a slight jam being reported during the morning rush hours (8am and 10am) on a single carriageway.On Wednesday, the area had witnessed bumper-to-bumper traffic owing to strict barricading of Meerut-Delhi Expressway. “Since the volume of vehicular traffic was increasing, we eased the barricading on the expressway and relaxed the checking so as to reduce commuter inconvenience caused by the gridlock. Intermittent checking, however, continued and the expressway was barricaded again in the afternoon. The situation at the border was better today (Thursday),” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.Many motorists also stated that there was lesser traffic chaos on the carriageway on Thursday with the movement of vehicles towards Ghaziabad almost being normal.“I was stuck for almost 45 minutes as the traffic was moving slow yesterday (Wednesday). Today, it hardly took five minutes to cross the barricades and enter Delhi from Indirapuram. There were around 10 policemen but nobody stopped me to check for movement pass or my ID card,” said Sanjeev Kumar, who works in a private company in south Delhi.Commuters travelling between Delhi and Noida said while traffic movement towards Delhi remained smooth, there was traffic congestion on the way back to Noida.“I was on my way to Noida from Delhi and got stuck in traffic for around 30 minutes at the border. This has become a daily problem. I have a pass issued by the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration but this is harassment of a different kind. I think this traffic chaos happens because the administrations of Noida and Delhi can’t come on the same page,” said Anuja Kapoor, a criminal psychologist.Even auto-rickshaw drivers said they have started ferrying passengers across the borders and the police do not stop them.“No pass is required to travel in autos across the border. During the morning and in the evening, there is a jam at the border, but for the rest of the day, traffic flows fairly smoothly,” said Raj Kumar Yadav, an auto driver.At the Badarpur Border on Thursday afternoon, a lone traffic policeman was seen checking commuters for passes and permissions as vehicles moved slowly through a single lane, as much of the road leading to Delhi remained barricaded. However, the checking wasn’t strict as most motorists were able to pass through without questions being asked as the policeman mainly focused on motorcycle riders. The carriageway leading to Faridabad remained unmanned.Similarly, the traffic was smooth at all the borders connecting Delhi and Gurugram. No traffic congestion was reported from Sirhaul and Dundahera borders, which usually witnesses a large volume of traffic.Sajjan Deswal, a business and a regular commuter said, “It was for the first time in last two months that the traffic situation was so smooth as there were no cops and no barricades to hinder vehicular movement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-ease-checking-traffic-snarls-down-at-most-delhi-borders/story-UiJP0TBH4DbO7Ys4AVqq0N.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Hospitals not reserving beds will become Covid-only centres, says Delhi govt||The Delhi government said on Thursday that private hospitals facing challenges in earmarking 20% of their beds for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients will be declared as complete Covid-19 facilities, and ordered all institutions to discharge any mild or asymptomatic cases as concerns mounted over the city’s preparations to handle a surge in cases.The announcement came a day after the administration declared three private facilities -- Sir Ganga Ram hospital, Moolchand hospital and Saroj hospital -- as Covid-19-only centres. The number of new infections rose past the 1,500 mark for the first time on Wednesday. On Thursday, Delhi registered 1,359 new Covid-19 cases.“Five Delhi government-run hospitals have been designated for treating only Covid-19 patients, there are beds in central government hospitals, and 61 private hospitals have also earmarked the beds. Three private hospitals were designated as Covid-19 hospitals yesterday. However, some private hospitals are still facing some logistical problems in ensuring that there is no mixing of Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients while reserving 205 beds. So, we have informed them if the challenges remain till tomorrow, we will declare these hospitals as Covid-19 only,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Thursday.Later on Thursday, the Delhi government also asked 42 hospitals that received land at concessional rate from the government to reserve beds for the free treatment of poor patients with Covid-19. The number of free beds adds up to 298 in these hospitals.The order by the directorate of health and family welfare on Thursday states that these hospitals are to send a compliance report within three days of the order.The Delhi government on Wednesday declared 802 beds in three private hospitals – Moolchand hospital, Saroj hospital, and 80% of Sir Ganga Ram hospital– for Covid-19 treatment. On May 24, it directed 117 hospitals to set aside 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. According to Delhi government’s ‘Delhi Corona’ app, so far 72 private hospitals have Covid-19 beds.On Thursday, the administration asked hospitals to discharge all mild and asymptomatic cases. “It has come to the notice that many asymptomatic and mild symptom cases have been admitted in the hospital facilities. Attention is invited to the guidelines of the MoHFW as well as this department which clearly state that asymptomatic and mild symptom cases do not need hospitalisation,” the order read.“The government is working on increasing the dedicated Covid-19 facilities in the city. Initially, we had thought of reserving 20% beds in every hospital so that if a person with say heart disease tests positive they are not refused the treatment just because the hospital is not a Covid-19 hospital,” said Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia during the same press briefing.The minister also urged those with mild symptoms to stay at home and ensure that beds remain vacant for the severe cases in need of hospitalisation.“Those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms do not need to get hospitalised at all, they can recover in their homes. Only those with moderate to severe symptoms with elevated respiratory rate or low oxygen saturation rate need hospitalisation,” said Jain.Till Wednesday, just over 62% of the active cases or those still with the infection in Delhi were under home isolation. And, about 25% of the active cases were admitted to the hospitals, the data released by the Delhi government showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hospitals-not-reserving-beds-will-become-covid-only-centres-says-delhi-govt/story-CLgiAyF1LyR1cz9bGPtfBP.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||SD Business School holds webinar on impact of Covid-19||PML SD Business School, Sector 32, on Thursday organised a webinar on the impact of Covid-19 on the Indian economy. Punjab and Sind Bank chairman Charan Singh was the keynote speaker while former chairman of the University Business School, SC Vaidya, the school’s governing board chairman Upkar Krishan Sharma and school director KL Dhingra were the other panellists. Over 400 students and faculty members participated in the webinar. Charan Singh said that India is in a position to recover much faster than other economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sd-business-school-holds-webinar-on-impact-of-covid-19/story-2Iwjb38qAKs8SPQ0a3I9MN.html
05-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops on patrol duty beaten up, held hostage in property dispute case||Three policemen, who had gone to intervene in a property dispute, were attacked and injured by a group of people in Bhondsi on Wednesday night. One of the policemen alleged that the suspects tried to run him over with a car and later held him hostage in a room while trying to implicate him in a false molestation case. According to the police, the incident took place around 11.30pm when a head constable and two constables, on patrol duty in a PCR, received a phone call from a security guard of a private company in Bhondsi. The guard had alleged that at least eight persons, including a former sarpanch of a neighbouring village, had threatened him to leave the spot, saying that they owned the land.The police said when they went to probe the incident, a group of at least eight men and several women, who were armed with sticks and iron rods, attacked them and accused them of being biased against them.In the police complaint, a head constable, who was injured, said that their vehicle was completely damaged and its window panes smashed. “The accused persons attacked us and took two of my colleagues to one side and beat them up. I was dragged out of the PCR vehicle and beaten up. One of the accused tried to choke me and another drove an SUV towards me to run me over. I jumped on the bonnet of the SUV and saved myself. As I tried to run, they dragged me to a room and held me hostage and tore my uniform. They snatched my phone and recorded my video and threatened to file a false molestation case against me,” he said in the FIR.The police said additional force was called in to rescue the trio. They sustained severe injuries and were rushed to a hospital for treatment, where their condition stabilised. Bhartender Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Bhondsi police station, said, “The accused persons are yet to be arrested and several teams are trying to trace them. A case has been registered against five persons, including the former village sarpanch, and several unknown persons under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-on-patrol-duty-beaten-up-held-hostage-in-property-dispute-case/story-gjZ23z5aBEfVMoHEsNkF1N.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Decision on restricting Delhi’s hospitals by June 6: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said a decision on whether hospitals in Delhi should be restricted only to the residents of the city for the time being, will be taken by Saturday.In an interview to TV news channel News18 India, Kejriwal also said he is in favour of opening all the city’s borders, but expressed concern that Covid-19 beds would be filled “within two days” if patients from across the country entered Delhi for treatment.“About 60-70% patients in Delhi’s hospitals at any given point of time are from other states.We have so far got about 5-6 lakh suggestions, and some of them are really interesting. Some people have suggested that the Delhi government hospitals be reserved for the residents of Delhi, while Central government hospitals be opened to all. Specialised facilities such as transplantations should also be opened for everyone,” Kejriwal said in the interview.“We are evaluating the suggestions. We have also formed a team of experts that will also give its opinion. By Saturday, we will decide if health facilities should be restricted for a few months till corona patients are being treated,” he said.The chief minister, however, added that he was in favour of opening the economy and state borders. “We had some concerns and we will soon find a solution for that. If the economy has opened the borders must also be opened,” Kejriwal said.He also assured that power and water subsidies will continue in Delhi despite the revenue losses being faced by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decision-on-restricting-delhi-s-hospitals-by-june-6-kejriwal/story-6Lqya0WyiIFT9laUQuMyEM.html
05-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases reach 215 in Gurugram; highest single-day spike||Gurugram on Thursday witnessed the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases so far with 215 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported in a single day, according to the state health bulletin. With this, the total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) in Gurugram has reached 1,410. The number of coronavirus fatalities stands at four.Of the 1,410 cases, 292 have recovered from coronavirus and 1,114 are under home isolation or admitted in hospitals. More than 55% patients in the city are under home isolation. Despite the rapid increase in the number of infected persons, the number of containment zones in the city have not been increased. Currently, there are 63 containment zones.Official data shows that the district, which accounts for about 43% of Haryana’s total tally of 3,281 cases, has the highest Covid-19 burden in the state till now. Till Thursday, Haryana’s tally stood at 3,281, out of which 1,123 have recovered while 2,134 are under home isolation or admitted in hospitals. The death count of the state is 24, with a maximum of 10 deaths in Faridabad.As per the government records there are four deaths in Gurugram. But the district health officials confirmed that other deaths have been reported in private hospitals, stating that the deceased were from other states and are counted in the respective state data.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “We are yet to get the data from private hospitals where Covid-19 deaths have been reported. All the four reported deaths till now are due to co-morbidity issues. One patient had neurological issues, while another one had tuberculosis. There was one patient who had a bypass surgery and one had uncontrollable diabetes.” Adding on, he said that to avoid fatalities, the department, along with the district administration, is making arrangements in different hospitals.Gurugram health department has constituted a Covid-19 Death Audit Committee (CDAC) to review death cases due to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The team, comprising seven people, are to analyse the overall trend and the factors that led to Covid-19 deaths in private and government hospitals. Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, on Thursday assigned duties to senior government officials of the city to manage health facilities, contact tracing, sampling, ambulance fleet management, management of isolation facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-cases-reach-215-in-gurugram-highest-single-day-spike/story-sQcIYXnkPzcr4o5UDDO7nL.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||Auto fuel dealers urge Delhi govt to roll back 30% VAT hike on petroleum products||Citing a decline of 79% in the sale of diesel last month, automobile fuel dealers on Thursday urged chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to roll back the 30% VAT on diesel and petrol, imposed by the Delhi government from May 5. The Delhi Petrol Dealers Association (DPDA) on Thursday wrote to Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia requesting them to reduce the VAT on petroleum products stating that the “wide price disparity” with the neighbouring states has given rise to “smuggling of diesel” into Delhi from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Anil Bijlani, DPDA president, said the sales drop in the month of April was around 84% for diesel as compared to historical sales. “Even with partial unlocking of the state in May, the sales drop in diesel is still at 79% compared to the national average (-31%) in the month of May. The calculations show a loss of revenue to the tune of ₹58 crore a month due to higher taxes. Neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, have recovered most of their diesel sales,” he said.Nischal Singhania, former president, DPDA, said the primary reason for minimal recovery in diesel sales is the rate difference of around ₹7/litre with neighbouring states, resulting in Delhi losing out on sales and revenue. “The vehicles bringing in essential commodities to Delhi were refuelling from Delhi till May 5. But, with such a rate difference, these vehicles are now refuelling from neighbouring states. A small city like Delhi is immediately affected by the price disparity. Delhi is giving away the VAT revenue on petroleum products in a platter to these states by keeping higher VAT rates,” Singhania said. When asked for a response on the matter, the Delhi government refused comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/auto-fuel-dealers-urge-delhi-govt-to-roll-back-30-vat-hike-on-petroleum-products/story-cm1TBKZ64J0jAWQWs5cH8N.html
05-06-2020||Delhi||DU online exams: Finding scribes proves difficult for visually challenged students||With Delhi University all set to hold exams online from July 1 in the open-book format for final-year students, finding scribes has become a major challenge for visually impaired students who will now have to arrange devices and internet facility for those helping them take the exams. Although the university on Thursday asked all colleges and departments to help students in arranging scribes, officials admitted that they will only be able to help those living in Delhi.The DU had last week announced that it will conduct online exams in the open book exams (OBE) format for all final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students as a one-time measure in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a notification issued on Thursday, dean examination Vinay Gupta said students enrolled under the persons with disability category will be given five hours to complete their exam instead of three, proscribed for others. He directed colleges, faculties and departments to help students in arranging scribes. “For this, students are advised to send their requests related to the (scribe) requirement to the college,” the notification read. For those special students who are unable to take the online exams in July, DU will give them another opportunity -- in pen and paper mode -- once they return to the campus. Anil Aneja, official special duty (OSD) at DU’s equal opportunity cell, said, “We are taking care of all students with disabilities and have asked colleges to reach out to each of them and help them in taking online exams in these unprecedented times. In case a student is unable to appear for the online exam, we will provide them scribes once they are back on the campus.”Many college principals said they can only help provide scribes to students who are in Delhi. Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College, said, “We will even allow students to take their exams on the college computers and Wi-Fi and will also provide scribes to them. But this will only be possible for students who are in Delhi. Those who are living in their home states will have to arrange scribes for themselves.”A head of the department (HoD) in DU, requesting anonymity, said it will not be possible for departments to arrange scribes in different cities. “The colleges and departments can provide every possible help to the students if they are here with us. But when they are staying in their home states how can we arrange for scribes there? There is anyway no criteria fixed for the scribes now, so it will be easier for students to take help from anyone available,” he said.According to the guidelines of the Union ministry of social justice & empowerment, there is no fixed criteria of educational qualification, marks scored, or age for scribes. However, several visually impaired students living in villages and small towns amid the Covid-19 pandemic raised concerns over the unavailability of scribes or writers in their localities. Sangeeta, 21, a BA (prog) student at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee College, said she is a first-generation learner in her family who lives in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi. “The moment I got to know that DU is conducting online exams, I felt absolutely helpless. I have a smartphone but there are no books in Braille here with me since I had come home for the Holi break when the lockdown was announced. My parents are not educated and my brother had studied only till class 5. I have no one to help me with the exams,” she said.‘If I appear in exams in August or September, I will be late for my BEd admission,” she said. Amit Kumar Shukla, a BA (prog) student of SGND Khalsa College in DU’s south campus, said that even if he finds a scribe in his village in Aurangabad (Bihar), he cannot trust them to write exams for him in a totally new format. “If I ask anyone available in the village to write the exam for me, (s)he would not be able to understand the format, and I will lose a year. DU should promote the students like us on the basis of our previous year results,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-online-exams-finding-scribes-proves-difficult-for-visually-challenged-students/story-4GcgG1ZV7RXIbJY24hWKfL.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||As owner of chicken-loving pitbull goes missing, Ludhiana MP foots dog’s bill||Every dog has its day, and for a pitbull who eats nothing but chicken and has reportedly been separated from its owner, being featured in the Hindustan Times recently has been a stroke of luck. The report has caught Ludhiana member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu’s eye and he has decided to pay for its expensive food and upkeep.“ I came to know about this abandoned pitbull dog after reading the news in the Hindustan Times. As I am in Delhi, my staff has handed over Rs 10,000 to mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for the upkeep of the dog and I will bear the expenses till the time MC locates the actual owner of the dog, ” Bittu said on Thursday The dog was caught in the Ishar Nagar area and kept in a cage at the MC’s animal birth control centre since then.No one as yet has paid for its bill of Rs 6,000 for chicken that’s pending with a meat shop owner.Bittu has a penchant for dogs, the credit for which he says goes to his wife, Anupama. The couple adores their own pets, a Shih Tzu and St Bernard.Everyone should help animals, says the MP.  “The MC filed a complaint with Jamalpur police to locate the owner as she had called MC officials in May, but had not failed to show up to collect the animal, saying she had been stuck in Patna due to the lockdown,” says MC senior veterinary officer, Dr Harbans Dhalla.Dhalla, who is all praise for Bittu for stepping in to help, adds that anyone with leads on the dog’s owner could share it on 98150-91107.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-owner-of-chicken-loving-pitbull-goes-missing-ludhiana-mp-foots-dog-s-bill/story-bLjiZKtaLSKyGE8xnFYRfL.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab industry in doldrums, 32,594 units still in lockdown||A third of the 32,594 non-functional industrial units in Punjab are unable to restart manufacturing due to a shortage of raw material and labour.Of the total 2.59 lakh registered industrial units in the state, 2.27 lakh, or say 87%, have commenced their operations after the coronavirus-induced restrictions were eased during the lockdown 4.0 about three weeks ago. The remaining factories are still in lockdown and grappling with non-availability of raw material, shortage of working hands, working capital crunch, and slump in demand for finished products, revealed a survey carried out by the state industries department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAbout half of these non-functional units – to be precise, 15,598 – are in the state’s industrial hub of Ludhiana. As per the data collected by the department through the district industry centres, the non-availability of raw material is the primary reason for the inability of 5,637 industrial units to resume production and 5,288 are facing labour shortage as a large number of migrant workers have returned home.Another 4,548 and 3,587 factories have been held back by the poor demand for their products and finance problems, respectively, whereas 4,427 units are located in containment areas where activities are still not allowed. The industries department has not received information from districts Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (earlier known as Nawanshahr), Barnala, Gurdaspur, Sangrur, and Pathankot.Industries director Sibin C said some industrial units were having issues related to raw material, labour and finance and are still not able to resume operations, but things would stabilise soon. “The shortage of labour will end sooner than later as passenger trains have resumed. The raw material movement from some parts of the country and abroad remains a matter of concern for some sectors, though,” he said, citing the examples of textiles and bicycle sectors, which source their raw material from China.Sibin said the department would also set up a helpdesk at the state headquarters to facilitate industrial units get funds from the ₹20,000-crore subordinate debt announced by the centre for stressed micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) for which the guidelines were awaited. But this is half the story. The industries, which have resumed production, are also no less worried due to rising cost and demand slump. Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association said power and labour costs had gone up as units were operating less than 50% capacity.“Migrant workers are demanding more money and two-part power tariff means we have to have to shell out a lot more for per unit of electricity consumed due to high fixed charges and low consumption. Another problem is delayed payments,” he said. The industry associations requested industries minister Sunder Sham Arora, who was in Ludhiana on Thursday, to do away with fixed charges for electricity to industrial consumers for the time being.PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) chairman, Punjab, Karan Gilhotra had also last week termed labour shortage, disruption in supply chain and decline in demand as a serious challenge for the state industry. The factories were shut down after curfew was imposed in the state on March 23. Though the central and state governments later allowed industries, only 7% restarted operations till March 16 but there has been a spurt in their number since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-industry-in-doldrums-32-594-units-still-in-lockdown/story-DHN17loXpdKiGmqZ9bPVlK.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Minor booked for peeping into young couple’s private moments in Pune||A minor has been booked by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police for peeping into the bedroom of a married couple in the early hours of Wednesday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman, who saw the teenager at the window.The complainant works as a caretaker of children, according to the police.“We first registered a case and seized the phone. Upon checking his ID we realised that he was a minor - 17-year-old. We are still checking if he had made any recording of the incident,” said police sub-inspector CM Borkar of Dehu road police station, who is investigating the case.The teenager was not apprehended immediately.The incident happened at 1:30am on Wednesday. The woman told the police that she noticed someone at the window and saw the minor boy on a closer look.“Their houses are only a separation away. The boy lives next door,” said PSI Borkar.A case under Section 354(b) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehu road police station against the minor boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-booked-for-peeping-into-young-couple-s-private-moments-in-pune/story-tSuScde5Htp32ckKi5T14I.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports 11 deaths, 176 positive Covid-19 cases||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities have reported 11 deaths and 176 Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases under its jurisdiction on Thursday. Also, 157 positive patients got cured and discharged on Thursday.Ramchandra Hankare, Pune Municipal Corporation health chief, said, “Though the city is seeing an increase in Covid-19 positive cases, the number of positive patients who are getting cured after following the treatment and observing quarantine restrictions, and getting discharged is also rising. And it is definitely a positive sign.”Though the total positive cases reported in Pune city is 7,275, a total of 4,505 people have been cured and discharged by various hospitals and medical centres. According to the civic administration, the count of coronavirus active cases is 2,399, as of Thursday.Among the 2,399 active patients, 176 are critical and undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The authorities have also identified their contacts, if any. At least 40 patients had been given ventilator support, said PMC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-11-deaths-176-positive-covid-19-cases-on-thursday/story-1KqLSUhSrYEGkg1gzwauiL.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Daund brothers recount ordeal of the poor after cremating mother in Pune||Compelled by poverty, two brothers, aged 32 and 40 years, decided to walk back home from Pune to the rural town of Daund, some 80 km away, after cremating their mother who had died of Covid-19.On June 2, 62-year-old Hussanidi Shaikh, died of Covid-19 at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital at Chinchwad. Hailing from Daund, she was first taken to doctors in the rural town and later to the Daund Civil Hospital where the family was advised that she be taken to a government hospital in Pune by ambulance.“We then brought her to YCM Hospital and stayed in the hospital premises for two days as she was admitted to the Covid ward where we were not allowed to meet her,” said Fayaz Shaikh (32), who was accompanied by his elder brother Mehboob (40).The brothers, who worked in the railway canteen at Daund railway station, were informed of their mother’s demise on June 2. Since she was a Covid-19 patient, they were not allowed to take her body to Daund but asked to perform the final rites in Pimpri-Chinchwad itself.All by themselves, it was the volunteers from the Muslim Mulnivasai Sangh who helped the brothers perform the cremation, after which the brothers decided to return home.Fayaz said that with the little money they had, they took an auto upto a certain distance and then had no option but to walk back to Daund. The volunteers who called the brothers after some two-three hours to check on their condition, soon learnt that they were walking back home after performing their mother’s cremation.Alarmed by this, they contacted Republican Party of India (RPI) activists at Manjri to provide food to the brothers and also contacted the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator from Daund, Badshah Shaikh, who organised a car to bring them back to the town.“We reached Daund in the car and were asked to stay in a quarantine centre,” Fayaz said. .Expressing gratitude towards all the people who helped them reach home, Fayaz said poor rural patients and their relatives like them face an ordeal in big cities and some thought must be given to their situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-daund-brothers-recount-ordeal-of-the-poor-after-cremating-mother-in-pune/story-kfKKIxb4fuIbxHskr3v0UJ.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Pune courts likely to start functioning from June 8, will work in two shifts with 15 % staff||As the Bombay High Court (HC) on Thursday issued detailed guidelines for the functioning of subordinate courts as part of opening up of the lockdown in the state in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, courts in Pune will now work in two shifts and 15 per cent staff likely from June 8.The first shift will begin at 10am and end at 1pm, while the second shift will begin at 2:30pm and end at 5:30pm. All courts will have 15 per cent of staff present for both shifts in rotation.Two sets of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) were issued by the court- one for red-zone districts including 11 regions and one for all the other courts in the state. The SOP will come into effect on June 8.In all courts, thermal scanning and hand sanitising at entry will be mandatory. To reduce the footfall, in line with the guidelines followed since March, no visitors or third parties will be allowed inside the court, according to the guidelines.Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, said the sanitisation work at Shivajinagar court is complete and the functioning of courts can start anytime. “After High Court directions, we have carried out sanitisation work at courts to ensure proper functioning there without any health issues. It is now up to the court to decide when to start work,” said Gaikwad. Pune falls in the category of the red zone, therefore, will have rules that will also apply to Mumbai Metropolitan Area (MMR) region, Solapur, Aurangabad, Nashik, Malegaon, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur.The rules were formulated considering the guidelines issued by the central government on May 30 and a government resolution passed on May 31.The courts will have to deal with bail applications and hear matters where “witness action is not required,” according to the standard operating procedure issued by the HC.The courts will necessarily be required to function four hours in each of the two shifts. The HC has, however, allowed the head of local judicial establishment i.e., the principal district and sessions judge, to alter the timings.“The judicial officers shall ensure utmost use of the facility of video conferencing and persuade the advocates to use the same by apprising them with the benefits of the facility,” reads a part of the SOP.If a case is at the stage of the final hearing, the arguments can either be submitted in written or through video conferencing.For the courts in other parts of Maharashtra as well, the court will function at the same shift timings. However, they will be allowed to function with 50 per cent staff strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-courts-likely-to-start-functioning-from-june-8-will-work-in-two-shifts-with-15-staff/story-YJi6AXWiTTmshMXQNYZG5N.html
05-06-2020||Pune||40K migrants given counselling before exit from Pune district||Most migrant workers want to leave the city as they fear getting infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection,” says Dr Madhumita Bahaley, the officer in charge of the mental health programme for the district. She is also involved in counselling migrant workers at various construction sites in rural and urban areas during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Psychiatrists and psychologists in the Aundh district hospital have been counselling migrant labourers in various camps across the city. In addition to Covid-19 positive patients and their relatives being counselled, the migrant workers also need counselling, they say.Dr Bahaley said, “We have counselled about 40, 000 workers in the district in both in urban and rural areas and most of them wanted to leave the city. This is before the third lockdown when most commercial activities had still not started. Till May 17 we have covered most labour camps and construction sites.”“The mental health department has issued orders to attend to the mental health of the migrant workers who are also deeply affected by the Covid pandemic. We want to provide them with positive mental health counselling to remove fear among the workers,” said Dr Bahaley.She further added, “We also got assistance from Bharati Hospital, Sinhgad hospital, the regional mental hospital, Yerawada and the medical college at Talegaon and some NGO’s. They were mainly worried about the extended lockdown and the uncertainty about how many more days this would continue.”“The most common query they had was when would the lockdown be lifted and when would they get to go home. They wanted to go home since Pune is a Covid hotspot and the fear of infection was there as many lived here with their families,” said Dr Bahaley.She also added that as most of the question of the labourers were answered, they were satisfied and the fear was addressed. She said, “We fear that most of the patients do recover and the symptoms are mild and the mortality rate is also low. We did explain to them that it is easy to avoid infection by hand and respiratory hygiene and social distancing.”“We wanted to mainly give them reassurance and that no one should panic at the name of corona and deal with it confidently and take proper care,” she added.Dr Sagar Mundada, psychiatrist and former president of the Maharashtra Association of resident doctors (MARD) said, “It is extremely important to address the concerns of migrant workers. It is natural for them to feel the urge to return home. As humans, we feel the safest when we are home. However, first, we must help them get rid of the fear that they might have in this pandemic situation. This can be done only by clearing rumours or doubts which they might have.”“Mass counselling would not be effective as much as one on one counselling as each individual may have different problems. The government can launch a 24*7 counselling helpline number dedicated only for migrant labours counselling,” he said.The district hospital has also installed speaker system at its hospitals wherein all the patients in the ward are given counselling at the same time and in case anyone has any personal queries they can always reach to us, she added.‘Gender does not matter when it comes to anxiety’“With regards to patients it is seen that although men seem to be more anxious, they do not ask as many questions as women. However, anxiety is something that cannot be measured and does not necessarily have anything to do with gender. We want our patients to remain mentally strong because immunity is affected when mental health is disturbed,” said Dr Madhumita Bahaley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40k-migrants-given-vitamin-c-ounselling-before-exit-from-pune-district/story-6ScJCaOxWFkSgqu6269DQK.html
05-06-2020||Pune||TDR proposal for roads with lesser width driven by vested interests, alleges opposition in Pune civic body||A political controversy has erupted over a proposal allowing transfer of development rights (TDR) on roads with less than nine metres width. With elected members raising objections, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee postponed the discussion on the proposal to next week.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had put the proposal before PMC standing committee for approval.PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Following objections to the proposal, the panel has postponed to take a decision on it to next week.”Rasne said, “The proposal would help to generate more revenue. The first phase will cover selected 323 roads. Six-metre-width roads can use TDR applicable to stretches that are nine meters wide.”As per the development plan (DP) rules, roads with less than 9 metres width cannot use additional TDR for redevelopment.Congress leader Aba Bagul criticised the proposal claiming that it is in the interests of certain developers who want to redevelop buildings.Elected members from various parties raised objections and demanded that the municipal corporation should take a decision after examining all aspects of the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tdr-proposal-for-roads-with-lesser-width-driven-by-vested-interests-alleges-opposition/story-9wBmUDF64Neim5P3olP6lK.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Pune man duped of Rs 18 lakh in SIM swap fraud||A 45-year-old man in Kothrud area of Pune was duped of Rs 18,25,500 in a SIM-swap online fraud. The case was registered at the Pune cyber crime cell.According to the cyber crime officials, in this type of fraud, the original SIM is cloned, and the duplicate is misused to get access to the victim’s mobile phone and, thereby, to the victim’s online bank account from where funds are transferred to the fraudster’s account.On May 6, the complainant received a call by a person advising him to update his SIM card. The caller allegedly sent a text message to the complainant and asked him to forward the text to a phone number he was provided with. The procedure allegedly led to the SIM card getting activated on the cloned SIM card in the fraudster’s possession, according to the complaint.The swapped SIM card was used to withdraw Rs 1,80,148 from the savings bank account of the complainant. Two days later, on May 8, a personal loan worth Rs 16, 45,352 was sanctioned in the name of the complainant without his knowledge. The police suspect it to have been done with the help of the cloned SIM card. The loan was also withdrawn from the victim’s bank account and the complainant lost Rs 18,25,500.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66 (d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Kothrud police station. Police inspector (crime) KB Balwadkar is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-man-duped-of-rs-18-lakh-in-sim-swap-fraud/story-tIdkcJxfRAibxv95o5Ir1N.html
05-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for desecrating Shiva Linga in Ludhiana’s Jagraon||A man was arrested for desecrating a Shiva Linga at Shri Seeta Ram Mandir near Shivala Chowk in Jagraon on Wednesday. Ludhiana Rural SSP Viveksheel Soni said the accused was caught after the CCTV cameras at the temple and nearby buildings captured him. He admitted to the offence during questioning, the SSP said.The complainant, Baba Mahesh Giri, who has been a priest at the temple for three years, had told the police that a devotee informed him on Wednesday evening about the derogatory words inscribed on the Shiva Linga. Singh was booked under Section 295A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shiva-linga-desecrated-in-ludhiana-s-jagraon/story-u3d5fkuxhEE9TPJXAUJMOM.html
05-06-2020||Pune||Burial of Covid-19 victims: PFI ready to serve, Pune civic body declines offer||PUNE: Popular Front of India (PFI) Pune unit claimed that it carried out burial of Covid-19 bodies on humanitarian basis and though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has directed them to stop it, the organisation is ready to volunteer if the civic body permits.Popular Front of India and Muslim Mulnivasi Manch had taken up the task of burying Covid-19 victims as their relatives were not coming forward because of the virus fears.However, PMC decided to discontinue Popular Front of India’s service over an alleged controversy regarding the latter’s affiliation with a discredited organisation, as alleged by former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis.Fadnavis on Tuesday twitted saying “Shocked to know @mybmc [BMC] giving legitimacy to organisation like Popular Front of India, allegedly known for anti-national & anti-social activities. CM @OfficeofUT ji [Uddhav] do you agree to this? If not, will you take strong action?” His tweet was in reference to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowing PFI to facilitate burial of Muslim victims of Covid-19.Razi Ahmed Khan, Popular Front of India’s Pune district head, said, “As relatives were not coming forward for the burial of their dear ones, we requested PMC to allow us to do the last rites. We performed the final rites of 107 people, including Muslims, Christians and Hindus. The civic body has sent a letter instructing us to stop this social work, but we are requesting them to allow us to do it on humanitarian grounds as our members are trained to carry out last rites.”Dr Kalpana Baliwant, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assistant medical officer, who oversees and ensures the burial and cremation of those dead from Covid-19, said, “The organisation came forward to help PMC voluntarily. However after controversy, the civic body has asked PFI to stop work. We will continue to take help from another Muslim organisation Muslim Mulnivasi Manch.”One of the PMC official on condition of anonymity said that it was really a tough task when the first cases of virus deaths were reported as even municipal employees were not ready to carry out the last rites. Hence, the two organisations had come forward to assist PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/though-asked-to-stop-muslim-organisation-ready-to-perform-final-rites-in-pune/story-NnBkMBYfYZjLZpSHOIYeOK.html
05-06-2020||World||India, few other Asian nations respond to UN human rights chief’s criticism||India and few other Asian nations on Friday responded strongly to UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet, who had expressed “alarm” at “clampdown on freedom of expression” in some countries, saying the governments are focused on ensuring that precious lives are not lost due to the coronavirus pandemic and spread of “harmful misinformation” represents a clear danger to public health.The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in a statement on June 3 had said that arrests for expressing discontent or allegedly spreading false information through the press and social media have been reported in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam. Bachelet had expressed “alarm” at the “clampdown on freedom of expression” in these Asia-Pacific nations during the COVID-19 crisis, saying any actions taken to stop the spread of false information must be proportionate. A joint press release issued by the Permanent Mission of India in Geneva and the Permanent Missions of Indonesia, Cambodia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam to the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights responded strongly to Bachelet’s remarks. “We reiterate that the primary focus of our governments in these unprecedented times is to ensure that precious lives, particularly of the most vulnerable, are not lost to COVID-19. The OHCHR (Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights) needs to recognise this and play a responsible role in a manner that adds to rather than detracts from such efforts,” it said.The countries said the ongoing pandemic has already strained their resources and capabilities to the limit. “Our governments reiterate the view that the spread of harmful misinformation and falsehoods that guide segments of the public to disengage themselves from crucial, science-based information and policies enacted by relevant government agencies, thereby worsening the spread of COVID19, represents a clear and present danger to public health,” the statement said.The countries said their governments have taken necessary measures in accordance with their prevailing laws and regulations to hold those who spread misinformation and mislead the public accountable for their irresponsible actions. “These measures are carried out in accordance with the due process of law, while also safeguarding the freedom of expression, with the aim of curbing falsehoods that have harmed or have the potential to harm all sectors of society, during this pandemic,” the joint press release said.Highlighting issues from the individual nations, Bachelet had said in India, several journalists and at least one doctor have been charged for their public criticism of the authorities’ response to the COVID-19. On Indonesia, she had said that at least 51 people were reportedly being investigated under the criminal defamation law for allegedly spreading “fake news” on the pandemic. The 51 include three men who were arrested for posting a message on social media claiming that an area of northern Jakarta had COVID-19 cases after the government sprayed disinfectant there. On Cambodia, the UN Human Rights Office said it has documented the arrest of 30 individuals, including six women and a 14-year-old girl, for COVID-19 related public comments and social media posts. PTI YAS SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-few-other-asian-nations-respond-to-un-human-rights-chief-s-criticism/story-GQgrtSqzQlndq72Y3IdzxN.html
05-06-2020||World||Minneapolis to ban police chokeholds in wake of Floyd death||Negotiators for the city of Minneapolis agreed with the state Friday to ban the use of chokeholds by police and to require officers to report and intervene anytime they see an unauthorized use of force by another officer.The changes are part of a stipulation posted online between the city and the Minnesota Department of Human Rights, which launched a civil rights investigation this week in response to the death of George Floyd. The City Council was expected to approve the agreement Friday.The agreement would require court approval and would become enforceable in court, unlike the department’s current policies on the use of force and duties to intervene. The agreement would require any officer, regardless of tenure or rank, to immediately radio or phone in from the scene the use of any neck restraint or chokehold to their commander or their commander’s superiors.Similarly, any officer who sees another officer commit any unauthorized use of force, including any chokehold or neck restraint, must try to intervene verbally and even physically. If they don’t, they’d be subject to discipline as severe as if they themselves had used the prohibited force.The agreement also would require authorization from the police chief or a designated deputy chief to use crowd control weapons, including chemical agents, rubber bullets, flash-bang grenades, batons, and marking rounds. And it would require more timely decisions on disciplining officers.Meanwhile, a man who was with George Floyd on the night he died told the New York Times his friend did not resist arrest and instead tried to defuse the situation before he ended up handcuffed on the ground and pleading for air as an officer pressed a knee against his neck.Maurice Lester Hall, a longtime friend of Floyd’s, was a passenger in Floyd’s car when police approached him May 25 as they responded to a call about someone using a forged bill at a shop. Hall told the newspaper that Floyd was trying to show he was not resisting.“I could hear him pleading, ‘Please, officer, what’s all this for?’” Hall told the Times.Hall is a key witness in the state’s investigation into the four officers who apprehended Floyd. Derek Chauvin, the white officer who continued pressing his knee into Floyd’s neck even after Floyd became motionless, is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter. The three other officers are charged with aiding and abetting. All four officers were fired.Hall’s identity wasn’t made public until the Times’ report.Hall told “Good Morning America” that the situation escalated quickly and police grabbed Floyd, put him in a squad car, dragged him back out and then “jumped on the back of the neck.” He said Floyd was put in an ambulance and that he didn’t know his friend had died until the next day, when he saw the widely viewed bystander video on Facebook.“He was just crying out at that time for anyone to help because he was dying,” Hall told the Times. “I’m going to always remember seeing the fear in Floyd’s face because he’s such a king. That’s what sticks with me, seeing a grown man cry, before seeing a grown man die.”Hall, 42, said he visited a memorial for Floyd and then hitchhiked to Houston, where he was arrested Monday on outstanding warrants for felony possession of a firearm, felony domestic assault and felony drug possession. After his arrest, a Minnesota investigator interviewed him for hours about Floyd’s death. His attorney said he has since been released on the warrant issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minneapolis-to-ban-police-chokeholds-in-wake-of-floyd-death/story-47FRrFW2HGOjARS7rXP8YM.html
05-06-2020||World||‘Greatest comeback’: US job losses decline, Trump celebrates unexpected||President Donald Trump on celebrated the unexpected decline in job losses in the United States, terming it the “greatest comeback” in the country’s history. The economy, according to the state’s report, added 2.5 million jobs.Job losses this year in May were 13.3 per cent, down from 14.7 per cent in April, according to US labor department’s monthly job report released Friday, indicating the free-falling economy had bottomed out, and a turnaround could be under way.The economy added 2.5 million jobs as more and more areas of the country began reopening from Covid-19 lockdowns.“Today is probably, if you think of it, the greatest comeback in American history,” Trump said at a news briefing, in reference to the statistics on monthly job report“Hopefully George is looking down right now and saying there’s a great thing happening for our country,” he said. Trump was referring to George Floyd, the African American man whose death in police custody plunged Unite States into civil unrest, just as it was beginning to merge from the worst of the Covid-19 epidemic. “It’s a great day for him. It’s a great day for everybody.”The president went on to congratulate himself for his handling of the epidemic, which has killed more than 1,07,000 Americans. He also claimed that the economy has bounced back quickly on the strength of foundation he had laid for it.While businesses have been rehiring, as the new numbers who, layoffs have continued, although they with declining intensity. Another 1,9 million Americans applied for unemployment benefits last week, for instance, and more than 30 million still depend on this assistance.The White House expressed pleasant surprise at the numbers as its first reactions reflected. “May’s #JobDay report shows that the US economy ADDED 2.5 MILLION jobs last month (yes, you read that right) and the unemployment rate FELL,” the president’s Council of Economic Advisors, wrote in a tweet. “The median of all private-sector forecasts predicted 7.5 million jobs LOST and RISING unemployment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-job-losses-decline-trump-declares-greatest-comeback/story-SnGwsO2K4iHoVrHVvokAPO.html
05-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter group sues Donald Trump for forcefully evicting protestors from park||As barricades around the White House grew longer and more forbidding Thursday, protestors hit the US President Donald Trump administration with a lawsuit over the forcible eviction of protestors from an adjoining park to clear way for the leader to walk to a historic church nearby for a photo-op.The lawsuit, filed by civil rights groups on behalf of Black Lives Matter and individual protestors who were evicted, alleges violation of the protestors First Amendment rights of free speech and assembly and Fourth Amendment protection from unreasonable seizure.It has been filed by name against President Donald Trump, Attorney General William Barr - who has accepted responsibility for the action - and Defense Secretary Mark Esper, who had cleared the deployment of US military personnel and assets in the area, and heads of law enforcement agencies involved in the incident. “What happened to our members Monday evening, here in the nation’s capital, was an affront to all our rights,” said April Goggans of Black Lives Matter, the lead plaintiff in the case.Law enforcement forces used tear gas, flash-bang grenades and pepper spray canisters that Monday to clear people demonstrating peacefully in Lafayette Park, across the street from the White House, so Trump could walk to the St John’s Episcopal Church that had been damaged in protests, for a photo-op, with a Bible in hand and his top officials by his side. It was intended to counter the uncharitable response the president had received for being rushed by the Secret Service into an underground bunker as protestors had swelled outside a few days before.The Lafayette Park action has since become a rallying point for critics of the president’s handling of the protests triggered by the death of George Floyd, an unarmed African American man, in police custody in Minneapolis.“The president’s shameless, unconstitutional, unprovoked, and frankly criminal attack on protesters because he disagreed with their views shakes the foundation of our nation’s constitutional order,” said Scott Michelman, legal director at the DC unit of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), which filed the lawsuit in a DC federal court.Jim Mattis, the former defense secretary,” called the president the “first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people”.Facing all-around criticism, including from some Republican lawmakers, Trump, Barr and Esper have since tried to deny responsibility for it. The president has said he did not order the protestors to be removed. “Now, when I went, I didn’t say ‘Oh, move them out’. I didn’t know who was there.”Esper was the first to distance himself from the action and use of US military reservists of the National Guard. Barr has accepted responsibility for ordering the action, but insisted it was not connected to the president’s walk to the church. “I did not know that he was going to do that until later in the day after our plans were well underway to move the perimeter,” Barr has said.Protests around the country have been far more peaceful than in the earlier days. However, they show no signs of abating. Videos of aggressive police actions from those have gone viral, triggering shockwaves around the world. One of the many videos out of New York city shows officers use the door of their squad cars to slam protestors. In Florida, officers were filmed shooting a man on the ground with rubber bullets. A North Carolina lawyer has compiled over 280 videos of excessive police action on Twitter.In New York city, physicians, nurses and other hospital workers who have been working with Covid-10 patients staged protests outside multiple hospitals. “With our stethoscopes and white coats, we promised to do no harm and we must find the voice within us to break the silence like we are doing today,” Kamini Doobay, MD, an emergency medicine resident at NYU Langone Health and Bellevue Hospital, said at one of these protests, according to a report in Medpage Today. “Not doing is doing when you see injustice and turn away, and that is why, we are here to stand with black lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-group-sues-donald-trump-for-forcefully-evicting-protestors-from-park/story-axp2L6NMVgbdPThKOm6nPL.html
05-06-2020||World||Concerns over 43 MPs detained around the world||The Geneva-based Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) on Friday expressed concern over the detention of 43 MPs in various countries in conditions of overcrowding and confined spaces during the coronavirus pandemic, calling for their release.The IPU, of which India is a leading member, said its committee on human rights of parliamentarians held a virtual sitting and focussed particularly on MPs detained in Venezuela, Côte d’Ivoire and Turkey.The committee examined the cases of 210 MPs out of its current caseload of 488 MPs from 40 countries who report human rights violations.It said: “The IPU is increasingly concerned about parliamentarians in detention during the Covid-19 pandemic due to greater risks of infection in overcrowded and confined spaces…The committee calls for the release of the parliamentarians from those three countries in light of concerns about greater vulnerability to the coronavirus in prison and a lack of due process”.In Venezuela, the IPU said it is monitoring the cases of 139 MPs from the coalition of Democratic Unity Roundtable who oppose the Nicolas Maduro Government.In Turkey, the committee is examining alleged human rights violations against 57 current or former parliamentarians from the People’s Democratic Party, while in Côte d’Ivoire, it is examining the cases of 10 opposition MPs who allegedly suffered violations of their fundamental rights since 2018. In other cases, the IPU said the committee is monitoring closely the situation of 13 Palestinian MPs currently held in Israeli prisons. It is also urging Libyan authorities to do more to uncover the reasons behind the disappearance of MP Seham Sergiwa, who was abducted in July 2019. Among new cases, the IPU said the committee also considered the disappearance of former Egyptian MP Mostafa al-Nagar, as well as allegations of abduction and sexual violence suffered by Zimbabwean MP Joana Mamombe. A global body of national parliaments, the IPU was founded 1889 as the first multilateral political organisation in the world, encouraging cooperation and dialogue between all nations. Today, it comprises 179 national member parliaments and 13 regional parliamentary bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/concerns-over-43-mps-detained-around-the-world/story-aofVevQMIWBcHqhN9BPqWJ.html
05-06-2020||World||Donald Trump says US ‘largely through’ coronavirus pandemic||President Donald Trump asserted Friday that the United States has made it through the worst of the coronavirus pandemic.“We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. And that strength let us get through this horrible pandemic, largely through, I think we’re doing really well,” Trump said at a news briefing called after the release of surprisingly good US job numbers.“We’ve made every decision correctly,” Trump said of his handling of the pandemic, which has claimed more than 108,000 lives in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-likens-shutdown-of-us-economy-to-a-hurricane-says-it-will-rebound-quickly/story-0VV4QYreHYmwYPPANibFLN.html
05-06-2020||World||US conducts first air strikes against Taliban since Afghan ceasefire ends: Official||The US conducted its first air strikes against the Taliban since a rare ceasefire between the insurgents and Afghan forces ended more than a week ago, the US military said Friday.The two assaults took place on Thursday and Friday in separate provinces in Afghanistan, spokesman Sonny Leggett said on his Twitter account. “These were the 1st US airstrikes against (the Taliban) since the start of the Eid ceasefire,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-conducts-first-air-strikes-against-taliban-since-afghan-ceasefire-ends-official/story-eYOj31v6Gz8DQ5SVbJrYvO.html
05-06-2020||World||Beijing signals control over coronavirus, will lower emergency response level||Beijing will lower its emergency response to the coronavirus epidemic from the second level to the third from Saturday, a local official announced Friday, in yet another signal that the outbreak is well under control in China while it rages as a pandemic globally.The local government spokesperson Xu Hejian said Beijing had not reported any locally transmitted or imported case of Covid-19 for 50 consecutive days, signalling measures taken to control the pandemic had worked.Overall, Beijing had reported 420 local and 174 imported cases of Covid-19, Xu said, adding that the death toll stood at nine.The lowering of the emergency level means that people from the central Chinese province of Hubei and its capital Wuhan, where the coronavirus disease outbreak emerged late last year, will not required to be quarantined.However, those returning to Beijing from outside China would continue to be quarantined.It also mean that temperature checks will not be mandatory in residential communities.On January 24, Beijing had activated the highest level of public health emergency response to contain the outbreak.At the height of the outbreak in China in February Beijing, a city of more than 20 million people, had imposed strict rules to control the movement of people and vehicles within the city, cut of inter-city transport links and had made wearing masks compulsory.Most restaurants and bars and non-essential community services were shut down.Movie halls, which were shut down in the last week of January, are yet to open.More than two months later, on April 30, it had lowered the emergency response level from the highest to the second-level.Under the new regulations, couriers, deliverymen, housekeepers and real estate agents with green health codes were allowed to enter residential communities.The province of Hubei, meanwhile, has cleared all its confirmed Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the provincial health commission said Friday.As of Thursday, the last three Covid-19 patients in the province had been cured.At least 217 asymptomatic cases were still under medical observation as of Thursday, official news agency, Xinhua reported.Hubei had reported a total of 68,135 confirmed Covid-19 cases with 4,512 deaths, the bulk of all cases in China, which, overall, has reported more than 83000 cases and 4634 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-signals-control-over-coronavirus-will-lower-emergency-response-level/story-EVlQDKABdYbbWk9ufSmibK.html
05-06-2020||World||Bentley to cut 1,000 UK jobs to contain fallout from coronavirus crisis||Bentley Motors plans to slash as many as 1,000 jobs in the U.K., about a quarter of its workforce, to cope with the fallout of the coronavirus crisis after years of weak profitability.The British luxury carmaker plans to reduce headcount through voluntary measures but “cannot rule out future compulsory redundancies,” the Crewe-based manufacturer said Friday in a statement.Bentley, part of Volkswagen AG since 1998, has been struggling to improve earnings amid persistent uncertainty over Brexit. It reported 65 million euros ($74 million) in operating profit last year as global deliveries rose 5% to 11,006 cars, after suffering a 288 million-euro loss in 2018. The workforce reduction echoes cutbacks announced by industry peers from Aston Martin Lagonda Global Holdings PLC to Renault SA.The U.S. and the U.K., two key sales regions for Bentley, have been hit particularly hard by the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bentley-to-cut-1-000-uk-jobs-to-contain-fallout-from-coronavirus-crisis/story-kfKQX7d8Pk7pvTNzFBWJ8L.html
05-06-2020||World||UK role in Op Bluestar: Labour MP reiterates call for public inquiry||Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has reiterated the demand in sections of the Sikh community and others for a public inquiry into the Margaret Thatcher government’s role in the 1984 Operation Bluestar, which emerged in documents declassified in 2014.Raising the issue in the House of Commons on Thursday, Dhesi, who is the first turban-wearing Sikh MP in the British parliament, asked leader of the house, Jacob Rees-Mogg, to include a debate on the issue in the house business.It was revealed in a declassified note in 2014 that SAS, Britain’s elite special forces, had advised former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on flushing out Sikh extremists from the Golden Temple, three months before the operation was launched in June 1984.The then David Cameron government ordered an inquiry following an uproar. It concluded that Britain’s involvement was ‘purely advisory’ and was ‘fundamentally different’ from that carried out by Indian security forces. UK-based groups have since demanded a public inquiry.Dhesi told MPs: “This week marks 36 years since the then Indian Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, ordered her abhorrent attack on the most revered Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar. It eventually led, under a media blackout, to the destruction of historic structures, the genocide of the Sikhs and the burning of the Sikh reference library. That is why Sikhs can never forget 1984”.“I am sure the Leader of the House will agree with me that it is atrocious that many still struggle for justice. Perhaps he can explain to me why, despite recent revelations and given the huge demand from within the British Sikh community and the support of the Labour party and other Opposition parties, an independent inquiry to establish the extent of the Thatcher Government’s involvement in the attack has still not been held? May we have a debate on that,” he asked.Rees-Mogg responded: “It is an important anniversary to remember. The question the hon. Gentleman raises is one he could raise in an Adjournment debate, but I have every confidence that Margaret Thatcher, one of the greatest leaders this country has ever had, would always have behaved properly”.Labour committed itself to holding the public inquiry in its 2019 election manifesto, if elected to power, besides tendering an apology for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-role-in-op-bluestar-labour-mp-reiterates-call-for-public-inquiry/story-EnwvohorXcjdGdWL1Gzw3H.html
05-06-2020||World||Hong Kong’s free media fears being silenced by China’s national security law||When a team of producers at Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK) heard on May 19 that the publicly funded broadcaster planned to axe one of its most popular weekly shows, they rushed to the building next door to confront the station’s head.A group of about 20 producers and other employees from RTHK’s TV and radio operations barged into a conference room where Leung Ka-wing, director of broadcasting, was meeting with top executives. Some staff demanded to know why the satirical and current affairs television show “Headliner” – which had drawn official complaints after poking fun at the Hong Kong police in an episode in February - was being cancelled, and whether the move was prompted by pressure from authorities.The impromptu meeting lasted about 90 minutes, during which several staffers cried and raised their voices, according to three people present. Leung said he took the decision to cancel the show in order to “protect RTHK” and its staff, according to the three people.  As conversations continued inside the conference room, RTHK announced it was suspending production of the Chinese-language show, which had been running since 1989, at the end of the current season. RTHK apologized to anyone offended by the station’s output but did not give a reason for the suspension. Leung, 67, who made his name in broadcasting during the Tiananmen Square crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Beijing in 1989, declined to answer Reuters’ questions about the meeting. He denied making the comment about protecting RTHK, according to RTHK spokeswoman Amen Ng. Other executives in the meeting that Reuters could identify did not reply to requests for comment. Hong Kong’s government did not comment on whether it had pressured Leung to cancel the show. RTHK, founded in 1928 and sometimes compared to the British Broadcasting Corporation, is the only independent, publicly funded media outlet on Chinese soil. It is guaranteed editorial independence by its charter.The cancellation of “Headliner” has prompted fear among some journalists that mounting pressure from the Hong Kong government and Beijing will destroy that independence. Hong Kong reached boiling point last summer as millions of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets and some of them clashed violently with police, posing one of the biggest challenges to China’s leader Xi Jinping since he came to power in 2012.In response to the protests, China said last month it would introduce national security legislation in Hong Kong to prohibit secession, subversion and external interference. More than a dozen people working at RTHK and other media organizations told Reuters they fear that legislation could be used to silence or shut down independent media in the territory.The situation is like being under the blade of a guillotine, said Jimmy Lai, the publisher of Hong Kong’s pro-democracy Apple Daily newspaper, which like RTHK, has for years drawn the ire of Hong Kong’s government and Beijing: “There’s no half-way. It’s falling.”Lai, 72, has been repeatedly denounced by state-run Beijing media and pro-China media in Hong Kong, painting him as the local face of what they describe as a U.S. interference campaign. He has been arrested twice this year on charges of illegal assembly related to protests last year.Lai and some other members of the media fear the new legislation - which has not yet been set out in detail - will make Hong Kong more like mainland China, where the ruling Communist Party runs or controls the vast majority of media and routinely censors dissenting views. The country imprisoned at least 48 journalists last year, more than any other country, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.Hong Kong’s leader Carrie Lam has denied the new legislation would curtail media freedom, saying last month that “freedom of expression, freedom of protest, freedom of journalism, will stay.” Hong Kong is guaranteed freedom of speech and the press under Article 27 of the Basic Law, the mini-constitution agreed by China when it took back control of former British colony in 1997.A spokesperson for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs told Reuters the proposed legislation “only targets activities related to subversion, separatism, terrorism and foreign interference into Hong Kong affairs,” and that it will “not affect freedom of speech, media freedoms, or any other rights and freedoms.”  China’s Liaison Office in Hong Kong, Beijing’s official base in the city, did not reply to requests for comment on whether China sought to control or suppress RTHK or if the new national security legislation would curtail media freedom in Hong Kong.UNDER THE MICROSCOPEScrutiny of RTHK has increased dramatically since late February, when a two-minute segment on “Headliner” entitled ‘Police Farce Report’ showed an actor dressed as a Hong Kong police officer standing inside a large rubbish container with his hands covered in plastic. The skit shows police in various situations wearing biohazard suits and masks, satirizing how well equipped police officers are compared to medical workers. The actor, Kwong Ngai-yee, told Reuters the idea was based on the “Sesame Street” puppet Oscar the Grouch and that he hoped to “ease public anger through humour.”Hong Kong police were not amused. The force’s commissioner Chris Tang complained to Leung in writing in early March, saying the show “smeared the police and their work during the coronavirus period.” RTHK had “reversed right and wrong, and we simply can’t accept it,” Tang wrote in the letter, which was made public by RTHK. On the morning of May 19, Hong Kong’s Communications Authority, which regulates the city’s broadcast and telecoms sectors, published a report criticizing the broadcaster, saying the segment “smeared the police by suggesting that the police were trash, worthless and revulsive.”As the RTHK employees met with Leung that evening, Hong Kong’s Commerce and Economic Development Bureau, which oversees RTHK, released a statement on its website demanding that the broadcaster examine its production and editorial processes and “follow up or take disciplinary actions” on any staff found to have committed “negligence or errors.”Nine days later, the Commerce Bureau announced an unprecedented, government-led review of RTHK’s governance and management – spanning its administration, financial control and manpower - to ensure it complies with its charter. The review is expected to be concluded by the end of the year.A spokesman for the Commerce Bureau told Reuters in an email that RTHK has editorial independence, but as a government department, RTHK and its staff “are subject to all applicable government rules and regulations.”“Ultimately RTHK is part of the government, and in theory it could do anything to us,” said Gladys Chiu, the chairperson of RTHK’s programme staff union, which represents about 400 of the station’s 700 staff. The new legislation and increased scrutiny of RTHK could be used “to coerce the staff into broadcasting or reporting in a way that is approved by the government,” she said. RTHK also faces pressures at street level. Small groups of pro-Beijing protesters regularly gather outside its headquarters in Kowloon, waving Chinese flags and signs accusing the broadcaster of anti-government bias.“Shut it down,” the crowds chanted continuously during one protest in January, according to video news coverage, while calling RTHK a “cockroach” station, a description some police have used to describe pro-democracy protesters.Some RTHK staff have been threatened in social media posts and targeted in the pro-Beijing media in Hong Kong for perceived anti-government bias. Some pro-Beijing lawmakers also routinely attack RTHK. One outspoken critic, Junius Ho, last month demanded the broadcaster become a “government mouthpiece.” “It’s very worrying because we see RTHK being reined in by every means,” said Shirley Yam, vice chairperson of the Hong Kong Journalists Association. RISING TENSIONChina and the United States have been engaged in a tit-for-tat spat over the presence of the other’s journalists for several months. The United States slashed the number of journalists permitted to work at Chinese state-owned media outlets in the country to 100 from 160, citing a deepening crackdown on independent reporting inside China. In March, Beijing revoked the media credentials of about a dozen American reporters working in mainland China for the Wall Street Journal, Washington Post and New York Times, saying the reporters would not be allowed to relocate and work in Hong Kong.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement on the State Department’s website last month that the Chinese government “has threatened to interfere with the work of American journalists in Hong Kong,” without giving details. A source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters that if the row with the United States escalates further, Beijing could intervene in the issuance of work visas for foreign journalists in Hong Kong.The spokesperson for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said: “Visa issues are a matter of national sovereignty. The Chinese government manages affairs related to foreign media and foreign journalists according to laws and regulations.”Intervening in the issuance of journalists’ visas would be a highly contentious move for Hong Kong, which although part of China, operates with a high degree of autonomy. In 2018, the visa of the Financial Times’ Asia editor, Victor Mallet, was not renewed by Hong Kong after he moderated a speech by a pro-independence activist at an event hosted by the Foreign Correspondents’ Club (FCC) in the city. The move alarmed some diplomats and business groups in Hong Kong. The event angered China, and a senior official said at the time that the FCC had broken the law by hosting a “separatist.” Hong Kong authorities never publicly explained why Mallet’s visa had not been renewed, saying they could not comment on individual cases.Hong Kong’s global media freedom ranking is in free-fall. Reporters without Borders (RSF) said Hong Kong fell to 80th place in 2020 in its global press freedom index, down from 18th in 2002. Over the past year, reporters covering protests in the city have been detained, pepper-sprayed and shot with rubber bullets and tear gas canisters by police. “A security law dictated by China would give a massive blow to press freedom in Hong Kong,” said Cédric Alviani, the head of RSF’s East Asia bureau. “(It would) allow the regime to engage in the type of intimidation that we see on their side of the border.” (Reporting by James Pomfret and Greg Torode in Hong Kong; Additional reporting by Beijing newsroom; Editing by Bill Rigby)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-free-media-fears-being-silenced-by-china-s-national-security-law/story-oBExHOyrW1e9fKt0x4vsPK.html
05-06-2020||World||George Floyd death: Lego suspends marketing of police toys ‘in response to events in US’||World’s leading toy manufacturing company Lego has paused digital advertising for police-related toys after the death of George Floyd, a bladk man, at the hands of a white police officer in the US.In a tweet, a unit of UK-based Merlin Entertainments, said that it has “temporarily paused digital advertising in response to events in the US”. Lego, however, clarified that it has not removed some toy sets from sale.“We’ve seen incorrect reports saying we’ve removed some LEGO sets from sale. To be clear, that is not the case and reports otherwise are false. Our intention was to temporarily pause digital advertising in response to events in the US. We hope this clears things up,” Lego said on Twitter. We’ve seen incorrect reports saying we’ve removed some LEGO sets from sale. To be clear, that is not the case and reports otherwise are false. Our intention was to temporarily pause digital advertising in response to events in the US. We hope this clears things up. ♥️The company had posted a statement on Twitter on June 3 in which it said that Lego stands with the black community against racism and inequality. It had also announced a donation of US $4 million to organisations dedicated to supporting black children. pic.twitter.com/gpWKJ8pr7VLego is a Danish company and the title is an abbreviation of “leg godt” meaning “play well” in Danish. The firm has 570 stores worldwide. It fights for market share in the global toy industry with the likes of Barbie maker Mattel and Hasbro.Protests have been going on in various cities in the US since Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on May 25.However, the mood has changed int he ladt few days. The gatherings on Thursday, while boisterous at times, were for the most part orderly, in contrast to several previous nights punctuated by sporadic arson, looting and clashes between protesters and police.The change in mood reflected a determination voiced by many protesters and organisers to transform outrage over Floyd’s death into a renewed civil rights movement, seeking reforms to America’s criminal justice system.The image of Floyd pinned to the ground under the knee of a white officer has been a rallying cry for protesters across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-death-lego-suspends-marketing-of-police-toys-in-response-to-events-in-us/story-mc2jFnW4BiYoCmfiMuZfyJ.html
05-06-2020||World||Nine firefighters hospitalized in Florida after ship explosion: Report||Nine firefighters responding to a fire aboard a ship in Florida have been hospitalized after the ship exploded, injuring eight and sending one to a hospital for heat exhaustion, authorities said.The explosion occurred nearly three hours after firefighters first responded to a ship at Blount Island after reports of a fire on Thursday afternoon, the Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department tweeted. The ship, a Norwegian vessel called Hoegh Xiamen was carrying old and used cars and had been scheduled to leave Jacksonville, First Coast News reported.More than 20 crew members on the ship during the initial fire were able to safely get off before the explosion occurred, according to the US Coast Guard, and the blast happened with “crews inside fighting fire,” Jacksonville Fire Chief Keith Powers said.Of the nine firefighters hospitalized, four were treated for burns, one was taken into surgery for injuries Thursday night and another firefighter has been in intensive care, news outlets reported. All firefighters were stable, Powers said.Nearly 150 firefighters were continuing to rotate in teams to battle the blaze abroad the ship, Powers said.“This is one of the days where you roll up on something like this and it’s one of the worst things probably in a career that you will ever do,” Jacksonville Association of Fire Fighters President Randy Wyse told the Florida Times-Union.Wyse, who said he spoke to the injured firefighters after the explosion, said they have “a long recovery ahead of them.”Investigators are trying to determine what caused the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nine-firefighters-hospitalized-in-florida-after-ship-explosion-report/story-nzqJXWxk86ROINxO9m9IRM.html
05-06-2020||World||Pakistan’s Covid-19 cases near 90,000-mark, 4,896 new infections recorded||Pakistan’s coronavirus cases rose to 89,249 on Friday after a record 4,896 new infections were detected in the country, while the death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 1,838, according to the health ministry.The Ministry of National Health Service said that 68 patients died in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,838, whereas another 31,198 people have recovered.It was the third consecutive day when a record number of cases were reported in Pakistan after the Eid holidays and easing of lockdown restrictions at the end of May.Sindh province reported 33,536 infections, Punjab 33,144, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 11,890, Balochistan 5,582, Islamabad 3,946, Gilgit-Baltistan 852 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 299. The authorities have conducted 638,323 tests, including a record 22,812 tests in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.Despite the spike in number of Covid-19 cases, both houses of parliament are scheduled to meet separately on Friday. The Senate session started this morning while the National Assembly will be held in the afternoon, Radio Pakistan reported.Chairman Senate Sadiq Sanjrani and Speaker National Assembly Asad Qaiser at a meeting at the parliament house in Islamabad reviewed arrangements made for the two sessions. Fumigation was also carried out in the parliament house for the safety of the lawmakers and staff.Earlier, the Opposition rejected the idea of virtual meetings and insisted that the sessions be held in person, noting that it was an important session of parliament because the budget is expected to be presented in the National Assembly in the next week. The novel coronavirus which first originated from China’s Wuhan city in December last year has claimed 391,249 lives and has infected over 6 million people globally, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-covid-19-cases-near-90-000-mark-4-896-new-infections-recorded/story-hOPCURS5z7SJtBu5vWMNhI.html
05-06-2020||World||Covid-19 can explosively rebound in Canada if measures relaxed too early, warns Tam||The Covid-19 pandemic may have an explosive rebound in Canada if safety precautions and public restrictions are lifted too early, the country’s seniormost medical officer has warned, even as concerns rise that recent protests could complicate the process of recovery from the virus.The alarm was sounded by Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam even as fresh data points towards the coronavirus crisis waning in the country. During a regular media briefing, Tam said, “If we relax too much or too soon, the epidemic will most likely rebound with explosive growth as a distinct possibility.” She also released the latest modelling for the spread of the disease in Canada, projecting that the number of deaths could range between 7,700 to 9,400 by June 15, while total cases may be between 97,990 and 107,454. As of Thursday night, the country recorded 7637 fatalities and 93711 infections.That relatively positive projection was welcomed by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau during his daily briefing, as he said, “That’s an encouraging sign that the virus is slowing and, in some places, even stopping.” However, he was quick to echo Tam’s concerns, as he added, “But I want to be very clear. We’re not out of the woods. The pandemic is still threatening the health and safety of Canadians.”Clearly, Canadian Government officials are worried that ongoing protests over the police killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis could have an adverse impact of controlling the spread of Covid-19. Canada has also witnessed similar protests in the cities of Toronto and Montreal, which account for the majority of cases in the nation.Among those who have voiced their concern is Canada’s Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland. “The coronavirus issue is a really serious one to think about in that context,” she said, according to the outlet Global News.Dr Tam had earlier also tweeted her concerns over the protests. “When it comes to peaceful protest during #COVID19, virtual protest is the safest bet. First consider the risks to yourself, your family & community,” she posted. In a follow-up, she noted that if protestors did gather, it was necessary they follow social distancing norms and wear masks. Finally, she asked them to use signs at the protests, if people had to collect physically, instead of yelling slogans. She tweeted, “Even with layers of protection, speaking loudly, shouting & singing can increase projection of infectious droplets. To safe protest during #COVID19, let your sign do the talking, your phone do the singing & wear a mask.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-can-explosively-rebound-in-canada-if-measures-relaxed-too-early-warns-tam/story-MP8oyBHF2queVU16IyKJWP.html
05-06-2020||World||Racial slur at centre in case of Ahmaud Arbery who was killed while jogging||The white man who killed black jogger Ahmaud Arbery in the United States’ Georgia stood over his body after shooting him and used a racial slur, according to testimony in a court hearing on Thursday.The inflammatory revelation came amid a week of angry nationwide protests over law enforcement biases against black victims that erupted after the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis.The hearing in the Arbery cases lasted for seven hours. It was held to determine whether there was enough evidence to proceed with a murder trial.Arbery was killed February 23 after Travis McMichael, 34, and his father, Greg McMichael, 64, gave chase when they spotted the 25-year-old black man running in their neighbourhood. McMichaels chased him down in pickup truck.Georgia Bureau of Investigation agent Richard Dial told a preliminary hearing that the third accused in the cases, William Bryan, saw McMichaels driving by and joined the chase in his own truck.Arbery repeatedly reversed directions and ran into a ditch while trying to escape, the prosecution said.Travis McMichael then got out of his truck and confronted Arbery, fatally shooting the black man with a pump-action shotgun. McMichael later told the police that he shot him in self-defence after Arbery refused his order to get on the ground, Dial said.“Mr Bryan said that after the shooting took place before police arrival, while Mr Arbery was on the ground, that he heard Travis McMichael make the statement, ‘f - - - ing n - - - er’,” he added.“Ahmaud Arbery was chased, hunted down and ultimately executed at the hands of these men,” prosecutor Jesse Evans told the judge. “He was on a run on a public road in a public subdivision. He was defenceless and unarmed.”Arbery’s mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones called the release of new details in court “very, very heartbreaking.”At the conclusion of the hearing, Magistrate Court Judge Wallace Harrell found that there was enough evidence for the cases against all three defendants to proceed.The McMichaels both wore masks as they sat side-by-side watching the hearing onscreen at the Glynn County jail. The judge rejected defence motions to have them brought to the courtroom, citing emergency precautions because of the coronavirus pandemic. Bryan waived his presence at the hearing.It wasn’t until May 7 - two days after Bryan’s cellphone video leaked online and stirred a national outcry - that the defendants were charged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/racial-slur-at-centre-in-case-of-ahmaud-arbery-who-was-killed-while-jogging/story-EbyJzrhvRyUAaIDdQ4qQSJ.html
05-06-2020||World||‘Just 2 ventilators, no medical aid’: Pakistan’s Covid-19 hotspot cries for help||In one of the badly-affected regions by Covid-19 in Pakistan, people are facing severe threats due to lack of medical facilities and food shortages.Gilgit-Baltistan, the region bordering China’s Xinjiang province, has already reported over 800 coronavirus cases but there is no medical infrastructure to deal with the crisis.Reports in Pakistani media, quoted by news agency ANI, say that Gilgit-Baltistan has only two old model ventilators and the region has not received any medical aid and supplies from the federal government.Dr Amjad Ayub Mirza, a human rights activist, claimed in a tweet that there are only two ventilators in Gilgit-Baltistan.“They (government) receive funds and donations, but they use those funds for their own purpose and not for the welfare of people. However, they do not realise that it is the people who have mandated them to power and position. I hereby request the authorities to pay attention to this region, which was already deprived of rights. Now with coronavirus, the unemployment has grown massively,” Mohammad Bakar Mehedi, a lawyer based in Astore, told local media.Meanwhile, doctors at hospitals in Pakistan are bracing for a surge of Covid-19 patients as the country’s total number of confirmed coronavirus cases surpassed the number in neighbouring China.Pakistan’s confirmed cases jumped to 85,264 on Thursday after officials reported 4,688 new infections during the previous 24 hours and 82 deaths, a single-day record for virus-related fatalities.The developments prompted the government to order the closure of all shopping malls and markets where social distancing regulations are being ignored.Pakistan has witnessed a steady increase in infections and deaths since last month, when the government lifted a lockdown that was enforced in March to slow the spread of the new virus.A total of 1,770 people in Pakistan have died in the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/just-2-ventilators-no-medical-aid-pakistan-s-covid-19-hotspot-cries-for-help/story-Qrt81qhQXLQ8jMEIrccsTM.html
05-06-2020||World||Security fencing expanded around White House amid protests over Floyd’s death||Tall black security fencing was erected around the White House complex on Thursday, putting more distance between crowds protesting the death of Georg Floyd and the White House itself.The Secret Service in a statement said that Lafayette Park to the north of the White House, the Ellipse to its south and the area between NW 15th and NW 17th streets will be closed until June 10.Lafayette Park, a traditional place for protests, has been the site of several clashes between police and protesters in recent days, including when vandals set fire in a church building facing the park. Peaceful protesters on Monday were run out of the park by law enforcement shortly before President Trump walked through the area for a photo op in front of that church.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/security-fencing-expanded-around-white-house-amid-protests-over-floyd-s-death/story-acDQDKrT0uXrHmppcRsozK.html
05-06-2020||World||Brazil’s Covid-19 death toll surges to third-highest in world||Brazil’s death toll from the novel coronavirus has surged past 34,000 to become the third-highest in the world, surpassing Italy’s, according to official figures released Thursday.The South American country reported a new record of 1,473 deaths in 24 hours, bringing its overall toll to 34,021, behind only the United States and Britain.Brazil has now confirmed 614,941 infections, the health ministry said -- the second-largest caseload in the world, behind the US.Experts say under-testing in Brazil means the real numbers are probably much higher.The latest figures underlined the grim toll the virus is taking in Latin America, the latest epicenter in the pandemic.Brazil, a country of 210 million people, has been the hardest-hit in the region.President Jair Bolsonaro has fiercely criticized coronavirus stay-at-home measures, even as the number of infections and deaths continues to soar.The far-right leader has urged businesses to wage “war” on state governors who order business closures, arguing they are needlessly hurting Latin America’s biggest economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-covid-19-death-toll-surges-to-third-highest-in-world/story-mOnRQgMGV9yoYczEuJIAgL.html
05-06-2020||World||Worrying over future, Hong Kong defies ban to mark Tiananmen||Thousands of people in Hong Kong defied a police ban Thursday evening, breaking through barricades to hold a candlelight vigil on the 31st anniversary of China’s crushing of a democracy movement centered on Beijing’s Tiananmen Square.With democracy snuffed out in the mainland, the focus has shifted increasingly to semi-autonomous Hong Kong, where authorities for the first time banned the annual vigil that remembers victims of the 1989 crackdown.Beijing is taking a tougher stance following months of anti-government protests last year, in what activists see as an accelerating erosion of the city’s rights and liberties. Earlier Thursday, the Hong Kong legislature passed a law making it a crime to disrespect China’s national anthem. Pro-democracy lawmakers had disrupted proceedings to try to prevent the vote.Despite the police ban, crowds poured into Victoria Park to light candles and observe a minute of silence at 8:09 p.m. (1209 GMT, 8:09 a.m. EDT). Many chanted “Democracy now”and “Stand for freedom, stand with Hong Kong.”While police played recordings warning people not to participate in the unauthorized gathering, they did little to stop people from entering the park. Authorities had cited the need for social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic in barricading the sprawling park, but activists saw the outbreak as a convenient excuse.“If we don’t come out today, we don’t even know if we can still come out next year,” said participant Serena Cheung.Police said they made arrests in the city’s Mongkok district, where large crowds also rallied. When several protesters tried to block a road, officers rushed to detain them, using pepper spray and raising a blue flag to warn them to disperse or they would use force on the unauthorized gathering. On Twitter, they urged people not to gather in groups because of the coronavirus.After the vigil ended in Victoria Park, groups of protesters dressed in black carried flags that said, “Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of our times” as well as “Hong Kong Independence.”Hundreds and possibly thousands of people were killed when tanks and troops moved in on Tiananmen Square the night of June 3-4, 1989, to break up weeks of student-led protests that had spread to other cities and were seen as a threat to Communist Party rule.A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson offered the government’s standard defense of the 1989 crackdown.“The Chinese government has made a clear conclusion about the political disturbance that occurred in the late 1980s,” Zhao Lijian said. “The great achievements that we have achieved ... have fully demonstrated that the development path China has chosen is completely correct, which conforms to China’s national conditions and has won the sincere support of the Chinese people.”On Thursday, the square where thousands of students had gathered in 1989 was quiet and largely empty. Police and armored vehicles stood guard on the vast space. Few pedestrians lined up at security checkpoints, where they had to show IDs to be allowed through as part of nationwide mass surveillance to prevent any commemoration of the event.As has become customary, many dissidents were placed under house arrest and their communications with the outside world cut off, according to rights groups.“We all know the Hong Kong government and the Chinese government really don’t want to see the candle lights in Victoria Park,” said Wu’er Kaixi, a former student leader who was No. 2 on the government’s most-wanted list following the Tiananmen Square crackdown.“The Chinese Communists want us all to forget about what happened 31 years ago,” he told The Associated Press in Taiwan, where he lives. “But it is the Chinese government themselves reminding the whole world that they are the same government ... doing the same in Hong Kong.”China did not intervene directly in last year’s protests, despite speculation it might deploy troops, but backed the tough response of the Hong Kong police and government. Thousands were arrested in the demonstrations, which were sparked by now-abandoned legislation that could have allowed suspects to be sent to mainland China for trial.The cancellation of the vigil came amid a tightening of Beijing’s grip over Hong Kong. China’s ceremonial legislature last month ratified a decision to impose national security laws on Hong Kong, circumventing the city’s legislature and shocking many of its 7.5 million residents.The approval of the national anthem bill, viewed as an infringement on freedom of expression, followed the recent arrest of 15 veteran activists on charges of organizing and taking part in last year’s demonstrations. The moves are seen as part of a steady erosion of rights that Hong Kong was guaranteed when it was handed over from British to Chinese rule in 1997.“The ban comes amid an alarming acceleration of attacks on the autonomy of Hong Kong and the undermining of the rights and freedoms of the Hong Kong people guaranteed under Hong Kong and international law,” Sharon Hom, executive director of Human Rights in China, said in a statement.About 15 members of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic and Democratic Movements of China, the group that organizes the annual vigil, gathered at Victoria Park at 6:30 p.m. (1030 GMT, 6:30 a.m. EDT). They wore black shirts with the Chinese characters for “truth” emblazoned on the front.The activists lit candles and urged the public to do the same later to mourn victims of the massacre and show their support for the democratic cause in China.Alliance Chairman Lee Cheuk-yan then led the group of about 15 members in a candlelit procession around the perimeter of the park, shouting slogans including, “Stand with Hong Kong.”“We have been doing this for 30 years, we have the right to do this, this is a peaceful procession,” he said, stating that it would be absurd if this behavior is criminalized.The group later removed one of the barricades surrounding the park, and entered. Eventually, thousands followed.Lee said that the danger in the national security law is that Beijing will define what is a crime. “If we commemorate June 4th, condemn the massacre, (call for the) end of one-party rule, will this be labeled as subversion? We don’t know,” he said.Other vigils, virtual and otherwise, were held elsewhere, including in Taiwan, the self-ruled island democracy whose government called again this year for Beijing to own up to the facts of the crackdown.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted criticism of China and Hong Kong for banning the vigil earlier this week before meeting with a group of Tiananmen Square survivors at the State Department.Zhao, the Foreign Ministry spokesperson, said, “We urge the U.S. to abandon ideological prejudice, correct mistakes and stop interfering in China’s internal affairs in any form.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worrying-over-future-hong-kong-defies-ban-to-mark-tiananmen/story-i85cXqbYrms2vTA88ISvxK.html
05-06-2020||World||‘Get your knee off our necks!’: George Floyd mourned in Minneapolis||Hollywood celebrities, musicians and political leaders gathered in front of the golden casket of George Floyd at a fiery memorial Thursday for the man whose death at the hands of police sparked global protests, with a civil rights leader declaring it is time for black people to demand, “Get your knee off our necks!”The service — the first in a series of memorials set for three cities over six days — unfolded at a sanctuary at North Central University as a judge a few blocks away set bail at $750,000 each for the three fired Minneapolis police officers charged with aiding and abetting murder in Floyd’s death.“George Floyd’s story has been the story of black folks. Because ever since 401 years ago, the reason we could never be who we wanted and dreamed to be is you kept your knee on our neck,” the Rev. Al Sharpton said in a fierce eulogy. “It’s time for us to stand up in George’s name and say, ‘Get your knee off our necks!’”Floyd, a 46-year-old out-of-work bouncer, died May 25 after a white police officer, Derek Chauvin, put his knee on Floyd’s neck for several minutes as he lay handcuffed on the pavement, gasping that he couldn’t breathe. Chauvin has been charged with murder, and he and the others could get up to 40 years in prison.From coast to coast, and from Paris and London to Sydney and Rio de Janeiro, the chilling cellphone video of Floyd’s slow death has set off turbulent and sometimes violent demonstrations against police brutality, racism and inequality.Those gathered at Thursday’s tribute stood in silence for 8 minutes, 46 seconds, the amount of time Floyd was alleged to be on the ground under the control of police.Sharpton vowed that this will become a movement to “change the whole system of justice.”“Time is out for not holding you accountable! Time is out for you making excuses! Time is out for you trying to stall! Time is out for empty words and empty promses! Time is out for you filibustering and trying to stall the arm of justice!” he said.The service drew the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sen. Amy Klobuchar and other members of Congress, including Reps. Ilhan Omar, Sheila Jackson Lee and Ayanna Pressley. Among the celebrities in attendance were T.I., Ludacris, Tyrese Gibson, Kevin Hart, Tiffany Haddish and Marsai Martin.“All these people came to see my brother,” Philonise Floyd told the crowd at the memorial in awe as he recounted their childhoods playing catch and eating banana-mayonnaise sandwiches. “That’s amazing to me that he touched so many people’s hearts because he touched our hearts.” He and other family members spoke lovingly of Floyd, who was well over 6 feet tall, which earned him the nickname “Big George.”The casket was covered in red roses, and a vibrant image was projected above the pulpit of a mural of Floyd painted at the street corner where he was arrested by police on suspicion of passing a counterfeit $20 bill at a convenience store. The message on the mural: “I can breathe now.”The sanctuary normally seats 1,000, but because of the coronavirus outbreak, the capacity was reduced to about 500, and many mourners wore masks, some with “I can’t breathe” on them.Outside, hundreds chanted Floyd’s name as a hearse prepared to carry him away.After the Minneapolis event, his body will go to Raeford, North Carolina, near where he was born, for a public viewing and private family service on Saturday. A public viewing will be held Monday in Houston, where he was raised and lived most of his life.In the U.S., where protests had been marked by bouts of lawlessness since last week, relative quiet continued for a second straight night Wednesday following a decision by prosecutors to charge the three other officers at the scene and file a new, more serious count of murder against Chauvin.Meanwhile, in Georgia, a white father and son charged in another killing of a black man that has raised racial tensions in the U.S. made a court appearance Thursday via video. A state investigator testified that Travis McMichael was heard uttering a racist slur as he stood over the body of Ahmaud Arbery after killing him with three blasts from a pump-action shotgun.The new charges in Minneapolis punctuated an unprecedented week in recent American history, in which largely peaceful protests took place in communities of all sizes but were rocked by bursts of violence, including deadly attacks on officers, theft, vandalism and arson. In Minneapolis alone, more than 220 buildings were damaged or burned, with damage topping $55 million, city officials said.Nationwide, more than 10,000 people have been arrested, an Associated Press tally found. More than a dozen deaths have been reported, though the circumstances in many cases are still being sorted out.Demonstrations have been held around the globe, with protesters often focusing on abuses in their own countries.“It’s a solidarity question. We stand with our brothers, internationally, our sisters as well, but the same thing is happening here. It’s no different,” Isaak Kabenge said in Stockholm.___Sedensky reported from Philadelphia. Associated Press journalists across the U.S. and the world contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/get-your-knee-off-our-necks-george-floyd-mourned-in-minneapolis/story-HBXmW0mE6IVfphujgdYXUM.html
05-06-2020||World||Joe Biden, Donald Trump campaigns targeted by foreign hackers: Google||Campaign staffs for both President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden have been targeted recently by foreign hackers, Google researchers said Thursday, highlighting persistent data security concerns ahead of the November US election.A tweet from Google’s threat analysis chief Shane Huntley said the internet giant warned the Biden campaign about “phishing” efforts from China and the Trump campaign from Iran.“No sign of compromise. We sent users our govt attack warning and we referred to fed law enforcement,” Huntley wrote.The incidents nonetheless highlight fears about a repeat of a devastating data breach in 2016 involving the campaign of Hillary Clinton and a wide-ranging influence operation which officials said was directed from Russia.“This is a major disclosure of potential cyber-enabled influence operations, just as we saw in 2016,” Graham Brookie, director of the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensics Research Lab, said in a tweet.Brookie said the disclosure “is the cyber-enabled pre-cursor to potential influence operations. It’s a necessary reminder, especially to campaigns.”Huntley said the incidents should be a reminder to campaigns to take security precautions, including so-called two-factor authentication to verify users.He also noted that Google is offering free physical security key hardware and other assistance to US presidential and congressional campaigns.Microsoft warned last year that at least one presidential campaign was being targeted by an Iranian state-backed cyber operation. Reports said the effort targeted a Trump campaign staffer.A group Microsoft dubbed “Phosphorous” tried to identify email accounts of targets that included US officials, journalists covering global politics, prominent Iranians living outside that country and a presidential campaign.Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Twitter security teams met last year with FBI, homeland security and intelligence officials to discuss collaboration on election threats.rl/caw/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-donald-trump-campaigns-targeted-by-foreign-hackers-google/story-rRyMeUTKlGRytxCuE5KlaN.html
05-06-2020||World||Oxford vaccine clinical trials to take volunteers from Brazil||Brazil and Mexico reported record daily coronavirus death tolls as governments in South America battled to fortify defences against the pandemic with fresh lockdown orders and curfews.The World Health Organization (WHO) revealed that at least 100,000 infections were officially reported worldwide for each of the last five days, adding the Americas bore much of the brunt.Mexico on Wednesday announced more than 1,000 deaths in a day for the first time, while Brazil reported a record 1,349 daily deaths. The clinical trial for a vaccine conducted by experts at the University of Oxford will soon recruit 2,000 volunteers in Brazil The university said that on Tuesday, the Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency approved the inclusion of Brazil in the clinical trials. Scientists are resuming Covid-19 trials of the now world-famous drug hydroxychloroquine, as confusion continues to reign about the anti-malarial hailed by US President Donald Trump as a potential “game-changer” in fighting the pandemic. It follows widespread criticism of the quality of data in a study in The Lancet which found high risks associated with the treatment.Covid-19 continued to take a toll on US jobs, with another 1.9 million Americans filing for unemployment benefits, taking the number of those rendered jobless by the pandemic to cross 42 million. Layoffs have slowed down from the peak of 6.6 million in April, as all the 50 states have reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-vaccine-clinical-trials-to-take-volunteers-from-brazil/story-B2p1K3ClF0q75fa0245QMJ.html
05-06-2020||World||Defence leaders say no to Trump’s troops idea||In a clear rebuke to US President Donald Trump, former defence secretary James Mattis on Wednesday sided with people who had been protesting outside the White House over George Floyd’s killing.Mattis, who differs with Trump’s handling of the protests and his threats to deploy the military to end the unrest, joins a growing list of top defence leaders, past and present, who have either openly criticised Trump or distanced themselves from him.“Donald Trump is the first president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American people, does not even pretend to try. Instead he tries to divide us,” Mattis wrote in a statement to the news publication The Atlantic.His remarks came hours after Mark Esper, his successor at the Pentagon, tried to distance himself from Trump’s threat to use US military personnel against protesters.Esper said that he doesn’t support invoking the Insurrection Act, which is a significant departure from Trump’s plan to use the 200-year-old law to deploy military forces domestically.Demonstrations in cities across the US to condemn racism and police abuses remained large but subdued. At least 10,000 protesters have been arrested so far. On Wednesday, a police officer was stabbed and at least two people shot in Brooklyn, hours into the curfew in New York City.Former chairman of the US chiefs of staff Mike Mullen wrote in a piece in The Atlantic, “I am not convinced that the conditions on our streets have risen to the level that justifies a heavy reliance on military troops. Certainly, we have not crossed the threshold that would make it appropriate to invoke the provisions of the Insurrection Act.”John Allen, a retired general who headed US-led forces in Afghanistan, wrote in Foreign Policy, “Right now, the last thing the country needs is the appearance of US soldiers carrying out the president’s intent by descending on American citizens.”Trump is trying to convince various states to use military reservists of the National Guard, specially in New York City. “If they don’t get it straightened out soon, I’ll take care of it,” Trump told News Max TV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/defence-leaders-say-no-to-trump-s-troops-idea/story-lGglOWNXfdSZlK2Ec5qUDK.html
05-06-2020||India||UPSC to hold prelims on Oct 4, mains in Jan||New Delhi: The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), India’s principal government recruitment body, on Friday announced the dates for public service examinations that were deferred because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The preliminary civil services exam is scheduled to be held on October 4 and the main exam will be held over five days starting on January 8, UPSC said in a notification. UPSC postponed the exam from its original date of May 31 keeping in mind the fact that many candidates would be unable to reach their examination centres because of the lockdown caused by Covid-19 as well as the inability of states to host such a large-scale exercise.Nearly 1 million people register for the civil services preliminary examination every year and over 160,000 officials help conduct the exam across 2,500 centres for recruitment to the elite Indian Administrative Service and Indian Foreign Service and other services.“The fresh date will help students reach their exam centres on time,” an official in UPSC said on condition of anonymity. “ Other exams have also been scheduled keeping all the health factors and needs of both students and those conducting the exam in mind.” The Indian Forest Service preliminary exam will be held along with the UPSC preliminary. The National Defence Academy exam is scheduled for September 6 and the combined medical services examination is scheduled for October 22. B.S. Baswan, who led a panel on UPSC reforms, said the dates give UPSC sufficient time to put infrastructure in place for holding such a massive exam amid the coronavirus pandemic. “This will give the Commission time to get more invigilators and provide more space to ensure social distancing during the exam,” Baswan said. “They may also consider installing CCTV cameras. At the end of the day, conducting the exam will be a question of logistics.” According to an official at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, who requested anonymity, training g typically starts at the end of August and lasts until the end of May. Then the officers head to their respective districts to work under the district collector. After that, they return to the institute for five weeks to submit their dissertations. The last week of training g is spent in London or South Korea, honing their skills. They also pass a variety of exams during the year-long period. It is only after this that they start as assistant secretaries or sub-divisional magistrates, said the official. “If the main examinations are being held in January, then that implies that another seven to ten months have been added to the calendar,” said Padamvir Singh, former director of the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, the apex training institute for the civil services. “That implies the training will not change much as they will reach the academy by October. At most, the foundation course will have to be curtailed by a few months. But overall it is a little change in the cycle.”Anil Swarup, a former government of India secretary and author of the book Not Just A Civil Servant, concurred with Singh. “They have no other option,” said Swarup. “They have actually offered more time to prepare. Normally, between the prelims and the mains, you get three-and-a-half months. This time, it is four-and-a-half months.”Swarup added that after the interview, the foundation course will start. “It normally begins in September, but this time it will be in October this year, it won’t deter the calendar by much.” According to Palak Gupta from Chandigarh, who will write the civil services exam for the first time, the dates will give students enough time to prepare for the examinations. “Everyone was expecting that the exam will be held in August, they have given more time,” said Gupta, 24. “Things would have opened up a bit by then. Moreover, there will be enough time to prepare for the main exam.”Gupta said there was one catch. “Students will now have to study current affairs a lot more,” she said. “An additional three months, as well as all that has followed the coronavirus crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-to-hold-prelims-on-oct-4-mains-in-jan/story-uMuyQ3rP8Q8wggR4mTC48N.html
05-06-2020||India||Air India faces ‘overwhelming’ demand during bookings for Vande Bharat Mission Phase 3||Air India on Friday opened bookings for around 300 flights to various countries including the USA and the UK under phase-3 of the Vande Bharat Mission that resulted in “overwhelming” demand from travellers as the national carrier got six crore hits on its website during the first two hours of opening the bookings.Many travellers vented their ire on social media, stating that Air India’s website did not function properly during the first few hours of opening when most of the flights got sold out.The national carrier opened its bookings at 5 PM and it posted the following on Twitter at 6.08 PM on Friday: “Demand for seats from India on flights planned under Mission Vande Bharat-3 is overwhelming. Sectors/ Flights are being opened in a systematic manner for booking, on the website.” In response, a passenger named Vicky Ravi tweeted, “I’ve been trying to book flights for the last one hour, ur website crashed. Please kindly help me with the booking”.Another passenger named Mandeep Kaur said the website is “very slow and the system is crashing”. Many other passengers had similar complains about the overwhelmed booking system of the national carrier.Air India will operate around 300 flights to Europe, Australia, Canada, the USA, the UK and Africa between June 10 and July 1 during phase 3 of Vande Bharat Mission.The national carrier posted at 8.20 PM on Friday on Twitter: “Bookings for select destinations in USA,Canada,UK & Europe etc under Phase3 of #MissionVandeBharat opened at 5pm today. Around 60 million hits received till 7pm on our website & 1700 seats sold through the website alone in 2 hrs. Bookings continue & tickets are being issued.” In response, a passenger named Sarath Medasani said on Twitter: “What is the use @airindiain when your website is taking 10 mins from page to page navigation. This is not 2G time, the world is evolving using technologies but you guys are still stuck at olden times.(sic)” Another passenger named Navaneet Kumar responded: “Can you also project the number of misses? As people are getting frustrated of @airindiain service? What will you do with 60M hits if your system can process only 1700 requests in 2 hr window? “ While scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed on May 25 after a gap of two months, scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India.Under the Vande Bharat Mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express started operating international flights from May 7 onwards to repatriate stranded Indians from abroad. The first phase was from May 7 to May 16, following which the second phase began.Between May 7 and June 1, Air India group has operated a total 423 inbound international flights under the mission, bringing 58,867 Indian citizens back to the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-faces-overwhelming-demand-during-bookings-for-vande-bharat-mission-phase-3/story-OO1T19J4KylubnsCYqFtBN.html
05-06-2020||India||Maharashtra returnees drive biggest single-day rise in Karnataka Covid cases||Karnataka witnessed the biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases on Friday with the identification of 515 new patients, including 482 returnees from other states, 473 of which had come from Maharashtra alone. With Friday’s figures, the state’s tally of Covid-19 cases has reached 4,835, including 3,088 active cases, 1,688 recoveries and 57 deaths.With the reporting of a sixth of all active Covid cases in the state on Friday, alarm bells were ringing in the state government, though a health department official claimed that the jump was primarily due to increased testing –13,627 on Friday – and due to arrivals from hotspots like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. “Otherwise, local transmission is negligible,” he claimed on the condition of anonymity.The Kalyan- Karnataka region-- the northernmost tip of Karnataka-- including Kalburgi, Yadigir, Raichuru districts have seen the maximum spurt in cases.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesCoastal Karnataka district of Udupi, which is home to a number of returnees working in Mumbai hotels, tops the state with 685 active cases. Kalburgi, with 417 active cases, Yadgir with 345 and Raichur -318 share the second, third and the fourth spots among districts with most number of active Covid cases in the state.However, the official quoted above pointed out that the Covid-19 death rate in the state was just “a tad bit over 1%” and a third of all positive patients registered have been cured and discharged.Primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar, who has been the main spokesperson for the government on Covid-19 matters, did not address the media for the fifth day in succession but chose to tweet, saying “Bangalore’s population is estimated at 1.2 crores. In the last two months till yesterday, (the number of) those who tested positive for Covid were mere 424, in other words, just 0.003%”. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Meanwhile, despite the sharp jump in cases, the state government decided to further relax the lockdown norms and issued an SOP extending transport operation in the state into the night. All state-run transport buses will now be allowed to ply even at night. Earlier, the state had declared curfew between 9 pm and 5 am everyday, in line with the central notification governing Unlock 1. It has also permitted cabs, autos and taxis to ferry passengers who have valid tickets to commute on these state-run transport buses at night.Leader of opposition (LoP) in the assembly, Siddaramiah also attacked the handling of the pandemic by the state government. Speaking to reporters in Mysore, Siddarimah said “The state government has been very lax in the way it has handled the ongoing pandemic and the resultant economic fallout in spite of opposition extending its full cooperation to the ruling establishment. They are neither responsible in the manner they have handled the pandemic, nor are responsive to the needs of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-returnees-drive-biggest-single-day-rise-in-karnataka-covid-cases/story-dOkWpXhft0qvhgOBqaWAvM.html
05-06-2020||India||Goa won’t allow mass events at religious places to prevent Covid explosion||The Goa government will allow the reopening of malls and restaurants from Monday onwards but has barred mass prayers and gatherings at religious places, chief minister Pramod Sawant has said. “No functions can be held in religious places. We have said that if temples, churches and mosques open, then groups of people coming and performing prayers or aarti will not be allowed, it should be limited to routine pooja for individuals or individuals taking darshan,” Sawant said.The decision would mean that churches, temples and mosques cannot have large gatherings for pooja, Mass celebrations or community prayers, but private ‘darshan’ or private prayer within the premises of these churches would be allowed.Church authorities in Goa have said that they were not planning on throwing open the churches for the congregation and would only do so unless specifically permitted by the government. The central government has allowed for the reopening of religious places from June 8 onwards but social distancing is virtually impossible for holding Mass celebrations in churches.Resumption of Vaishno Devi yatra may take a while as shrine officials await SOPsCurrently all religious services involving participation of the public are not allowed; the priests are allowed to perform pooja individually within the temple and in churches, priests are allowed to celebrate Mass but without the participation of people. “We will not begin the celebration of Mass with the people unless the Goa government gives us guidance and the SOPs and until it is safe to do so. Safety is the key word,” Fr Joaquim Loiola Pereira, Secretary to the Archbishop of Goa has said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSeveral churches including the Archbishop of Goa have been streaming the religious services live for the benefit of their congregations. Despite the centre allowing the reopening of religious places, several persons have expressed apprehension that it would lead to these places becoming hotspots for community transmission. “Precautions have to be taken. Community transmissions should not happen. I will request the Archbishop to delay the opening of the church in Goa for the general public. It is because there is transmission happening,” Michael Lobo, minister in the Goa government said. “I feel the temple heads should also reconsider after what has happened in Vasco. We should not be the reason. I’m just saying where people can gather we have to curtail,” he said. The chief minister has also said that written orders which will detail the measures needed to be taken by restaurants and malls for reopening from June 8, will be issued soon. “From the 8th onwards, malls and restaurants have been allowed. We will issue the norms and the SOPs. We will allow them to reopen after following social distancing norms,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-won-t-allow-mass-events-at-religious-places-to-prevent-covid-explosion/story-3hLWmc3j5SPXYyKMTOquBK.html
05-06-2020||India||Mamata sharpens attack on BJP, asks party to prepare for the 2021 elections||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) helmswoman Mamata Banerjee on Friday sharpened attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) without naming it, and later, also asked her own party to work keeping the 2021 assembly elections in mind.These developments came following BJP’s launch of its 2021 electoral campaign branded as ‘Aar Noi Mamata’, literally meaning no more Mamata and in essence calling for the toppling of the TMC regime next year in May. BJP has also announced a series of ‘virtual rallies’ concerning five parts of the state. The first such ‘rally’, to be attended by party workers using mobile applications and broadcast live on social media, would be addressed by union home minister Amit Shah on June 9.On Friday afternoon, while attending a government programme on world environment day, CM Banerjee took digs at the BJP for launching political campaign when the state was battling with the Covid-19 situation and the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan.“At a time we are fighting disasters, a political party is everyday calling for our removal from power. Is this the time for politics? Why, I am not calling for Narendra Modi’s removal from Delhi? That’s because we don’t consider this to be an appropriate time for politics. Go and serve the people, plant trees and clean ponds. You guys were hiding for three months at a ‘video corner’ of your home while we were working on the field,” Banerjee said.Also Read: We must work together to restore greenery devastated by cyclone Amphan: CM Mamata BanerjeeShe said Bengal will defeat, “the coronavirus, the disaster and the conspiracies”.Later, in the evening, she convened a meeting of the party, including its state and district-level leadership, over videoconferencing.“During the meeting she told us that the BJP has started its electoral campaign and that we, too, will have to work keeping the elections in mind. She said we have to effectively counter BJP’s propaganda and highlight the good work of our government in the past nine years,” said the president of a district unit of TMC who did not want to be named.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBJP, which recently released a nine-point charge sheet against the Mamata Banerjee government, on Friday rubbished Banerjee’s allegations of playing politics in the times of a crisis.“She is playing politics. The ration and the relief system have been hijacked by the ruling party. Our party’s leaders were not allowed to carry out relief work. The police have been politicised and used to book our leaders in false cases. We have rightly called for the removal of an undemocratic, corrupt and anti-people government,” said BJP state unit president Dilip Ghosh(COPY ENDS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-sharpens-attack-on-bjp-asks-party-to-prepare-for-the-2021-elections/story-pMEEbRHDCdJUdNeLBuSvON.html
05-06-2020||India||‘On emotions, not official’: CRPF on jawans taking oath to shun China goods||A video featuring personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) taking a pledge to boycott Chinese goods was the result of “emotions” and is “not the official stand”, said a spokesperson from the world’s largest paramilitary force.Officials said the incident reportedly took place on June 2 at a force camp in Sopore in north Kashmir prompting the CRPF to issue a statement, saying “there is a video going viral on social media regarding some CRPF personnel taking a pledge not to use foreign goods”, adding that they are looking into the matter.“This is not the official stand of CRPF and some personnel of a unit based in Kashmir have taken the pledge out of emotions at local-level,” said DIG Dinakaran, spokesperson, CRPF.In the video, a group of men dressed in combat uniform standing in a row in an open field are seen taking oath in Hindi by raising hands to boycott Chinese products: electronic goods, clothes, food, among other things. Recently, Ladakh-based innovator and educationist Sonam Wangchuk had appealed to Indians to boycott Chinese products in the backdrop of the recent standoff between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Wagchuk’s video from Ladakh drew over 20 lakh views in two days but he says that those should be converted into something concrete that would bite the Chinese government.He insisted the people’s “wallet power” could be an ideal supplement for the army’s capabilities to safeguard our borders in Ladakh.India’s trade deficit with China is massive at $56.77 billion. The bilateral trade between India and China was $93 billion last year after it fell by about $3 billion as both countries experienced economic slowdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-emotions-not-official-crpf-on-its-men-taking-oath-to-shun-china-goods/story-GqpdnQPv9tAuh4d1h4zlrO.html
05-06-2020||India||In historic departure, Snana Purnima held in Jagannath temple sans devotees||For the first time in the history of the 12th century Jagannath temple, the Snana Purnima festival was held without a single devotee entering the temple premises on Friday due to the government’s order to bar their entry in view of Covid-19 pandemic.With Covid-19 cases surging in Odisha by leaps and bounds, Snana Purnima of Lord Jagannath, the most important festival preceding the Rath Yatra, was held without the presence of a single devotee as the Puri district administration imposed section 144 of CrPC around the temple to prevent congregation of devotees.Chief administrator of Jagannath temple, Dr Krishan Kumar said around 800 temple priests were involved during Snana Purnima and all of them had undergone Covid-19 test to rule out any chances of spreading the infection. “This must be the first time in the history of the temple that the festival was held without the presence of devotees,” he said.Puri district collector Balwant Singh said in view of Covid-19, the government had decided to celebrate the ‘Snana Purnima’ festival with a limited number of servitors to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines. “Devotees were barred as it would have been impossible to adhere to social distancing norms with thousands of them converging in the temple. They however could see the rituals through live telecast on television,” he said.Also Read: Resumption of Vaishno Devi yatra may take a while as shrine officials await SOPsDIG of Police (Central Range) Asish Singh said 38 platoons of police force, each consisting of around 33 personnel, were deployed to prevent any untoward incident.As per the rituals of Snana Purnima, the three deities were taken out of the main temple soon after midnight in a procession by a select group of priests to the bathing pedestal called Snana Bedi inside the temple premises. The priests then poured 108 pitchers of aromatic waters mixed with turmeric, sandalwood and flowers on them amid chanting of hymns. While 33 pitchers of water were poured on Lord Balabhadra, it was 35 for Lord Jagannath, 22 for Devi Subhadra and 18 for Lord Sudarshan.After completion of the bathing ceremony, the deities were then decked up in ‘Sada Besha’ and later in the day they adorned Hati Besha (a form of Lord Ganesha). While Lord Jagannatha and Lord Balaram were dressed like elephants, Goddess Subhadra wears a lotus flower Besha. This year the devotees saw the Besha of deities on TV.Also Read: Tirumala temple opens for public on June 11, separate hour for VIP darshanWhile devotees could not enter the temple, Puri King Gajapati Maharaj Dibyasingha Deb, too, missed the ceremonial sweeping of Chhera Panhara. Dibyasingh Deb later said he decided to stay at home in compliance with the government’s Covid-19 guidelines, which bars persons over 65 years of age from venturing out. “I opted out as I am over the age prescribed by the government. This is the second time I missed doing the ceremonial sweeping,” he said. In his absence, his representative performed the ritual.The deities will fall sick after the ceremonial bath and recuperate inside the temple till they get well a day before the Rath Yatra.Rath Yatra is likely to be held on June 23 this year with government permission, but without the presence of a million plus devotees. Pending government permission, the temple management has started building the three chariots taking adequate precaution such as adhering to social distancing norms and testing all the carpenters for Covid-19.Puri king Gajapati Maharaj Dibya Singha Deb, the ceremonial first priest of Lord Jagannath, said that Rath Yatra can only be held if the state government ensures that no devotees are allowed into the Grand Road leading to the temple.“Rath Yatra can be possible in absence of devotees on the Grand Road with only officials, police and priests. Devotees can have darshan of the Rath Yatra in their homes through TV,” said Dibya Singha Deb. He added that the managing committee of the temple has decided to keep the temple closed for the public till the three deities return back to the temple, 9 days after the Rath Yatra.If no devotees would be allowed to congregate on the Grand Road, then the government may need at least 2000 policemen to pull the three chariots. Officials said that as observing social distancing norms would not be possible during pulling of chariots, all the policemen would need to be tested for Covid-19 and kept in isolation before the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-historic-departure-snana-purnima-held-in-jagannath-temple-sans-devotees/story-bLdhKSd4LHjWQxffSSvAcP.html
05-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: DGCA committee explains middle seats vacant move, says PPE prevents virus spread and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PPE prevents spread of Covid-19: DGCA committee on leaving middle seats vacantThe Bombay high court (HC) has directed all the airlines providing domestic and international flight services, including the Vande Bharat Mission rescue mission for stranded Indian nationals abroad, to adhere to the May 31 guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) until it pronounces its order in a writ petition filed by a pilot of the national carrier, Air India.Read more. PM Modi, his govt only know how to manufacture jumlas: CongressThe Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan of “vocal for local” to make the country self-reliant was yet another ‘jumla’ (rhetoric) to divert the people’s attention from real issues. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal alleged that the prime minister and his government could only manufacture jumlas, statements and slogans, and asked how India can become self-reliant till it creates innovation and intellectual property in its universities.Read more. Vaishno Devi Yatra may take little longer to resume, SOPs awaitedAmid Centre’s nod to reopen religious places from June 8, the spade work has also begun to resume pilgrimage to the world famous Vaishno Devi Shrine nestled amidst Trikuta hills in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir.Read more. Soldier from Tamil Nadu dies in Pak shelling at LoC, army pays last respectsAn Indian Army soldier from Tamil Nadu was killed in the ceasefire violation by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir late on Thursday, officials said on Friday.Read more. US approves loans, investments worth over $340 million for projects in IndiaThe US has approved loans and investments worth more than $340 million for Indian firms and organisations as part of its efforts to uplift under-served communities around the world against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.Read more. Pandemic effect: Undecided on exams, new session, Bihar varsities await guidelinesThe universities in Bihar, always struggling with delayed academic sessions, are still undecided on how they would conduct their examinations in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic and are awaiting guidelines from the Chancellor office.Read more. 6 weeks, ₹87 crore: Rounding up all of Reliance Jio investments so farSaying that Reliance Jio has been on a roll will not justify a feat like this. In six weeks, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has managed to raise ₹87,655.35 crore from foreign investors. This includes its latest deal with Abu Dhabi-based investor Mubadala Investment Company who will be investing ₹9,093.60 crore in Jio Platforms, as announced today.Read more. ‘Do you feel I deserve this?’Mashrafe Mortaza unhappy with BCB trying to rush his retirementFormer Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza has admitted he was hurt the way the Bangladesh team management wanted to shove him out of the team and into retirement. The topic of Mortaza’s retirement started doing the rounds after last year’s World Cup following Bangladesh’s ouster ahead of the semifinals, and even though he’s continued to play on, the fast bowler decided to step down as the team’s ODI captain in March this year.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-dgca-committee-explains-middle-seats-vacant-move-says-ppe-prevents-virus-spread-and-all-the-latest-news/story-edspXzSLE8NmMc32n69IXJ.html
05-06-2020||India||‘Peaceful discussions’: India, China hold diplomatic parleys on LAC standoff||A day ahead of crucial talks between Indian and Chinese army commanders on the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the two sides agreed on Friday to handle their differences through peaceful dialogue while respecting each other’s concerns.Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry held a meeting with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference and reviewed bilateral relations, including the “current developments”, according to a readout from the Indian side.This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC following violent clashes between hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early last month. Army officers of the two sides have held several meetings along the LAC but were unable to break the impasse.Both sides agreed that in accordance with the guidance provided by their leadership, they “should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes”, the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement without giving details.The two sides “recalled the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, that peaceful, stable and balanced relations between India and China will be a positive factor for stability in the current global situation”.The officials of the two sides also exchanged views on the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and cooperation at different multilateral forums.India and China have been in touch through diplomatic and military channels in New Delhi and Beijing to address the border tensions. Joint secretary Srivastava has been involved in these contacts, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The people also acknowledged Friday’s meeting was meant to set the stage for the meeting on June 6 between the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, and his Chinese counterpart.The army commanders are meeting almost a month after tensions between India and China flared along the LAC, taking bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC and accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has also made it clear that it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-talks-at-highest-diplomatic-level-since-standoff-at-lac/story-WKn82u3mtojd1Bp0CRo2eP.html
05-06-2020||India||Soldier from Tamil Nadu dies in Pak shelling at LoC, army pays last respects||An Indian Army soldier from Tamil Nadu was killed in the ceasefire violation by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir late on Thursday, officials said on Friday.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said Havaldar Mathiazhagan P died in the shelling on Thursday night and added that he belonged to Sreerangai Kadu village in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district.“Our troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Havaldar Mathiazhagan P was critically injured. The soldier was evacuated to Army Hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries,” Lt Col Anand said.Mathiazhagan P was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier, Anand said.“The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.His body will be taken by road from Akhnoor to Jammu and then to Delhi in an aircraft. From the national capital it will be taken to Coimbatore, the official said.Pakistan also violated the ceasefire in the front sector of Poonch district on Thursday night.Also Read: Ahead of talks with China over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approachThe army officer also said that Pakistan initiated unprovoked fire at about 10:45pm with small arms and shelling with mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kirni sector in adjoining Poonch district.The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he added.The spokesperson said that a large scale search has begun in Kalakote of Rajouri district after a terrorist was killed by security forces in an operation in the area late on Thursday.“Acting upon hard intelligence, security forces eliminated one terrorist in Dharmsal village in Kalakote area of Rajouri district,” he said.According to a local, security forces exchanged fire with terrorists in Dharmsal village around 8.15pm on Thursday.Also Read: In rebuttal to Pak, India quotes Imran Khan’s ‘40,000 terrorists’ remarkThere has been a spurt in terror attacks and infiltration bids in Jammu and Kashmir during the lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pakistan has been relentlessly opening heavy fire on Indian posts and villages along the 744-km LoC for more than two and a half months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-from-tamil-nadu-dies-in-pak-shelling-at-loc-army-pays-last-respects/story-N8NXqLeYgUfuILgbRnol9N.html
05-06-2020||India||Vaishno Devi Yatra may take little longer to resume, SOPs awaited||Amid Centre’s nod to reopen religious places from June 8, the spade work has also begun to resume pilgrimage to the world famous Vaishno Devi Shrine nestled amidst Trikuta hills in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir.However, unlike other shrines like Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which are re-opening on June 8, pilgrimage to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi may take a little longer up to the second week of June.“Sanitisation drives are being conducted on twin tracks, sanctum sanctorum and at Katra town. Circles are also being marked outside the Yatra Parchi (token) counter at the Bhawan and the two helipads at Katra and Sanji Chhat to ensure social distancing. However, final call on the resumption of Yatra may take a day or two,” said official sources.They said that the famous pilgrimage may not resume from June 8.Also Read: Amarnath Yatra: Special religious ceremony to be performed in Jammu on Friday“SOPs are yet to be finalized and a decision on it is likely at the State Administrative Council meeting, going to be chaired by the lieutenant governor GC Murmu on Saturday. The call of suspending the Yatra on March 18 due to Covid had also come from the administration,” they added.Shrine officials also said that circles have been marked on gate number 1, 2 and 3 at the sanctum sanctorum and white-washing has also been sped up.It has also been learnt that initially local pilgrims will be allowed to visit the cave shrine.“The pilgrimage remains suspended since March 18 and it’s very depressing to see deserted sanctum sanctorum, twin tracks and Katra town. But we eagerly look forward to the pilgrims, who are also waiting anxiously to pay obeisance at the shrine,” said sources.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesApart from the helicopter service, the shrine board also provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims.Officials quoted above also said that helicopter companies engaged by the shrine board may hike their fares by 60 percent following the resumption of the pilgrimage.Earlier, one way fare from Katra to Sanji Chhat was Rs 1,045 and two-way fare cost Rs 2,090, but now it may go up to Rs 1,730 for one way travel and Rs 3,460 for a return trip.Vaishno Devi cave shrine is situated at an altitude of 5,200 ft in Trikuta Hills of Reasi district, a pilgrimage cum tourist destination that attracted 104.95 lakh pilgrims (10.4 million) in 2012, 93.24 lakh visitors in 2013, 78.03 lakh in 2014, 77.76 lakh in 2015, 77.23 lakh in 2016, 85.87 lakh in 2018 and 79.40 lakh in 2019.Mata Vaishno Devi is believed to be an embodiment of Goddess Mahakali, Mahalakshmi and Mahasaraswati and is held with utmost reverence by the Shaktas (Devi worshippers). The cave shrine is one of the rare Shakti Peethas.No decision of annual Chamliyal Mela on Indo-Pak BorderDue to Covid-19 pandemic, uncertainty also looms over the annual Chamliyal Mela held at the Indo-Pak border in Samba district on the last Thursday of the month of June every year.“We are still not clear and await instructions from top authorities,” said officials from Samba district administration.Every year thousands of devotees on either sides of the Indo-Pak International Border participate in the separate fairs at the Hindu shrine of Baba Dalip Singh Manhas, popularly known as ‘Baba Chamliyal’.For the past two years—2018 and 2019, Pak Rangers have not participated in the Mela due to escalating tension between the two countries.On June 12, 2018, Pakistan Rangers had attacked the Chamliyal border outpost killing four BSF personnel, including an assistant commandant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishno-devi-yatra-may-take-little-longer-to-resume-sops-awaited/story-3RroVsJmBLLX2vRbz5VLOL.html
05-06-2020||India||Tirumala temple opens for public on June 11, separate hour for VIP darshan||The famous temple of Lord Venkateshwara on the Tirumala hills in Andhra Pradesh will be thrown open for darshan to the general public from across the country from June 11 but with stringent restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.“We shall conduct a trial with employees of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on June 8 and 9 and with local people on Tirumala hills on June 10. From the next day, the temple will be thrown open for common devotees,” TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy told reporters.According to Reddy, the Tirumala temple will remain open for darshan of the Lord between 6.30 am and 7.30 pm every day. On an average, 500 pilgrims will be allowed in the queue at any point of time during this period.Approximately, 6,000-7,000 devotees can have darshan every day, which is around one-tenth of the footfall during normal days. The temple was closed on March 19 ahead of the nationwide lockdown.“No darshan would be allowed for senior citizens above 65 years of age and children below 10 years. Similarly, people coming from containment zones are also barred from entering the temple and their credentials would be verified at Alipiri, the foothills of the Tirumala,” Reddy said.The temple will release 3,000 darshan tokens every day. Another 3,000 offline tickets will be issued at the counters in Alipiri check point, the entrance to the hill. Online tickets for the month of June will be released on June 8.The queue lines will be sanitised once in every two hours. Devotees will not be given Satari (Blessing with symbolic representation of the Lord’s feet placed on the devotee’s head) and Theertham (holy water).Every devotee would be subjected to thermal screening and some would be taken for random Covid-19 tests. Wearing of face masks and maintaining six feet distance between any two persons at any point are mandatory. “The devotees will not be allowed to take bath in Srivari Pushkarini (holy tank of the temple) and have darshan of other associated temples on the hills,” he said.Reddy said an hour will be kept aside for VIPs darshans from 6.30 am every day. Vehicles will be sanitised at Alipiri check point before being allowed on to the hill.With regard to accommodation for pilgrims on the hills, the TTD chairman said only two persons would be allowed to stay in one room in the TTD guest houses. Stay cannot be extended beyond one day. “No permission will be given to private hotels and guest houses,” Reddy said.The temple administration is yet to decide on running the tonsuring facility. Tonsuring is one of the important offerings by devotees visiting Tirumala hill shrine.The TTD chairman requested devotees not to touch the Hundis (offerings boxes). The pilgrims would have to go through a herbal sanitisation chamber to approach Hundi where they could drop money without touching it.Anna Prasadam (food) section will have limited number of devotees. Laddu Prasadam counters will be changed every two hours for sake of sanitisation.Meanwhile, the temple administration has decided to stop door delivery of laddus that was introduced recently. The temple has been selling laddus at half the price for the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirumala-temple-opens-on-june-11-decision-on-hair-offering-awaited/story-AHlLnYRCPE8IWehStH4DlO.html
05-06-2020||India||J&K politician Shah Faesal put under house arrest after revocation of PSA||Former IAS officer turned politician Shah Faesal was put under house arrest by Jammu and Kashmir administration a day after he was released from detention following revocation of stringent Public Security Act (PSA) against him. Shah Faesal, along with former minister Sartaj Madni and Peer Mansoor, former political secretary of Mehbooba Mufti, was released on Wednesday after spending close to 10 months in detention since August 14.After his release, Shah Faesal went to his house at Ompora in Budgam district, where he was visited by some of his close friends and associates. However, the former bureaucrat was soon asked to move to his official residence at Jawahar Nagar, where was put under house arrest on Thursday with policemen guarding him. Some of the close associates of the former bureaucrat alleged that they were not allowed to meet him.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA senior police officer said there are certain restrictions imposed on the former IAS officer.The revocation order of Shah Faesal and other two leaders were signed by J&K’s home secretary Shaleen Kabra on Wednesday. Faesal was first slapped with the PSA in February this year which was extended by three months on May 13. However, the order was revoked after 20 days.Former J&K chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sager and former J&K ministers, Nayeem Akthar and Hilal Akbar Lone continue to be in detention. Former J&K chief ministers and National Conference leaders, Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah, were released from detention earlier this year.Also Read: Amarnath Yatra: Special religious ceremony to be performed in Jammu on FridayShah Faesal was first detained at the Delhi airport on August 14, 2019, after he reached the capital from Srinagar and was sent back to Kashmir. In Srinagar, he was detained at the Centaur Hotel and later at the MLA hostel. He is not the only one to have been put under house arrest after revocation of detention orders or release from jail. Several NC and PDP leaders have been put under house arrest after being released from detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-politician-shah-faesal-put-under-house-arrest-after-revocation-of-psa/story-xkwxRTKVpiMzkeZ0n7wvDO.html
05-06-2020||India||PPE prevents spread of Covid-19: DGCA committee on leaving middle seats vacant||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed all the airlines providing domestic and international flight services, including the Vande Bharat Mission rescue mission for stranded Indian nationals abroad, to adhere to the May 31 guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) until it pronounces its order in a writ petition filed by a pilot of the national carrier, Air India.The pilot had opposed Air India’s move to fill up the middle seats on flights that the DGCA’s March 23 order had ordered to keep vacant in a bid to adhere to social distancing norms because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.He had moved court after he flew on a special Vande Bharat Mission flight to repatriate stranded Indian nationals from abroad and found that Air India authorities were flouting the DGCA norms about keeping the middle seats on a flight empty. The expert committee of the DGCA issued a clarification to the court that SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, could spread by an inadvertent touch only if a non-infected person touched a droplet from the sneeze or cough of an infected person.The panel clarified to a two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade, that a proper personal protective equipment (PPE) kit prevents the spread of the viral infection.It explained that the infection can spread, “if a surface such as a cloth is infected with Covid-19 virus (such infection will take place when a droplet from the mouth or nose – through sneezing or coughing -- of an infected person sits on such a surface) and a non-infected person touches it and then touches his mouth or nose, then there are chances that the second person may get infected. This is the reason why it is recommended that a person should disinfect his hands regularly.”It added, “If an infected person merely touches a non-infected person, the virus will not be transmitted unless the condition mentioned above are fulfilled. The transmission has to take place through the droplet carrying the virus sitting on clothes and ultimately these reaching the mouth, nose, or eyes of the other person.”Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, while referring to the committee’s response, informed the court, “If an infected person is wearing a protective gown and a non-infected person is sitting next to him/her, even if the infected person’s clothes have the virus sitting on it, the protective gown would insulate this person and if the neighbouring person in inadvertently touches the gown, this person will not be infected as the gown would provide the necessary shield.”Carriers such as IndiGo, GoAir, SpiceJet and Air India have cited their inability to keep the middle seats on flights empty because of fliers’ high demand, but stated that they are taking all necessary precautionary measures such as providing PPE kits to all their passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ppe-prevents-spread-of-covid-19-dgca-expert-committee-to-hc-on-leaving-middle-seats-vacant/story-Ii0txXHsTpkNDgV9y8QC4O.html
05-06-2020||India||Kolkata’s containment zone area trimmed to give more people liberties||With restrictions being gradually eased during Unlock 1 phase, the area of Kolkata’s containment zones is shrinking as the city administration allows more relaxations for the residents.Earlier an entire campus or an apartment was tagged as a containment zone after any resident tested positive, but with the new rules coming in, only the tower in which the patient resides would be declared a containment zone.“In case there are multiple patients from the same campus and they reside in different blocks or towers, then the entire campus would be identified as a containment zone,” said Firhad Hakim, chairperson of the board of administrators that presently run the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSimilar relaxations are also being allowed in slums that would result in containment of pockets therein instead of the entire slum area. Slums have common toilets and water sources.“Only those households that use the toilet or the water source used by the patient will now be identified as containment zones,” he added.More than one third of the Covid-19 cases in West Bengal have been reported from Kolkata. While West Bengal has registered a total of 6,876 cases, Kolkata has registered 2,488 of those. Out of 283 deaths caused by Coved-19, 182 have been reported from Kolkata alone. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The union government has recently stressed that the boundary of containment zones should be based on factors like mapping of cases and contact-tracing of Covid-19 patients and their spread. Union cabinet secretary had also held a video conference with municipal commissioners and district magistrates of 13 cities including Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai in this regard in the last week of May. “An area will automatically come out of the containment zone marked in red and enter the green zone if no positive case surfaced in two weeks,” said a top official of the KMC.The union government, however, has made it clear that the resumption of some activities will be done in phases. Enough space has been left for states to tweak the relaxations as per the conditions prevailing in their jurisdictions. A senior official of the city’s civic body also said that random screening tests – Oximetre tests - would be carried out in Kolkata’s municipal markets.“Also we have seen that even though the spread of coronavirus in slums has been somewhat contained, over the past few days most of the cases are being reported from apartments, campuses and individual houses,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the KMC’s board of administrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-s-containment-zone-area-trimmed-to-give-more-people-liberties/story-LxYjWoTJkJkJoDP5cpUk8N.html
05-06-2020||India||US approves loans, investments worth over $340 million for projects in India||The US has approved loans and investments worth more than $340 million for Indian firms and organisations as part of its efforts to uplift under-served communities around the world against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.Most of these loans were part of $1 billion in investments approved recently by the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC)’s board of directors to advance development in Africa, Latin America, the Indo-Pacific, and emerging markets.Several of the projects will support developing countries reeling from the impact of Covid-19 and include first transactions using equity and technical assistance, said a statement from the US embassy.A $142-million loan to help ReNew Power construct and operate a 300 MW solar power plant in Rajasthan is aimed at strengthening energy security in India. Another $50-million loan will enable Sitara Solar Energy Private Ltd to build and operate a 100 MW solar power plant in Rajasthan to enhance power supply.A $50-million loan will help Northern Arc Capital extend loans to businesses that expand access to water, sanitation and food or advance women’s economic empowerment.A $27.3-million loan will enable Paryapt Solar Energy Private Ltd to build and operate a 50 MW solar power plant in Gujarat, while a $14.6-million loan guarantee to World Business Capital will support the expansion of a student loan programme and increase access to education.Up to $20 million in equity will be provided to Freshtohome to deliver affordable fish, meat, and produce across India. In addition to strengthening food security, the project will support more than 1,500 farmers and fishermen, the statement said.An investment of up to $30 million in the South Asia Growth Fund II will support businesses in the energy, water and food sectors. The fund aims to promote sustainable access to and efficient use of these scarce resources.A $2.7-million loan guarantee to Stellapps Technologies will advance innovative solutions that streamline the dairy value chain. Another $10-million loan will help Milk Mantra, a dairy company committed to ethical sourcing from more than 60,000 smallholder farmers, many of them women, expand its operations in eastern India.Up to $371,000 in technical assistance will also support Milk Mantra to produce and sell dairy products in eastern India. This technical assistance is intended to enhance the impact of an approved DFC loan to the project by sharing the costs of services.The $1 billion of investments mark one of the largest tranches approved during a board meeting under DFC and its predecessor agency. “These projects will uplift some of the most underserved communities around the world,” said DFC CEO Adam Boehler.“The impact of these projects will be particularly meaningful as the world continues to fight the health and economic fallout of the pandemic.”The approved projects will strengthen health systems, bolster food security, and support other impactful development outcomes. Several projects expand access to financial services for women, small businesses, and other underserved groups. DFC also approved loans and investments in Southeast Asia, Africa, Latin America and South America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-approves-loans-investments-worth-over-340-million-for-projects-in-india/story-KUNDiCvE1L7ysXbE6fLDUP.html
05-06-2020||India||30-year-old man jumps into tiger enclosure at Aurangabad zoo: Official||A mentally unwell man jumped into a tiger enclosure at a zoo in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad city on Tuesday morning but was rescued by guards in time, an official said.The 30-year-old man jumped from the compound wall at the rear side of Siddharth zoo and managed to get to the core area of the big cat’s enclosure, the civic official said.No one saw him scale the compound wall, which has broken glass pieces embedded at the top, and jump into the enclosure, the official said.“We spotted him in the service area of enclosure on Tuesday morning after which zoo guards rescued him and handed him over to the police.“The glass pieces on the wall have become blunt due to passage of time, and we plan to fence this part of the wall soon,” said the official.A Kranti Chowk police station official said the man, who appeared to be mentally unwell, was handed over to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-year-old-man-jumps-into-tiger-enclosure-at-aurangabad-zoo-official/story-qwtWNgCZmoaT1lmglHVW8H.html
05-06-2020||India||Markaz management deliberately disobeyed police directions, Centre tells SC||The Markaz that organised the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March deliberately disobeyed directions from authorities despite being informed of the situation arising from the spread of Covid-19, the Central government told the Supreme Court on Friday.The Centre, in an affidavit filed through Ram Vilas Premi, under secretary in the home ministry, said the Markaz’s management was contacted by Delhi Police on March 21 and informed of the risk posed by Covid-19. The organisation was asked to send back foreign members of the Jamaat to their countries and Indian members to their states.“However, no one paid any heed to the lawful directions of Delhi Police and to the contrary, an audio recording purportedly by Maulana Mohd Saad, head of the Tablighi Jamaat, was found to be in circulation on social media in which the speaker was heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend the religious gathering of Markaz,” the affidavit said.The risk posed by Covid-19 was subsequently conveyed to Saad and the Markaz’s management on several occasions during meetings held in the police station but the organisation “deliberately disobeyed” the directions of authorities, the Centre said.“Maulana Mohd Saad and Markaz management did not inform any health department or government agency about the huge gathering inside the Markaz. Written notices were also issued to Maulana Saad and Markaz management. However, they refused to pay any heed,” it alleged. The Nizamuddin area of Delhi was sealed on March 30 after it came to light that many people, who attended a religious event organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in March, were found to be infected by the Coronavirus. At least 16,500 people visited the Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin during March 13-24.A person named Supriya Pandita approached the Supreme Court in April to seek a CBI probe into alleged lapses by the Delhi government and Delhi Police that led to the congregation at the Markaz.“Ignoring all social distancing norms to avoid the deadly coronavirus, hundreds had been staying in the 100-year-old mosque since March 8. More than 2,000 delegates from Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan attended the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat,” Pandita told the court.The Supreme Court sought the Centre’s response when the matter was last heard on May 27.The Centre, in its response, told the court that the probe by Delhi Police into the incident is at an advanced stage and a CBI investigation isn’t necessary. The bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde then adjourned the case for two weeks.Pandita alleged that Delhi Police failed to arrest Saad, who organised the religious event that resulted in a surge in Covid-19 cases. People who attended the gathering tested positive in different parts of India, causing “cluster transmission” of the virus, Pandita contended.The Centre highlighted that Delhi Police are conducting an investigation into the incident on a day-to-day basis and gave details of actions taken against the violators.“SHO police station Hazrat Nizamuddin requested the crime branch to take necessary action as per law against Maulana Mohd Saad and others of Markaz for their unlawful acts. Union Ministry of Home Affairs has blacklisted 960 foreigners present in India on tourist visas for their involvement in Tablighi Jamaat activities. MHA has also directed DGPs of all concerned states/union territories to take necessary legal action against all violators (who attended Markaz),” the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markaz-management-deliberately-disobeyed-police-directions-centre-tells-sc/story-Yyqki8xa0mDbEPJM3kHU8N.html
05-06-2020||India||Woman gang-raped, singed with cigarette in front of 5-year-old son in Kerala||A woman was allegedly gang-raped and singed with cigarette butts by four men before her minor son on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday night, said police, adding five people, including the survivor’s husband, have been arrested.Narrating the ordeal, the survivor told police that her husband took her and their five-year-old son, on the pretext of going to a nearby beach, to a friend’s house. Once there, the woman claimed she was forced to drink liquor and then taken to a nearby vacant plot where she was sexually assaulted. The men, the survivor claimed, burnt her with cigarette butts and slapped many times. Her son was also attacked when he cried. The woman claimed that she was allowed to go on the promise that she will come back after dropping her son home.On the way back, the woman gestured for a vehicle to stop. Once inside the vehicle, she narrated what happened to her. The occupants of the car then informed the police and the woman was rushed to a hospital.“Our preliminary investigation shows the husband was a party to the crime. He even forced his wife to not file a complaint. Some of the arrested have a criminal past,” said Thiruvananthapuram rural police superintendent Ashok Kumar. The officer said the accused will also be charged under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). Police suspect the accused were part of a drug-peddling gang. State Women Commission member Shahida Kamal said the victim will be given protection and the commission will ensure that maximum punishment is handed out to the offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-gang-raped-singed-with-cigarette-in-front-of-5-year-old-son-in-kerala/story-c9nwUTXqDnk3pm9BeluG9N.html
05-06-2020||India||Favourable conditions for monsoon’s advance, says IMD’s latest forecast||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of Southwest Monsoon and rain or thundershowers were expected over plains of northwest India during the next two days under the influence of the western disturbances. The weather update on Friday added that isolated thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and heavy rainfall was very likely over Uttarakhand, east Uttar Pradesh and south Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.“Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal, Southwest & Eastcentral Bay of Bengal; entire Southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of Westcentral Bay of Bengal during next 2 days,” the official release said.The southwest monsoon had arrived in Kerala on Monday, June1 matching IMD’s forecast and it is predicted to reach Mumbai by June 11. Monsoon marks the beginning of the rainy season which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall.According to the latest weather update, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka were likely to receive rain or thundershowers in varying quantities.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Widespread rain/thundershowers along the west coast and Isolated to Scattered rainfall activity over Gujarat State, Interior Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu during next 4-5 days,” it said and added that isolated heavy rain fall was also very likely over Kerala and Konkan & Goa during the next 3 days and over Coastal Karnataka during the next 24 hours.IMD release says that scattered to fairly widespread rain or thundershowers were very likely to continue over western Himalayan region and over the plains of northwest India during the next 2 days before decreasing thereafter.It also predicted isolated heavy rainfall for some places in Uttarakhand.“Isolated thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, gusty wind over these regions during next 2 days. Isolated heavy falls also very likely over Uttarakhand, East Uttar Pradesh and South Rajasthan during next 24 hours,” the release said.Around 50% of agricultural land in India depends on monsoon rains to grow crops such as rice, corn, cane, cotton, wheat, oilseeds and soybeans.Last year, the onset of the monsoon over Mumbai was on June 25. It was the most delayed onset in 45 years because of the very severe cyclonic storm Vayu (June 10-17) over the Arabian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/favourable-conditions-for-monsoon-s-advance-says-imd-s-latest-forecast/story-Nm2bJQChAkE48ZaR3ay1XL.html
05-06-2020||India||‘Do not sully image’: JNU to teachers protesting against CAA amid Covid-19||Just days after a citizenship amendment act protest was held on its campus, Jawaharlal Nehru University has asked the protesting teachers “not to sully the image” of the institution and honour the Covid-19 guidelines as the nation battles to stem the spread of the disease.The university recognised the right to protest, but cautioned members to refrain from any kind of agitation during the coronavirus pandemic as it sets a “wrong example”. The protest took place on June 3.“The protesting faculty members are requested not to sully the image of the university by violating the Covid-19 guidelines when the nation is working hard to contain the spread of coronavirus,” university said in a statement.The JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA), however, said they did not flout any rule and followed social-distancing norms.The Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Associations (FEDCUTA) had expressed solidarity with the protest, JNUTA secretary Surajit Majumdar was quoted as saying by PTI.The secretary said some teachers protested from their homes holding placards, while a few gathered.“It is ridiculous to say people shouldn’t protest because of Covid-19 when unjust arrests are being made in the midst of the pandemic. The image of the university will only be sullied if the University community is silent with regard to the injustice seen all around,” Majumdar told PTI. The CAA which was passed in December 2019 amends Section 2 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, which defines “illegal migrants”. According to change in definition, any person belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi or Christian communities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh or Pakistan, and who have been exempted by the Central Government under the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 or the Foreigners Act, 1946, shall not be treated as “illegal migrant”. Consequently, such persons shall be eligible to apply for citizenship by naturalisation, which is laid down under Section 6 of the 1955 act.The exclusion of Muslim community from the benefits of CAA had led to widespread protests across the country, as did the linking of citizenship with religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-sully-image-jnu-to-teachers-protesting-against-caa-amid-covid-19/story-AhsmsnBMArPbvRsfnzWOSM.html
05-06-2020||India||Social and economic security for migrants UP’s priority: Adityanath||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that his government was committed to provide employment to returning migrant work force according to their skill sets which was being possible through an ambitious skill mapping exercise currently underway in the state. He added that around 42 lakh people were already absorbed in the state through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and others are getting enlisted for several construction projects that have resumed in the state. “A comprehensive project has been prepared by the state. Skill mapping of all migrants is being done including other youth and unemployed workforce. We are working together with industries, businesses to provide them jobs. Additionally, there is a bid to increase employment in other sectors like agriculture.” Adityanath said while speaking exclusively to Shashi Shekhar, the chief editor of Hindi daily Hindustan.The UP CM said his government was trying to deal with the dual challenge of fighting the disease and giving impetus to resumption of commercial activities in the state for providing employment and boosting growth.“Our priority at the moment is to provide good healthcare and means of sustenance along with skill mapping. Every migrant labourer is being provided with food kits, and sustenance allowance apart from being connected to the skill mapping exercise. We are also working on economically empowering them through employment. There is rapid progress in setting up a commission to deal with migrants rights and employment issues in the state.”He added that the new commission will bring ministers, worker representatives and industry people on one platform with one common goal. He said the government was looking at the MSME sector and the allied agriculture sector as major potential employment providers.“I am happy to announce that around 1,000 big industries restarted operations in the state coinciding with the third phase of lockdown, providing work to over 75,000 people. Additionally, over 30 lakh people have found jobs with the MSME sector so far,” he said.He added that several workers are being enlisted for the construction work for new hospitals, highways, universities, metro projects that have resumed in earnest.“Currently 41-42 lakh people are getting employment through the rural jobs guarantee scheme MGNREGS in the state,” he said.Highlighting the steps taken by the government to save jobs during the lockdown, Adityanath said special effort was made to ensure that 119 sugar mills, 12,000 brick kilns, 2,500 cold storages continued their operation even during the lockdown.“We are trying to ensure social and economic security for the youth of the state and the new commission set up for this purpose is working towards meeting those goals which will be achieved through the MSME sector aided by one district one product scheme being supported by PM’s package,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-and-economic-security-for-migrants-up-s-priority-adityanath/story-7THyhHzbaTiOhRzztm4JCM.html
05-06-2020||India||Goa: Authorities concerned as 7 health workers test positive for Covid-19||Goa healthcare authorities are concerned after seven of their employees, who were involved in collecting swab samples within the state’s first containment zone, have tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive.State health minister Vishwajit Rane said, seven healthcare workers have tested Covid-19 positive and the Vasco da Gama-based Urban Health Centre has suspended its operations following the outbreak. “We’re tracing the infected healthcare workers’ contacts. However, other healthcare workers mustn’t worry, as we’re providing all with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits,” he added.The minister said that the state authorities had carried out random sampling tests in the areas from where the healthcare workers belong to, but all the test results have proved negative. They would be tested again after 14 days, he added.Goa designated its first containment zone in the state on Monday after a Covid-19 patient was rushed to a hospital following complaints of difficulty in breathing.Later, 72 people tested Covid-19 positive within the containment zone and most of them were asymptomatic.Goa has reported 166 Covid-19 positive cases, including 109 active patients, so far.The tally is set to rise further, as the results of another 400 swab samples collected on Thursday are still pending.Besides healthcare workers, police personnel, drivers, and state transport corporation employees have also tested Covid-19 positive within the containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-authorities-concerned-as-7-health-workers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-GvHdgOjMYVsWr7P1arAFbO.html
05-06-2020||India||‘They will turn India into Italy’: UP CM stings Rahul Gandhi over Covid-19 darts||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a sharp counter attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and sister Priyanka for their criticism of the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, asserting that if the country listens to them on Covid-19, India will turn into Italy. “Let India be India,” the chief minister said in an interview with Hindustan editor-in-chief Shashi Shekhar.Yogi Adtiyanath’s barb was a reference to a spike in Covid-19 cases in Italy in the early days of the pandemic. Italy was the first European country to be hit hard by coronavirus and was widely seen to have been caught off-guard. According to the World Health Organisation’s situation report, Italy has reported 2.33 lakh Covid-19 cases and over 33,000 deaths.Watch | ‘Rahul Gandhi & his family will turn India into Italy’: Yogi Adityanath Also read| ‘An ugly joke’: CM Yogi Adityanath on Congress’ bus offer to ferry migrantsIndia, in contrast, has reported 2.26 lakh cases and 6,348 deaths.In recent weeks, Rahul Gandhi has been hurling darts at the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at the Centre as well as Uttar Pradesh and has questioned the impact of the lockdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to defeat the virus. The lockdown did slow down the virus but it also brought the economy to a grinding halt and is expected to increase joblessness.Yogi Adityanath blamed Congress leaders for most problems facing the country, saying the party which was in power for decades after independence did not have an agenda for the country or a vision for the people.“There was just one testing laboratory in the country when the first case of coronvirus was detected in the country. Today there are nearly 650 and about 2 lakh tests are being conducted every day. This is PM Modi’s vision, he said. In Uttar Pradesh, the government has deployed nearly 1 lakh medical screening teams for containment zones and screening of migrant workers who returned to the state.The chief minister also described the criticism of the government’s handling of the pandemic as an effort to score political points, asserting that people doing politics in times of coronavirus are insulting people and weakening the fight against the disease.But you don’t let them contribute, he was asked, a reference to the back-and-forth over the Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s offer to send across buses to help poor migrant workers reach home.“It is in their genes to lie”, the chief minister said.Yogi Adityanath said the government had accepted their offer. But the Congress didn’t send the buses, he said, adding that a large number of vehicles listed as buses by the Congress did not have their documents intact. There were buses without registration documents, valid insurance or both. Some of the vehicles mentioned by the Congress weren’t buses, or even three-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-turn-india-into-italy-yogi-adityanath-stings-rahul-gandhi-over-covid-19-response/story-8zGKMQI7mLKuAqojQphdTN.html
05-06-2020||India||PM Modi, his govt only know how to manufacture jumlas: Congress||New Delhi: The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan of “vocal for local” to make the country self-reliant was yet another ‘jumla’ (rhetoric) to divert the people’s attention from real issues.Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal alleged that the prime minister and his government could only manufacture jumlas, statements and slogans, and asked how India can become self-reliant till it creates innovation and intellectual property in its universities.“This is an act of self-deception. This is another ‘jumla’ that you sell to the people of the country,” he said, addressing a media briefing via video conference.“We are only manufacturing ‘jumlas’, statements and slogans. That is the only thing we make in India, and we are masters at that under this government,” Sibal added.He said the prime minister has given a call for “Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan”, but his government has failed to help make the poor, farmers, migrant workers, industry or states self-reliant.“Similarly, his calls to industry to push ‘Made in India, Made for the World’, to expand globally, and not be dependent on another country in the strategic sector did not have a clear road map as to how this goal should be achieved,” said Sibal.He said the Rs 20-lakh crore Atmanirbhar package does not lead to expansion of government expenditure, as it includes measures already announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and in the budget, and amounts to less than 1% of GDP, as against 10% claimed by the ruling party.“The reality is that Modi’s Atmanirbhar idea is merely a slogan like innumerable others,” Sibal said, and sought private investment in universities to create innovation and ideas.However, he was quick to add that this did not amount to privatisation. Aman Sinha, a spokesperson for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), responded to the Congress’s trenchant criticism of the PM’s Atmanirbhar Bharat call to tide over the deepening economic crisis because of the pandemic.“The Rs 20 lakh crore economic package provides numerous measures towards promoting and supporting home-grown enterprises such as all the tenders below Rs200 crore are exclusively earmarked for Indian companies. However, Congress spokespersons, like their leader Rahul Gandhi, have developed a habit of speaking without studying the finer points of the government’s policies,” he said.“India has also risen above over 30 countries in the Global Innovation Index since the Congress party lost power in 2014,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-only-knows-how-to-manufactures-jumlas-congress/story-Ak3rArbQuhIoC9c0eU70vJ.html
05-06-2020||India||Pets can be taken out for walks during lockdown, Maharashtra govt tells HC||Maharashtra government has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the pets are allowed to be taken outdoors 20 minutes daily while citing the Animal Welfare Board guidelines issued on June 1 amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.However, the state authorities have said that the 20-minute slot would vary from one neighbourhood to another, and the same rule would not be applicable to containment zones.Later, a separate circular will be issued on pets’ outdoor movement in the containment zones.State advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the two-member division HC bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayyed, about the government’s circular for pet owners while responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by animal rights activist, Vineeta Tandon, who had sought the court’s directions to the state authorities regarding the lifting of restrictions for pets’ movement outdoors amid the pandemic.Kumbhakoni said the circular has partially lifted the restrictions.Kumbhakoni said the Animal Welfare Board, which is a statutory body constituted under Section 4 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, had issued the guidelines for taking pets to outdoors daily for a stipulated period of 20 minutes, despite the prevailing lockdown restrictions.The PIL had also sought directions to the police to allow people to feed stray animals during the lockdown and to allow movement of veterinary ambulances and private vehicles to take ailing animals to veterinary hospitals.Additional government pleader Manish Pabale requested the court that all the pleas raised in the petition had been addressed and the PIL could be disposed of.The court said it would pronounce its order later after it heard the submissions of the state government and the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pets-can-be-taken-out-for-walks-during-lockdown-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc/story-C1Ny8p4PUl1Rv9PuDzBKuN.html
05-06-2020||India||‘An ugly joke’: CM Yogi Adityanath on Congress’ bus offer to ferry migrants||Nothing but a “bhadda mazak (an ugly joke)” is how chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday described the Congress’ bus offer to ferry hundreds of migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister, who was in conversation with Hindustan editor-in-chief Shashi Shekhar, said the Congress’ buses lacked necessary approvals and some of them were not even buses. It must be noted that the state government did agree to the Congress’ proposal, but then imposed certain restrictions which they alleged the grand old party failed in fulfilling. Watch: ‘Congress offer of buses for migrants was an ugly joke’: Yogi Adityanath Adityanath accused the Congress of “playing with lives” and reeled of numbers, suggesting that the vehicle details submitted by the Congress showed that they were not actual buses. Upon inspection , the CM said, many turned out to be autorickshaws and other three-wheelers. The CM underscored that it was not the time for politics. Also read| ‘Will turn India into Italy’: Yogi Adityanath stings Rahul Gandhi over Covid-19 responseThe police had arrested UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu for staging a protest against the state government not allowing buses arranged by the Congress party to enter Uttar Pradesh to transport migrant workers.Defending the arrest, the CM said it was necessary as the Congress leader was obstructing officials from carrying out their duties during a pandemic, he also violated the lockdown rules. Also read| ‘An ugly joke’: CM Yogi Adityanath on Congress’ bus offer to ferry migrantsCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed those trying to help stranded labourers are being jailed and asked party workers to carry on with the fight.“Have you seen the method of Yogi (Adityanath) government to fight the coronavirus epidemic? When the Congress arranged buses for migrant labourers, the Yogi government sent Uttar Pradesh Congress president to jail in a false case,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-ugly-joke-cm-yogi-adityanath-on-congress-bus-offer-to-ferry-migrants/story-k5jsiBMPYk2H6JHFdGqEtM.html
05-06-2020||India||51-year-old man dies in Assam after police beating; two constables arrested||Two Assam Police constables have arrested on charges of beating a 51-year-old person to death. Ataur Rahman and Paresh Sharma of Jajori police station in Nagaon district have been arrested after Phanidhar Borah, a village defence party (VDP) secretary, died at a hospital in Guwahati on Thursday.“Initial investigation suggested that the accused constables had some personal enmity with Borah. They were engaged in a scuffle on Tuesday night,” said Gaurav Abhijit Dilip, superintendent of police (SP), Nagaon.“Borah, who sustained injuries, was admitted to a hospital in Nagaon. On Thursday, the doctors referred him to Guwahati for better treatment. He died during treatment at a hospital in Guwahati. This is not a case of custodial death,” he added.Local residents surrounded Jajori police station, demanding the arrest of the two constables, after the news of Borah’s death spread. An additional police force had to be deployed to bring the situation under control.“The constables were arrested after Borah’s family members filed a first information report (FIR), naming the duo as the accused. There was no police case against Borah and it was a case of personal enmity. The officer in-charge of Jajori station has also been transferred,” the SP said.“The accused constables have been produced in court and remanded to police custody. Further investigations are on,” he added.On Friday, GP Singh, additional director-general of police (DGP) (law and order), Assam Police, visited Jajori and met Borah’s family members. He assured them of swift legal action and a compensation of Rs1 lakh for Borah’s death. “We’ll try and file the charge sheet in this case with 15 days. If required, the case will be handed over to a fast track court so that the accused can be convicted by this year,” Singh told media persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/51-year-old-man-dies-in-assam-after-police-beating-two-constables-arrested/story-2H12zzlT7VxOXxljbeXA6I.html
05-06-2020||India||Over 4,700 lockdown violators held in Tripura in two months||Tripura Police have arrested 4,751 people and registered first information reports (FIRs) against 41 for violating the Covid-19 lockdown since the imposition of restrictions in late March.During the same period, a total of 3,900 people were fined till June 3 for not wearing masks in public places, according to data from the police.Since April, the state government has enforced a rule making the wearing of masks mandatory in all public places and offices. Those who violate the rule are fined with a penalty of Rs100 for first offence and Rs200 for second and subsequent offences. Tripura has recorded a total of 647 Covid-19 cases, placing it second, after Assam, among the northeastern states. Of the total cases, 173 people have recovered, three have left the state and one died an unnatural death.Samples of 31,139 people were tested in the state, according to the latest records from the health department.The state has conducted 7,783 tests per million people, considered the highest in the northeastern region, according to data shared by chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Twitter.Besides tracing 13,466 contacts of Covid-19 patients, state police have distributed 41,174 face masks among staff of the department and the public.Police have also provided food packets to 45,374 people, dry rations to 15,263 families, drinking water to the interior areas of Tripura on 413 occasions and medicines to 44 villages.They had also dealt with a total of 7,973 public calls and assisted 1,870 senior citizens during the lockdown.The Tripura government has formed Corona monitoring and awareness committees in panchayats and village councils and asked their representatives to set up at least one quarantine centre in their areas in view of opposition to home quarantine at some places.“The state government is taking initiatives to test all people who are returning to the state. I paid a visit to some villages to see the quarantine facilities there,” CM Deb said earlier.During his visit to some quarantine centres, the chief minister found some youngsters who used to work in hotels and restaurants in other states and had returned to Tripura after losing their jobs due to the lockdown. Following this, the tourism department decided to outsource 16 cafeterias to help these youngsters get a source of income in the state, Deb said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-700-lockdown-violators-held-in-tripura-in-two-months/story-avY2fe967GYg3R0ToFdUMM.html
05-06-2020||India||Thundershowers likely in Delhi today, light rain expected over the weekend||Thundershowers accompanied by lightning and gusty winds will affect various parts of north-west India and the western Himalayan region on Friday and over the weekend, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities. The inclement weather is because of a western disturbance that is affecting the western Himalayas and moisture incursion due to cyclone Nisarga, which hit the Maharashtra coast on Wednesday. “We can expect thundershowers in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) on Friday and light rain over the weekend. There is no forecast for a heatwave for some time now in Delhi. Maximum temperatures may rise by three to four degrees Celsius after Saturday, but we’re not expecting a heatwave till June 15, and after that heatwave is unlikely. Delhi may get rains again after June 10 due to the likelihood of a formation of a low-pressure area,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds over the north-western region during the next two days and some heavy rainfall is also likely over Uttarakhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh and southern Rajasthan during the next 24 hours, IMD said in its Friday bulletin.The south-west monsoon has also advanced into the central Arabian Sea, Kerala and Mahe, some parts of Karnataka etc. Conditions are becoming favourable for its further advancement of south-west monsoon into some more parts of central Arabian Sea, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, south-west and the east-central Bay of Bengal; the south-east Bay of Bengal and some parts of west-central Bay of Bengal during the next two days, the bulletin added.There were apprehensions among meteorologists that monsoon advancement could slow down a bit, as its flow is pulled in towards cyclone Nisarga but that is not a cause for concern anymore, scientists said. “If Nisarga would have moved north-westwards towards Oman coast, then that would have delayed or stalled the monsoon flow for some time. Nisarga moved close to the coast and as a result, the problem didn’t arise. The monsoon current was strengthened and it has reached Karwar in Karnataka on Thursday,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.“A fresh low-pressure area is likely to develop over the east-central Bay of Bengal on Monday. We can’t say for now what impact it’ll have and whether it’ll intensify,” added Devi.Average monsoon rain across the country from June 1 to June 4 has been 24.3 millimetres (mm) compared to normal of 11.6 mm. Central India has received the highest rains in the past four days at 28.4 mm compared to a normal of 7.4 mm.Widespread rain and thundershowers along the west coast and scattered rainfall activity over Gujarat, interior Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu is likely over the next four-five days.Heavy rainfall is also very likely over Kerala, Konkan and Goa during the next three days and over coastal Karnataka during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thundershowers-likely-in-delhi-today-light-rain-expected-over-the-weekend/story-idD34HCc5HKV5RlVm1NrcI.html
05-06-2020||India||Bihar youth commits suicide at Bodh Gaya quarantine centre||A 40-year old resident of Bihar’s Gopalganj, who was put up at a quarantine centre at Bodh Gaya after returning from Saudi Arabia on June 3, allegedly committed suicide early Friday.The youth, identified as Vickky Kumar, a native of Chhatia village in Gopalganj, jumped to death from Nigma Monasteries quarantine centre under the jurisdiction of Bodh Gaya police station in Bihar.The victim was working in Jeddah and reached Bodh Gaya on June 3. The incident took place in the early hours of Friday on the premises of Nigma Monasteries Block-4 which has been converted into a quarantine centre for people arriving from abroad.Bodh Gaya police have registered a case of unnatural death and further probe is underway. Victim’s body has been shifted to the Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (ANMCH) for post-mortem, the reports of which are awaited. Bodh Gaya police station SHO Mohan Prasad Singh said that the youth didn’t have any coronavirus symptoms but was quarantined for 14 days as per standard protocol. The exact reason that prompted him to take the extreme step was yet to be ascertained, he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said that the youth was visited by his brother and in-laws on Thursday and he was pressurizing them to get “released” from the quarantine centre, but officials ignored their plea on the ground that all returnees from abroad have to undergo 14 days in quarantine.The upset youth took the extreme step at around 2 am (Friday).Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao ordered a probe into the incident. He added that Gaya airport handles international flights in the state. So, it was the Bihar government’s decision to make it the landing point for special flights coming from abroad.The Union home secretary had asked the Bihar government to arrange facilities for mandatory institutional quarantine of stranded Indian nationals being brought back.This is not the first such incident in the state, a 30-year-old migrant worker named Rajesh Kumar had allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a quarantine centre in Vaishali district on May 21 and another young migrant worker had set himself ablaze at a quarantine centre in Muzaffarpur district. He is now reportedly battling for his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-youth-commits-suicide-at-bodh-gaya-quarantine-centre/story-tusCAtOMPl7A1YnDLMN8IM.html
05-06-2020||India||Pleas on Jamia violence during CAA-protests to be heard on June 12||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear next week pleas related to the violence during Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (amendment) Act (CAA) in December last year.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan listed the matter for June 12 after senior advocate Colin Gonsalves and lawyer Sneha Mukherjee, appearing for the petitioner, sought time to file rejoinder to the Delhi Police’s affidavit which was submitted on Thursday.The hearing was conducted through video conferencing as the functioning of courts have been restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Delhi Police, represented through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, sought dismissal of pleas seeking quashing of FIRs and directions against alleged police brutality in the university during the anti-CAA protests. It said the petitions were an utter abuse of PIL jurisdiction as the incidents of violence in and around the campus were well-planned and orchestrated attempts by some persons with local support.One of the petitioners, Nabila Hasan, has sought action against the police for allegedly brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of Jamia Millia Islamia. The plea sought against the alleged ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students within the university.Opposing a batch of PILs seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence, the police has said the claim of police brutality is utter falsehood.The police has filed the affidavit in response to various petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, where university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, in which they had also sought medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for the students.The pleas have also sought registration of FIRs against the erring police officers.The affidavit filed by Rajesh Deo, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, said exercising fundamental right to dissent should be respected, but “no person can be allowed to commit breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger to life, limb and property of innocent citizens under the garb of exercise of fundamental right of free speech and assembly”.Such fundamental rights are not absolute and are liable to reasonable restrictions under the Constitution, it said.Under the garb of organising a protest, it is completely impermissible for the citizens to create law and order situation and to lay a siege and paralyse the day to day activity of fellow citizens who are completely unconnected with the cause for which protests are organised by a section of the society, it said.The police said that videos and photographs collected by it show that under the garb of student protest, it was a well-planned and orchestrated attempt by some persons with local support to intentionally perpetrate violence in the area.It said the evidence showed that there was large scale violence, arson and stone pelting on December 13 and 15, 2019, which resulted in lodging of three FIRs.Regarding the prayer in the petitions to frame guidelines on use of force to govern the conduct of police personnel in such cases, the affidavit said it is not maintainable and added that due procedure/ standard protocol was followed by the police authorities to control the unruly mob and to maintain law and order in the area.On the violence incident of December 15, the affidavit has said, police received an input that some former students and other persons will assemble at JMI for protesting the newly acted CAA and NRC and will go to Parliament and the President House.The investigation revealed that local leaders and politicians were instigating the protestors and were raising extremely provocative and inciting slogans and the gathering had swelled to about 3500. PTI SKV HMP SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleas-on-jamia-violence-during-caa-protests-to-be-heard-on-june-12/story-oZiIuawTjlkS0W616SsaYK.html
05-06-2020||India||15 days enough time for states to send migrant workers home: Supreme Court||Fifteen days should be enough time for states to send migrant workers - stranded in cities across the country since the imposition of nationwide lockdown - home, the Supreme Court said on Friday. The top court also asked all states to create employment opportunities for migrants returning home. The hearing comes days after the top court took suo moto cognisance of the issue and passed several orders to facilitate migrants’ return home.“We propose 15 days’ time so that states can be permitted to effectuate the completion of transport,” said the top court.The Centre said over 42,00 Shramik Specials have been run till June 3 to transport 1 crore migrant workers to their homes across the country. The Centre told the top court that an investigation into instances of deaths of migrant workers aboard the special trains has revealed that none died on account of lack of food, water or medicines. Those who died were having co-morbidities or suffered heart attack, Mehta told the court.Migrant workers, many left jobless and homeless after their workplaces or work sites shut during the ongoing lockdown imposed on March 25 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease, have struggled to get home.Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the Bihar government, told the apex court that around 28 lakh people have returned to the state and that employment opportunities are being worked out for them. “The government of Bihar is taking all steps for providing them employment,” he said.The court asked Rajasthan to list out how many more migrant workers want to go back home.”There are not many people. Please give 15 days to send everyone home,” said Manish Singhvi, representing the government of Rajasthan.In an earlier hearing, the court issued a seven-point interim order that said it was the job of the state to provide migrant workers food and transport and that they cannot be charged for their travel. The court also remarked that no state can refuse to take back migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-days-to-transport-all-migrants-to-their-homes-supreme-court-to-centre-states/story-YxCAoJFYDcy9TPYv4gDyeO.html
05-06-2020||India||Maharashtra man allegedly shoots himself accidentally believing gun to be fake||A 28 year old resident of Maharashtra’s Thane district is alleged to have taken his own life on Wednesday afternoon by accidentally firing a pistol assuming it to be a fake. The incident was reported from Shahpur in Thane during a neighbourhood party. The Shahapur Police have filed a case against the victim’s neighbour, Bharat Shere, for illegal possession of a pistol. The deceased, Sidhesh Jangam and his father Prakash Jangam were partying at their neighbour Bharat Shere’s house to celebrate another neighbour Arman Nachre’s wife’s birthday. After having alcohol, the men, with few other neighbours, were playing cards.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Around 4pm in the afternoon, Shere headed towards his bedroom and Prakash Jangam went home. This is when Sidhesh noticed a gun lying in the house and assuming it to be a fake one, he held it near his forehead and happened to press the trigger accidentally,” said G Adhav, senior police inspector from Shahapur police station.There were five others in the room when the incident took place and the police have taken statements of these eyewitnesses as well.After the firing, Nachre panicked and called Prakash Jangam back, who found blood oozing out of his son, Sidhesh’s head and nose, following which police were alerted.“We noticed the pistol and two live cartridges lying near Sidhesh’s body. He was taken to the government hospital, however the doctors declared him dead on arrival,” added Adhav.Based on a complaint filed by Prakash Jangam, a case was filed against Shere under section 304 of the Indian penal code (IPC) at Shahapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-man-allegedly-shoots-himself-accidentally-believing-gun-to-be-fake/story-F4tdVrcT0LifX05Ze8Z0sJ.html
05-06-2020||India||Kerala elephant’s death: Lawyer files complaint against Maneka Gandhi, others for hate campaign||A lawyer from Kerala’s Malappuram has filed a police complaint against BJP leader Maneka Gandhi and others for allegedly indulging in a hate campaign against the district and its residents over the death of the pregnant elephant, news agency ANI reported on Friday.ANI reported that Subhash Chandran, an advocate from Malappuram, filed the complaint with the district’s superintendent of police on Thursday seeking the registration of a first information report (FIR) against former Union minister Maneka Gandhi and others.Chandran alleged that the campaign against the district was very derogatory and with a malafide intent, ANI reported. The lawyer alleged that Maneka Gandhi made false and frivolous allegations against the district of Malappuram and its residents, it added.After the elephant died, the former Union minister had tweeted that Malapuram is “known for its intense animal activity” and yet authorities did not take any action to curb the menace.The elephant died after she ate the pineapple stuffed with firecrackers and forest officials said that it died standing in the River Velliyar after it suffered an injury in its lower jaw.It was seen standing in the river with her mouth and trunk in the water after the firecracker-filled fruit exploded in her mouth.Chandran, through the complaint, prayed to the district police chief to register an FIR against Maneka Gandhi and others under Section 153A, 120B etc of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said the elephant died on May 29 in Palakkad and not in Malappuram as claimed by a section of social media users. Prominent news outlets operating from the South also reported that the elephant died after consuming explosive-laden pineapple in PalakkadHe said that the unfortunate death of the elephant in Mannarkkad area of Palakkad district dominated social media conversations in the last two days but a group of people deliberately added communal colour into it only to spread hatred against Malappuram, which is a Muslim-majority district in Kerala, according to ANI.Chandran also named Tarek Fatah, a political commentator, for allegedly starting a hate campaign against the district and the minority community.A man has been arrested and another detained in connection with the elephant’s death.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-elephant-s-death-lawyer-files-complaint-against-maneka-gandhi-others-for-hate-campaign/story-8lF9OlCJWIdqVs6GJgXR3J.html
05-06-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray announces Rs 100 crore immediate relief for cyclone-hit Raigad||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced an immediate relief of Rs 100 crore for Raigad district, devastated by Cyclone Nisarga. The actual package, he said, will be announced after assessment of the situation there.“We may approach Centre for relief package once the assessment is done,” Thackeray said.Cyclone Nisarga had made landfall near Alibaug in Raigad district on June 3, causing widespread damage in the area.There are roofless houses, collapsed walls and uprooted trees in the coastal villages of Raigad district, which was battered by the cyclone.Nisarga made landfall in Shrivardhan taluka of the district on Wednesday afternoon with heavy rains and gusty winds of a speed of more than 110 to 120 kmph.Metkarni village in Shrivardhan, with a population of around 700, is one of the worst-hit areas in the district.Situated on a hilltop, the village suffered severe damage as several residents were rendered homeless and penniless because of the storm.“There is nothing in my house now, the roof was blown away, a wall has collapsed and all essentials and utensils are damaged. Even my sewing machine, which was my only source of income, lies broken,” Sunita Salve, who did minor tailoring work to feed her parents and two children, told news agency PTI.Salve and her family ran out of their home at the nick of time with whatever valuables they could carry when they heard someone shouting about the storm’s arrival.“I urge the government to help people who have lost everything in the cyclonic storm,” Manjula Jadhav, another resident of the village, told PTI.The situation is similar in villages of Harihareshwar, Murud, Tala, Pen, Mhasala and Roha, where the cyclone left a trail of destruction.Thackeray visited the Raigad district on boat on Friday. The hour-long ride began from Bhaucha Dhakka in south Mumbai to Alibaug. Thackeray was accompanied by ministers Aditya Thackeray, Aslam Shaikh, Additional Chief Secretary A K Singh and other senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-announces-rs-100-crore-immediate-relief-for-cyclone-hit-raigad/story-0NNqETOk1sbz0yYi7svwLM.html
05-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh IAS officer accused of rape suspended||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Chhattisgarh was suspended on Thursday after he was accused of raping a 33-year-old woman in Janjgir-Champa district of the state.The general administration department said in an order that the 2007-batch IAS officer has been placed under suspension with “immediate effect”.The IAS officer was booked on Wednesday for allegedly raping the woman on May 15 during his tenure as the Janjgir-Champa collector. He was recently transferred as director of land records department in Raipur from Janjgir-Champa on May 26.The woman has alleged in her complaint that the officer, then the collector of Janjgir-Champa, sexually exploited her inside his office and sent obscene messages to her.A press note issued by Janjgir-Champa administration also said that the IAS officer had also allegedly threatened the woman he will terminate her husband from service. A case was registered against the IAS officer under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 B (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“We have registered a case on the complaint of the woman and investigation has started,” DM Awasthi, the director general of police (DGP), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-ias-officer-accused-of-rape-suspended/story-E3OIRstflCoV9OQntno3VO.html
05-06-2020||India||Man complained of stomach ache, had a mobile phone charger in his bladder||A routine operation in an Assam hospital took a different turn this week when the doctor performing the surgery and accompanying attendants found a mobile phone charger cable inside the urinary bladder of a patient.The patient, a 30-year-old man, had lied to the doctors that he had ingested the nearly two-feet-long cable through his mouth. But it was revealed on the operation table that the cable had been inserted through the man’s penile urethra.“The patient came to us with severe abdomen pain and told us that he consumed a headphone cable by mistake. We examined his stool and conducted an endoscopy as well but couldn’t find the cable. When we operated him, there was nothing in his gastrointestinal tract,” Dr Walliul Islam, a noted surgeon in Guwahati, said.Surprised, Islam conducted an X-ray while the patient was on the operation table. It revealed that the cable was in fact in the person’s urinary bladder. The cable was removed and the patient is recovering well.“He told us that he had consumed headphones through the mouth, but in fact, he had inserted the mobile charger cable through his penis. I have been conducting surgeries for 25 years now but this is the first time such a case happened on the operation table,” said Islam.According to the doctor, the patient has a habit of inserting cables and other stuff through his penis as a form of sexual pleasure. On this occasion, things could have gone out of control and the cable reached his urinary bladder.“It’s a type of masturbation called urethral sounding, which is the insertion of an object or liquid into the urethra. The person had come to us five days after he inserted the cable. He repeatedly told us he consumed it through his mouth and we never imagined an adult would lie about such a thing,” Islam said. “We could have done away with the surgery if he had told us the truth and could have removed the cable through the same route he had inserted it. But surgery had to be done as he lied,” he added.Islam said the patient doesn’t have any mental disorder and indulged in the act only for sexual pleasure.“Instances of men indulging in urethral sounding are known. But this person went to an extreme and hence the cable reached his urinary bladder. This is a very rare thing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-complained-of-stomach-ache-had-a-mobile-phone-charger-in-his-bladder/story-hA4CuevqkN3sm1keM5oUYI.html
05-06-2020||India||On Covid-19 treatment fee, Supreme Court’s question to private hospitals||Private hospitals were asked by the Supreme Court on Friday if they can treat the coronavirus patients at the much lesser fee as charged under the government’s affordable insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat.The ‘Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana’ is aimed at providing health cover to poor and vulnerable persons in the country.The top court clarified that it is not asking private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients for free, but is only asking those who have been given land at concessional rates by the government to treat certain number of such infected patients for free. “I just want to know if hospitals are ready to charge at Ayushman rates?,” CJI SA Bobde observed during the hearing which was conducted through video-conferencing. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the apex court that the government is doing its best and people who cannot afford treatment are covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.The country has been reporting a high number of coronavirus cases in the last few days. There were 9,851 new Covid-19 cases and 273 deaths in the last 24 hours across the country, the Union health ministry data showed today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-covid-19-treatment-fee-supreme-court-s-question-to-private-hospitals/story-7d44tXGUd8LI026PXoOs3L.html
05-06-2020||India||Traffic increases as Maharashtra opens up MMR roads, traffic police to initiate random checks||Vehicular traffic is back to normal in Mumbai on Friday amid the easing of lockdown 5:0, which came into effect from June 1 and will be in place till June 30 to prevent the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Maharashtra government has also allowed inter-district movement of vehicular traffic in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), along with the reopening of shops in the city, which is still a red zone, as part of the Mission Begin Again.Mumbai Traffic Police authorities are conducting random checks on cars after the state government urged Mumbaikars to take out vehicles only for essential services.“E-passes aren’t required anymore because transport services are allowed in the MMR. Traffic flow has gone up because shops have reopened after over 60 days,” said a Mumbai Traffic Police official.The traffic flow has increased on the Western Express Highway (WEH), which stretches from the suburban Dahisar to Bandra. Similar scenes were reported during the morning rush hour on the Sion-Panvel highway, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in central Mumbai, King’s Circle, and Kalanagar flyover. The toll plazas reported congestion, as the vehicular movement to Mumbai from neighbouring areas such as Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Road, and Vasai have increased significantly.Mumbai Traffic Police authorities are expecting a further surge in people’s movement because suburban train services are yet to begin and Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are running at 50% of their capacity in a bid to maintain social distancing norms. Some people are preferring to use their personal vehicles to public transport as a precautionary measure against the raging contagion.The civic authorities have allowed outdoor recreational activities such as jogging, cycling, running, and walking in open public spaces, parks, and playgrounds from June 3. Government-run offices are allowed to function either 15% or 15 employees, whichever is lower. Motor garages, automobile repair shops and service centres have been allowed to resume their business activities.Friday was the first day when Mumbai’s shops and markets have been allowed to open between 9 am and 5 pm on odd-even days as part of Maharashtra’s Mission Begin Again.Taxis and auto-rickshaws are also back on the road. Private offices can open from June 8 with 10% of their employees, but the rest of the staff have to work from home.However, these relaxations don’t apply to containment zones, where only essential services such as chemist shops and grocery shops have been allowed to remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-traffic-increases-as-state-opens-up-mmr-roads-traffic-police-to-initiate-random-checks/story-YotqZx0uokH4l5FHDaCRWN.html
05-06-2020||India||In rebuttal to Pak, India quotes Imran Khan’s ‘40,000 terrorists’ remark||A new UN report that refers to the presence of thousands of Pakistani terrorists in Afghanistan is a reiteration of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s acknowledgement last year that his country hosts up to 40,000 terrorists, people familiar with developments said on Friday.Reacting to the Pakistan Foreign Office’s contention that the external affairs ministry was using the UN report to “slander Pakistan”, the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team had only reiterated what Khan “has already confessed”.As first reported by HT, the UN report, issued last month, said there are some 6,500 Pakistani nationals among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the war-torn country.“Pakistan’s Foreign Office would do well to recall that their prime minister admitted last year that Pakistan still hosts 30,000 to 40,000 terrorists. Pakistan’s leadership is also on record acknowledging that in the past, terrorists had used the country’s soil to carry out terror attacks on other countries,” said one of the people cited above.Speaking at the US Institute of Peace in Washington last July, Khan had said Pakistan still has “about 30,000 to 40,000 armed people who have been trained and fought in some part of Afghanistan or Kashmir”.“The UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team’s report has only reiterated what the prime minister of Pakistan has already confessed. Instead of casting aspersions on the report, Pakistan should introspect and put an end to any kind of support for terrorism emanating from territories under its control,” the person said.The person added that the UN and the world community are “acquainted with the reality that Pakistan is the nerve centre of terrorism”.Pakistan houses “one of the largest numbers of UN-designated terrorists and terrorist entities”, and its “fallacious attempts to point fingers at others cannot deflect attention from the facts on the ground”, the person said.“Moreover, Pakistan’s attempts to create a divide in the traditional and friendly relations between the people of India and Afghanistan will not succeed. The people of Afghanistan and the international community are well aware of who the ‘spoiler’ is, and who is sheltering, training, arming and financing terrorists and sponsoring violence against innocent Afghans and members of the international community,” the person said.In a statement issued on Thursday, Pakistan’s Foreign Office had contended the external affairs ministry had misrepresented the UN report to slander Pakistan. “Pakistan categorically rejects India’s malicious allegations, which are aimed at misleading the international community,” it said.The statement said there was no reference to “safe havens” in Pakistan in the report, which it claimed was based on “briefings provided in Afghanistan to the [UN team] by certain quarters who have long expressed scepticism about the Afghan peace process”.The Foreign Office also contended India was trying to “create complications for the Afghan peace process”, and that Pakistan had highlighted what it was said was India’s “sponsorship of terrorist organisations in Afghanistan”.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had reacted to the UN report by expressing India’s “serious concern” at the continued presence in Afghanistan of the senior leadership of al-Qaeda and a large number of foreign terrorists, including 6,500 Pakistan nationals. The report, he said, “vindicates India’s long-standing position that Pakistan remains the epicentre of international terrorism”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rebuttal-to-pak-india-quotes-imran-khan-s-40-000-terrorists-remark/story-CaUcsfsqLFSiOPWJsKitoO.html
05-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to Union tourism minister for development of Ram Van Gaman circuit||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged Union minister of state for tourism (independent charge) Prahlad Patel to grant approval to the state’s plan to develop a circuit along the places Lord Ram visited during his exile under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme.Bhupesh Baghel wrote to Patel on Thursday that Chhattisgarh’s tourism department has selected nine such sites and prepared a concept plan at a cost of Rs 137.45 crore for developing the Ram Van Gaman circuit.Baghel said that under the Centre’s Swadesh Darshan Scheme there is a provision to develop world-class infrastructure for the convenience of tourists in selected projects of tourism.He said the Chhattisgarh government is working on plans to develop the Ram Van Gaman Path with an aim to providing information to tourists as well as people of the country and the state about the Ram Van Gaman Marg and sites. It also wants to provide the best of facilities to the tourists during their visit to these historical sites, he said.The chief minister said the history of Chhattisgarh is ancient as well as evident. He said Chhattisgarh was known as Dakshin Kosala and Dandakaranya in ancient times. And, in Valmiki’s Ramayana, Lord Ram’s journey during exile in Dandakaranya has been mentioned.According to information received from researchers, research articles and books, Lord Ram spent more than 10 years out of the 14 years of his exile in Chhattisgarh and the state’s folk songs also talk about it, he said.Baghel said Lord Ram came to Chhattisgarh from north India after spending ‘Chamasa’ at various places and then went to south India. Hence, Chhattisgarh is also called ‘Dakshin Path’.“Lord Ram entered Chhattisgarh from a place called Sitamarhi Harchaika via the Gawai River in Koriya district and went to south India from Ramaram in Sukma district. During the entire route, he visited 75 sites,” Baghel stated.The chief minister said nine sites have been selected in the first phase for the purpose of developing Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit in Chhattisgarh. These sites include Sitamarhi-Harchaika (Koriya), Ramgarh (Ambikapur), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Baloda Bazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariaband), Sihawa-Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar) and Ramaram (Sukma).For the Ram Van Gaman tourism circuit, the state government had made a provision of Rs 5 crore last year (2019-20) and Rs 10 crore this year (2020-21) in the budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-union-tourism-minister-for-development-of-ram-van-gaman-circuit/story-LFwKKqBnvEFpeqgwI5oGzJ.html
05-06-2020||India||Punjab urges Centre to arrange trains for bringing migrant workers back to state||Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora has in a letter to the Union government urged it “to arrange trains for bringing migrant workers” who wish to come back from their home states and join work as industrial units have resumed their operations.He further informed that the Punjab government had even sent buses to ferry the labourers back to the state and “two such buses have already reached Hoshiarpur today.”Arora also urged Chief Ministers of other states to purchase PPE kits manufactured in Punjab to fight coronavirus.“I had written another letter to all Chief Ministers of other states to purchase masks and PPE kits being manufactured by Punjab’s textile industry. At present, 103 units are manufacturing approved PPE kits in the state,” he said.He stated that “for the benefit of industry, new industrial parks, near Mandi Gobindgarh, Mattewara (Ludhiana), Rajpura (Patiala), Mohali and Bathinda are also in the offing.”Arora also claimed that during the lockdown/curfew, the industry was given several relaxations by the Punjab government and more such relaxations will be given in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-urges-centre-to-arrange-trains-for-bringing-migrant-workers-back-to-state/story-hQ6FJk0cQtevpRsEU1rZKJ.html
05-06-2020||India||In new stint at UNSC, Jaishankar says India to be guided by five priorities||India, which expects to be elected to an eighth term on the UN Security Council later this month, said on Friday it will continue working at the world body for an effective response to international terrorism and reforming the multilateral system.External affairs ministry S Jaishankar launched a brochure outlining India’s priorities for its campaign to secure the elected seat on the UN Security Council during the election scheduled for June 17.The brochure set out India’s five key priorities as new opportunities for progress, an effective response to international terrorism, reforming the multilateral system, a comprehensive approach to international peace and security, and promoting technology with a human touch as a driver of solutions.India’s approach will also be guided by the “five Ss” set out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi - samman (respect), samvad (dialogue), sahyog (cooperation) and shanti (peace) in order to create conditions for universal samriddhi (prosperity).Jaishankar referred to the international context that the Security Council will face, including new and continuing traditional challenges to international peace and security.The Covid-19 pandemic has further contributed to a more complex international economic and political environment, including by limiting the capacity of states to respond to local, regional and global challenges, he said.Jaishankar emphasized India’s long-standing role as a “voice of moderation, an advocate of dialogue, and a proponent of international law”. He also set out the country’s principled approach to international relations, which the foreign policy establishment will bring to the table at the UN Security Council once India is elected for a two-year term.Secretary (west) Vikas Swarup of the external affairs ministry said India’s candidature is expected to succeed as it is the single endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific group. This would be India’s eighth term on the UN Security Council, and the two-year tenure will start in January 2021.“India’s overall objective during this tenure in the UN Security Council will be the achievement of NORMS or a “New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-outlines-priorities-for-election-to-un-security-council/story-MtbqVWUye7MOW9v4gQAmAN.html
05-06-2020||India||Third Congress lawmaker resigns ahead of Rajya Sabha polls on June 19||Another Congress MLA tendered his resignation to Gujarat Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi on Friday, news agency ANI reported.“I have accepted it. He is Brijesh Merja, the MLA from Morbi,” ANI quoted Trivedi as saying.Two Congress lawmakers resigned on Thursday, in a setback to the party ahead of the June 19 elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from the state.The resignations prompted the Congress to divide its remaining legislators into seven groups and rush them to different places in the state to prevent further desertions until the polling is held, party functionaries aware of the matter said. The Gujarat seats are going to the polls along with 20 others across the country.Five Congress legislators earlier resigned from the assembly in March. Two more seats remain vacant in the state assembly because of litigation due to poll-related disputes.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with 103 seats needs two more votes to win three of the four Rajya Sabha seats.The Congress is banking on Bharatiya Tribal Party’s two, the lone legislator of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and independent lawmaker Jignesh Mevani to win two seats. The BJP has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin. Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki are the Congress’s candidates.Congress leader Ahmed Patel accused the BJP of horse-trading amid the Covid-19 crisis. “Isn’t Gujarat government the only one in the world where: 1) Government has abandoned people in the middle of a global pandemic? 2) Refused to fund train fare for poor migrants? 3) But leaves no stone unturned to fund horse-trading activities for a Rajya Sabha election?” he tweeted.The BJP rejected the allegations, saying Congress legislators were leaving the party as they were “unhappy” with its leadership. “I believe that some more Congress legislators would also resign in the near future. They are leaving Congress because they are unhappy with the party leadership,” Amin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-congress-lawmaker-resigns-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-polls-on-june-19/story-6e8ANXtE4SNsJPp3VhW6aP.html
05-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 11 states have less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases as India’s tally soars beyond 226,700 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.11 states have less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases as India’s tally soars beyond 226,700India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has surged beyond 226,700 and 6,348 people have died so far, according to the central government’s data. Read moreHow to eat, pray and go out during Covid 19Hindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, new rules for temples, malls, hotels, eating out and more. Read moreBill Gates finds it hard to deny conspiracy theories about him because they are so stupidThere have been a bunch of weird conspiracy theories making the rounds about Covid-19 including the one involving 5G. Bill Gates also managed to find himself helming one. Read moreWorld Environment Day 2020: Can the purchase of second-hand products be considered a sustainable practice?In India, the average cell phone is used for just under two years. Users may be holding out for up to two years but, it is estimated that around 40% of Indians want to upgrade within a mere year of purchasing. Read moreMeet Mumbai Police’s ‘Omni-Present Covid Warrior’. His story is inspiringMeet the policeman from Cuffe Parade Police Station who is on “duty even after duty.” This warrior in khaki drives an ambulance after his duty to offer rides to patients to the nearby hospitals for free. Read moreBowl six balls at one place, he would hit them in six different directions: Brett Lee picks three batsmen he played againstAlong with Pakistan’s Shoaib Akhtar, former Australia fast bowler Brett Lee was one of the fastest bowlers going around in world cricket in the 2000s. Lee, who made his debut against India in 1999, was known for his smooth action and sheer pace that could trouble the best of the lot. Read moreChoked movie review: Anurag Kashyap’s Netflix film cashes in on demonetisationHugely enjoyable but slightly ham-fisted, Netflix’s Choked is a minor film from a major filmmaker; a kitchen sink drama in which an actual kitchen sink plays a pivotal role. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-11-states-have-less-than-5-000-covid-19-cases-as-india-s-tally-soars-beyond-226-700-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DDv1W9vHdCjtZNqPmjZn6L.html
05-06-2020||India||Environment, man-animal conflict: Unlock 1 poses challenge for Uttarakhand||There has been a reduction in man-animal conflict in Uttarakhand and an overall decrease in pollution levels in the state, especially in Ganga during the Covid-19 lockdown. But now the officials and green activists are worried that with movement of people, resumption of commercial and industrial activities and traffic under Unlock 1.0, these might increase again.SP Subodh, member secretary Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) said that there has been definitely a decrease in pollution levels in Ganga and other rivers of the state and general improvement in air quality in major cities due to almost non-existent traffic on the roads.“The tourists and pilgrims didn’t come during lockdown which also contributed in a major way in the decrease in the pollution levels in the state. When tourists come, they leave behind a lot of waste which adds to the solid waste and water pollution in the state. Also with factories closed during the lockdown, lesser pollutants were entering water bodies body, helping them cleanse themselves,” he said.Uttarakhand annually attracts over 3.5 crore tourists and pilgrims.Subodh said they have again taken samples from Ganga to check what is the status in the pollution levels with Unlock 1.0 underway. “Earlier, we had taken samples in April in which we saw significant improvement in the water quality during the lockdown. Based on the new findings which will come in a few days, we will make suggestions to the state and Central government on how to keep the water quality of Ganga consistent,” said Subodh.Last time during April, when UEPPCB had taken samples from Ganga, it had found a 47% reduction in fecal coliform observed at Lakshmanjhula, 46% at the barrage downstream in Rishikesh, and 25% at Bindughat (upstream of Haridwar), besides 20% reduction in biochemical oxygen demand at Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar.With wild animals like leopards, Nilgai, bears and elephants venturing near human habitations and on to roads during the lockdown period, the state forest department had formed teams in many areas to keep tab wildlife movement. Two elephants were even spotted at the busy Har Ki Pauri ghat and BHEL township in Haridwar. Officials in the state forest department said lockdown restrictions on vehicular traffic and human movement made it easier for wild animals to venture near human settlements and highways.Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, said that due to lockdown there was less human interference in wildlife habitats and areas around them. “Lockdown gave time to wildlife, environment and nature and planet Earth to rejuvenate and heal themselves. It also made us realise how we should take the environment and wildlife seriously. I think post-lockdown, our biggest challenge is how to stop all such activities that harm environment and wildlife and disturb the balance in Nature”, he saidParag Madhukar Dhakate, chief conservator of forests (CCF) western circle Kumaon said with fewer people out, there has been an overall reduction of over 50% in the man-animal conflict in the state. “Now our biggest concern is that wild animals have got habituated to deserted roads and would come out on to the roads and near habitations. With people coming out in Unlock 1.0, we are exploring ways and strategies to check their conflict with the humans,” he said.Dhakate said the lockdown had proved to be good for wildlife and the environment in the state. “Apart from humans, animals were also getting comparatively cleaner air and water. Now it will be our biggest challenge to maintain this level with regard to less pollution and less man-animal conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-man-animal-conflict-unlock-1-poses-challenge-for-uttarakhand/story-kJhpDZCbWXMKR6whaZUk8O.html
05-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s worst-affected cities have high numbers but rate of infection has decreased||India has been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases over the past few days. Till Friday, the country recorded 2.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, with close to 10,000 infections in the last 24 hours.There are some states which have led the surge in numbers across the country. These states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.These states have high caseload of Covid-19, mostly in cities and urban centres. Here is a look at all those cities:• Mumbai: The capital of Maharashtra is right on top in the list of Covid-19 cases with a tally of 44,391. The city has recorded 1,465 deaths. However, the city’s civic body, which is spearheading its response to the pandemic, has said that there is a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) quoted the data till June 2 to say that the average daily growth of Covid-19 cases went down from more than eight per cent a few days ago to 3.64 per cent, reported news agency PTI.• Delhi: The city-state has seen its tally rise tapidly in the last few days. The number of Covid-19 disease cases in Delhi exceeded the 25,000-mark on Thursday as the national capital added 1,359 new infections. With the exception of June 1, the Capital has been recording at least 1,000 new infections daily for the last eight days. Delhi has seen 650 deaths related to the coronavirus disease.• Chennai: The southern state of Tamil Nadu has been one of the leading contributors in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country. While most of the state is affected by the coronavirus disease, the tally in its capital Chennai has reached 18,693.• Ahmedabad: The city in Gujarat has 13,354 cases of Covid-19 and close to 1,000 deaths (938 to be exact). Two hundred ninety one new infections were found in Ahmedabad in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday). Out of 33 coronavirus patients who died in Gujarat during this period, 28 patients died in different hospitals in Ahmedabad city alone.• Pune: This is the second city in Maharashtra which has reported a very high number of Covid-19 cases. Two hundred forty three more people tested Covid-19 positive in the city on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 8,717. The death toll stands at 391.• Indore: The major urban centre of Madhya Pradesh, Indore has 3,633 cases of coronavirus disease and 145 fatalities. Coronavirus patients have been found in 51 of the total 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh so far. So far, 5,637 people have recovered from the infection in the state and the number of active patients is 2,748.• Jaipur: Rajasthan’s capital Jaipur has 2,136 cases of Covid-19 and 101 deaths. Rajasthan has reported 68 new coronavirus disease cases on Thursday, and the state’s tally went up to 9,720. As per the state health department, Bharatpur district has reported a spike in the number of infections in the last few days.In the last 24 hours, 104 cases have been reported from the district.India registered its highest spike in Covid-19 cases with 9,851 more cases and 273 deaths reported in the last 24 hours (between Thursday and Friday). The Union health ministry, in its data on Friday morning, said that 1,09,462 persons have been cured/discharged/migrated while 6,348 people have succumbed to the disease so far.According to the health ministry, more than 70 per cent of the deaths were due to co-morbidities. It had earlier said that the recovery rate in India has improved to nearly 48 per cent.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 42,42,718 samples were tested for coronavirus infection till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-worst-affected-cities-have-high-numbers-but-rate-of-infection-has-decreased/story-Go0RABjAWeA2iB2E3EqKOO.html
05-06-2020||India||No new schemes for a year, says finance ministry amid rising Covid-19 cases||The remainder of this year will see no new schemes, announced the finance ministry on Friday, a move aimed at tightening the spending even as the country is witnessing an uptick in coronavirus cases.The ministry said only the ones sanctioned and announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and other special packages will be attended to. The schemes already approved under the Budget will also stay suspended till March 31.“In-principle approval for such schemes will not be given this financial year. Initiation of new schemes already appraised/approved will remain suspended for one year till march 31, 2021,” read a statement by the finance ministry.Fighting the falling revenues due to a long-drawn out lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus epidemic, various state governments too have put a freeze on spending.Amid calls for support, the Centre did announce Rs 20 lakh crore financial stimulus package to give more money into people’s hands and to push spending. India’s economic growth slipped to 3.1 per cent in the January-March quarter of 2019-20 showing impact of Covid-19 pandemic. The gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded by 5.7 per cent in the corresponding quarter of 2018-19. In 2019-20, the Indian economy grew by 4.2 per cent against 6.1 per cent expansion in 2018-19.On May 22, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said the Covid-19 pandemic will likely lead to a contraction in India GDP in the financial year 2020-21. Just about a month ago, the International Monetary Fund had projected India’s GDP growth in the year to be 1.9%. Private forecasters have been projecting a contraction for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-schemes-to-be-initiated-in-2020-21-says-finance-ministry-as-coronavirus-cases-continue-to-rise/story-6GSZHAWT5U4qRepMhdQQVI.html
05-06-2020||India||11 states have less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases as India’s tally soars beyond 226,700||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has surged beyond 226,700 and 6,348 people have died so far, according to the central government’s data.There were 9,851 new Covid-19 cases and 273 deaths in the last 24 hours which were reported from across the country, the Union health ministry data showed on Friday. Most of India’s Covid-19 cases—148,637—have been from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat.Also read: Mumbai has conducted 2.12 lakh Covid-19 tests, with positivity of 20.4%However, some states have seen less than 5,000 Covid-19 cases.Here’s a list:Bihar: The eastern state has 4,493 Covid-19 cases so far. There are 2254 active cases, 2210 recoveries and 29 deaths in the state.Karnataka: The southern state has 4,320 Covid-19 patients, including 2,653 active cases, 1,610 recoveries and 57 deaths.Andhra Pradesh: There are 1,613 active Covid-19 cases, 2,539 people who have been cured and 71 fatalities taking the tally to 4,223.Haryana: It has reported 3,281 cases of the coronavirus disease with 1,123 active cases, 2,134 recoveries and 24 deaths.Telangana: The southern state has reported 3,147 cases. There are 1,455 active cases, 1,587 people who have been cured and 105 fatalities in Telangana, data shows.Jammu and Kashmir: There have been 2059 active cases, 1,048 people who have been cured, 35 deaths taking the Union territory’s Covid-19 tally to 3,142.Follow live updates on Coronavirus outbreak hereOdisha: There are 2,478 cases so far, out of which 1,055 are active, 1,416 people who have been cured and seven deaths in the eastern state.Punjab: In Punjab, there are 325 active cases, 2,043 recoveries and 47 deaths. It takes the state’s tally to 2,415.Assam: The northeastern state has reported 1,988 patients of the highly infectious disease. According to data, there are 1,542 active cases, 442 recoveries and four deaths in Assam.Kerala: The southern state, which was the first to report Covid-19 cases in January, has 1,588 cases so far. Central data shows there are 884 active cases, 690 recoveries and 14 deaths.Uttarakhand: The hill state has 846 active cases, 297 people who have recovered and 10 deaths, taking its Covid-19 tally to 1,153.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-states-have-less-than-5-000-covid-19-cases-as-india-s-tally-soars-beyond-226-700/story-fVjSMrP5i3KqvorknrZViI.html
05-06-2020||India||Delhi: Woman alleges Covid-positive father ‘not admitted’ on time by hospital, dies||A woman has alleged that her Covid-19-positive father was not admitted in time by a Delhi government hospital and he died on Thursday, a charge denied by the authorities of the facility.The woman, Amarpreet Kaur, took to Twitter earlier in the day, saying, “My dad is having high fever. We need to shift him to hospital. I am standing outside LNJP Delhi & they are not taking him in. He is having corona, high fever and breathing problem. He won’t survive without help. Pls help.” My dad is having high fever. We need to shift him to hospital. I am standing outside LNJP Delhi & they are not taking him in. He is having corona, high fever and breathing problem. He won't survive without help. Pls help @raghav_chadha @ArvindKejriwal @SatyendarJain An hour later, she again tweeted, saying, “He is no more. The govt failed us.” Her tweets were widely circulated by netizens. Amarpreet is a social activist, her family said.The authorities at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, denied the charge, saying the patient was “brought dead”.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to information shared by the hospital, the 68-year-old man, who also had asthma, died at 7:37 am.“According to a report from the emergency department, the man was tested for Covid-19 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) and the report came on June 1, in which he was found positive for coronavirus infection,” a senior official said.He was sent to home quarantine from there, the authorities said.On Thursday, he was brought to the casualty department of the hospital in an “unconscious state” and with a flat ECG line, and declared “brought dead”.Amarpreet lives in Gurgaon with her husband Mandeep Singh, who said the family members rushed to the hospital after getting to know about his father-in-law’s condition.“My father-in-law was taken in a car by my wife’s brother and a cousin, accompanied by my mother-in-law,” Singh said, and alleged that the LNJP Hospital staff “were not willing to see my father-in-law, even as he fainted in the car”.“They are saying he was brought dead, but was he even attended to? The staff kept saying go to Ganga Ram Hospital. We were just at a loss,” he alleged, the charge again denied by the LNJP Hospital authorities.Singh also alleged that the family “never received any call” from the SGRH on the positive Covid-19 status of his father-in-law.A spokesperson of the SGRH denied the charge, saying, “There is no truth in these allegations. However, we sympathise with the family for their loss.” Singh also claimed that the family had approached three-four other private and government hospitals a few days ago, but “could not get admission” for the deceased in any of those facilities, adding that they found out that beds were available at the LNJP Hospital, so he was taken there.Later, in a statement, the LNJP Hospital rejected the claims of the family as “incorrect and false”, saying the old man was brought to the hospital between 7:10 am and 7:30 am, was “not refused admission and examined by a doctor”.It also claimed that the first tweet was put up by Amarpreet at 8:05 am and subsequently, she sent out another tweet, saying her father died at 9:08 am, but he died at 7:37 am.Singh responded to it and claimed that the tweets were “put out from his wife’s account by a friend of hers”, as she was scrambling to get her father medical attention and hence, there could have been a delay.Asked if the man’s family was made to wait at the hospital, a source said, the LNJP Hospital, being a dedicated facility, sees a “lot of rush” of patients.“Also, there are four doctors in the casualty department, who can attend to only four patients at a time following all social-distancing and other safety guidelines. But the triage team looks out for any person in the queue, who needs immediate medical attention,” the source said.The woman later tweeted seeking Covid-19 tests for all family members.“I lost my father today morning to Covid we want other family members to get tested today only. which labs are not doing they are in danger. We are trying since morning. My mother, brother, his wife and two kids. Pls help (sic),” she said.On June 2, the woman had also tweeted: “My father is corona positive and in Delhi, no helpline is responding @ArvindKejriwal @msisodia @dilipkpandey. Immediate support is needed.” “I am extremely thankful to @dilipkpandey and others for immediate attention and support. We are proceeding on next steps as advised by doctors!” she had tweeted.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Pandey had helped to get a doctor on a telephone call with the family, Singh said.Delhi recorded 1,359 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, which took the Covid-19 tally in the city past the 25,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 650, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-woman-alleges-covid-positive-father-not-admitted-in-time-by-hospital-dies/story-XJDY0gsocbWxmfEkFQSJJO.html
05-06-2020||India||Maharashtra: Bodies of two waiters found in water tank of Mira Road restobar||The decomposed bodies of two men who worked as waiters in a bar and restaurant at Mira Road township were found in the outlet’s water tank early on Friday, police officials said. The dead men were identified as Haresh Shetty, 48, and Naresh Pandit, 52. The bodies had stab wounds and head injuries and police believe they were murdered. A suspect, Kallu Jadhav, who worked in the same hotel, is on the run. Mira Road Police have formed teams to trace and arrest him, said deputy superintendent of police Shantaram Walvi. Gangadhar Shetty, the owner of the bar, said he received a call from Haresh Shetty’s phone that informed him about the murders. The police tracked the phone and its last location was somewhere near Nalla Sopara. The two men were allegedly murdered on June 1 and their bodies were dumped in the water tank. A foul smell began emanating from the water tank on the ground floor when the bodies started decomposing, police said. The 10,000-litre tank was built to store water supplied by the municipality and tankers for daily use. The bodies were fished out by Mira Bhayander fire brigade personnel at 1am on Friday.Police officials believe more than four persons could have been involved in the murder. The CCTV footage from the bar is being scanned as part of the investigation. The bar was closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, but the staff stayed in rooms in the same building at MTNL Road in Sheetal Nagar, said Gangadhar Shetty. “As of now, we have sent the bodies for a post-mortem examination and we have registered a case of murder against Kallu Jadhav, who is absconding,” said a police officer who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-bodies-of-two-waiters-found-in-water-tank-of-mira-road-restobar/story-EkivtkCMAinPM91AI2Dc5O.html
05-06-2020||India||UP: 35 migrants injured after bus falls into ditch||At least 35 migrant labourers were injured, 10 of them seriously, when a bus carrying them from Rajasthan to Hamirpur fell into a ditch, police said on Friday.The incident took place on Thursday at about 11 pm when the bus driver lost control and the vehicle fell into a roadside ditch, Circle officer, Massa Singh, said.Hearing screams of passengers, villagers rushed to the scene and pulled them out.Later, police reached the spot and rushed the labourers to a hospital, where condition of 10 of them is stated to be serious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-35-migrants-injured-after-bus-falls-into-ditch/story-JcqnPXKEhVKahfP8OYbi3J.html
05-06-2020||India||With over 9,000 new Covid-19 cases for 2nd straight day, India’s tally at 2.26 lakh||India recorded 9,851 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 273 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Friday. The Covid-19 tally of the country now stands at 226,770, more than four times the number of cases on the same day in May, according to the health minority’s dashboard, ahead of the beginning of Centre’s Unlock 1 plan from Monday to ease more restrictions during the lockdown.Also read: With current rate of Covid-19 infection, India likely to overtake Italy in 2 daysOn Thursday, 9,304 Covid-19 cases were recorded.Data shows that the number of people who have succumbed to the deadly infection has gone up to 6,348 from 1,568 on May 5. There are 109,461 people who have been cured of Covid-19 pushing the recovery rate to 48.26% so far.Most of the country’s caseload has been recorded from Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat. There are 77,793 patients of Covid-19 and 2,710 people have died so far in Maharashtra, while Tamil Nadu has 27,256 cases and 220 fatalities. In Delhi, the COvid-19 tally has reached beyond 25,000 and the death toll is at 650.While the number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat is lower than that of the national capital at 18,584, the western state’s death toll is higher at 1,155.Also read| Covid-19 state tally: 4 states have more than 65% of total cases, Delhi tally crosses 25,000The Union health ministry has released several guidelines as part of a three-phased plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to halt the spread of Covid-19.The standard operating procedures (SOPs) have come ahead of the opening of malls, religious places, and hotels and restaurants in several parts of the country from June 8 in the first phase of what the Centre calls Unlock 1, and give a glimpse of life in the aftermath of a pandemic. The list of dos and don’ts has physical distancing of at least six feet; mandatory use of face covers, frequent handwashing with soaps for at least 40-60 seconds, use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and covering mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing as common guidelines.Frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs at hotels have to be disinfected regularly, disposable menu cards at restaurants and food courts in malls must be provided to patrons, just 50% seating capacity can be utilised at restaurants and offerings such as prasad at religious places will be prohibited for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-9-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-india-s-tally-at-2-26-lakh/story-yiq7kzkhvnMC7PANWWgaNL.html
05-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pandemic heightens suffering for non-Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Non-Covid patients’ suffering: A ‘private’ issue out in openIt has been over a month since Manish Kumar Tyagi, a ward boy at a government hospital, lost his three-year-old son who was refused treatment in at least two private nursing homes in the state capital. Read moreWith current rate of Covid-19 infection, India likely to overtake Italy in 2 daysIndia is seeing rapid increase in the number of coronavirus infections. In the last few days, since the government announced relaxation in the nationwide lockdown, the number of cases has been rising at record pace. Read moreArmy personnel dies in ceasefire violation in J-K’s RajouriAn Indian Army soldier was killed in the ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir late on Thursday. Read moreDefence leaders say no to Trump’s troops ideaIn a clear rebuke to US President Donald Trump, former defence secretary James Mattis on Wednesday sided with people who had been protesting outside the White House over George Floyd’s killing. Read moreChintu Ka Birthday movie review: Vinay Pathak, Tillotama Shome film feels like a bite of sugary cake during these bleak timesHow challenging can it be for a middle-class couple to throw a birthday party for their child? All you need is a bit of tinsel and cake. Read moreUP cop leads cavalcade of vehicles, suspended for violating lockdown normsA police officer in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkar district led a cavalcade of vehicles during his farewell procession. The SHO was suspended after the video of the cavalcade riding through a rural setting went viral. Read moreReliance Jio platforms raise ₹9,093.60 crore from Abu Dhabi-based investor MubadalaReliance Industries Limited (RIL) on Friday announced that Abu Dhabi-based investor Mubadala Investment Company (Mubadala) will invest ₹9,093.60 crore in Jio Platforms. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pandemic-heightens-suffering-for-non-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-luCOB7LRTHJC3ia7QTZcgM.html
05-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: 4 states have more than 65% of total cases, Delhi tally crosses 25,000||The number of coronavirus disease cases has seen a spike in the last few days, since the government announced relaxation in nationwide lockdown. On Friday, it saw 9,851 new cases in the last 24 hours.Though the country’s average rate of infection is not very high - 6.67 per 100 - the situation is particulary bad in Maharashtra, the state badly hit by the coronavirus pandemic. According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, the country’s average of new Covid-19 cases is 6.67 per 100. But in Maharashtra, this number is 16.Apart from Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Gujarat, Tripura and Bihar also have a higher caseload than the national average.On Friday, the number of Covid-19 cases in India reached 2,26,770 of which 6,348 have lost their lives.Here’s a look at the Covid-19 state tally: On Friday, Maharashtra reported 77,793 Covid-19 cases. As many as 2,710 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra - highest in the country - while 33,681 have recovered.Tamil Nadu has seen 27,256 coronavirus cases till date. Two hundred and twenty people have died of Covid-19 in the state, more than 14,902 people have recovered. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 25,004 on Friday, 9,898 patients have recovered here while 650 died due to Covid-19. The Covid-19 cases in Gujarat jumped to 18,584 on Friday. The state has seen 12,667 people recover from coronavirus while 1,155 people have died.States with rising casesRajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh are states where the Covid-19 cases are rapidly inching toward the 10,000 mark. Rajasthan has reported 9,862 cases of coronavirus so far while 7,104 people have recovered. The death toll in the state stands at 213.The number of Covid-19 positive cases has jumped to 9,237 in Uttar Pradesh. While 5,439 people have recovered from coronavirus in the state, 245 have died from the infection here. Coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh have jumped to 8,762. Three hundred and seventy-seven people have died from Covid-19 in the state while 5,637 have recovered.Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 6,876 while 355 people have died from the deadly contagion, 2,768 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 4,493; death toll in the state has jumped to 29. More than 2,000 (2,210 to be exact) people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 4,223 Covid-19 cases till date. While 71 people have died in the state, 2,539 have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported over 4,000 coronavirus cases till date while Telangana, Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana have more than 3,000 Covid-19 positive patients. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand and Assam are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Chhattisgarh and Tripura have more than 500 cases; the number of below this mark in Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Manipur. Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Goa, meanwhile, has 166 cases.All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-4-states-have-more-than-65-of-total-cases-delhi-tally-crosses-25-000/story-A5mDLNjJphKWuhsxZKUSlK.html
05-06-2020||India||50% seating capacity, takeaways, disposable menus: Restaurants to follow new rules from Monday||The Centre has issued a set of guidelines to be followed by patrons and owners of restaurants when they reopen for business on Monday, June 8, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Union health ministry has said restaurants in containment zones shall remain closed and those that will open will have to ensure social distancing.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAll restaurants and patrons will have to follow these rules: * Seating arrangement to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50% of seating capacity to be permitted * Disposable menus are advised to be used* Instead of cloth napkins, use of good quality disposable paper napkins to be encouraged* Buffet service should also follow social distancing norms among patrons* Takeaways to be encouraged instead of dine-In. Food delivery personnel should leave the packet at the customer’s door and not handover the food packet directly* Staff for home deliveries shall be screened thermally by the restaurant authorities prior to allowing home deliveries* Entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions* Only asymptomatic staff and patrons shall be allowed* All staff and patrons to be allowed entry only if using face cover or masks, which has to be worn at all times inside the restaurant* Posters, standees or AV media on preventive measures about Covid-19 to be displayed prominently* Staggering of patrons to be done, if possible* Adequate manpower shall be deployed by restaurant management for ensuring social distancing norms* All employees who are at higher risk—older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions—to take extra precautions. They should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public. Restaurant management to facilitate work from home wherever feasible. * Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises – duly following social distancing norms shall be ensured. * Additional patrons to be seated in a designated waiting area with norms of social distancing* Valet parking, if available, shall be operational with operating staff wearing face covers or masks and gloves as appropriate. Proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc of the vehicles should be done * Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises* Preferably separate entry and exits for patrons, staff and goods/supplies shall be organised * Required precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the restaurant shall be ensured. Proper queue management and disinfection shall be organised* Maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the restaurant as far as feasible* Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms* Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged* For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30oC, relative humidity should be in the range of 40- 70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate* Large gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited* Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations/areas* Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) to be made mandatory in all guest service area and common areas* Proper disposal of face covers, masks and gloves left over by patrons or staff should be ensured* Deep cleaning of all washrooms shall be ensured at regular intervals* Adequate crowd and queue management to be ensured to ensure social distancing norms* Staff and waiters should wear mask and hand gloves and take other required precautionary measures* Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment (using e-wallets) to be encouraged* Tables to be sanitised each time customer leaves * In the kitchen, the staff should follow social distancing norms at workplace. Kitchens area must be sanitised at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-seating-capacity-takeaways-disposable-menus-restaurants-to-follow-new-rules-from-monday/story-JeJCH86UrHvOxFT5Drw67M.html
05-06-2020||India||On World Environment Day, PM Modi urges citizens to preserve planet’s biodiversity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday posted wishes on the World Environment Day, urging people to preserve the planet’s rich biodiversity.“On #WorldEnvironmentDay, we reiterate our pledge to preserve our planet’s rich biodiversity. Let us collectively do whatever possible to ensure the flora and fauna with whom we share the Earth thrive. May we leave an even better planet for the coming generations,” he said on Twitter.World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year.The theme of the World Environment Day this year is ‘Biodiversity’, which is described as the variety of life in a particular habitat or ecosystem, where each species has an important role to play. Upsetting this balance, including through over exploitation of the natural resources, can have enormous consequences.Experts say loss of biodiversity can lead to emergence of new infectious diseases like Covid-19.This year, the the environment ministry will hold virtual celebrations to mark the day due to the Covid-19 pandemic.On the eve of the World Environment Day on Thursday, Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said that despite a huge human and animal population on a limited habitation area, India has been able to maintain 8 per cent of the world’s biodiversity because “our ethos is to live with nature”.In a video message, Javadekar said that there are many constraints for India in conserving the biodiversity, like 16 per cent of world’s human population and 16 per cent of cattle population living on 2.5 per cent of world’s land.Javadekar also said India is among the “very few countries walking the talk” on the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-environment-day-pm-modi-asks-citizens-to-preserve-planet-s-biodiversity/story-0tjNQvTLcHtxa4fd4disyO.html
05-06-2020||India||With current rate of Covid-19 infection, India likely to overtake Italy in 2 days||India is seeing rapid increase in the number of coronavirus infections. In the last few days, since the government announced relaxation in the nationwide lockdown, the number of cases has been rising at record pace.On Thursday, India saw 9,304 new cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day spike so far. The total number of cases in the country is now 2,16,919.If the same rate continues, it will take India two days to cross the tally of Italy, the sixth worst-affected country by Covid-19.Italy currently has 2,33,836 cases of Covid-19. If India keeps recording cases at the same rate, it will add another 18,000 cases in its tally, taking the total number to 2,34,919.In terms of fatalities, however, India has a much better record. The number of deaths in India is five times less than Italy.The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases reached 2.17 lakh on Thursday with a with a record spike of 9,304 new cases in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday) and several states reporting their highest one-day surge.The death toll has increased to 6,075 with 260 more fatalities in this period.India is currently the seventh worst hit nation after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. In terms of fatalities, India is ranked 12th at present, while it is placed at eighth place in terms of recoveries. However, India figures among the top-five countries in terms of active cases, as also for the number of tests conducted so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-current-rate-of-covid-19-infection-india-likely-to-overtake-italy-in-2-days/story-26zorfGzAnIKTOFtFaJMIO.html
05-06-2020||India||No touching of idols, no prasad and no singing at religious places: New rules from Monday||Worshippers visiting religious places, which will open from June 8, Monday, will have to follow a new set of rules, including social distancing, issued by the Centre to contain spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government has said religious places or places of worship in containment zones will remain closed.These measures are to be followed by workers and visitors in these places at all times, it said.Here are the new rules to be followed from Monday at religious places: 1. Touching of statues, idols and holy books is not to be allowed2. Large gatherings or congregation continue to remain prohibited3. Recorded devotional music or songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed4. Physical contact must be avoided while greeting each other5. Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees should bring their own prayer mat or piece of cloth, which they may take back with them. 6. No physical offerings like prasad or distribution or a sprinkling of holy water etc to be allowed7. Shoes to be preferably taken off inside own vehicle. If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual and family by the devotees themselves8. Maintain physical distancing of a minimum of six feet at all times when queuing up for entry9. People should wash their hand and feet with soap and water before entering the premisesAll religious places will have to ensure the following:1. Entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions2. Only asymptomatic persons to be allowed in the premises3. People to be allowed entry only if they are using face cover or masks4. Posters or standees on preventive measures about Covid-19 to be displayed prominently. Audio and video clips to spread awareness on preventive measures should be regularly played.5. Staggering of visitors to be done, if possible.6. Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises – duly following social distancing norms shall be organised.7. Any shops, stalls, cafeteria etc outside and within the premises shall follow social distancing norms at all times 8. Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises9. Preferably separate entry and exits for visitors10. Community kitchens, langars, annadaan, etc at religious places should follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food10. Effective sanitation within the premises to be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, hand and foot-washing stations and areas. 11. Frequent cleaning and disinfection to be maintained by the management of the religious place. 12. The floors should particularly be cleaned multiple times in the premises. 13. Proper disposal of face covers, masks and gloves left over by visitors and or employees should be ensured.14. Seating arrangement to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained.15. For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degree Celcius, relative humidity should be in the range of 40- 70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate. Among the common rules are:1. Individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in public places as far as feasible.2. Use of face covers or masks to be mandatory3. Practice frequent hand washing with soap for at least 40-60 seconds even when hands are not visibly dirty. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers for at least 20 seconds can be made wherever feasible. 4. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves the strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly.5. Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline.6. Spitting should be strictly prohibited7. Installation and use of Aarogya Setu mobile app shall be advised to allRules to follow in case of a suspect or confirmed case inside the premises:1. Place the ill person in a room or area where they are isolated from others2. Provide a mask or face cover till such time he/she is examined by a doctor3. Immediately inform the nearest medical facility like a hospital or clinic or call the state or district helpline.4. A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority (district RRT/treating physician) and accordingly further action be initiated regarding the management of the case, their contacts and need for disinfection5. Disinfection of the premises to be taken up if the person is found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-touching-of-idols-no-prasad-and-no-singing-at-religious-places-new-rules-from-monday/story-0bGHSH1Fref9E2GNsNRZkM.html
05-06-2020||India||Amarnath Yatra: Special religious ceremony to be performed in Jammu on Friday||The top officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration will conduct pooja in Jammu on Friday, officially marking the start of Amarnath Yatra.The ‘Pratham Pooja’ will be conducted by Principal secretary to J&K Lieutenant Governor and CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board, Bipul Pathak, ACEO AK Soni.“It signifies commencement of the annual pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Shri Amarnath. The yatra, however, shall begin on July 21 for a shorter duration of 14 days and it will end on August 3,” official sources told Hindustan Times.The pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir will now be conducted from the shorter Baltal route only, they added.While Deputy Commissioner of Ganderbal, of which Baltal is a part, has already pressed men and machinery for clearing the tracks.The decision to cut-short the time period of the yatra was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu last week.The government had decided in February this year to hold the annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine.The Amarnath Yatra was scheduled to begin from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23. The pilgrimage was to end on August 3 on the day of Shravan Purnima (Raksha Bandhan).Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14km-long Baltal route to the holy shrine every year.The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month and a half and takes place during July and August.One of the holiest pilgrimages in Hinduism, the yatra attracts pilgrims from India as well as across the world. There have been terror attacks on the route of the yatra in the past. The last attack took place in 2017 on a bus from Gujarat in Anantnag district that left seven pilgrims dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarnath-yatra-special-religious-ceremony-to-be-performed-in-jammu-on-friday/story-UxBZpDJIuMc433omAMMujK.html
05-06-2020||India||Centre, Kerala lock horns over expatriates’ evacuation||Kerala has crossed swords with the Centre over the evacuation of stranded expatriates from the Middle Eastern countries even as the state reported three deaths and 94 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, highest since the outbreak began in January.The state government has landed in a piquant situation after Congress-led opposition parties began a state-wide campaign holding it responsible for the death of 210 non-resident Indians (NRIs) in Gulf countries due to Covid-19 in the last three months. Also read: 46% migrants back home or on wayThey stepped up their pressure after the minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan, said the state’s go-slow approach resulted in the poor evacuation of residents of Kerala from abroad. The minister said only 20% of evacuations were held and the state was interested more in maintaining its record.As stranded expatriates’ woes took an emotional turn, both the state and the Centre blamed each other for their plight. Click here for full Covd-19 coverageKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said there was a ploy to portray the state’s track record in a bad light.“We never restricted the number of flights. We are aware of the plight of our people abroad. Some people are trying to mislead them. But their ploy won’t succeed,” he said adding the government was keen on their safety and early return. “I don’t know why people holding responsible positions are creating such confusion. I heard the Union government had some problem in dispatching too many flights,” the CM said while asked about Muraleedharan’s statement. Pinarayi Vijayan said the state had agreed to 12 flights a day and the Centre was not able to meet this request.Muraleedharan had said earlier the Centre was ready to fly 34 flights a day but the state forced it to reduce them to 12.Some of the bereaved said they never expected such an end to their loved ones and added that political parties are busy lauding their contributions but have turned a blind eye to their plight.“We could not see my father’s body. We were told his body was buried in a mosque in the UAE. It was terrible. We suffered in silence,” the daughter one of the victims in Kozhikode said, adding that her father was planning to come home in June. “Nobody has called us so far. Here parties are busy fighting for political mileage. His life should have been saved if authorities helped him return early,” she said.After the first round of lockdown, the state government had started a website for expatriates who wished to return and more than four lakh people registered in the first week itself. The latest data show less than 40,000 arrived in the last three weeks. Relatives of those aboard have said they are worried after a spurt in Covid-19 cases in some of the Gulf countries and that their return is now getting delayed inordinately. At least 18 lakh people from the state work in the Gulf.The state reported three deaths and 94 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike since the outbreak began, said the CM adding 80% of the recent cases were imported. The state’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,588 and the death toll has risen to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-kerala-lock-horns-over-expatriates-evacuation/story-ZoKSnQ23lJOzZiJD3jgVGN.html
05-06-2020||India||‘Careless govt’: Opposition claims wheat worth crores damaged in rain in MP||The rain caused by Cyclone Nisarga led to damage of crops in various parts of Madhya Pradesh. The wheat and other crops were procured by the state government.The Opposition has now attacked the government, accusing it of being “careless”.The rain came as Madhya Pradesh was already facing the challenge caused by swarms of desert locusts, which remain uncontrolled. However, the downpour brought down temperature in the state considerably low giving a relief to people from rising temperature.As per meteorological department’s Madhya Pradesh unit, as many as 23 districts received moderate to heavy rains in the past two days with Bhopal, Raisen, Betul, Hoshangabad in central region, Rewa and Satna in Vindya region, Chhatarpur, Sagar and Damoh in Bundelkhand region, Gwalior and Guna in Gwalior region, Jabalpur, Narsinghpur, Chhindwara and Mandla in Mahakoshal region and Khandwa, Khargone, Indore, Dhar, Barwani, Shajapur and Burhanpur in Malwa receiving heavy rains.The meteorological department has further issued warning for heavy rainfall in 27 districts in the next 24 hours. Rains are still continuing in several parts of the state. In Bhopal, the maximum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 22.6 degree Celsius, as many as 17 degree Celsius low than the normal temperature on the day. In Gwalior, the maximum temperature dropped by about 10 degree Celsius and in Indore and Jabalpur by about 12 and 10 degree Celsius, as per meteorological department. Joint director of agriculture department at Indore RS Sisodia said, “Rains, though it’s not pre-monsoon showers, will help farmers do cultivation. However, for sowing they need good rains during monsoon.”Revenue department principal secretary Manish Rastogi said, “There is no report of damage caused to any property due to rains has been reported so far.”However, as per reports from many districts, wheat stored in the open at procurement centres has got wet. About 15,000 quintal of wheat stored in open in Katni got wet in the past two days. The value of the wheat stored is said to be about Rs 2.81 crore. Similarly, in Rajgarh district too wheat was stored in the open at about 90 per cent of the 84 procurement centres. It got wet due to rains.State Congress president Kamal Nath accused the state government of showing carelessness in undertaking measures in storing wheat in warehouses. “Lakhs of metric tonnes of wheat got damaged resulting in loss of crores of rupees. Warning for Nisarga was given earlier but the government overlooked it. Hence, state government is responsible for the damage,” he said.Farmers welfare and agriculture development minister Kamal Patel said, “The rain is untimely. Procurement centres for wheat was increased to about 4,500 so that people don’t have to travel long distances. Though it was stored in the open, the wheat was well covered with plastic sheets. The same is being stored in warehouses and we are trying to see that least damage is caused to wheat.”Principal secretary, Food and Civil Supply, Shivshekhar Shukla said, “No damage was reported from any district. The procured food grains was properly covered and secured.”Desert locusts is another problem farmers in the state continued to grapple with even after a fortnight of swarms of locusts entered Madhya Pradesh from Rajasthan.As per officials, damage to vegetation was reported from parts of Vindhya, Beundelkhand and Gwalior-Chambal regions on Thursday.What took the district administration in Satna by surprise on Thursday was swarms of locusts entering Satna city causing a panic among residents.Deputy director of agriculture at Satna Bahorilal Kureel said, “Movement of locusts to the city was perhaps caused by rains. We faced a problem in controlling the insects as we couldn’t have used excessive amount of insecticide in killing the locusts given presence of people. We used four to five fire tenders to drive them away. The district administration was swung into action the moment they entered the city. We are keeping a watch on their further movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/careless-govt-opposition-claims-wheat-worth-crores-damaged-in-rain-in-mp/story-2gsNycvw5CNGQsxtezHrpI.html
05-06-2020||India||Mild earthquakes hit Karnataka, Jharkhand at the same time||Two mild earthquakes hit Jamshedpur in Jharkhand and Karnataka’s Hampi on Friday morning, news agency ANI reported. Jamshedpur was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 4.7 at 6:55am, ANI reported citing data from the National Center for Seismology. Hampi also experienced a mild earthquake of magnitude 4.0 at the same time, the news agency said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-earthquakes-hit-karnataka-jharkhand-at-the-same-time/story-WwQbCxEZXdp0xXZI5cwx8L.html
05-06-2020||India||Staggering visitors, social distancing, valet parking: New guidelines for shopping malls from Monday||The Centre has issued detailed guidelines to be followed at shopping malls, which will open up for business from June 8, Monday, as part of its three-phase Unlock 1 plan.They are among the first of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The guidelines, which will come into effect from Monday, include measures like staggering visitors to malls, social distancing and other preventive measures. Gaming arcade, children’s play and cinema halls inside shopping malls will not open. Shopping malls in containment zones will remain closed.Here are the new Covid-19 guidelines for visitors and management at shopping malls:Generic preventive measures* People above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. * Shopping mall management to advise accordingly.* The generic measures include simple public health measures that are to be followed to reduce the risk of Covid-19.These measures need to be followed by all visitors and workers: i. The physical distancing of at least six feet to be followed as far as feasible.ii. Use of face covers or masks to be made mandatory.iii. Practice frequent hand washing with soap for at least 40-60 seconds even when hands are not visibly dirty. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers for at least 20 seconds can be made wherever feasible.iv. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves the strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly.v. Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline.vi. Spitting shall be strictly prohibited.vii. Installation and use of Aarogya Setu app shall be advised to all.All shopping malls will have to ensure the following arrangements:i. Entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions.ii. Only asymptomatic customers or visitors shall be allowed.iii. All workers, customers and visitors to be allowed entry only if using face cover or masks. The face cover or masks has to be worn at all times inside the shopping mall.iv. Posters, standees and AV media on preventive measures about Covid-19 to be displayed prominently.v. Staggering of visitors to be done, if possible.vi. Adequate manpower shall be deployed by mall management for ensuring social distancing norms.vii. All employees who are at higher risk ie older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions, to take extra precautions. They should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public. Shopping mall management to facilitate work from home wherever feasible.viii. Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises – duly following social distancing norms shall be ensured.ix. Valet parking, if available, shall be operational with operating staff wearing face covers or masks and gloves as appropriate. Proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc. of the vehicles should be taken up.x. Any shops, stalls, cafeteria etc, outside and within the premises shall follow social distancing norms at all times.xi. Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises.xii. Preferably separate entry and exits for visitors, workers and goods or supplies shall be organised.xiii. The staff for home deliveries shall be screened thermally by the shopping mall authorities prior to allowing home deliveries.xiv. Required precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the shopping mall shall be ensured. Proper queue management and disinfection shall be organised. xv. Maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the shopping mall as far as feasible.xvi. A number of customers inside the shop to be kept at a minimum, so as to maintain the physical distancing norms. xvii. Seating arrangement, if any, to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. xviii. A number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms. xix. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged.xx. For air-conditioning or ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degree Celsius, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate.xxi. Large gatherings or congregations continue to remain prohibited.xxii. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations or areas.xxiii. Cleaning and regular disinfection using 1% sodium hypochlorite of frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc to be made mandatory in all malls in common areas as well as inside shops, elevators, escalators etc.xxiv. Proper disposal of face covers, masks and gloves left over by visitors or employees should be ensured.xxv. Deep cleaning of all washrooms shall be ensured at regular intervals.Rules for food courts inside shopping malls:a. Adequate crowd and queue management to be ensured to ensure social distancing norms.b. In food courts and restaurants, not more than 50% of the seating capacity to be permitted. c. Food court staff and waiters should wear mask and hand gloves and take other required precautionary measures.d. The seating arrangement should ensure adequate social distancing between patrons as far as feasible.e. Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment (using e-wallets) to be encouraged.f. Tables to be sanitized each time the customer leaves.g. In the kitchen, the staff should follow social distancing norms.Rules to follow in case of a suspect or confirmed case inside shopping malls:a. Place the ill person in a room or area where they are isolated from others.b. Provide a mask or face cover till such time he/she is examined by a doctor.c. Immediately inform the nearest medical facility like a hospital or clinic or call the state or district helpline.d. A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority (district RRT/treating physician) and accordingly further action be initiated regarding the management of the case, their contacts and need for disinfection.e. Disinfection of the premises to be taken up if the person is found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staggering-visitors-social-distancing-valet-parking-new-guidelines-for-shopping-malls-from-monday/story-aeO5PR2HibF3Yt1K2JSZKN.html
05-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Rate of new infection higher than national average in Maharashtra, improvement in Madhya Pradesh||Maharashtra, the state worst-affected by the coronavirus pandemic, has more cases of disease than the national average.According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data, quoted by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the country’s average of new Covid-19 cases is 6.67 per 100. But in Maharashtra, this number is 16.ICMR said that 1,39,485 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday) in the country. The total numnber of samples tested in the country is 42,42,718.Apart from Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Gujarat, Tripura and Bihar also have a higher caseload than the national average.The situation has, however, improved in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.If the rate of the spread of the Covid-19 infection continues, India will soon leave Italy behind. Hindustan has quoted figures from Worldometre, Italy has 2,33,836 cases of Covid-19 whereas the number has reached 2,17,965 in India.India is recording around 9,000 cases daily. At this rate, it will take India two days to cross Italy’s infection tally. However, the rate of fatality in India is much better than Italy. At nearly the same number of infection, the European country has seen five times more deaths that India.The nationwide tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases reached 2.17 lakh on Thursday with a with a record spike of 9,304 new cases in the last 24 hours (between Wednesday and Thursday) and several states reporting their highest one-day surge.The death toll has increased to 6,075 with 260 more fatalities in this period.India is now the seventh worst hit nation after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. In terms of fatalities, India is ranked 12th at present, while it is placed at eighth place in terms of recoveries. However, India figures among the top-five countries in terms of active cases, as also for the number of tests conducted so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rate-of-new-infection-higher-than-national-average-in-maharashtra-improvement-in-madhya-pradesh/story-k7IMFnMWIN2RMCdp4GvEwL.html
05-06-2020||India||Army personnel dies in ceasefire violation in J-K’s Rajouri||An Indian Army soldier from Tamil Nadu was killed in the ceasefire violation by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir late on Thursday, officials said on Friday.A defence spokesperson said havaldar Mathiazhagan P died in the shelling on Thursday night and said he belonged to Sreerangai Kadu village in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district.“Our troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Hav Mathiazhagan P was critically injured. The soldier was evacuated to Army Hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries,” Lt Col Devender Anand, the defence spokesperson, said. Mathiazhagan P was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier, Anand said.“The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.His body will be taken by road from Akhnoor to Jammu and then to Delhi in an aircraft. From the national capital it will be taken to Coimbatore, the official said.Pakistan also violated the ceasefire in the front sector of Poonch district on Thursday night. A defence spokesperson said Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation at about 10:45pm by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kirni sector. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, the spokesperson added.He said that a large scale search has begun in Kalakote of Rajouri district after a terrorist was killed by security forces in an operation in the area late on Thursday.“Acting upon hard intelligence, security forces eliminated one terrorist in Dharmsal village in Kalakote area of Rajouri district. We suspect that two to three ultras are hiding there,” a source said.A local said security forces exchanged fire with terrorists in Dharmsal village around 8.15pm.There has been a spurt in terror attacks and infiltration bids in Jammu and Kashmir during the lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Pakistan has been relentlessly opening heavy fire on Indian posts and villages along the 744-km LoC for more than two and a half months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-personnel-dies-in-ceasefire-violation-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-Al4xhKYxmyDIPYi7PZHP8H.html
05-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Does Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) work as a cure against the coronavirus disease? As a prophylaxis?What about Remdesivir?The volume of literature out there can be confusing – as can the near-realtime reporting on these, which means we are all blowing hot one day, cold the other.Still, it isn’t as bad as, say, the situation with egg yolks, ghee, or coconut oil. One part of the problem is that many of us look for headlines in research, when we should ideally be looking for nuance (I think some of the recent reports in mainstream media on Remdesivir, for instance, are guilty of this).Another is that science can only answer questions set for it – for instance, a study on whether HCQ has prophylactic benefits cannot answer questions on its therapeutic ability.And a third is that research, especially clinical research, is an iterative and reductive process, where the result of one study doesn’t as much provide a readymade answer, as point to another direction of study that could.With that lengthy preamble, let us revisit the original question – or both the original questions.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWhat of HCQ?A paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine on June 3, based on a randomised trial, showed that the drug wasn’t effective as a prophylactic – post-exposure. “After high-risk or moderate-risk exposure to Covid-19, HCQ did not prevent illness compatible with Covid-19 or confirmed infection when used as postexposure prophylaxis within four days of exposure,” the study’s authors wrote.But an Indian study, by the Indian Council of Medical Research, reported by HT on June 1, showed that 80% of health care workers who were given at least six doses of HCQ were not infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “The main conclusion that can be drawn after analysing the data is that HCQ has beneficial effects in infection risk reduction from the fourth dose onwards,” HT reported the study’s co-author as saying. This probably suggests that the drug may work as a prophylactic in the strict sense of the term – pre-exposure. To be sure, the ICMR study is a pre-print one and yet to be peer reviewed. That means we have still not heard the last on HCQ’s ability as a prophylactic.As for its ability as a therapeutic, The Lancet is reviewing a study that dismissed this (because it seems based on dodgy data), and the World Health Organization, which suspended HCQ trials following the study, has said it will now revive them.And what of Remdesivir?This, too, is an interesting story. In late April, WHO posted on its website, and then removed, a study that claimed the drug wasn’t effective in treating Covid-19. The study was later published in The Lancet. But the same month – roughly a week after the study was published and taken down, and on the same day on which it appeared in The Lancet – the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said that its own trial of the drug suggested that the drug helped Covid-19 patients recover faster. Soon after, on May 1, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the use of the drug as a treatment for Covid-19 (in certain cases).Earlier this week, a Phase 3 trial of Remdesivir on moderately ill and hospitalised Covid-19 patients showed a positive impact on those who received the drug for five days (as compared to those who didn’t), although there was no appreciable difference between those who received the drug for 10 days and those who didn’t. The study didn’t include critically ill patients but it also didn’t include patients in the early stage of infection. Both questions – about the drug’s efficacy when it comes to treating the critically ill as well as the just-infected – merit further exploration.Interestingly, the study itself was interpreted differently by different people. Gilead’s stock fell because the study showed that the drug may not be the miracle cure everyone is looking for, although many others saw the conclusion as one that held out some hope – at least for the moderately ill. Coincidentally, India’s drug regulator approved the use of Remdesivir as a treatment for Covid-19 a day after the study’s results were published.Which is where things stand. No quick answers; several false turns; and more questions. Which is how science works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bNc4GAOiApXtTjWaiyUGhK.html
05-06-2020||India||‘Too early to predict Covid impact on railways’, says Piyush Goyal||Railways and commerce minister Piyush Goyal says the revival of global trade, severely impacted by Covid-19, will take some time. In an interview with HT, he speaks about milestones in the Narendra Modi government’s second stint and the impact of the pandemic on Indian Railways, among other issues. Edited excerpts:In terms of the government, some very, very long-pending issues [have been take up] such as the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A of Kashmir. The court in the same period solved the Ram Mandir issue. [Other milestones are] the triple talaq law and the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill.We gave a lot of thrust to agriculture. PM Kisan was expanded to cover all farmers. Another Rs 1 lakh crore for farm gate infrastructure was announced. We started the process of transformational policy change -- like coal mining, which was finalised in the Atmanirbhar Bharat package and also approved by the Cabinet... In this whole period, the focus has been on a number of initiatives that would strengthen India in the long term, and present opportunities for people in agriculture, food processing, fishing, mining... [Efforts have been to] try and shrink the gap between rural and urban India.During this period, the world economy was going through stress; trade wars were playing out...A number of factors worldwide made the global trade contract. And then it culminated with the Covid problem... We could not continue to grow as we would have liked to, but we look at this also as a challenge. We are very focused, as you saw from the Rs 20-lakh-crore Atmanirbhar Bharat package. It’s not about giving a short-term solution but to prepare India for the medium and long term.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe year 2019-20 saw the highest capex (~1.61 lakh crore) in the history of Indian Railways. PM Modi has consistently believed that railways can be the engine of growth. Therefore, 2019-20 got 20% additional funds compared to 2018-19... we have spent [between 2014 and 2019] nearly two-and-a-half times more than what was spent before the Modi government came. It’s been a continuous process of massive ramp-up, of modernisation, of improving punctuality and quality of catering services. The crowning glory of the year gone by is zero passenger fatality due to rail accidents.That is one of the things we have to do to increase efficiency. It’s a part of the modernisation and efficiency improvement programme... And after we get free from this, we will be in a position to take this forward.We have started 200 long-distance mail/express trains. We already started 30 Rajdhanis. Throughout this period, you would not have heard of a single incident of food grain shortage, or fertilizer shortage for farmers, or coal shortage for powerhouses because we continued to supply all this through freight trains...We also ran nearly 3,575 parcel trains to transport small quantities of agriculture produce, fruits and vegetables. We have not done the math as yet and we will have to see how long this impact continues...The bookings are not too many. So, we will have to wait and watch. It’s a little early to predict the financial impact.It has been a setback (in terms of infrastructure) for the past three months. We have to assess now how quickly we can...get the labour back on the job. I think it’s going to still take time. The jury is out... it’s also intrinsically linked with the spread of the virus and what numbers we see going forward, and the vaccine and the cure for the virus. I think all estimates we made so far are continuously changing.In terms of RCEP, India has presented its concerns before all RCEP members. Clearly, we believe that we have to protect our domestic manufacturers, our farmers, the MSME sector, our milk producers...unless there is a full resolution of our issues, it will be very difficult for us to get back on the negotiating table.The major countries — the US, the UK, the EU — we were talking to are under severe stress. In fact, there is a lockdown in most of these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/too-early-to-predict-covid-impact-on-railways-says-piyush-goyal/story-f3utXn09EbMQRdTUFR0TgJ.html
05-06-2020||India||‘46% migrants back home or on way’||Total 46% of the country’s migrant workers have returned home or are on their way to their state of domicile, a data compiled by the chief labour commissioner of India has revealed.The CLC’s data, updated till June 2, has been revealed under an RTI query which shows the total number of migrant workers is 2,617,218.Chhattisgarh has the highest number of migrant workers—1,085,828—according to this estimate, followed by Kerala (2,86,846), Maharashtra (2,01,909) and Telangana (1,84,006) . These estimates, however, widely differ from the data provided by the railway ministry for its trains to take back migrant workers.According to data provided by the CLC, just 2,63,259 migrant labourers are at relief camps of shelter homes provided by the government. Another 11,29,173 have stayed back at their workplace, the CLC data shows while 12,04,786 workers are in locations other than shelter camps or workplaces, indicating they have either been transported back home or stranded outside.While the initial estimate of CLC was just 2,59,718 workers, Maharashtra later reported additional 20,000 workers. The CLC data, according to officials, possibly looks at registered migrants as the railway ministry said that 4,155 Shramik trains that operated for last 33 days have ferried more than 57 lakh migrant workers home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-migrants-back-home-or-on-way/story-3Xgh7pOlt7gbS6TduSkPHO.html
05-06-2020||India||Security forces gun down terrorist in J&K’s Rajouri||Security forces killed a terrorist late Thursday in an encounter in Kalakote area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. “Acting upon hard intelligence, security forces eliminated one terrorist in Dharmsal village in Kalakote area of Rajouri district. We suspect that two to three more are hiding there,” an official said.A local said that the security forces exchanged fire with terrorists in Dharmsal village around 8.15 pm. The security forces had launched a massive cordon and search operation in Mendhar area of adjoining Poonch district on Thursday morning.Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, there has been a sudden spurt in terror attacks and infiltration bids in Jammu and Kashmir.On Thursday, Pakistani rangers opened heavy fire in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector.Many villagers had a narrow escape as they ran helter-skelter to protect themselves from the unprovoked Pakistani firing.Pakistani rangers targeted the civilian areas with small arms and medium weapons in the Hiranagar sector. Around a dozen houses were damaged, PTI quoted official||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-gun-down-terrorist-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-z5sePTSy5A6LfxnbVfar5M.html
05-06-2020||India||In Odisha, testing for Covid-19 declines as machines malfunction||At a time when the daily testing figures for Covid-19 continues to rise in the country, the number of such tests in Odisha has been plummeting for about a fortnight with the state laboratories testing less than 3000 samples on Thursday, the lowest since May 21.Health and family welfare department officials said on June 3, the laboratories tested only 2,933 samples, its lowest since May 20. Though chief minister Naveen Patnaik last month had asked the department to augment the testing capacity to 15,000 a day, the state has so far been able to test not more than 5,612 samples; it’s highest on May 19. Since May 22, the numbers of tests have gone down except for a couple of times.Odisha additional chief secretary of health, Pradipta Mohapatra said the number of tests have gone down as the COBAS 6800 machine installed at the Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar since April has malfunctioned for the 4th time. “The COBAS 6800 machine alone tested around 1,000 samples a day. Besides, testing has come to a halt at the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar due to electrical short-circuit there. Pending repair of machines there, we are trying to get the samples tested at KIIT Technology Business Incubator,” said Mohapatra, adding that the government’s goal is to get all the samples tested within 48 hours of their collection.Though ICMR had allowed 19 laboratories in Odisha to test Covid-19 samples, so far 16 labs are doing the tests. Till now 165824 samples have been tested.Noted epidemiologist Jayprakash Mulyil said all states, including Odisha, should scale up testing more and more to know the extent of the spread of the disease. “The more samples you test, you may get more positive cases. But that’s crucial to find out the extent of spread,” Mulyil said.Mohapatra, however, said Odisha was testing as per ICMR guidelines. “We are mostly testing people in quarantine centres who are showing Covid-19 symptoms and people who have developed symptoms for influenza-like illness. We are also testing frontline workers involved in Covid-19 hospitals, containment zones and quarantine centres,” he said.Meanwhile, a junior doctor of AIIMS Bhubaneswar and a staff nurse in a hospital in Nayagarh district today tested positive for Covid-19 as the number of cases in the state rose to 2,488. The junior doctor was among the doctors who were on duty in the Covid-19 ward of AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-testing-for-covid-19-declines-as-machines-malfunction/story-uKfbUP2T4wj9iaikvcAIsJ.html
05-06-2020||India||Once a Covid-19 hotspot, jails in Jaipur now have only 4 coronavirus positive cases||Once the epicenter of the Covid-19 disease, the Jaipur district and central jails are now only left with four positive cases. A total of 338 inmates of the two jails had tested positive after the first case was reported on May 11.The Jaipur district jail is located in the campus of the Jaipur Central Jail with a different entry gate. Generally, cases from the Jaipur rural belt are lodged in the district jail while the cases from city are lodged in the central jail.Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Prisons, Vikas Kumar said that dedicated Covid Care Centres have been created for the coronavirus positive inmates and staff, and they are kept under the supervision of health specialists. The undertrials are kept for 21 days in an isolation ward separate from the ward where jail inmates are lodged.“The Jaipur district jail has been made a dedicated Covid Care Centre for the inmates as well as the prisons department staff. The five wards of the jail have been bifurcated into two coronavirus wards, two isolation wards and two separate wards. A total of 60 staff from the prisons department, 12 medical staff of the health department and 20 sanitation staff are working in the jail to take care of those inmates found Covid-19 positive,” said Kumar.He added that at least four to five times, the wards and barracks of the Jaipur district jail are sanitized. The sheets and the clothes are changed at regular intervals. “In order to boost immunity, the inmates are given fruits and vegetables four times a day other than their regular diet. Those who opt for it are also given eggs. The inmates are also given ‘kadha’ (herbal decoction),” the DIG Prisons said.Kumar further informed that the staff working at the Covid Care Centres has also been given an appreciation symbol in order to motivate them. In May, the Jaipur jail had emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot with cases rising from two cases on May 11 to 338 on May 20, out of which 247 alone were reported from the district jail.The sudden spike in the number of cases was linked to a 29-year-old man who was lodged in the district jail in a case of excise by the Jamwaramgarh police station and a 20-year-old booked by the Bajaj Nagar police station for theft.The 29-year-old was arrested on April 13 by the Jamwaramgarh Police in an excise case after which he was kept in quarantine for 21 days.The 20-year-old inmate booked by the Bajaj Nagar police under IPC Section 379 (theft), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) was arrested on May 9 and kept in one-day police remand by the Bajaj Nagar police station. On May 10, he was sent to judicial custody.Recently, a division bench of the high court, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Ashok Kumar Gaur, had said the jail authorities must ensure that prior to releasing prisoners from isolation, they should be presented before doctors for a check-up to find out whether they have Covid-19 symptoms. Asymptomatic prisoners should also be tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-covid-19-hotspot-jails-in-jaipur-now-have-only-4-coronavirus-positive-cases/story-knMzNFbXVB0gdiNqPughaN.html
05-06-2020||India||SC asks for common mobility plan in NCR||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to set up a uniform system for hassle-free movement within the National Capital Region (NCR), stepping in to clear up widespread confusion among thousands of commuters who have been facing difficulties at borders due to state-specific travel restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan asked the central government to convene a meeting of officials from the three states — all part of NCR — within a week and come up with a common portal to facilitate interstate travel such as the one between Delhi and Noida or Delhi and Gurugram. The court fixed June 12 as the next date of hearing.“...the Government of India shall convene a meeting of concerned state officials/UTs and endeavour to find out a common programme, common portal for easing the interstate movement on all state borders in the National Capital Region. Needful be done within a week,” the bench, which also comprised justices SK Kaul and MR Shah, ordered.Formed in 1985, NCR, which spans 55,083 square kilometres and also includes parts of Rajasthan, was envisaged as a composite area for coordinated urban planning and development, but the lack of coordination among member states have time and again been exposed over the years in critical areas such a pollution control and mobility. In fact, experts blamed officials in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for not working in tandem to prevent the border mess during the lockdown.“The idea [of NCR] was to decongest Delhi and allow integrated development in Delhi and neighbouring cities. Integration of transport was an important component. Instead of taking decisions considering NCR as a whole unit, the district administrations in Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana are working in silos,” AK Jain, former planning commissioner, Delhi Development Authority (DDA), said.State authorities welcomed the Supreme Court directive. “We will implement the orders of the Supreme Court through complete collaboration with our sister states under the aegis of the Union ministry of home affairs,” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Amit Arya, media adviser to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said: “We will work with the other state governments on the modalities, and find out a way forward...”While Ajay Shankar Pandey, the Ghaziabad district magistrate, said relevant directions on the issue will come from Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow, authorities in Noida did not immediately react to the issue.“...Let us go through the observations/orders... [and] let the Centre convene the meeting first...,” a senior government official said in Lucknow on the condition of anonymity.Strict border curbs have hindered movement of commuters in the NCR region ever since the lockdown was first imposed on March 25. What added to the confusion were state-specific rules that, in turn, led to serpentine queues at Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad borders as the police turned away scores of commuters who did not have necessary permits. For example, Delhi announced sealing its border for at least a week on June 1, two days after the central guidelines on a phased reopening green-lighted interstate travel but pointed out at the same time that state-specific curbs are allowed based on assessment of the ground situation. Though Haryana decided lifting of border restrictions after the Centre’s guidelines, commuters travelling from the national capital to Gurugram and Faridabad were back to square one with Delhi imposing stringent restrictions.In Thursday’s hearing, the petitioner, Rohit Bhalla, a resident of Gurugram, pointed out the troubles commuters were facing at the borders and the confusion among them.He said measures adopted by states were disproportionately impacting citizens in NCR and violating their fundamental rights, including the right to movement under Article 19(1)(d) and the right to carry on with trade or occupation under Article 19(1)(g).Specifically, Bhalla challenged the orders passed by officials in Haryana on April 29 and Uttar Pradesh on May 3.In the April 29 notification, the Gurugram and Sonepat administrations directed residents of these two districts who cross interstate borders to arrange for accommodation outside Haryana, Bhalla said. He also pointed out that the Gautam Budh Nagar administration announced sealing of the Noida border on May 3.“Restricting movement and activities to different extents in different areas falling within the NCR is in complete violation of the Union of India’s new guidelines dated May 1, 2020 which in fact allows movement for permissible activities [such as essential services],” the petitioner said.The absence of a common pass system was another aspect Bhalla pointed out in his petition filed on May 11. Commuters in NCR have to apply for e-passes in state-specific portals.“A person residing in one State, working for gain in another state and falling within permissible limits of the New Guidelines [of May 1], has to apply for passes in both the States and may get accepted by one and rejected in the other due to a complete lack of co-ordination in the said state departments, preventing his fundamental right to practice his profession or commerce in spite of the same being allowed by the New Guidelines,” the petition said.(with inputs from HTC in Noida and Gurugram)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-for-common-mobility-plan-in-ncr/story-EhRV0MFA13G330i1Vq83YI.html
05-06-2020||India||Defence ministry official in home quarantine||A joint secretary-ranked officer in the defence ministry is under home quarantine . He is among the people who came in touch with defence secretary Ajay Kumar who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, officials said on Thursday. Kumar, who is under home quarantine, may have come in touch with around 30 people in the four to five days before he tested positive, the officials said. “Only the JS-ranked officer is in the high-risk category and is under quarantine,” they added. Necessary contact tracing of the defence secretary is being carried out to identify people he recently come in contact with, as reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday.Kumar is the first top official to test positive. The chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs have had no direct contact with Kumar in the past four to five days, the officials added.Defence minister Rajnath Singh did not attend office on Wednesday and Thursday as the first floor section of the South Block in which he has his office is being sanitised. Kumar’s office is not too far from the minister’s on the same floor. Several top officials have their offices on the first floor including the army chief, the navy chief and a string of bureaucrats.Meanwhile, in the labour ministry, two officials in the labour secretary’s office have been tested Covid positive, prompting authorities to vacate a section of the Shram Shakti Bhavan, home to several ministries including labour and water. Labour secretary Hiralal Samariya has informed the Parliament’s labour panel that he and other officials can’t depose before the committee on Friday. The panel was scheduled to discuss the issue of migrant workers and the social security code, one of the four new labour codes. More Covid-19 cases surfaced in Shastri Bhawan on Wednesday as Delhi witnesses a steady increase in infections. According to officials, a joint secretary in the law ministry and the driver of a joint secretary in the culture ministry have also tested positive for the highly contagious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-official-in-home-quarantine/story-0hDMmZE5b4DzT5FPRBn17L.html
05-06-2020||India||Changing norms hurting testing: Experts||For about a week since her father succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 27-year-old Delhi resident Shipra Ujjainwala has made dozens of phone calls to helplines, approached multiple private testing centres, and approached at least one government hospital to be tested for the coronavirus infection. Ujjainwala has no symptoms but she needs a “negative” certificate to get back to work and address the misgivings of her neighbours and relatives who have avoided the family for weeks. “I was refused as I didn’t have prescription from a doctor for I had no symptoms. The fact that I had a Covid death in my family and that my organisation demands a Covid-free certificate was not enough to agree them to test me. Nobody wants to see us because of our Covid positive case history how am I supposed to get a prescription,” she said.Her experience captures the convoluted protocols that make it difficult for even at-risk people to be able to get a Covid-19 test, complicating efforts to determine the size of the outbreak. Till Tuesday, Ujjainwala would have qualified for a test but the rule has now been changed to allow only symptomatic close contacts of a confirmed patient.The number of Covid-19 tests carried per million people in India is a little over 3,100, a number that experts have said is inadequate to determine the true extent of the problem in the country, even as the total infections rose by another nationally. “Our [India’s] condition may be worse than Italy, but we don’t know since we aren’t testing enough. We don’t acknowledge our real status in terms of disease spread because it seems our focus is largely on proving we are doing better than other countries in managing the disease. We have tested about 3.9 million people from a population of 1.3 billion, which is roughly about 0.3% of the population. How can you plan how to control a pandemic for the rest of the 99.7% of the population by merely looking at the results in 0.3% of the population?” said Dr T Jacob John, former virology head, Christian Medical College, Vellore John.The problem is not merely that the rules are restrictive but that they are also changing rapidly. “There is perpetual confusion over who to test, as the government keeps changing guidelines. It feels like harassment and it appears they want private labs to stop testing by making it difficult for us to operate,” said the owner of a private laboratory owner, asking not to be named.Representatives of the Indian Council of Medical Research – the apex body that sets the standards for such protocols across the country (though they can be tweaked by states) – said the changes are due to evolving demands. “ICMR has been time to time revising guidelines as per what the situation demands. The protocols have been clearly laid out that states should follow. Some states are perhaps going by their own rules by making additions or to ICMR protocol that is probably creating problems,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR.Manufacturers of test kits say they are prepared to meet higher demands. “We are currently producing 2 lakh tests a day; there is absolutely no shortage of kits. I can say for sure that in some time India is going to be a competitive market globally,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, Pune-based manufacturers of RT-PCR diagnostic kits.Current bottlenecks, however, could be in the labs. “There is no shortage of kits and equipment but there is only a particular number of tests that a laboratory can do, which is the testing capacity of a lab. You cannot go beyond that, no matter how many extra kits you have. It is not possible to test the entire 1.3 billion population,” said Dr Srivastava.Testing will also need to be timed in order to avoid false negatives. Dr RR Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology division, ICMR, said, “We cannot open up testing for asymptomatic people because a negative RT-PCR test does not rule out infection in the early stages of infection, and in people with low viral load, the chance of RT-PCR returning a false negative is there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changing-norms-hurting-testing-experts/story-UdzvXa6hVn9dIyoXoePEAP.html
05-06-2020||India||Study links respiratory illness during Covid to blood groups||Blood groups may be a key factor in making people susceptible to developing severe respiratory problems during a Covid-19 infection, according to a study of 1,600 patients in hot spot cities in Italy and Spain that suggested those with blood group A positive were most at risk while those with O were protected to some degree. The study, published on preprint server medRxiv, is yet to be peer reviewed. The researchers carried out a genome-wide association analysis to determine what genes were common among those that developed a severe respiratory illness after being infected by Sars-Cov-2. The researchers detected at least a couple of significant “associations”, including one that “located at the ABO blood group locus and a blood-group-specific analysis showed higher risk for A-positive individuals and a protective effect for blood group O”, they said in the paper. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe ABO blood group locus refers to a set of genes that determine which blood group an individual has.The study could offer scientists more insight into why the disease behaves unpredictably across humans: the symptoms range from being virtually non-existent, resembling a flu, or, in most severe cases, leaving people unable to breathe.  “Respiratory failure is a key feature of severe Covid-19 and a critical driver of mortality, but for reasons poorly defined affects less than 10% of Sars-CoV-2 infected patients,” the researchers said. The variations in symptoms have often defied age and gender trends that largely suggest older men may be more vulnerable to the virus. There have been a significant number of young people who have succumbed to the illness. The study covered 1,610 patients from hot spot cities in Italy and Spain who had developed severe symptoms after contracting the virus. The team of researchers included clinicians at the European Covid-19 epicentres in Italy and Spain and available German and Norwegian scientists. The analysis also used samples from 2,205 blood donors with no evidence of a Covid-19 infection for the genomic comparison.The researchers noted that their findings corroborate publicly available results from the Covid-19 Host Genetics Consortium, where similar associations have been noticed among Covid-19 affected cases versus a population-based sample. The findings in connection with the blood groups also associate with another Covid-19 symptom seen among people who develop serious illness: blood clotting. “Genetic variation at the ABO locus has previously been associated with a number of procoagulant markers such as von Willebrand factor and Factor VIII, and the potential relationship between our genetic findings and the significant coagulopathy that is observed in severe Covid-19 warrants further attention,” the researchers wrote.Genome-wide association studies are among the key strategies researchers deploy to understand a disease. The genome, simply put, determines how a human body is made up at a cellular level and the functions it carries out, whether to make or repair new cells.These findings could help efforts to tailor therapies that at present are only mildly effective in treating Covid-19 patients.“There is usually a strong relationship between blood group and disease. But it is very difficult at this stage to determine this particular correlation unless there is a very huge study,” said Dr RN Makroo, a specialist in molecular biology. “The distribution of blood groups in population also needs to be accounted for,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-links-respiratory-illness-during-covid-to-blood-groups/story-ueJNt9ZIDB6h4UGnyCABeI.html
05-06-2020||India||E-cars for ferrying MPs likely in Parliament this monsoon session||From the Monsoon session, only electric cars may be used to ferry lawmakers to and from their homes in Lutyens’ Delhi in a bid to curb air pollution and promote a green culture in Parliament.At a recent meeting with senior officials, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla asked for a review of the current car usage policy, according to people familiar with the development. Apart from the Lok Sabha secretariat, the government-run India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) and Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) provide cars in Parliament to ferry members.“During the session, after the adjournment of the House, electric cars may be deployed for dropping off members,” said a note on the meeting that HT has seen.To be sure, members can use their personal or official vehicles to travel to Parliament. According to officials, however, about 60% prefer to use ferry vehicles during the session because of parking limitations in the complex.The use of electric cars has been on the agenda of Parliament officials for a while. Two years ago, a couple of golf carts were purchased to commute within the Parliament estate. During Sumitra Mahajan’s tenure as Speaker (2009-14), a battery-operated minibus was also bought for MPs, but it was only of limited utility because it unsuitable for narrow lanes.Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar uses the only e-car (Hyundai Kona) among the members of Parliament, while another Bharatiya Janata Party MP, Mansukh Mandviya, rides a bicycle to Parliament.The review of the car lease policy comes weeks after the Lok Sabha secretariat decided to curtail costs in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The Lok Sabha was allotted ₹811 crore in this year’s general budget, ₹44 crore higher than the revised estimate of ₹766.87 crore in FY 2019-20. But a large part of the money is expected to remain unspent, according to officials. The Rajya Sabha has an annual budget of ₹436 crore.The Upper House, too, has reviewed the vehicles available to it, and is likely to get some e-cars. It was due to buy two new cars after a gap of more than 10 years, and the vehicles were to be given to Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh.But now, in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis, purchase of vehicles may be pushed back, said an official.The Lok Sabha secretariat has also barred entry of its former employees to Parliament complex. The ban is applicable for retired officers below the rank of joint secretary. Officials said the ban is aimed at restricting people in Parliament to reduce the virus threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-cars-for-ferrying-mps-likely-in-parliament-this-monsoon-session/story-c4kIkxoZCzSqwyqNZi7VAP.html
05-06-2020||India||PM Modi, Australian PM bolster military ties||India and Australia elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a crucial agreement for reciprocal access to military logistics during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart Scott Morrison on Thursday.The two sides also upgraded their “2+2” foreign affairs and defence dialogue to the ministerial level and unveiled a “shared vision for maritime cooperation in the Indo- Pacific”.The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA), one of seven agreements signed during the summit, will facilitate reciprocal access to military logistics facilities, allow for more complex joint military exercises and improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two countries.“India is committed to expanding its relations with Australia in a comprehensive and quick manner. This is important not only for our two countries, but also for the Indo-Pacific region and the world,” Modi said in his opening televised remarks in Hindi.Morrision said the comprehensive strategic partnership formed by the two sides will take them “to a whole new level of relationship” and “continue to build the trust because we want commercial and trading relationships that are built on trust”.Referring to the joint declaration on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, he added, “We share an ocean and we share responsibilities for that ocean as well – its health, well-being [and] security and the relationship we’re forming around those issues and our maritime domain is the platform for so many other things between our countries.”The summit was held against the backdrop of growing tensions with China for both India and Australia, though secretary (east) Vijay Thakur Singh of the external affairs ministry told an online briefing there was no specific discussion on China.However, many of the items on the agenda – shared democratic values, rules-based multilateral systems, an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, respect for transparency, strengthening and diversifying supply chains for critical health, technology and other goods and services, and cooperation in rare earth minerals – appeared to be aimed at countering China’s influence in the region, experts said.Modi said the two sides should focus on how their relationship can be a “factor of stability for our region and for the world”, while Morrison said Australia is working with friends such as India and Japan to provide a “steadying and stabilising and wise influence during…an incredibly difficult time”.Morrison said Australia is “committed to an open, inclusive, prosperous Indo-Pacific and India’s role in that region…will be critical”. He added, “We share a vision for open, free, rules-based multilateral systems in our region, whether that’s in the health area or it’s in trade or in other places.”He also tacitly referred to Australia’s demand for a probe into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic while commending India’s taking over as chair of the World Health Organization (WHO)’s executive board.“This is a very important time to be chairing that executive board. I have no doubt the way that that will be led under India’s leadership will be critical to how we deal with many difficult problems that we are encountering globally, particularly in the health area,” Morrison said.Among the other important agreements signed by the two sides during the virtual bilateral summit – the first such meeting for Modi – were a framework arrangement on cyber and cyber-enabled critical technology cooperation, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on cooperation in mining and processing of critical and strategic minerals, and an implementing arrangement on cooperation in defence science and technology under the existing MoU on defence cooperation.Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the two sides had been exploring the possibility of cooperation in mining and processing of rare earth metals such as lithium, neodymium and dysprosium, of which Australia has the world’s sixth largest reserves.Indian officials said Australia is seen as a “reliable and secure supplier” of rare earth metals and institutions from both sides will jointly take forward collaboration in this field.India, which imports more than 90% of the rare earth metals it needs from China, has been looking to diversify sources. In 2016, the imports from China were worth $3.4 million.The two sides also signed three MoUs on cooperation in public administration and governance reforms, cooperation in vocational education and training and water resources management.The virtual summit was arranged after Morrison was forced to put off a planned visit to India twice – first in January because of the devastating bushfires in Australia and then in May because of the Covid-19 crisis. Though the discussions were slated to last 40 minutes, they stretched to 70 minutes and secretary (east) characterised the talks as “extremely productive”.As part of the joint response to the Covid-19 crisis, an allocation will be made from the Australia-India Strategic Research Fund for work in seven areas to counter the pandemic.An Australian statement said the joint declaration on maritime cooperation in the Indo-Pacific committed both sides to supporting rules-based maritime order in the region and working together to strengthen maritime domain awareness and combating trans-national challenges such as people smuggling, arms and narcotics trafficking, terrorism, and illegal and unregulated fishing.The Australian side also said the cooperative arrangement on cyber affairs and critical technology will be complemented by a new, four-year $12.7 million partnership that will create a research and development fund for Indian and Australian businesses and support other countries to improve their cyber resilience.Modi reiterated his invitation to Morrison to visit India when the situation normalises. Morrison, who has met Modi four times in the recent past, joked about how he had missed out on the “famous Modi hug”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-australian-pm-bolster-military-ties/story-EvGK3Yyjn3AopSXKfGbxJJ.html
05-06-2020||India||Govt flattened wrong curve: Rajiv Bajaj to Rahul Gandhi||Stressing on the importance of a stimulus to boost demand, Rajiv Bajaj, managing director of Bajaj Auto, said in a video conversation with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi that the 68-day lockdown to flatten the Covid-19 infection curve ended up flattening the “wrong curve” of the economic growth.He said the lockdown has not been able to check growth of Covid-19, but ended up hurting the economy. “You [the government] flattened the wrong curve. It is not the infection curve, it is the GDP [gross domestic product] curve,” Bajaj told Gandhi.Bajaj was speaking to Gandhi as part of the series of video conversations with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy.According to official data released last week, the economy grew 3.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 4.2% -- the slowest pace in 11 years -- in the financial year 2019-20. The prolonged nationwide lockdown in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to dent the growth further.Days after the release of official GDP data, Moody’s Investors Service cut India’s rating by one notch to the lowest investment grade with a negative outlook, citing growing risks that Asia’s third largest economy will face a prolonged period of slower growth.On June 2, while addressing businessmen Prime Minister Narendra Modi voiced confidence in the economy’s ability to return to a path of rapid growth, listing it among his government’s top priorities and pledging its commitment to systematic reforms. ”Yes ! We will definitely get our growth back,” Modi said in his speech to a conference on ‘Getting Growth Back’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dismissed Bajaj’s views and maintained that he is not an expert on Covid-related issues.“This is Rajiv Bajaj’s personal opinion and in India everyone is allowed to have one. The government has said that we brought time to build health infrastructure so that we can open economic activity. Today, we have robust structures to combat Covid-19 spread,” said BJP spokesperson Gopal AgarwalIn the interaction, Bajaj said India’s lockdown strategy was influenced by the West. Despite being an Asian country, India preferred to tackle the situation like the developed West, instead of looking at what was happening in the East. India looked at Italy, France, Spain, UK and the US, which are not really the right benchmarks , he added. Bajaj gave examples of Japan and Sweden, where measures such as sanitisation, masks and social distancing were followed, but where the countries tried to keep the wheels of the economy turning. “I think unfortunately, India not only looked West, it went to the wild west. I think we stayed more towards the impervious side. We tried to implement a hard lockdown which was still porous,” he said.The way India has been locked down is draconian, he said. “This kind of lockdown, I have not heard about from anywhere else,” he added.India lifted many of the restrictions on movement and economic activity on June 1 and has said even more would be opened up by June 8. Bajaj also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out how the country would move forward after the lockdown is fully lifted, claiming that the unlocking would be anything but smooth.“I am really distressed because it is a herculean task to open up economic activities. The first problem is to get this fear out of the minds of the people. There has to be a very clear aligned narrative from the PM because, whether right or wrong, when he says something people seem to follow,” he said.I think the PM needs to tell everyone, this is how we are going to move forward, he said. “All is under control. Don’t be afraid of the viral infections, only a few people are dying, and we have to move forward now.” Bajaj also mentioned the need for a stimulus to lift the demand and revive the Covid-19 battered economy.“I strongly believe that a large country such as India cannot save itself out of trouble. It has to sell itself out of trouble. We have to get demand going again. We have to provide something that lifts the mood of the people. We need some mood elevators. I don’t understand why there is no strong initiative, even if it is for a period of six months to one year, to strongly lift the mood of the people and provide a stimulus to demand,” Bajaj said.The BJP’s Agarwal said the government‘s focus is now on the economy. Thus far, Gandhi has interacted with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan, Nobel Laureate Professor Abhijit Banerjee, Harvard Professor Ashish Jha, and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-flattened-wrong-curve-rajiv-bajaj-to-rahul-gandhi/story-C0nNBsVSEKvTUN8sYb9V0N.html
05-06-2020||India||Health ministry issues SOPs for hotels, places of worship||Frequently touched surfaces such as door knobs at hotels must be disinfected regularly, disposable menu cards are recommended at food courts in malls, just 50% seating capacity can be utilised at restaurants, and offerings at religious places will be prohibited for now — these are some of the guidelines released by the health and family welfare ministry on Thursday as part of a three-phased plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The standard operating procedures (SOPs) came four days ahead of the opening of malls, religious places, and hotels and restaurants in several parts of the country from June 8 in the first phase of what the Centre calls Unlock 1, and gives a glimpse of life in the aftermath of a pandemic. “This is an exhaustive list...that must be followed to help in containing the spread of Covid-19. We are working on some more (guidelines) that should be out in coming days,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry. The list of dos and don’ts has some common themes: physical distancing of at least six feet; mandatory use of face covers; frequent hand washing with soaps (for at least 40-60 seconds); use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers; and covering mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing. Those above 65 years, children below 10 years, persons with underlying health conditions and pregnant women have been advised to stay at home. People have been advised to install and use the Aarogya Setu app. The directive also said temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, and the relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%.HotelsThe specific guidelines for hotels and hospitality units include thermal screening at the entry; proper crowd management on hotel premises and parking lots; disinfection of car steering, door handles and keys; separate entry and exits for guests, staff and goods/supplies if possible; restriction on the number of people on elevators; and markings for social distancing.Additionally, details of the guest (travel history, medical condition etc.) along with an identity card and a self-declaration form must be provided at the reception. “Hotels must adopt contactless processes like QR code, online forms, digital payments like e-wallet etc. for both check-in and check-out,” the guidelines said, adding that luggage should be disinfected before sending the luggage to rooms. For room service, communication between guests and in-house staff should be through intercom, and room service should be provided while maintaining adequate social distance. Regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces (door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails) will be made mandatory, and deep cleaning of all washrooms shall be ensured at regular intervals.Room service or takeaways will be encouraged, instead of dine-in. Food delivery personnel should leave the packet at a guest’s or customer’s door. While disposable menus are recommended, the guidelines favoured the use of good quality disposable paper napkins in place of cloth napkins.Shopping mallsOnly asymptomatic people will be allowed, with a staggered entry system. Any shops, stalls, cafeteria etc. outside and within the premises will have to follow social distancing norms. Gaming arcades, children’s play areas, and cinema halls will remain shut.In food courts, the management will have to ensure adequate crowd management. Staff and waiters should wear masks and hand gloves. Seating arrangement should ensure social distancing. Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment will be encouraged.RestaurantsAll directives for restaurants in hotels and food courts will be applicable. Also, just 50% of the seating capacity of a restaurant must be utilised for dine-in customers. Also, specific markings should be made to manage queues and ensure social distancing when patrons are waiting for a table.Religious places“Shoes or footwear to be preferably taken off inside own vehicle,” the directive said. Touching of statues idols, holy books etc. are not allowed. Large gatherings will continue to remain prohibited.Recorded devotional music and songs recommended, while inviting choirs or singing groups is not advisable.“Avoid physical contact while greeting each other. Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees should bring their own prayer mat or piece of cloth which they may take back with them,” said the guidelines. Physical offerings such as prasad distribution or sprinkling of holy water are not allowed. Community kitchens/langars will have to follow social distancing. OfficesStaff living in containment zones will not attend office, which are already functioning unlike malls and religious places. Such staff should be permitted to work from home, and it will not be counted as leave period. The issuance of visitors’ or temporary passes is suspended, and those with proper permission should be allowed to meet an officer after being properly screened. Meetings through video conferencing are advised.“The next stage of transmission can be managed only if we can adopt an approach similar to that of Japan, which focused on ‘3 Cs’ that denote high-risk places and situations — closed spaces, crowded places, close-contact settings. The confluence of these three together accentuates the risk in closed places such as religious places,” said Giridhara Babu, head, life course epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-sops-for-hotels-places-of-worship/story-s15hokptNvY1ZsWc9ke8vO.html
05-06-2020||India||Covid-19 fallout: NCR remains a concept on paper, as states act in silos||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has exposed the deficiencies in the concept of the National Capital Region (NCR) envisaged in 1985 for coordinated urban development in and around Delhi so that there could be seamless mobility, quality housing, and shared infrastructure, say multiple experts in planning and administration.Over the past month, three of the principal state administrations that make up NCR -- Delhi, UP and Haryana -- have sealed and unsealed borders at will, failed to share or pool health care infrastructure, and not tried to evolve a common strategy in the face of rising Covid-19 cases. Delhi, which has reported 25,004 cases till Thursday, sealed its borders to restrict the number of patients coming in for treatment on Tuesday, just as Noida and Gurugram, which had sealed their borders for weeks despite Delhi letting commuters in, were ready to ease curbs on intercity movement. Noida had 543 cases, while Gurugram reported 1,410 infections by Thursday. This lack of coordination forced the Supreme Court on Thursday to order the Centre to convene a meeting of member states – Delhi, UP, Haryana and Rajasthan – in order to evolve a “common programme and common portal” for easing interstate movement in the National Capital Region.  The way the concept was developed, however, such a situation was never meant to happen.Capital expansionNCR was constituted due to a spurt in population growth in the region since 1951, largely due to migration resulting in congestion and shortage of civic amenities, as per the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB). The aim was primarily to decongest Delhi, and the region came into being in 1985 under the NCRPB. In the 1990s, with the emergence of Noida (New Okhla Industrial Development Authority) and Gurugram, the urban growth accelerated at breakneck speed. What used to be agricultural fields on the Capital’s outskirts became the hubs of industry, offices, and housing.With almost invisible borders, Noida carried the promise of affordable housing and easy commute to and from Delhi. “Noida offered all than an upper-middle class person aspires for. The authority planned at least 150 residential plotted areas and at least 600 group housing colonies in view of high demand,” said Rajpal Kaushik former chief architect and urban town planner of Noida Authority. While Noida was redefining urban growth on the eastern border of the Capital, business was booming in Gurugram (then Gurgaon) located on its southern border with home-grown carmaker Maruti setting up its plant in the 1980s. Gurugram, a village till then, had vast swathes of barren land and minimal local government. Sensing the potential for industrial and urban growth, private builders such as DLF and Ansal consolidated large tracts of land and soon world class residential condominiums and office spaces sprung up across Gurugram, earning it the tag of “Millennium City”.Proximity to the Capital and the IGI airport, a large inventory of office space, and the economic liberalisation in the 1990s enabled Gurugram to attract corporate houses, both domestic and multinational, IT companies, BPOs, and Fortune 500 companies to set up base in the city, spurring growth and opportunities. Several industrialists from other Haryana cities such as Hisar, Bhiwani and Jhajjar also came to Gurugram to set up their base, making Udyog Vihar and Manesar industrial hubs.“The National Capital Region is seen as a single economic and social unit where people move seamlessly while working in one corner or city and living in another part. It is also one of the largest integrated economic and social corridors in the world. It attracts the best talent, top corporates who want to work and live here. Real-estate growth has happened to a great extent because of economic growth and opportunities offered by a seamless NCR, which has common ethos and culture. It important to ensure people move with ease in this region,” said Akash Ohri, senior executive director, DLF.While Noida and Gurugram owe their growth mostly to the economic liberalisation, Ghaziabad in UP and Faridabad in Haryana has been traditional industrial powerhouses of the two states. Today, NCR comprises Delhi and 23 districts from UP, Haryana and Rajasthan and is spread over 55,083 square km. However, the administrative integration has remained largely on paper, with member states working in silos and often sparring over issues such as water sharing, mobility and pollution. A case in point is the fact that the region is yet to evolve a common mobility solution with no reliable public transport, except Metro, to commute across the cities of Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram. Mobility issuesDespite existing as a massive urban conglomerate, there was no common, reliable public transport in the region before the Delhi Metro came up. Delhi operates nearly 100 buses for Gurugram, Noida and Bahadurgarh, but Haryana and UP roadways buses can’t enter Delhi since they run on diesel, which is banned for public transport in the city since 1998, when the switch to CNG was made. Public transport between NCR cities involving para transit vehicles is even more restricted. As against the 95,000 registered auto-rickshaws in Delhi, only 10,000 have permits to ply from Delhi to NCR cities and vice versa. Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the Capital has put in place some of the “most relaxed norms” for transport vehicles coming from other states. “But we do not get the same treatment from them. For example, we charge no passenger taxes on any bus coming from Haryana or any other adjoining state. But DTC buses have to pay extra passenger tax on routes such as Gurugram or Bahadurgarh. We run the buses despite the high passenger tax which in turn, makes the ticket quite expensive. Since long, we have been demanding abolition of passenger tax so that public transport becomes cheap and affordable and more and more public uses public transport,” he said.The recent sealing of borders because of Covid-19 has only added to the chaos. The Regional Plan-2021, the second plan prepared by NCRPB, mentions the formation of a unified metropolitan or regional transport authority for NCR. “But the plan has remained on paper. It was to ensure better coordination between various government authorities in the NCR for seamless connectivity and movement of commuters. If this authority was in place, the problems we are facing today would have been easily addressed,” said PK Sarkar, member of the technical committee of NCRPB. According to a senior NCRPB official, there is a committee of transport secretaries chaired by NCRPB’s member secretary which takes up issues related to better coordination between member states. “But the committee has not met during the Covid-19 crisis. There has been no request either from the member states in this regard. All state governments are taking decisions as per their local situation,” said the official, requesting anonymity. Urban transport experts say that some of the provisions mentioned in the Regional Plan-2021, such as Regional rail Transport (RRTS), development of peripheral expressways (Eastern and Western peripheral expressways), expressway between Ghaziabad and Meerut, expansion of Metro network etc. have been implemented.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a transportation expert based in Gurugram, pointed out that there is a common transport agreement which allows unrestricted movement of vehicles between these states. “But as it would appear, such reciprocal gestures do not apply during a pandemic,” she said, pointing out the lack of a coordinated approach during a crisis. A second senior official in the NCRPB, who asked not to be named, said: “NCRPB is merely a facilitator, and we cannot enforce any regulations. It is up to the states to accommodate each other’s challenges. But now we are facing a storm, so everyone has shut their doors and windows to keep themselves safe.” Satish Mahana, UP’s industry minister said, “As far as the Supreme Court direction on borders is concerned, the state government will take appropriate decision on it…To ensure that office goers or factory workers don’t face any problem in commuting our government has directed Gautam Budh Nagar or Ghaziabad to issue passes.”Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma said the government is aware of problems being faced by the people. “An industrialist in Faridabad has a factory in Gurugram and transports his goods to Delhi. We can see that people are being inconvenienced. I will speak with the chief minister before taking discussions forward. We have to find a solution that balances protection of both life and livelihood.” Pollution politics Every year when the air pollution goes up in the winter months, so does the blame game between NCR states. While Delhi maintains that crop residue burning by farmers in Haryana and Punjab accounts for a bulk of particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) pollutants in Delhi’s air, the governments of the two states fault Delhi for not doing enough to curb other sources of pollution in the capital. Despite pollution posing a major health emergency for millions, the states are yet to reach a consensus on a common approach and collaborate to tackle the problem.Now, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) regulates and enforces measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) across NCR. While referring to the challenges posed by the rapid spread of the coronavirus disease, Sunita Narain, member of EPCA, said the administrations which constitute NCR should go back and remember how they have together tackled air pollution in the past few years, “NCR is completely interlinked in terms of movement and the air-shed is one. At EPCA, we found that the only way to deal with it was cooperation. There were a lot of times NCR cities such as Gurugram and Bhiwadi came to us questioning why we were locking them down as well under the graded response action plan, despite their pollution levels being fairly lower than Delhi. But, we didn’t allow any compromise and it worked only because the entire plan was executed as NCR as a whole,” Narain said. What is currently happening is not the way to go, she added. “It is like drawing borders between states right now and it feels like we are drawing international borders. We have been pushing for augmentation of public transport among NCR cities because there is massive to and for Delhi from the neighbouring cities,” Narain said. Water woesPolitics, protest and posturing have dominated on the issue of sharing water of the Yamuna between Delhi and Haryana. Delhi depends on the Yamuna for most of its water needs and blames the Haryana government for not allowing its share of water to flow in the Munak canal – the main water supply tributary to Delhi. Haryana, on the other hand, alleges that Delhi wants Haryana to part with its share of water. The two states are locked in a legal battle over the issue and the courts have time and again directed the two states to reach a negotiated settlement.(With inputs from Vinod Rajput in Noida; Prayag Arora Desai and Abhishek Behl in Gurugam)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-ncr-remains-a-concept-on-paper-as-states-act-in-silos/story-esOCVDHWpSDeEkXUKEgPXI.html
05-06-2020||India||14 quakes in 2 months may not lead to a big one in NCR||Wednesday night’s minor tremor in Noida was the fourteenth (14th) to hit Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) over the past two months, but the increased frequency may not necessarily indicate a major one is coming, say seismologists. Still, monitoring them is key to being prepared , they add. Scientists at the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) underlined that earthquakes cannot be forecast and the only thing to do is to be aware of the activities in vulnerable pockets such as the Delhi region. Only two of the 14 tremors have been above magnitude 3.5, according to NCS data. “While these [minor earthquakes] may be because of activity in the local faults, we have to remember that north Delhi is close to the Himalayan belt where the Indian plate is subducting under the Eurasian plate. That region is seismically very active. We need to monitor even these small earthquakes critically because we do not know how much energy is there and how much has been released through these small events,” said Kalachand Sain, who heads the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology. Subducting is the process by which one tectonic plate moves under another. “We really need to understand the subsurface scenario now. Occasionally great earthquakes can happen and so we need to build infrastructure and buildings accordingly.”Any major earthquake in the Himalayan belt can also impact Delhi and NCR. A P Pandey, an NCS seismologist, said there have been numerous small earthquakes in Delhi and Haryana over the past three years and that a few have been above magnitude 4. “There are many faults and fissures in this region which could be active. In the past three years, there have been numerous small earthquakes in this region. Luckily, we did not see a much bigger earthquake …we are close to the Himalayas. The Himalayan plate is moving in the north-northeast direction and subducting beneath the Eurasian plate. So, there is a lot of energy along weak zones which are sometimes released through fissures and lineaments.”A fissure is a crack or a fracture ; a lineament is a linear feature corresponding to a fault -- such as a valley or a mountain range. He added the small earthquakes since April have been along lineaments. “Only the one with 4.5 magnitude was along the juncture of the Mahendergarh and Delhi-Sargoda faults. It is good that energy or stress is being released through these lineaments. Otherwise, there can be a big release which can cause widespread damage.” The Himalayas are vulnerable to major earthquakes of over magnitude 8.“Nobody can say when or where this energy will be released. So, it is best to be prepared. We have, however, identified vulnerable pockets,” Pandey said.NCS head (operations) J L Gautam said it is not abnormal to record so many earthquakes within a couple of months in the Delhi-NCR region “There are a number of small faults in this region. The earthquake last [Wednesday] night was in Uttar Pradesh in Gautam Buddha Nagar. There is the Mathura fault, Moradabad fault, Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Delhi-Sargoda fault, Mahendergarh and Dehradun fault. So, small earthquakes happen in this area. It is not abnormal. That does not mean we cannot expect a big earthquake.”According to Indian Institute of Science’s seismic hazard mapping in 2004, the terrain of Delhi is flat in general except for the NNE-SSW trending ridge. “This is one of the prominent features of Delhi. This is considered as an extension of the Aravalli hill, which is buried under the Yamuna alluvium in the northern parts of Delhi. River Yamuna, which is another prominent feature of Delhi, enters the city from the north and flows southward with an eastern bend near Okhla. This path forms a tri-junction with the Lahore-Delhi ridge and the Delhi-Haridwar ridge. This region is seismically active and shows sporadic activity aligned in NNE-SSW direction, nearly perpendicular to the Himalayan arc. Proximity of Himalayan region makes Delhi susceptible to the earthquakes from Himalayan seismic sources also."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-quakes-in-2-months-may-not-lead-to-a-big-one-in-ncr/story-IPhCEe4AKL67G4URHzZe4H.html
05-06-2020||India||Delhi home isolation cases monitored from Bangalore||Around 100 people armed with a phone – most sitting in the comfort of their homes in Bangalore – are helping the Delhi government monitor the health of around 9,500 Covid-19 patients who are presently in home isolation in the capital.With the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi, the Union health ministry came up with guidelines for home isolation at the end of April. The challenge was to ensure that the symptoms of the patients confined to their homes did not worsen. Initially, district officials called those under home isolation in their areas each day to check on their health. To ease their workload, the Delhi government contracted the Bangalore-based home healthcare company Portea Medical on April 30.Once a person tests positive, a two-member district health team visits him or her at home to check their symptoms and the facilities available for home isolation. Only those with mild symptoms such as low-grade fever or sore throat and no comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease are allowed to remain in home isolation. Comorbid conditions are known to increase the risk of a person developing severe symptoms of Covid-19. Even then, home isolation will only be allowed if the patients have adequate facilities such as a separate room and toilet for the person who tests positive for the infection. And if the others in the family do not have severe comorbidities.“Once we get the numbers of the people who have been advised home isolation, our team calls them up to check what their symptoms are – whether they have fever, any uneasiness, who all are living with them. All this data gets recorded. After that, our team calls them up once everyday to check how they are doing,” said Meena Ganesh, chief executive officer of Portea.The dos and don’ts are communicated over the telephone during the first two days.“It is essential to thoroughly explain these things to each patient and the caregiver. There can be queries and confusion. For instance, the caregiver has to take the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine – 400 mg twice a day on day 1 followed by one tablet every week for three weeks. Most people do not know about the dosage. They need to be explained in an organised way – like the way a doctor usually does when medicines are prescribed. These are areas where the professionalism of the consultant helps,” a Delhi government official said.The patients are provided a number on which they can call in case they have any problems.“When we receive a call from the patients, there are two things that we can do. One, we can provide consultation from a Delhi government-empanelled doctor on our portal. The doctor already has access to the information that we have collected over the days. Two, if the doctor thinks that there is a need for intervention, then the team gets in touch with the health officials in Delhi,” Ganesh said.They coordinate with the district surveillance teams and medical staff under the government’s health department to ensure that the patient is moved to a hospital.“From what we have seen so far, only about 7% of those who have been put under home isolation need to be moved to a hospital. The rest can recover on their own at home,” Ganesh said.The team follows the person who tests positive for the coronavirus for 17 days of home isolation, after which they are considered to have recovered.During the spell in home isolation, the patients must wear a triple-layer mask at all times and discard it after eight hours of use or when visibly dirty or moist. The mask has to be disinfected using 1% hypochlorite solution. The caregiver also has to wear a triple-layer mask when in the same room as the patient and use disposable gloves when handling the infected person.The caregiver must also avoid contact with contaminated items such as cigarettes, eating utensils, dishes, drinks, used towel and bed linen used by the patient, according to the government’s home isolation guidelines. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday again urged people with mild symptoms to stay at home so that hospital beds may remain free for those with moderate to severe symptoms in need of hospitalisation..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-home-isolation-cases-monitored-from-bangalore/story-M022DjGdDPBqyoV11FT2xL.html
05-06-2020||India||Bombay HC asks centre to clarify if Covid-19 can be transmitted by inadvertent touch||A division bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday sought to know from a government expert committee if Covid-19 could be transmitted through an inadvertent touch or is transmitted through droplets, while hearing a petition alleging violation of government mandated social distancing norms on flights operated by Air India to bring stranded Indians back under the Vande Bharat mission.The division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade asked the expert committee, headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation for the clarification after taking note of the minutes of a meeting held by the expert committee on May 26 to review and further strengthen the public health related protocols of air travel.The minutes of the meeting which was present before the court read, “The physical distance between two persons helps in minimising the transmission through an inadvertent touch. It was also suggested that if the person sitting adjacent to another person is provided with a protective suit (like a gown covering the upper part of the body and gloves), this can also be very good means of preventing the spread of virus either by droplets or by touch.”The committee’s note further listed the benefits of protective gowns in minimising the risk of transmission through an inadvertent touch while in the aircraft or while boarding or alighting.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The bench was hearing a petition filed by Air India pilot Deven Kanani who had complained that the national carrier had violated social distancing norms while repatriating stranded Indians on special Vande Bharat flights.In the last hearing, the court had asked the centre for data of international evacuees who were Coved-19 negative before boarding the flights but turned positive after alighting from the flight in India.The centre in its response submitted that only 227 passengers, out of the 58,867 flown in from abroad through the Vande Bharat special flights to 17 cities, tested positive for the virus, which is just .38 per cent. However, the data did not provide details of Covid positive passengers found at Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad airports, despite 18,896 passengers having landed in 162 flights at these airports.The centre on its part submitted that the 227 passengers, who were Covid negative before boarding the flights, had tested positive during institutional quarantine and hence there was no proof to corroborate if they had contracted the infection on the flight.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe petitioner’s advocates Abhilash and Jyoti Panickar informed the court that the data provided by the centre proved that the petitioner’s apprehensions, on the possibility of the virus spreading on Vande Bharat flights due to non-maintenance of social distancing norms, were right.Panickar claimed that the lives of passengers had been put to risk by Air India by not keeping a seat vacant between two passengers. He said that the national average of Covid -19 infection was 0.16 per cent compared to 0.56 per cent among people who had travelled by Air India to 14 cities and had tested positive for the virus.On its part, Air India, through senior advocate Darius Khambatta, and advocates Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, Arsh Misra and Kavita Anchan informed the bench that the air quality within the aircrafts was similar to that in operation theatres as the air was filtered through Hepa Filters and hence the apprehensions of the petitioner were unfounded.The union of India through solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the number of Covid positive passengers came to light after they were tested while in mandatory institutional quarantine, hence it was difficult to ascertain whether the virus was contracted on flight.They further reiterated the expert committee recommendation that if proper precautions were taken and the passenger on the middle seat was provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) like face shield and wrap around gown, it would negate the chances of the spread of the virus even through an inadvertent touch. The matter has been posted for further hearing on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-centre-to-clarify-if-covid-19-can-be-transmitted-by-inadvertent-touch/story-yGQp0G6iCLoK8i3Dl8kG6O.html
05-06-2020||India||Assam COVID-19 positive tally zooms from 1000 to over 2000 in just 6 days||A day after the single biggest daily surge of 269 cases, Assam recorded 243 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday to take the state’s tally to 2074 cases. The state had recorded 1000 cases on May 29, almost two months after the first case was detected on March 31. But it took just 6 days for that figure to double and cross the 2000 figure mark. Return of over 2.5 lakh persons to the state from all over the country since ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4 and domestic flights resumed on May 25 are reasons for the spike in positive cases. According to official estimates, nearly 1,800 of the total cases in Assam are of people who came from other states by roads, railways and air. Till Thursday evening, 443 patients had recovered, 4 had died, 1539 are undergoing treatment and 3 migrated back to their states before recovery. The state has ramped up testing facilities considerably to test swab samples of all those coming back to the state. Till Thursday 133029 samples were tested at the seven authorized government laboratories in the state. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said recently that the state now has a capacity to test nearly 10,000 samples daily and by June 15 around 2 lakh samples would be tested. The state has a policy of mandatory testing of all those who are returning to the state. All returnees are required to undergo a total 14 days of mandatory quarantine—including institutional and home.Swabs of returnees are taken before they enter institutional quarantine. Once their test results come in 3-4 days, they are allowed to go home and spend the rest of the 14 days in isolation if the test results come negative. The state has 3,338 isolation beds, 595 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 398 ventilators to treat critically ill patients in government and private hospitals. The state has several mass quarantine facilities where over 27,000 persons can be kept.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-covid-19-positive-cases-zoom-from-1000-to-nearly-2000-in-just-6-days/story-wDXZ6MQGEgNcChEv91BNcI.html
05-06-2020||India||Health ministry shuts down office for 2 days after around dozen test Covid-19 positive||The Union ministry of health will be shut for two days to disinfect the premises after around a dozen people tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) in Nirman Bhawan. Nirman Bhawan, which houses the ministry of health, ministry of power, and ministry of urban affairs, among others, will be disinfected on June 6 and 7.“Many cases are being reported and we don’t know where these cases are coming from. A lot of people are at risk; we heard a driver was infected and since carpooling is happening these days, the other four people sitting in the car also contracted the infection. That’s probably why it was thought to disinfect the building,” said an official, who did not wish to be identified.It is unlikely that the ministry’s health briefings are going to get affected. The ministry also issued preventive guidelines among its staff for strict compliance that includes wearing of masks, entry of only asymptomatic people inside the premises, no loitering of employees in corridors, staggered work hours, and strictly avoiding group lunches.“… to say that the number of Covid positive cases is going up steadily and many officers of the ministry have been tested Covid-19 positive. It has been noticed that at times social distancing is not being maintained in office premises. Hence, all official/staff are advised to take the precautionary measures strictly in order to contain spread of Covid-19,” said the office memo.While people with flu-like illness have been prohibited from entering the office building, those who had given their samples for Covid-19 testing are supposed to inform the administration and not report to work till the result is out.Stairs should be used as far as possible, and not more than four people should take the lift at a time. “..inside the lift persons should be facing the walls of the lift and not facing each other,” the directive says.Common areas such as handrails, lift, doorknobs, stairs, washrooms etc. are being sanitized thrice a day.“As much as possible all employees should avoid using other employees’ phones, desks, offices, or other work tools and equipment. Clean and disinfect them before and after use.” Spitting has also been strictly prohibited within the office premises, and strict action will be taken against those found flouting the norms.Another point that finds mention is that all employees should strictly avoid spreading of rumors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-shuts-down-office-for-2-days/story-7Z4bUUt5YB0mhPe0N1IHRP.html
05-06-2020||India||‘Justice will prevail’: Kerala CM on elephant’s death||Some people suspected to have fed a cracker-filled fruit that caused the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala have been identified, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday even as activists pointed out it was not the state’s first such killing and the Centre took “a serious note” of the incident.“Justice will prevail,” Vijayan tweeted amid an outpouring of grief over visuals that showed the elephant dead in a river. “Many of you have reached out to us. We want to assure you that your concerns will not go in vain.”The incident came to light on May 27 when a forest officer wrote a Facebook post describing the elephant’s painful death. Union environment and forest minister promised to investigate the case properly. “Central Government has taken a very serious note of the killing of an elephant in Mallapuram, #Kerala. We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s). This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill,” he tweeted.Kerala’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Surendra Kumar, said it was unlikely that someone will offer cracker-filled pineapple to a wild elephant. “It is possible that the animal ate the fruit by mistake. Cracker-laden fruits like pineapples are kept by farmers to scare away animals from their fields. Investigation is on to find whether the death was caused by pineapple or jiggery and samples are being tested,” he said. Palakkad district forest officer K K Sunil Kumar said they have started their investigation and will question people living around forests in the area. “We have some leads,” he added without offering further details. Another female elephant was killed in Kollam after it ate a cracker-filled fruit in April. In 2018, another jumbo was killed in Idukki after swallowing jaggery-coated explosives.“In the Kollam case also, the dead jumbo’s mouth, tongue and a part of trunk were burnt. We usually call such snares as boar crackers as they are normally meant to target crop-raiding wild boars. At times, elephants and bears also fall prey to such snares,” said E K Eswaran, a former chief veterinary officer. Kollam farmer K K Mathew said animals damage their farms and at times they use small crackers to scare them. “Some of them dodge electric fencing to attack farms. We have to fend for ourselves. So we resort to such tricks,” said Mathew. John Peruvanthanam, an activist, said people often encroach upon forests and start cultivation there. “It is not like a border between two countries. It is natural for animals to stray into human habitats.”The latest elephant death has put a spotlight on the human-animal conflict in the state. In 2018-19, 24 people were killed by wild elephants and 12 died in tiger attacks, according to the forest department statistics.In 2015, the government proposed to provide licensed firearms to farmers to shoot down wild boars but the proposal was withdrawn after opposition from the forest department that argued they can be misused.Kerala has the third highest population of elephants after Karnataka and Assam even as their numbers declined from 6,177 in 2012 to 5,706 in 2018 when the last census was held..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-will-prevail-kerala-cm-on-elephant-s-death/story-ek6EMiSYFVddaUa6zyI7iP.html
05-06-2020||India||Sixth mass extinction threat grows, 515 species may vanish soon: Study||A recent analysis of data has warned of an acceleration in the sixth mass extinction. For the analysis published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on June 1, scientists examined available data related to 29,400 species of terrestrial vertebrates and found that 1.7% of them, or 515 species of mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, have fewer than 1,000 individuals each and are on the brink of extinction including in India.Among those facing extinction, 243 (47%) are continental and 272 (53%) insular (island-dwelling). Most of them are from South America, followed by Oceania, Asia, Africa, North and Central America, and then Europe with less than 1% of them. The greatest numbers of mammals on the brink extinction are in Asia and Oceania. Most such birds live in South America and Oceania. The distribution of species on the brink extinction shows they also include those in the biodiversity hotspots of the Himalayas and the Western Ghats.Indian experts said the analysis should drive home the message that India can help secure the hotspots and more species from going extinct. “Many of the results are a re-emphasis of the threats to species and processes, but I think the timing of this paper is most important given the [Covid-19] lockdown. ...the authors acknowledge biodiversity is crucial to human and ecosystem resilience, but in the Indian context, we are seeing environmental governmental decisions that are contrary to what scientists are calling for the world over,” said Nandini Velho, a conservation biologist.Scientists like Velho have over the past three months raised concerns over a hydropower project in biodiversity-rich Dibang Valley and the National Wildlife Board’s approval to coal mining inside Assam’s Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve.Velho said of the 515 species, forest owlet in Central India, Nilgiri marten (Western Ghats), Bugun liocichla (Arunachal Pradesh), Bengal florican (Assam), great Indian bustard (northwest India), white-winged wood duck (northeast India) will disappear soon.“The findings of this paper are similar to the findings of the intergovernmental science policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services, which suggests that species are on the verge of extinction which will also lead to larger collapses. In India this is specially pertinent as we have species that are naturally or historically low in number. And a wide range of factors are interacting with them. Several Indian species are mentioned in the paper. The Kolar-leaf nosed bat, named in this paper is found in only one cave in Kolar. If the stigma against bats due to fake covid spreads, the entire population could be made extinct. And the Great Indian Bustard is threatened by increasing transmission lines in Kutch, Gujarat. The White-bellied Heron has less than ten known individuals in India. and its habitat is threatened by submergence by proposed dams like Demwe in Arunchal Pradesh,” said Neha Sinha of the Bombay Natural History Society.National Autonomous University of Mexico and Stanford University scientists led the analysis based on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and Birdlife International database. The analysis said in view of the current extinction crisis and the lack of widespread actions to halt it, it is very important that scientists “should metaphorically take to the streets”. This is because the current mass extinction is happening at a far larger scale and more rapidly than those recorded in the past.“Thousands of populations of critically endangered vertebrate animal species have been lost in a century, indicating that the sixth mass extinction is human-caused and accelerating. The acceleration of the extinction crisis is certain because of the still fast growth in human numbers and consumption rates. In addition, species are links in ecosystems, and, as they fall out, the species they interact with are likely to go also. In the regions where disappearing species are concentrated, regional biodiversity collapses are likely occurring,” the analysis said.The analysis also shows that those pushed to the brink of extinction have lost their historic geographic range. Assuming that an average mammal or bird population occupies 10,000 km2, it suggests that during the last two centuries, around 3,600 populations of the 48 mammal species and 2,930 populations of the 29 bird species examined have disappeared. Those mammal and bird species have lost around 95% and 94% of their geographic range since 1900, according to the analysis.It said such major losses of populations and species will destroy the ecosystem, goods, and services, which will impact human well being while citing the example of Covid-19. The analysis said the pandemic is linked to wildlife trade and has recommended a strict ban on it in China, Vietnam, Indonesia, and other Asian countries. It has suggested that food be made available to the poor in Africa to prevent dependence on bushmeat. “There is no doubt that there will be more pandemics if we continue destroying habitats and trading wildlife for human consumption as food and traditional medicines,” the analysis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixth-mass-extinction-threat-grows-515-species-may-vanish-soon-study/story-2IUPa6dS8ogz1LckmqVxdJ.html
05-06-2020||India||I am deeply sorry for pain I’ve caused to Jessica Lal’s family, says Manu Sharma||Manu Sharma, 43, who was handed a life sentence for the 1999 murder of model Jessica Lal and was released from Tihar Jail this week, spoke to Prawesh Lama about the incident, life behind bars, the lessons he learnt during his incarceration, his NGO, and his future plans, among other things. Edited excerpts:How do you look back at the 17 years you spent in prison?Going to jail is one of the most difficult and scary things that can happen to anyone. I was a 23-year-old and going about my work and life. And one day, I suddenly woke up to the clanging sound of iron gates for a roll call at 5am. I found myself hauled up and paraded for a head count. The most difficult task of the day was probably using the toilets, since there are just five toilets for more than 500 inmates. A bucket of water was a luxury. You face a number of hardships in Tihar, but in time you learn to live with them. What is harder to get accustomed to is the isolation and a lack of knowledge of your family’s welfare.The constant vigil that one has to maintain to protect oneself from the ruffians who rule the inside of the jails is mind-numbing. They can come at you at any time. When you sleep in a barrack -- as I did for quite a few of my earlier years -- you have to be constantly alert, even at night. That is the easiest time for them to attack. However, in my latter years when I was more used to jail life, I tried to spend my time in more constructive ways. My first assignment was to tend to the gardens and that gave me a lot of peace and tranquillity. Thereafter, I was asked to work in the Tihar jail factory, and I can say today that my 10 years spent in the factory helped keep my sanity. I tried to keep myself immersed in the work so as to stay away from the negativity of the jail environment. I also tried to read as much as possible and completed my degree in human rights and studied law as well.In the last 21 years I have learned a lot of hard lessons and I hope and pray that they will help me as I strive for betterment in my life after prison.How do you look back at that night and the events that followed?I was a young 23-year-old boy. I never intended anyone any harm, and am very sorry for what happened. During this time, the toughest part by far was seeing my parents suffer. I feel the suffering I faced was nothing compared to what I saw in their eyes. I feel really sorry for what they had to go through for no fault of theirs. I am really thankful to God that this ordeal has come to an end after 21 long years.What have you learnt from the mistake you made that night? To be grateful to God for the second chance that I have been given and to my family and friends for standing by me.Jail officers credit you for some good initiatives in the prison’s factory that helped the jail earn profits and reach out to a larger audience. Your comments.When in jail, you are allotted work, and I was allotted to the jail factory. I tried to do the work assigned to me as diligently as possible. I can proudly say we were able to take the turnover of the jail factory and increase it from Rs 1 crore to Rs 32 crore and were also able to give work and wages to more than 600 inmates from just 70 earlier. Now that you are a free man after 21 years, what are your plans? Going forward, I hope and believe that I will be able to live a peaceful and fruitful life where I can support my family and carry on helping the unseen and unheard children of jail inmates, who are not currently being provided the means and aid that they require.Jail officers say your NGO, Siddharth Vashishta Trust, helped in the rehabilitation of prisoners and their families. Will you continue this work?I hope to not just continue the work we are doing now but also improve and do more for the children and families of the prisoners. I would like to highlight their suffering, not just in Delhi where we have been working, but across the nation, so that these children are given the acknowledgement and help that they deserve. I hope to help them gain the skills and support that they require to be independent and stand on their own two feet as responsible citizens. I learnt a lot in the last 21 years and my eyes were opened to some truly harsh realities. What do you say to some people on social media, who say you should not have been released?I have served my time and done my best to be the best person I could be and will continue to do so. I hope people are able to recognize this and allow me to proceed with my life.Jessica Lal’s sister Sabrina had earlier written to the Tihar authorities that she had forgiven you for what happened that night. Your comments on this.I have no words to express my sincere gratitude to Sabrina and her family. I am deeply sorry for the pain I have caused them. I am eternally grateful for their magnanimity.What would you say to a young Manu Sharma of 1999? What would you tell him about life?Life can change in a minute, don’t take anything for granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-deeply-sorry-for-the-pain-i-have-caused-the-lal-family-manu-sharma/story-bf1wQPtlDdJqnX4IH0nc4N.html
05-06-2020||India||Hectic parleys in Congress, BJP for Karnataka RS berths||Venkatesha Babu and Smriti Kak RamachndranWith four members of the Rajya Sabha retiring this month, the race to replace them has intensified in Karnataka. Potential candidates from both national parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress-- are lobbying their party leaderships for nominations to the Upper house Two Congress members – B K Hariprasad and Prof M V Rajeev Gowda -- are due to retire on June 25 along with the BJP’s Prabhakar Kore and D Kupendra Reddy of the Janata Dal (Secular) when their terms end.Given the current composition in the 224-member Karnataka assembly, where the BJP has 117 MLAs, the Congress 68 , JDS 34 and independents three (two seats are vacant), the BJP can have two Rajya Sabha MPs elected and the Congress one – but with extra votes to spare -- and the JDS, if it manages additional votes, one.For election to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka, a member would require 44 votes. So the BJP can comfortably have t two members elected, with votes to spare. Kore, an education baron, is keen for another term, but the BJP is unlikely to nominate him, given that he has already has served two consecutive terms. Tejaswini, the wife of late former Union minister Ananth Kumar who narrowly missed out on the Bangalore South Lok Sabha seat won by her husband for six consecutive terms, is considered to be a key contender.Ramesh Katti, the brother of BJP’s eight-term MLA Umesh Katti, has publicly declared that chief minister BS Yediyurappa should keep his promise of sending him to the Upper house. “I have urged the CM to fulfil his promise of (sending me to the RS) he made last year when I was denied the Chikkodi Lok Sabha ticket,” Katti told HT. A lesser known name doing the rounds as a potential candidate is of Prof M Nagaraj, known as a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh(RSS) ideologue from the northern Karnataka stronghold of the BJP. The BJP state-in-charge Muralidhara Rao himself is seen as a contender for one of the Rajya Sabha seats. Industrialist and media baron Vijay Sankeshwar, a former three-term Lok Sabha member, is also seen to be in the running.Two surprising names doing the rounds as potential BJP nominees are of Sudha Murthy –philanthropist and the wife of Infosys co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy -- and K V Kamath, former chief of ICICI Bank. A senior BJP leader who did not want to be identified told HT: “Ultimately it will be a call of the party high command in consultation with the chief minister, so all the names doing rounds, while they might have aspirations, only the core committee will ultimately decide.”For the lone seat the Congress can win, former leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge is seen as the front-runner. The other names being mentioned are of former union ministers K H Muniyappa and Veerpa Moily. Muniyappa, a seven-term MP, told HT: “I am not an aspirant and would gladly support any choice made by the high command. I am ready to work in the organization to bring the party back to power in the state. My only desire is that those who have stabbed the party in the back and helped BJP come to power should not get rewarded.” His remarks indicate lingering divisions within the party, which experienced a rebellion last that year that enabled the BJP under Yediyurappa to come back to power in Karnataka.The Congress would have nearly 24 votes to spare and is likely to support JDS supremo and former PM HD Deve Gowda if he decides to contest. Political analyst Prof Harish Ramaswamy said Yediyurappa will have to do a tightrope walk to ensure that he keeps all sections in the party happy while choosing the RS candidates. “Congress and JDS are likely to reach an understanding as it will also enhance further ties between the two parties to jointly take on the BJP in the state,” Ramaswamy said.A late night meeting last week of over a dozen MLAs from North Karnataka was perceived to be a sign of a brewing rebellion against the Yeddiyurappa government, which is also preparing for the legislative council elections. According to reports, these MLAs met at senior legislator Umesh Katti’s residence. Katti himself has been eyeing a place in the state cabinet, and has also not shied away from seeking a Rajya Sabha berth for his brother.In Delhi, BJP leaders are not pleased. “Everyone has aspiration to either become a minister or get a ticket to contest. These decisions cannot be taken on the basis of arm twisting. There is a system of the parliamentary board taking decision and that will be followed in every state,” said a BJP functionary in Delhi.Discord has also been brewing over candidate selection for assembly bypolls in the party units in Madhya Pradesh and over the selection of a new party president in Himachal Pradesh to replace Rajeev Bindal, who stepped down in May after his name was indirectly dragged into a corruption case involving the state health department. In Madhya Pradesh, where the Shivraj Singh Chauhan government made a comeback in March after being out of power for 15 months; disquiet prevails over the possibility of 22 rebel MLAs being selected to contest the bypolls.“There are a couple of contenders for the president’s post {in HP}; and as is natural, their support groups have been holding meetings. There is however no threat to the state government,” said a BJP leader requesting anonymity.Political analyst Shirish Kashikar said the disagreements within the BJP were not serious enough to destabilise the party’s state governments.“Each state unit has its own dynamics, and it is obvious that there will be friction if old party workers are made to compete for positions or tickets with their erstwhile opponents,” he said. “Having said that, in each of these cases the disagreements are not so intense or deep that the opposition can instigate defections or cause the government to fall, as it had happened when the BJP engineered the fall of the Kamal Nath government in MP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hectic-parleys-in-cong-bjp-for-k-taka-rs-berths/story-UX0h9pus3ANIK1gGGSlk4M.html
05-06-2020||India||Hotels must record guests’ health, travel history and ID after reopening: Unlock 1 SOPs||The government of India has released standard operating procedures (SOPs) governing operation of hotels and other hospitality units which should kick-in on June 8 when these hospitality sector opens up for the first time after two months of closure of operations during the nationwide lockdown clamped to contain the spread of deadly coronavirus infection. The health ministry’s guidelines make it clear that the onus of containing further spread of the virus lies on the management of these facilities. The SOPs aim to minimize all possible physical contacts between the hotel staff and guests and also include other preventive and safety measures to be adopted against Covid-19.Here’s the complete list of SOPs to be observed in hotels and other hospitality1. Hotels in containment zones shall remain closed. Only those outside containment zones will be allowed to open up2. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. Hotel management has been advised to ensure this.3. Physical distancing of at least 6 feet to be followed by the hotel staff and guests as far as feasible.4. Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory.5. Spitting shall be strictly prohibited in hotels.6. Installation and use of Aarogya Setu app shall be advised to allList of specific SOPs to be followed by all hotels1. Hotel entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions2. Only asymptomatic staff and guests shall be allowed after thermal screening3. All staff and guests to be allowed entry only if using face cover/masks, which has to be worn at all times inside the hotel4. Adequate manpower shall be deployed by hotel management for ensuring social distancing norms.5. Staff should additionally wear gloves and take other required precautionary measures6. All employees who are at higher risk i.e. older employees, pregnant employees and employees who have underlying medical conditions, to take extra precautions. They should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public. Hotel management is also advised to facilitate work from home wherever feasible7. Proper crowd management in the hotel as well as in outside premises like parking lots–duly following social distancing norms shall be ensuredAlso Read: Unlock-1 SOPs for malls mandates 6-ft distance, face masks, children play areas to be closed8. Large gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited9. Valet parking, if available, shall be operational with operating staff wearing face covers/ masks and gloves as appropriate. A proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc. of the vehicles should be taken up10. It would be preferable to have separate entry and exits for guests, staff and goods/supplies11. Guests should maintain physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet, when queuing up at the hotel. Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises12. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining social distancing norms. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged13. Details of the guest (travel history, medical condition etc.) along with ID and self declaration form must be provided by the guest at the reception14. Posters/standees/AV media on preventive measures about Covid-19 to be displayed prominently15. Hand sanitizers must be kept at the reception for guests to use. Guests to sanitize hands before and after filling relevant forms including A&D register16. Hotels must adopt contactless processes like QR code, online forms, digital payments like e-wallet etc. for both check-in and check-out17. Luggage should be disinfected before sending the luggage to rooms18. Guests who are at higher risk i.e. those who are older, pregnant or those who have underlying medical conditions are advised to take extra precautions19. Guests should be advised not to visit areas falling with in containment zone20. Required precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the hotel shall be ensured. Proper queue management and disinfection shall be organized21. Appropriate personal protection gears like face covers/masks, gloves and hand sanitizers etc., shall be made available by hotel to the staff as well as the guestsFor Coronavirus Live UpdatesFollowing detailed guidelines issued for restaurants shall be followed1. Seating arrangement in the restaurant also to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained.2. Disposable menus are advised to be used3. Instead of cloth napkins, use of good quality disposable paper napkins to be encouraged4. Contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment (using e-wallets) to be encouraged5. Buffet service should also follow social distancing norms among guests6. Room service or takeaways to be encouraged, instead of dine-in7. Food delivery personnel should leave the packet at guest or customer’s door and not handed directly to the receiver. The staff for home deliveries shall be screened thermally by the hotel authorities prior to allowing home deliveries8. For room service, communication between guests and in-house staff should be through intercom/ mobile phone and room service (if any) should be provided while maintaining adequate social distance9. Gaming Arcades/Children play areas (wherever applicable) shall remain closed.10. For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30oC, relative humidity should be in the range of 40- 70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate.11. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on lavatories, drinking and hand washing stations/areas12. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) to be made mandatory in all guest service area and common areas13. Proper disposal of face covers / masks / gloves left over by guests and/or staff should be ensured14. Deep cleaning of all washrooms shall be ensured at regular intervals.15. Rooms and other service areas shall be sanitized each time a guest leaves16. In the kitchen, the staff should follow social distancing norms at work place. Kitchens area must be sanitized at regular intervalsFollowing SOPs to be followed by hotels in case of a suspect or confirmed case in the premises1. Place the ill person in a room or area where they are isolated from others.2. Provide a mask/face cover till such time he/she is examined by a doctor.3. Immediately inform the nearest medical facility (hospital/clinic) or call the state or district helpline4. A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority (district RRT/treating physician) and accordingly further action be initiated regarding management of case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection.5. Disinfection of the premises to be taken up if the person is found positive||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-must-record-guests-health-travel-history-and-id-after-reopening-unlock-1-sops/story-cnyrg3sV4EgGVolULmuZgK.html
05-06-2020||India||Health Ministry releases SOPs for restaurants, hotels. New guidelines here||The Health Ministry on Thursday released the standard operating procedure for restaurants and hotels which included measures like allowing only asymptomatic staff and guests inside the premises and proper crowd management.The ministry asked employees who are at higher risk -- like older staff members or those who are pregnant or have underlying medical conditions -- to take extra precautions.“They should preferably not be exposed to any front-line work requiring direct contact with the public. Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises – duly following social distancing norms shall be ensured,” it said.“Preferably separate entry and exits for patrons, staff and goods/supplies shall be organised,” it said.The ministry also asked hotels and restaurant owners to encourage contactless mode of ordering and digital payments (using e-wallets).For hotels and hospitality services, it asked them to ensure a proper record of the guest’s travel history and medical condition, along with ID and self-declaration form.“Luggage should be disinfected before sending the luggage to rooms. For room service, communication between guests and in-house staff should be through intercom/ mobile phone and room service (if any) should be provided while maintaining adequate social distance,” it said.“Gaming arcades/children play areas (wherever applicable) shall remain closed,” it said.In SOPs released for restaurants, the ministry has curtailed the seating capacity to 50 per cent. Disposable menus are advised to be used. Instead of cloth napkins, use of disposable paper napkins should be encouraged.Restaurants have been asked to encourage takeaways instead of dine-in.“Food delivery personnel should leave the packet at the customer’s door. Do not handover the food packet directly to the customer,” it said.The ministry also said that the staff for home deliveries shall be screened thermally by the restaurant authorities prior to allowing home deliveries.“Entrance to have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions and only asymptomatic staff and patrons shall be allowed,” it said.Staggering of patrons to be done, if possible. Adequate manpower should be deployed by restaurant management for ensuring social-distancing norms, it said.“Specific markings may be made with sufficient distance to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises. Maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the restaurant as far as feasible.For air-conditioning and ventilation, the ministry said the guidelines of CPWD shall be followed which inter alia emphasises that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70 per cent and intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-releases-sops-for-restaurants-hotels-new-guidelines-here/story-145RHYNs2RtKrsuiQUmwuK.html
05-06-2020||India||After Kashmir, Mission Kabul is on terror groups Jaish, Lashkar radar||Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, the terrorist groups that have been mostly active in Jammu and Kashmir for years, are rapidly mobilising operatives to radicalise, train and fight in Afghanistan on directions of Rawalpindi GHQ over the last few months, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on ThursdayThe two terror groups are estimated to have 1,000 terror operatives in the war-torn country, most of them inducted after the February pact between the Taliban and the United States. And counting.In the last few months alone, about 200 Lashkar operatives had infiltrated into Afghanistan’s Kunar province from Bajaur Agency in Pakistan. In the last week of May, another group of 30 Lashkar-e-Tayyiba terrorists led by an ex-ISI officer Bilal aka Zarqawi slipped into Kunar’s Dangam district.A fortnight earlier, 45 Jaish operatives shepherded by Taliban commander Mullah Nek Mohammad Rabhar had entered Nangarhar’s Sherzad province through Kurram Agency in Pakistan.Face of Lashkar’s terror in AfghanistanSheikh Khitab :A Pakistani national and head of Lashkar-e-Tayyiba is active in eastern AfghanistanMaulvi Samiullah : A Pakistani national and incharge of a newly-formed LeT group in Afghanistan was associated with the module that attacked Kabul gurdwara on March 25Abu Hamza : He is incharge of the Lashkar in east Afghanistan and is based in Kunar province. He hails from Afghanistan’s Baghlan provinceJunaid, Saifullah and Abuzar: They operate under Maulvi Samiullah and are reported to be active in eastern provinces.Sayed Akbar Jan Zardhan: He is an LeT commander who is active in Gayan, Zerok and Barmal districts of PaktikaQariZiaur Rehman: Deputy governor of the ISKP in Kunar and acts as coordinator between Lashkar and Al QaedaSheikh Abdul Aziz Nuristani: Nuristani is an affiliate of Jamia Farooqia Madrassa at tajabad in Peshawar, ex-senior judge of Taliban in Nuristan province. He now works for Lashkar.Counter-terror officials in Delhi and Kabul said the focus on Afghanistan by these two terrorist groups underlines how their deployments and actions mirror the priorities of Pakistan’s ISI.For now, the ISI’s emphasis appears to be to prepare the ground to continue terror activities in case the Taliban-US peace process leads to a political settlement, one official said. From Kashmir to Afghanistan, the Pakistan state has used terror groups as its strategic arm to achieve outcomes its diplomacy can’t. This is another example, an official said.But the deployment in Afghanistan is also designed to serve as the new terror factory that can dish out terrorists for any cause that serves Pakistan interest.Bilal aka Zarqawi, the ex-ISI official who led the team of 30 LeT terrorists that entered Afghanistan was earlier incharge of a major terror training centre in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir capital Muzaffarabad.One of the early attacks this year in which Lashkar operatives are believed to have played a role is the massacre at Guru Har Rai Gurdwara in Kabul’s old city that left over 25, most of them worshippers at the shrine, dead. The attack had been linked to a centre being run jointly by the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) and the Taliban’s sword arm Haqqani Network.Jaish’s top operatives in AfghanistanQazi Swahibullah: Key leader in Shiltan district of Kunar provinceDil Mohammad: He is incharge of central Kunar provinceFazal Akbar Salarzai: Jaish incharge for Walarsar between Dangam and Shiltan districts of Kunar provinceZohoor Zarqawi: He is incharge for eastern afghanistan and hails from pakistan’s Waziristan regionFresh information emerging from Afghanistan indicates that Maulvi Samiullah, a Pakistani national who is incharge of the newly formed Lashkar group in Afghanistan, was also involved.Counter-terror officials said they had come across evidence to indicate that Lashkar operatives were, on occasions, also carrying out their missions in Afghanistan under the aegis of the cover of Jamat al-Dawa and Jaish-e-Salafi.The effort to map the presence and activities of the two terrorist groups in Afghanistan is still work in progress, one of them said. “But we have been able to identify some of those playing key roles,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kashmir-mission-kabul-is-on-terror-groups-jaish-lashkar-radar/story-u9AXcxXueiW0ujAFAxAqjI.html
05-06-2020||Editorials||Kerala’s tragedy offers a lesson||The Kerala police on Friday arrested a man and detained another in connection with the recent killing of a pregnant elephant. The arrested man, an employee of an estate that grows cash crops and spices, reportedly told investigators that they set up a snare of fruit filled with crackers to scare and possibly kill wild boars, which often destroyed their crops. While the elephant’s killing is heartbreaking, the case points to a larger conservation challenge that India faces today: Human-animal conflict. One hundred and forty-four people were killed between April 2014 and May 2017 because of this, as were many elephants, tigers and leopards. Unfortunately, there is no government data on the deaths of animals due to human-animal conflict.This conflict is growing. On one hand, there is an explosion of human population, shrinking forest cover, urbanisation, poaching, increasing road density, destruction of natural corridors, and agricultural expansion. On the other, India is also home to the largest population of the tiger, Asian elephant, leopard and sloth bear, and these animals cannot be restricted within demarcated territories. With the demands for development rising — disruptive projects in protected areas were even cleared during the national lockdown — the conflict will increase in the future.It is not easy to strike the right balance between development needs and preservation of the natural world, but, as studies show, there are ways of managing the crisis better. Monitor and evaluate human-wildlife conflicts and compile data on conflict situations, their causes, and solutions; draw up a research, planning, and a long-term policy/management framework; rethink land use planning (with enough space for humans and animals, buffer zones and wildlife corridors); strengthen community-based natural resource management; include communities in forest-based employment such as ecotourism; compensate for loss of lives, crops and livestock; and incentivise states that manage their natural heritage better than others. States must also have rescue units and animal crisis centres, adequate forest professionals, veterinarians, and equipment. As the coronavirus disease shows, the loss of natural habitats increases the risk of pandemics. This is not only because of biodiversity loss, but also because it forces animal species to venture into new grounds, and clash with humans. The Kerala tragedy is a reminder for a better framework to deal with the conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/kerala-s-tragedy-offers-a-lesson/story-g83pGKpcyYpHMyYUDqLbwN.html
05-06-2020||Editorials||Focus on air, water and waste management||With insensitive planning that creates a false binary and prioritises development over environment, weak implementation of the green laws, inefficient and corrupt regulators, and irresponsible civic behaviour, the list of India’s environmental challenges is long. At the top of it, of course, is the climate crisis, which cuts across all sectors and has an impact on everyday life. Battling the climate crisis has to be the overarching framework. All laws and rules should be based on that priority and objective. But the World Environment Day also offers an opportunity to look at three, other, more immediate, crises — air pollution; water crisis; and waste management. While the lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) gave us clean air for two months, this was only a short-term gain. With industries opening up and vehicles back on road, it will be business as usual. Come winter, the challenge will intensify. The water crisis is marked by falling groundwater levels, contaminated water bodies, or drying of Himalayan springs. Last year, India committed to phase out the use of single-use plastic by 2022. This will not be easy, and the rising demand for disposable personal protective equipment will add to the challenge. With the country facing an economic downturn due to Covid-19, there will be a temptation to relax environmental norms for industries. But this will be a major mistake. Building back greener will prepare the country for the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/focus-on-air-water-and-waste-management/story-tUrM2vQeIrXvzsJiENqptN.html
