07-06-2020||News||There is a crisis in the coal industry | Opinion||The headwinds against the coal industry both domestically and internationally have been evident for some time. Drying up financing for new thermal power plants, private sector announcements of exiting the business, and declining plant load factors have been stoking pessimism about the future of the industry. Despite this, there was hope that the production triumphalism around coal would be accompanied by forward-looking policy measures which would focus on productivity, moderating coal’s considerable externalities, and some form of local equity. The recent policy announcements of the Government of India regarding the industry are evidence that these dreams will remain an unfulfilled fiction.The first nail in the coffin was the announcement to do away with mandatory coal washing. In theory, a process like coal washing was supposed to be good for everyone; thermal power plants would have fewer operational problems due to poor coal quality, combustion of washed coal would be better from an emissions and local air pollution perspective, and the unnecessary transport of large amounts of ash and non-combustible material would be minimised. In practice, most consumers of washed coal (both in steel and power) have regretted their decision; they were usually delivered a substandard product for which they had paid a premium. Not surprisingly, much of domestic coking coal today tends to be used for power generation as steel companies prefer to import their coking coal than rely on domestic products. The dream of Indian coal washing had morphed into a nightmare, and the environment ministry’s notification was a delayed acceptance of the ground reality.The second nail in the coffin has been the failure of India’s coal mine auction mechanism. In the last five years, aggregate production from auctioned mines has remained less than the heights of captive coal mining prior to the Supreme Court’s de-allocation decision in 2014. Bringing auctioned mines into production is a three to five-year process, and it is unlikely that the current commercial coal mining regime will ever rival Coal India’s established production base. Despite the repeated energetic announcements of introducing competition in the coal industry, the majority of domestic power consumers will continue to remain dependent on Coal India. Very few companies (public sector or private) have been able to match Coal India’s ability to navigate the complicated bureaucratic and political hurdles associated with opening new coal mines. Despite all the revisions announced in the stimulus package, new coal mine auctions are unlikely to attract significant domestic or international interest except from the few large players who already exist in the sector domestically. International companies, which have avoided India’s coal industry so far because of regulatory and reputational issues, have zero incentive to take new risks in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) world. Smaller Indian companies simply do not have access to credit or cash on hand to open new mines.The third nail in the coffin has been the deliberate weakening of Coal India’s financial position. In addition to the usual royalty payments, cesses, taxes, and other fiscal contributions reasonably expected of Coal India, there has been a concerted effort to extract cash from the organisation. Between inflated dividend payments, unnecessary share buybacks, and questionably useful corporate social responsibility contributions, Coal India has transferred tens of thousands of crore to the central government in various ways. Coal India’s cash could have been used to further diversify the company, reinvest in new operations, promote research and development for alternative uses of coal (like the coal gasification mentioned in the stimulus package). Coal India could have been strategically repurposed as a vehicle of industrial investment to help coal-bearing regions (where it has operated for 50 years) diversify their economies. Instead, it appears to have become a victim of a larger strategy to weaken the Indian public sector. Not surprisingly, Coal India’s market capitalisation is less than a third of what it was in 2014.The fourth and final nail in the coffin has been the spectacular rise of the mine development operator (MDO) mode of mining. Subcontracting of mine operations has been a major feature of the coal industry for more than two decades now. It has also brought considerable financial and operational efficiencies to Coal India. But as the demise of coal mine operator EMTA showed, the MDO model remains rife with problems related to transparency, undue transfer of gains to private entities and a general deterioration of social contract in mining regions. In fact, the retreat of Coal India from the front lines and the increasing use of various forms of subcontracting has led to a much harsher face of mining in India today. The MDO model also creates an incentive mismatch; why would a large mining company take the risks of buying a mine if they could make good money subcontracting for coal block owning public sector units instead?To be clear, the status of coal as India’s energy incumbent in the power sector will not be evaporating any time soon; this will be a decades-long process. But with the coffin nailed tightly shut, it may not be reasonable to have any new dreams about India’s coal industry. We might just have to settle for decades of stagnation until its ultimate decline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/there-is-a-crisis-in-the-coal-industry-opinion/story-YaUpVPBx8o0cUVADnf9H1O.html
07-06-2020||News||Oceans are central to the future. Manage them wisely | Opinion||The ongoing pandemic has cruelly reminded us of the need for partnerships that transcend boundaries in order to solve global challenges. This is more than ever true for the challenges facing our oceans. India and Norway recognise this today in our celebration of World Oceans Day. Only by respecting (samman in Hindi) our ocean spaces together (sammen in Norwegian) can we benefit from its full potential today and in the future.Our oceans hold the world’s longest mountain ranges and deepest canyons. They give us oxygen and regulate the climate. Almost half of the world’s inhabitants depend on the oceans for food and employment, and the figures are increasing. In only 30 years, the global population may be close to 10 billion people. The world will look to the oceans for food, jobs, energy, transport, raw materials, medicines and economic growth to be able to sustain a population of this magnitude.Our oceans are already under tremendous pressure. There is an urgent need for concerted action to ensure a more sustainable and integrated approach in years to come. India and Norway have joined forces to tackle some of the most pertinent questions related to this balance between exploitation and preservation.The ocean industries — offshore energy, maritime transportation, seafood and newer industries — constitute the backbone of the Norwegian economy. They provide significant opportunities for prosperity and employment for both our countries on the path to recovery after the pandemic. Norwegian businesses recognise the vast potential of the Indian blue economy industries, and can offer important competence. India and Norway are ready to pursue new commercial partnerships in a range of sectors, such as sustainable shipping, aquaculture and renewable energy.India has launched an ambitious Deep Ocean Mission last year which over a five-year span will explore the deepest recesses of the Central Indian Ocean Basin, look at harnessing tidal energy and study the oceans’ biodiversity, metals and minerals.In order to fulfil the potential of the blue economy also for future generations, we must ensure that our oceans are safe, clean and healthy. Neither of our countries has always got the balance right between exploitation and protection. In the long run, it is, however, clear that what is good for the ocean environment is also good for ocean business.A recent “blue paper” commissioned by the high-level panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy makes the case for integrated ocean management for achieving a sustainable ocean economy. The longstanding scientific partnership between India and Norway regarding ocean research has been strengthened with the launch of a Joint Initiative on Integrated Ocean Management between our two countries in February. We are currently exploring how we can share experiences, research and technology in this field.Marine litter is an environmental issue that represents a significant risk for the blue economy as well as for marine life itself. We are concerned by reports that there could be more plastic than fish in our oceans by 2050. Fortunately, we have the knowledge and technology to solve this problem. Both India and Norway are taking great strides in the right direction. India, for example, has ambitions to phase out single-use plastic by 2022. We have established a Joint Marine Pollution Initiative, which is taking advantage of our respective strengths in waste management, marine research, business and technology in order to learn from one another and implement best practices.Litter does not respect national boundaries; so this is another challenge that demands global solutions. Our two ministers of environment have, therefore, jointly committed to supporting global action on plastic pollution. We are exploring the feasibility of establishing a new global agreement in order to manage the responsibility of the world, for the common challenges on marine litter.India and Norway are both strongly committed to achieving ambitions set in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This is our common global framework. Much work remains to be done in order for us to reach SDG 14 — Life Below Water. Success related to this goal will, however, facilitate progress in other SDGs such as ending poverty and hunger and ensuring good health. Cooperation between a variety of stakeholders is key to achieving all the SDGs — at the national, bilateral and multilateral levels — on land and at sea.On this World Oceans Day, we are proud to affirm a solid partnership between India and Norway on our journey towards oceans that are both wealthy and healthy. We learn from each other about the oceans themselves, the technologies to master its resources, and the action needed to increase sustainability. An added value is an increased understanding of each other’s countries and our culture, heritage and language. These are important cornerstones in any good relationship. The Indo-Norwegian ocean partnership aims to deliver siger (victory) for our sagar (oceans) through respect (samman) together (sammen).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/oceans-are-central-to-the-future-manage-them-wisely-opinion/story-UmpovyF6RddCLLEXNQJrrL.html
07-06-2020||News||Covid-19: Formalise urban slums for long-term resilience||Urban areas across the developing world are characterised by an underbelly of shanty towns, slums, and other forms of informal settlements. With the availability of affordable homes failing to keep up with rapid urbanisation and population growth, this underbelly continues to grow in most major cities, making its residents increasingly vulnerable. Once in every few years, this vulnerability gets brutally exposed, particularly during disasters, such as the current coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The poor housing conditions within informal settlements make them a hotspot for the spread of the pandemic for many reasons. Physical distancing and frequent hand washing are near impossible in the cramped houses with shared toilet facilities. A recent study by Brookings India showed that 30% of Covid-19 containment zones in Mumbai were inside slums. Moreover, 70% of these were red zones, indicating the rapid spread of the virus in such congested areas.So, how did we get here? The 2011 Census recorded 65 million slum dwellers, of which one-third resided in slums that did not exist on any government record. Similarly, a study by Duke University used satellite imagery to track the growth of slums in Bangalore and found nearly 2,000 slum settlements in the city, while the official records showed close to only 600 settlements. If informal settlements, and consequently their residents, do not exist on government records, it is unlikely they will receive access to basic sanitation services, let alone, quality housing or relief measures during a disaster.This informality also causes a looming fear of eviction which, according to consulting firm FSG, discourages the residents from making an incremental investment in building better facilities. Similarly, municipal authorities view these settlements as “illegal” and de-prioritise the provision of basic services. However, experts agree that securing tenure for slum households not only increases the inclusion of slum dwellers in public welfare records, but it also leads to better economic and physical health, educational outcomes, gender equality, and better land and resource conservation. If people feel secure that their investment will not be demolished, they are more likely to pour their hard-earned money into improving their housing.A good example is Ahmedabad’s Slum Networking Project (SNP). Initiated in 1995, it introduced a no-eviction guarantee to the city’s slum residents for a period of ten years. This encouraged residents to co-invest along with the government in laying down last-mile sanitation infrastructure, thus significantly leveraging the public finances. This created a ripple effect that led to a better economic and physical health, and educational outcomes, and was acknowledged globally as a best-practice housing policy.As policymakers work to solve the current pandemic challenges, it will be important to reflect on the long-term measures needed to prevent similar crises. Experience and evidence suggest three measures.One, recognise the informal. India is marked by a large informal economy, which comprises of informal workers, businesses and housings. Moving towards a way to recognise and record them officially is the first step. It has taken a crisis like the coronavirus pandemic to highlight the facts that we don’t know who these informal workers are, what their sources of incomes are, or where they live.Two, provide security of tenure. Slums have become an integral part of our society. They impact our daily lives and cannot be wished away. The Ahmedabad SNP programme offered a short duration no-eviction guarantee, which transformed the housing conditions in the slums. Policymakers will need to innovate and offer solutions to improve the quality of housing and basic services in these settlements, such as a no-eviction guarantee, community land titles, or individual household titles, as offered by Odisha’s Jaaga Mission.Three, partner with the community. For a country of our scale, top-down solutions can only go so far. Bottom-up solutions, involving community members and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), will allow last-mile delivery of services and minimise conflict. For example, Odisha’s Jaaga Mission, by partnering with NGOs and slum dweller associations, successfully mapped nearly 200,000 slum households in a matter of months to provide land titles and housing benefits. Even during this pandemic, state governments have acknowledged the role of NGOs in providing relief measures. This last-mile partnership, when enhanced with technology and greater transparency, can truly transform the delivery of governance at the grassroots.The ongoing pandemic prevention and relief programmes are reactive, bandaid solutions. We need to acknowledge that this will not be the last public health emergency that we will face as a society, and we need to take a long-term view of the efforts needed to improve our collective resilience and build a more inclusive society. Thankfully, successful models exist. We just need the political will to implement them at scale.Shreya Deb is director (investments), Omidyar Network IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-formalise-urban-slums-for-long-term-resilience/story-XxVpRQvMNMiLbnmaALXbQO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||165 new cases emerge in Sonepat in three days||Emergence of 165 new Covid-19 cases in last three days has placed Sonepat on the list of worst-hit districts in Haryana after Gurugram and Faridabad. The district’s tally climbed to 424 on Sunday. Sonepat civil surgeon BK Rajoura said most of the cases have been reported from Rai, Kundli and Ganaur areas. “The new patients are either Delhi-returnees or their contacts. Majority of the contacts of infected people who tested positive are asymptomatic,” he added.The civil surgeon said they were prepared to tackle the sudden surge in cases and have facilities with total 820 beds ready for patients in various parts of the district. “We will add 500 more beds by next week,” he added. About their preparation, Dr Rajoura said, “Three nodal officers have been assigned to trace the contacts of an infected patient. We have deployed ambulances in the affected areas so that critical patients can be given immediate medical care. We have started isolating people at their homes as well after assessing the facilities they have. Doctors visit those in home isolation regularly.” Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said, “We have decided to turn two hostels of Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women into Covid healthcare centres. The health department has already constituted block-level teams for sampling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/165-new-cases-emerge-in-sonepat-in-three-days/story-50ufGnxpQGnBMJX8R5vjzI.html
07-06-2020||Kolkata||TMC ups the ante with direct attack on Centre ahead of Amit Shah’s Bengal address||Ahead of union home minister Amit Shah’s address to the people of Bengal on June 9, West Bengal’s ruling party Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Sunday sharpened its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led union government, accusing the Centre of causing disasters with “unplanned lockdown” and disrupting the state’s plan of bringing back migrant workers in a phased manner.Blaming the railways for the sudden spike in Bengal’s Covid-19 infection count led by migrant workers returning to the state, TMC all-India general secretary Subrata Bakshi said, “The railways forcefully sent back a large number of migrant workers in packed trains, violating all social distancing norms, and disrupting the state’s own plan to bring them back in a phased manner. They had no plan for the lockdown and spoilt the state’s plan for keeping Bengal safe.”Urban development minister Firhad Hakim, too, targeted the Centre. “Our focus is the post-corona, post-cyclone situation. Their focus is next year’s election. The priorities are clear,” Hakim said, adding, “Our government held two meetings with opposition parties and accepted some of their proposals with an absolutely open mind. But what did the opposition parties do? They played politics.”Amid BJP’s incisive attacks on the Mamata Banerjee government over alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation and cyclone Amphan, TMC has been upping the ante against the Centre over the past few days.Ministers, including Hakim, Partha Chatterjee and Rajib Banerjee have blamed “centre’s unplanned lockdown” for the recent steep rise in India’s Covid-19 numbers. TMC leaders have also cited Gujarat’s example to claim that BJP-ruled states had fared poorly in Covid management due to alleged lack of planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-ups-the-ante-with-direct-attack-on-centre-ahead-of-amit-shah-s-bengal-address/story-W0axpWJ07YEJoJ9fYtTFVO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula admn to keep tabs on those entering district from outside||Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday said that the district administration is collecting data of all people coming to Panchkula from other states and districts by train, bus, ship and special vehicles so that they can be tested for Covid-19.Ahuja said samples would be taken, especially of those coming from areas where a high number of Covid-19 cases have been reported including Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Ahmedabad.Samples of those coming into Kalka, Pinjore, Raipur Rani etc. will be collected through the medical mobile unit set up by the health department.He said a flu corner has been established in General Hospital, Sector 6, where they can get themselves examined.Ahuja said that the people coming from outside to the district are being contacted on behalf of the district administration and being requested to get themselves tested for Covid-19. He appealed to the people to cooperate with the health authorities to prevent the spread of the virus.Six nodal officers have been appointed to collect the information from such persons. Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) estate officer Mamta Sharma will responsible for urban areas, SDM Dheeraj Chahal for international and domestic visitors, district development and panchayat officer Kanwar Daman Singh will coordinate with village sarpanches in the district for monitoring the movement of workers coming to rural areas; Haryana Roadways general manager Ravindra Pathak will monitor people coming by bus and train and assistant labour commissioner Naveen Sharma will collect information on workers coming from outside. They will report their findings to district information and science officer who will share it with civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-admn-to-keep-tabs-on-those-entering-district-from-outside/story-GNanq7cq9aFyFbDA7qQ8OK.html
07-06-2020||City||Vasai hospital booked for releasing body without test result, 500 attend funeral||Police have booked a Vasai-based hospital for releasing a 55-year-old patient’s body before its Covid-19 test results were out. The next day, the hospital confirmed to the relatives that the patient had tested positive. Besides, more than 500 people are reported to have attended the funeral, without maintaining social distancing norms.The patient, from Arnala, Virar, was admitted in the hospital for a liver infection, died on Thursday morning. “The deceased patient’s body was released for the funeral before the test results were out. This is against the lockdown protocol,” said Dr Balasaheb Jadhav, Vasai taluka medical officer.The body was taken for the funeral at Arnala, where around 500 people from the village attended the funeral, without maintaining social distancing. As per the Palghar collector’s order, only 15 people are allowed to attend funerals in the district.“The next day, the hospital informed the relatives that the deceased had tested positive for the virus. We identified 50 people and have ordered them home quarantine for 14 days. We have sent a notice to the hospital for negligence and an inquiry has been instituted,” said Jadhav.Anant Parad, a senior inspector said, “The hospital has been booked under section 188 (disobedience) and 269 (spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code. We are further investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasai-hospital-booked-for-releasing-body-without-test-result-500-attend-funeral/story-Muf8B2ayCmWSjDGbE38nxH.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Vikram Dev Dutt appointed new principal secy, health and family welfare||Senior IAS officer Vikram Dev Dutt has been appointed as the principal secretary, Health and Family Welfare department of the Delhi government, an official order said on Sunday.Dutt, a 1993-batch IAS (AGMUT cadre) officer, will be posted as principal secretary (Health amd Family Welfare) on his joining Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD), in pursuance of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India order, dated June 5, said the order issued by the Services Department of the Delhi government.Vikas Anand, a 2002-batch IAS officer of the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, will continue to be posted as Officer on Special Duty at the Health and Family department in addition to his own duties, till further orders, it said.Anand, secretary-cum-commissioner (industries) is holding additional charges of managing director of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastrucuture Development Corporation, chief executive officer of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/vikram-dev-dutt-appointed-new-principal-secy-health-and-family-welfare/story-0RZpFzX5TiFOUwsgAxh01J.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab agri dept expects 25% of area under paddy to be DSR||With labour scarce due to the covid-19 pandemic, the state agricultural department estimates that nearly 25% of area under paddy will come under Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR), instead of the traditional transplantation of the crop this year. The department has sanctioned 4,000 DSR machines and 800 paddy transplanting machines to farmers on subsidy ranging between 40% and 50%. The department says that this would help cut the cultivation cost in terms of both labour and water use. State agriculture secretary KS Pannu had earlier targeted to bring an area of 5 lakh hectare under the DSR technique,but given the labour shortage and interest that farmers have shown to the advance technology, 6-7 lakh hectare will be under DSR. This is roughly 25% of area under paddy cultivation in Punjab, which is expected to be around 27 lakh hectare (66 lakh acre). Pannu added that the DSR technique would be instrumental in saving about 30% of water and would also cut down cost of paddy cultivation by nearly Rs 6,000 per acre. He added that as per PAU experts, yield of paddy from DSR is on a par with the crop grown by conventional technique of transplanting.He added, “Our officials have been guiding farmers in the field about the best way to go about the technology. Farmers must spray weedicide within 24 hours of sowing the crop, as control over weedicide is crucial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-agri-dept-expects-25-of-area-under-paddy-to-be-dsr/story-4L5ZknvP5spj8C7EJlC2GP.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Popular joints in Khan Market forced to shut shop in face of mounting losses due to lockdown||As the capital has started opening up gradually after three months of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several popular shops, restaurants and book stores have been forced to shut as a result of the losses incurred due to the prolonged closure.Last week, three stores in south Delhi’s upscale Khan Market decided to close down or curtail operations, being unable to bear the high rents, salaries of employees and the estimates of future operations. The stores included a two-decade old cafe and bookstore, Full Circle and Cafe Turtle, an Asian restaurant, Side Wok and another barbeque restaurant, Smokeys BBQ and Grill. Priyanka Malhotra, the owner of Full Circle and Cafe Turtle, said it was after several rounds of negotiations with the Khan Market Traders’ Association and the National Restaurant Association of India that they decided to pull down the shutters.The concept of this bookstore-cum-cafe which started business in Khan Market in 1998, from shop number 5 and later moved to shop number 23, was to allow avid readers a place to spend their afternoons and evenings flipping pages while sipping their cuppas and slicing into their famous date and carrot cakes.“It surely was not an easy decision. It was a legacy and you don’t give that up till things really get difficult. There were several questions that we needed to answer, going ahead how do we maintain social distancing in a bookstore that has a cafe, how do we manage the rent when we were not making a single penny ourselves and most importantly how do we ensure that our staff and customers remain safe,” Malhotra said.She, however, clarified that the bookstore has two more branches in Greater Kailash-1 N-Block and Nizamuddin East, which will continue to cater to the bibliophiles in the city.Along with this 22-year-old bookstore and cafe, two other popular food joints have made an exit from Khan Market. Sidewok, an Asian cuisine restaurant, has been running from the market for nearly 16 years while it has been around six years since Smokeys BBQ and Grill opened its outlet here.Both these restaurants also decided to shut down operations because of high rents and the added financial liabilities. Sidewok initially had two branches in the same market, one in shop number 45 and another in number 19. It eventually closed off its operations from shop 45 and moved to shop number 19. Similarly, Smokeys was located in shop number 51. While Sidewok refused to respond to e-mail queries and the questionnaire sent to Smokeys remained unanswered.Anshu Tondon, president of the Khan Market Traders’ Association, said that they tried to negotiate between the owners of the restaurants and the landlords but it was a tricky situation that ended in the exit.“It was truly heartbreaking. It has understandably become difficult for businesses to continue operations in the new scenario. Because many of these restaurants serve dishes that require dining in and cannot be delivered through a takeaway service, it was complete rout for them. Many landlords here are senior citizens and they depend on what they get as rents from here, so they would not agree to negotiate much,” Tondon said.Without giving out more names Tondon said that there were more establishments that were negotiating the terms of rent with their landlords.In Connaught Place too, businesses are facing difficulties. Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA), said even though the old timers are managing, it is the newer shops that are the worst affected. How many restaurants and shops are forced to shut shops will be clearer once all restaurants open on Monday, he said. “Restaurants that served 100 people can only seat 20-25 people now. The business has taken a major hit and the next three to four months are going to be tough for the business community. The government must announce some financial package to help businesses stay afloat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/popular-joints-in-khan-market-forced-to-shut-shop-in-face-of-mouting-losses-due-to-lockdown/story-Yh4jal5RGhrm9bZ8Dz9qIM.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 41 new cases in Punjab||LUDHIANA/PATIALA/AMRITSARPunjab on Sunday reported two deaths and 41 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,671‬.A 60-year-old woman from Habib Gunj area in Ludhiana became the 10th corona casualty of the district. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the patient, who was undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital, died during treatment on Saturday night. The patient was rushed to the hospital on June 4 in serious condition. She was suffering from comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease, bilateral pneumonia and sudden fall of blood pressure.A 46-year-old man died of the virus Nabha town of Patiala district, while four others tested positive for virus on Sunday. The 46-yrar-old’s samples were collected on Friday, while his reports came positive hours after his death. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the deceased, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, approached Nabha civil hospital on Friday following Influenza like Illness (ILI) symptoms.He added five other who tested positive include a mother-son duo, a resident of residential colony of Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW), a unit of Indian Railways, who returned from Gurugram, 65-year-old Nabha resident, who returned from Mumbai and Patiala’s 18-year-old returnee from Gurugram.JALANDHAR COVID TALLY CROSSES 300-MARK With 11 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, Jalandhar became the second district in Punjab after Amritsar to cross 300-mark. Jalandhar nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr TP Singh Sandhu said that 10 persons, including two kids tested positive in Jalandhar and one patient tested positive of virus infection in a private hospital at Ludhiana. FOUR FRESH CASES IN KAPURTHALA Four persons, including one woman, resident of Mayo Patti in Phagwara sub-division of Kapurthala district, tested positive of the novel coronavirus on Sunday. The health officials said that the patients belong to Uttar Pradesh and returned to Punjab on June 2. A woman who came from Delhi along with her husband and three year-old son to meet the parents in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, tested positive of coronavirus. The health officials said that 10 family members of the woman have been quarantined. They said that the patients will not count in the district tally because they were native residents of the New Delhi. A 26 old-year man of Harkhowal village who had returned from Kuwait on June 1, has tested positive for coronavirus in Hoshiarpur. 20 TEST +VE IN MAJHA REGIONTwenty fresh cases, including of an 8-month-old child, of the novel coronavirus were reported in Majha region on Sunday. Fifteen of the 20 cases were reported in Amritsar alone while two from Pathankot and three from Gurdaspur.In Ludhiana, an 18-year-old girl, daughter of positive patient from Prem Nagar in Islam Gunj area of the city, tested positive.An employee with a nationalised bank branch at Bathinda’s Goniana village tested positive. Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said presently the patient is at his residence in Delhi and the Delhi government has been contacted to shift the patient to the isolation facility.Besides, a 25-year-old youth in Fazilka district was also found positive for novel coronavirus late on Saturday evening.An ASI and a home guard volunteer under Mehal Kalan police station in Barnala also contracted infection. Three people, including the wife and son of an infected person, tested positive for coronavirus disease in Mohali on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 131.The third case is of a 32-year-old photographer from Dhakoli in Zirakpur. He had gone to Amritsar on an assignment with his friends, and returned on June 1.(Inputs from Patiala, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka and Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-deaths-41-new-cases-in-punjab/story-Ke2tc5fXB2gl7pIAhJWWBP.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against school charging fees amid lockdown in Chandigarh||Parents of students from AKSIPS- 45 on Sunday staged a protest at Sector 17, outside Neelam Cinema, against collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Similar protests have been witnessed outside many private schools in the city over the last month.In the last 15 days, over ten such protests have been held by parents.The parents said their economic condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown and they can’t afford to pay fees due to loss of jobs. They added that schools were charging for facilities like air-conditioners and electricity which are not being used as classes are suspended.Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association said, “Due to the UT administration’s negligence and greed of the school managements, parents have been forced to come out on the roads.”Jasmine Kalra, director-principal of AKSIPS-45 said, “We are with the parents. We have an open-door policy and they should come and talk to us rather than protesting. There are a few bad elements who are causing this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-school-charging-fees-amid-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-2DxtFUW8Y2TfIqXry3ExyK.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Golden Temple, other gurdwaras to serve langar, parsad despite govt guidelines||The Golden Temple in Amritsar and other gurdwaras will continue serving langar and ‘karah parsad’ as the places of worship reopen for devotees on Monday despite the government guidelines banning offering of any food items in shrines. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the historic shrine and prominent gurdwaras in north India, said it cannot break the tradition that has continued since the times of the Gurus. The Golden Temple remained open even during the lockdown even as the administration restricted the devotees from entering. A few people kept on coming to the shrine and langar and karah parsad were served to them.“Deg (a nomenclature of ‘karah parsad’) is mentioned in the daily ardas. Maryada is not considered complete without it. The ban should be revoked,” said SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas.“The needy partake of langar at the Golden Temple on daily basis. When people were stuck in various places and lost their livelihoods during the lockdown, gurdwaras fed many. Nobody among those who partook of langar was infected,” he added.On Saturday, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said. “We are following all the guidelines of the health department while preparing and serving the langar. The ban on langar and parsad must be reviewed.”Also, the managing committee of the Durgiana Temple, a major place of worship of Hindus in Amritsar, is also going to defy the guidelines in case of serving parsad.“We will follow the guidelines which are necessary, but not the ones against our faith. We will take all the steps to curb the disease. No priest will touch the ‘parsad’ brought by the devotees for ‘bhog’,” said temple committee president Ramesh Sharma. “The temple staff will take proper precautions will be taken while distributing the ‘parsad’ by wearing gloves and masks. We will hold a meeting on Monday morning to decide on serving langar,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/golden-temple-other-gurdwaras-to-serve-langar-parsad-despite-govt-guidelines/story-wQBH8o6LiXyPDmJ0icq1hP.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Anti-smuggling wing destroys 25K litres of country-made liquor in Ludhiana||The anti-smuggling wing of the police commissionerate destroyed 25,000 litres of country-made illicit liquor recovered from the banks of the Sutlej near Razapur village on Saturday. The wing also recovered an LPG gas cylinder and utensils used to prepare liquor from the spot.Inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge the wing said the police conducted a raid in the village following a tip-off that bootleggers had been brewing illicit liquor on the banks of the Sutlej, following which they conducted a raid.He added the bootleggers managed to escape, but the police recovered the liquor. He added the police had also destroyed 11,500 litres of illicit liquor at Razapur village on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anti-smuggling-wing-destroys-25k-litres-of-country-made-liquor-in-ludhiana/story-ShdlYWSS6PbmgTAYQ3EroO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana edu board not to announce Class 10 results today||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Sunday evening rolled back its decision to announce Class 10 examination results of 3.38 lakh students. Board chairman Jagbir Singh had earlier said that the results would be declared on Monday, but later in the evening, the board clarified in an official press note that the results would not be announced due to some technical reasons. “We will announce results after students opting for medical and non-medical stream in Class 11 appear for their pending science exam. Other students’ results will be evaluated on the basis of average marks scored by them in the four exams that they had appeared for,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-edu-board-not-to-announce-class-10-results-today/story-ftNNcu6xgyOI88Bnm6FsiL.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||GRP solve Ludhiana labourer’s murder case, friend arrested||The Government Railway Police (GRP) claimed to have solved the murder case of a labourer with the arrest of his friend on Saturday.According to police, the accused bludgeoned the labourer to death on May 23 with stones following a verbal spat in an inebriated condition.The accused was drunk to such an extent on the day of crime that he does not remember what made him kill his friend. The accused has been identified as Pawan Kumar Thakur of Khagaria of Bihar.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, GRP) Pardeep Singh Sandhu said the victim, Ramesh Kumar alias Mota, was a labourer and used to often drink with Thakur, who was his friend. The victim’s whereabouts are yet not known to the police.He added the police had recovered the body of Ramesh Kumar alias Mota from the railway line near Baddowal railway station. He was allegedly bludgeoned to death with stones. The police had lodged an FIR against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.Sub-inspector (SI) Ratan Lal, who is investigating the case, said the accused had been captured in the CCTVs installed in the area and this led to the identification and arrest of the accused.The police found the accused roaming around the Baddowal railway station and arrested him.“The accused told police that, on May 23, he was consuming liquor with Ramesh Kumar alias Mota. They indulged in a verbal spat following which Mota thrashed him. He left the place, but came back after some time. In a fit of rage, he lifted stones from the railway line and bludgeoned him to death,”said the sub-inspector.“The accused said he was too drunk on the day of the incident that he forgot what made them quarrel,” he added.The police produced the accused before a court on Sunday. The court has sent the accused two- day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/grp-solve-ludhiana-labourer-s-murder-case-friend-arrested/story-WlgY77MLB8VJQzVGZRD71H.html
07-06-2020||City||No ringing of bells or floral offerings as religious places reopen in Ludhiana today||When religious places across the city reopen on Monday, things would not be the same for devotees as devotees would not be allowed to ring the bells in temples.Sanjay Mahindru, general secretary of the Shri Durga Mata Mandir Trust, said instead of ringing the bells, devotees should say their prayers silently.Mahindru added not more than 20 devotees would be allowed inside the temple to maintain social distancing.“The devotees can offer money in cash boxes, but no offerings of flowers, garlands and clothes will be allowed. Devotees are requested to enter the premises empty-handed. They would also not be allowed to touch idols,” said Mahindru.“On Mondays, ‘Shiv bhakts’ used to pour water or milk on ‘Shivlings’, but still they would not be allowed to perform the ritual. We will follow instructions issued by the government and seek cooperation from devotees,” he added.Priests would also not offer ‘parsad’ and holy water to people.Mahant Narayan Das Puri, head of Prachin Sanglan Wala Shivala in the old city area, said devotees would not be allowed in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. Only 15 devotees can enter the premises at one time. To maintain social distancing among devotees, circles have been marked where they can stand while in a queue.“We will not distribute ‘parsad’, but can offer fruits to devotees,” he said.Gurdwara Sri Dukh Niwaran Sahib near the Jagraon Bridge and Gurdwara Sri Kalgidhar Singh Sabha on the Kalgidhar Road have installed sanitisation tunnels for devotees.Pritpal Singh, president of the Gurdwara Sri Dukh Nivaran Sahib, said that ‘langar sewa’ is part of Sikhism. Langar would be served to devotees, but they will maintain social distancing among the visitors.Jama Masjid has also geared up to receive devotees. Deputy Shahi Imam, Punjab, Mohammad Usman Rehmani Ludhianvi, said no more than 20 people would be allowed to enter and a distance of two metres would be maintained between two persons. Sanitisers have been placed on the main gate of the mosque, he added.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary, said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) and assistant commissioner of police (ACPs) have been asked to ensure the compliance of instructions for malls and religious places.The police are co-coordinating with managements of religious places. He added the management will be held liable in case of violation of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-ringing-of-bells-or-floral-offerings-as-religious-places-reopen-in-ludhiana-today/story-NSCQWM8kcybwRQ56s9IJKN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab urban body polls, only women to contest from odd-numbered wards||In the upcoming elections for the Punjab urban local bodies, including nine municipal corporations and 117 municipal councils and notified area committees, only women will be able to contest from the odd-numbered wards while the even ones will remain open for candidates of both the genders. A decision to this effect was taken recently by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on the lines of a law passed in 2017 by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government as per which 50% wards should be reserved for women candidates. “Male candidates will be able to contest from even-numbered wards only. But a female candidate can also contest from an even-numbered ward, if she wishes. Our department will work out the modalities to start the process in the coming week. Reservation for scheduled caste (SC) candidates in women category will be announced soon,” said Mohindra. Administrators were appointed to run municipal corporations of Bathinda, Moga, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Pathankot, and Mohali besides 117 municipal councils and notified area committees after the terms of their elected bodies ended between March 8 and April 26. As per the Punjab Municipal Act, the civic bodies should go to the polls within six months of their tenure comes to an end. There are a total of 167 urban civic bodies in Punjab.Since the civic bodies in Abohar, Kapurthala and Batala upgraded of late, they are still to get elected bodies as municipal corporations. The delimitation of wards in these civic bodies is still underway. In June 2017, the state government decided to increase women reservation in urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions from the existing 33% to 50%, one of the promises of the Congress in the run-up to the assembly elections. The civic body polls will not be held before September due to the Covid-19 pandemic even as the state government in February had said they will be held in June and July. “There is uncertainty over the poll schedule. We are not in a position to take any decision due to the pandemic. But we have put the process in motion by initiating the delimitation of wards on the basis of population. We may also increase the number of wards in some cities, if needed,” Mohindra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-punjab-urban-body-polls-only-women-to-contest-from-odd-numbered-wards/story-kOTjkRBjeNvd9hsMO1EWjK.html
07-06-2020||Noida||Places of worship gear up to open from Monday||Places of worship — which has been shut in Gautam Budh Nagar since March 19 due to the Covid-19 crisis — will finally reopen from June 8, the district administration announced on Sunday, as per Uttar Pradesh government guidelines.According to government guidelines, all places of worship that open up will have to ensure that social distancing norms are followed and sanitisation and thermal screening of devotees is done at regular intervals . No more than five people will be allowed inside at a time, while footwear cannot be clustered together. The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside.Following the state guidelines, religious places across the city said they are gearing up to reopen and have been taking all necessary precautions.“We have marked spaces on the floor for devotees to stand while ensuring enough distance between them. Arrangements have been made for thermal scanning at the entrance and sanitisation. No one will be allowed to come in without a mask and only five people will be allowed inside at a time. There will be no prasad that is offered, no tikas or amritras. Only standing darshan will be allowed. We will open up gradually. For now, the whole area has been thoroughly washed,” said Sanjeev Bali, general secretary, Sanatam Dharm temple, sector 19.The gurdwara in sector 18 also underwent thorough cleansing for opening up from Monday.However, some establishments, like the church located in sector 34 and Iskcon temple in sector 33 are choosing said they will not open immediately.“The Noida temple committee will take a decision this week, after which we will open for public. Some devotees who live in the premises have continued to offer prayers in the past two months, but we are not opening from Monday,” said Ekant Dham, spokesperson, Iskcon Noida.Any religious places falling in containment zones will not open, according to government guidelines.“Both the jama masjid and our mosque in Nithari fall under containment zones. So, we are not opening up from tomorrow and will wait for further government directives. For now we are urging people to offer their prayers from home, until the situation is resolved,” said Shahid, the cleric at Nithari masjid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/places-of-worship-gear-up-to-open-from-monday/story-q7wNtevSAqGDGeabakTgoK.html
07-06-2020||City||Noida: Shopping malls, restaurants set to open today||Noida: After a lull of over 70 days, shopping malls, hotels, and restaurants in the city will be allowed to resume operations from Monday onwards, with specific guidelines from the state government in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.However, the arcades, playing areas for kids and movie theatres will remain closed till further orders, officials said.According to the state government’s standard operating procedure (SOP), the malls will have to ensure social distancing, thermal screening, wearing of face mask, staggered entries, and controlling the number of visitors. Besides, the food courts at shopping malls and restaurants will have to operate at 50% seating capacity, the government’s order said.“They (malls and restaurants) have to follow SOP and they can function from June 8. A few malls told us today that they have a number ticker and an internal system to monitor the number of visitors. Malls have been advised to control the number of visitors if social distancing norms get violated due to high footfall. As they already have a system, so there was no need for a separate order to limit the parking spaces,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Apart from following SOP, the mall managers have also been advised to have a separate room or isolation room to keep any worker or visitor showing Covid-19 symptoms, till the medical help arrives.With a few districts in the state seeing a separate district level order for malls and restaurants, creating confusion among a number of restaurant owners, the GB Nagar district magistrate clarified that the restaurants will not need a separate order from the district administration.“Whatever the state government has allowed can function without requirement of any further or additional permission. Only establishments like gymnasiums, which are not allowed to function by the state government, will not operate. All permitted activities by the state government shall be treated as permissible and they should be carried out without getting separate permission or pass,” said the district magistrate.According to the SOP, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will also have to ensure thorough disinfecting of floor area, elevators and door knobs within short intervals. Social distancing norms have to be followed strictly everywhere, the officials said.The state government has also ordered to adhere to the contactless payment modes only.“All the shopping malls, restaurants and hotels shall accept payment through contactless mode, like e-wallets, digital payments, online payments, code scanning only,” says the state government’s SOP.Meanwhile, the shopping malls in Noida said that they are making all necessary arrangements for reopening. While some will resume operations in coming days, a few said that they will begin operations from Monday itself.“We are resuming operations from Monday between 11am and 8pm. We have also ensured all the steps to contain the pandemic, including mist sanitisation of all vehicles entering the mall, no valet parking to minimise the touch points and separate bio-hazard bins for masks, gloves and used napkins,” said Ravi Sodhi, director (communication), Wave Group that runs Waves Mall at Sector 18.The Logix mall at Noida City Centre asserted that they will start operation from Tuesday and expect a footfall of around 10,000 a day against the usual 50,000.“We have already made all necessary preparations, and have decided to take one additional day for buffer to ensure a few more steps, including creating an isolation room for any emergency. Our operations will begin from Tuesday onwards. We did not reduce our staff strength during the lockdown period. But we will begin with limited staff and keep others on standby. If the footfall increases, the staff strength will be managed accordingly,” said Amit Taneja, vice-president (operations), Logix.The DLF Mall of India, one of the largest malls in Noida, said that they will resume operations in the coming week.“We are prepared to open our malls in adherence with the guidelines being laid down by the MHA and further local authorities. Right from the temperature checks at our mall entrances to the use of Aarogya Setu app will be made mandatory for shoppers to enter our malls. We are also embracing technology for providing real time foot traffic and notifications on safety and cleanliness, among other such facilities, through ‘Lukout’ app,” said Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF shopping malls. Meanwhile, a number of restaurant owners in the city foresee losses due to the curfew timings.“Most of the family restaurants, especially the fine dining ones, have decided not to resume operations from Monday. There are no issues with following the SOPs to contain the pandemic, but the curfew timings have curbed our mealtime. While for a proper fine dining restaurant, the peak time is between 8.30 to 9 pm, but due to the curfew timing we will have to wrap up by 8pm. So, we are not expecting business,” said Varun Khera, head of National Restaurant Association of India (Noida chapter) who owns Desi Vibes restaurant in Sector 18.Some hotel owners have echoed the similar views. “We are ready to host our guests and getting things aligned. Once all preparations are done, we shall be opening up. But the international flights are not operational and the domestic movement is not that much either, we don’t expect to have numbers coming into Greater Noida as such,” SM Azmat, president, Jaypee Greens Golf and Spa Resort, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-shopping-malls-restaurants-set-to-open-today/story-2sgGRd4e879emJFi5AYTsL.html
07-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad border with Delhi to stay shut for now||Ghaziabad district administration on Sunday said that their borders will continue to remain sealed till further directions, even as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the capital will lift restrictions on inter-state movement from tomorrow (Monday). Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also said that they have completed repair work near UP-Gate that will provide relief to commuters moving to Delhi.The Ghaziabad district magistrate on April 22 had imposed restrictions on inter-border movement of people, citing rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district. Additional restrictions were put in place on May 27. Later, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 1 had announced the closure of border for a week.“There are no directions issued by the district magistrate for opening of Ghaziabad’s border with Delhi. The previous directions will continue to be in force,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).The UP-Gate border is a major transit point for people from Ghaziabad to go to east Delhi. The border witnessed movement of at least 80,000 passenger cars daily on an average, as per estimates of the NHAI, before the lockdown. Traffic at present, however, has reduced to one-fourth due to restricted movement during the lockdown period.Of late, the UP-Gate has become a major choke point, where thousands of commuters getting caught in snarls daily due to checks and barricades put up by the Ghaziabad police. Another major issue in the area was a 200 metres dug up patch of NH-9, which restricted movement of commuters travelling from Ghaziabad to Delhi.“The barricades on Ghaziabad side of the UP-Gate flyover are put up by the police. It is their call if they wish to remove these barricades or not,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI..“We have completed the repair work of the dug up patch of the highway, near the UP-Gate flyover. Repair was needed as the highway and the expressway lanes were not at same level. Now, the work in the area . We have also decided to open five lanes on each side of the Hindon canal bridge. This will further ease commuting from Ghaziabad to Delhi,” Garg added.SP city Manish Mishra still late on Sunday night did not respond to a query by Hindustan Times on whether the barricades will be removed on Monday.The barricades on the Ghaziabad side of the UP-Gate flyover have posed issues for commuters who are forced to take the underpass area.“This leads to traffic snarls. If the barricades are removed, after the border is de-sealed, then commuters from Ghaziabad can avoid the underpass area and can go straight to Delhi. Since Delhi has announced opening of its borders, commuters will again start arriving at UP-Gate and more jams are likely,” said Kuldeep Saxena, a commuter from Indirapuram.Following a petition, the Supreme Court on Thursday had directed the central government to convene a meeting between the officials from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to find a solution over the chaos near the Delhi borders.Ajay Shankar Pandey, the Ghaziabad district magistrate, did not respond to calls for a comment on Sunday.“Since the UP government is a party to the case, the directions will be issued from Lucknow. We are waiting for instructions and hopeful that some solution will come out,” Pandey had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-border-with-delhi-to-stay-shut-for-now/story-uHBDnt0Qa5PFfqJNTCYwAK.html
07-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Malls, restaurants directed to take up sanitization, can reopen from June 10||Ghaziabad: Shopping malls, restaurants and hotels in the district will have to wait for at least two more days to resume their operations. All such establishments have been asked to take up sanitization procedures as per protocol before they can reopen, officials of the district administration said on Sunday.However, the religious places have been allowed to reopen their gates for devotees, the officials said.While the Uttar Pradesh government has allowed reopening of public places such as malls and restaurants from Monday (June 8) across the state, the Ghaziabad administration has given two days’ time to such establishments for preparations required to resume operations. Hotels and restaurants in the district will reopen from June 10, while the malls may be allowed to resume operations only from June 11.The decision was taken after a meeting of district administration and police officials, and representatives from different malls, hotels and restaurants. During discussion, it came out that two to three days’ time will be given for cleaning, sanitization and making other arrangements as per the UP government’s directions issued on June 6 for opening up various establishments under the phase 2 of Unlock 1.0.“It has been decided that malls are given minimum three days for making arrangements, while hotels and restaurants have been given two days’ time for the purpose. They will not open up before June 10. During this period, district officials will check the preparedness and if found satisfactory, the district magistrate will issue directions for opening up,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city) who was present at the meeting on Sunday.However, religious places have been allowed to reopen, Mishra said. The district administration on Sunday, however, relaxed timings for opening of shops and markets.“The district magistrate has issued written directions that all shops and markets will now open from 9am to 9pm, but the days of opening of markets will remain same as per the previous order. The shops of fruits, vegetables, dairy, sweets and grocery will also now open from 9am to 9pm,” the spokesperson for district administration said on Sunday.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls despite repeated attempts.Earlier, the 34 major markets in different areas were asked to open from 10am to 5pm. Similarly, till Sunday the grocery shops were allowed to open up only from 10am to 4pm, while fruit/vegetable shops were directed for opening from 10am to 2pm.Though members of the market association appreciated the decision for extension of timings, they slammed the alternate day system for opening of markets.“We are not able to understand why the markets are not allowed to open on all days. This will further lead to large gathering of customers. In places like Delhi where markets are opening up on all days, we have different directions in Ghaziabad. This will not serve purpose of the traders,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.“On the other hand, liquor shops are allowed to open on all days. Even the traders in the market at Vaishali are also suffering as the area has been sealed. The markets there opened only for couple of days before the administration gave orders for sealing,” he added.The state government’s announcement for reopening of religious places, malls, offices, restaurants, etc. are accompanied by several mandatory conditions. The guidelines have also advised that elderly persons and those with comorbidities, children below 10 years of age and pregnant woman should avoid movement outside.Meanwhile, religious places have made arrangements to reopen from Monday. “The administration has left the timing of opening up of religious places to us. We will open from 5.30am till 8pm. At our premises, we will not allow devotees to touch idols or ring bells. Sanitization tunnel and thermal screening equipment have also been put in place, besides the circles marked for social distancing,” said Mahant Narayan Giri, caretaker of ancient Dudheshwar Nath Temple in Ghaziabad.The state government’s directions have made it mandatory for six feet of social distancing, thermal scanning and sanitization before entering any public place. Likewise, not more than five persons would be allowed inside religious places at a time and not before they have been subjected to thermal scan which has been made mandatory even for entry to malls and eateries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-malls-restaurants-directed-to-take-up-sanitization-can-reopen-from-june-10/story-Wz5Tg9CSvLWKCgplZPjhwN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Not ours: Chandigarh tries to get Manimajra Covid case added to Haryana’s tally||Something of a tussle over a new Covid-19 patient from Manimajra was reported today between Chandigarh and Haryana, with the UT health department refusing to include him in its tally on Sunday, instead suggesting that he be added to Haryana’s positive count as he was tested in Panchkula.The health department said the 46-year-old man who runs a computer shop in sector 20 and employs eight to 10 workers, should not be included in the city’s tally as he was sampled, tested positive and isolated in neighbouring Panchkula district . Panchkula health authorities in turn argued that as the patient belonged to Chandigarh’s Manimajra, the case could not be added to the district’s count.“He is from Chandigarh and should be counted in Chandigarh. Border area issues need to be resolved,” said Dr Jasjit Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.According to Chandigarh’s official media bulletin the total tally as of now stands at 314 cases, excluding the Manimajra case.When asked to comment, UT health secretary Arun Gupta said, “it does not makes any difference whether the case is counted in Haryana or Chandigarh.”Two of the patient’s family members have been sampled at the Government Multi-Specialtiy Hospital in Sector 16. Around 30 contacts have been home quarantined. At present, Chandigarh has 35 active cases, while 274 have recovered and five others have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-ours-chandigarh-tries-to-get-manimajra-covid-case-added-to-haryana-s-tally/story-CZTyNutxE3Ylrj6JKQYwKN.html
07-06-2020||Noida||Death of pregnant woman: Interim inquiry report awaited||Even after two days a 30-year-old pregnant woman allegedly died due to denial of treatment by eight private and government hospitals in Noida and Ghaziabad, the inquiry report in the investigation is yet to come.The eight-month-old pregnant woman, Neelam, a resident of Khora Colony in Ghaziabad, had complained of breathlessness on Friday morning. She was rushed by family members from one hospital to another, but was denied treatment by all hospitals, citing non-availability of beds. Private hospitals claimed that as per government guidelines they are not authorised to treat suspected Covid-19 patients. The woman died in around 7.30pm in the ambulance itself after which the district magistrate (DM) set up an inquiry in the matter.The DM also pulled up the hospitals for alleged negligence in the case. “In case of an emergency, hospitals have been instructed to assume that the patient is Covid-19 positive and take necessary precautions while providing treatment. There is obvious negligence in the case. The investigation report will clarify who is at fault,” said DM Suhas LY.Officials feel that there are several angles to the case and it requires comprehensive investigation because of the number of hospitals involved. They said that the investigation will take time but they will come up with an interim report soon after which some immediate action will be taken against the erring parties.Administration officials also said that the woman’s body was handed over to the family without an autopsy and without any sample being taken for performing a Covid-19 test.“We are meeting the family, who have just returned from Garh Mukteshwar after the woman’s last rites to establish a timeline of the incident. An interim report will be possible soon. There are several factors that are the part of the inquiry and due action will be taken soon,” said MN Upadhyay, ADM, finance.“We were busy with the last rites and were unable to file any complaint. My son will turn six-years-old in two days and has been asking for his mother. The whole situation is surreal and we haven’t even had time to process it,” said Bijender Singh, the woman’s husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/death-of-pregnant-woman-interim-inquiry-report-awaited/story-OhUE0Tshir8CweUMdXfezM.html
07-06-2020||Noida||With 41 new Covid-19 cases, GB Nagar total count reaches 632||With 41 new positive cases on Sunday, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases has now gone up to 632 in Gautam Budh Nagar district. The district chief medical officer Dr. Deepak Ohri said 413 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, and eight patients have so far lost their lives so far to the disease. “Apart from it, 48 others have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 211 active cases,” he said.On the day, 31 patients – including 10 from Sharda hospital, five from Kailash hospital and 16 from GIMS – were discharged after being cured on Sunday.One patient, who tested Covid-19 positive, was brought dead to the district hospital. “This patient was a resident of Ghaziabad and the district surveillance officer there has confirmed it,” he said. No further details of the patient were given by the district administration.Ohri said that 12 residents of sector 44, who were tested positive by private laboratories on June 5, have been admitted in different Covid-19 facilities in the district. “Their reports will be cross-verified by government laboratories and only then we will be able to confirm these cases,” he said.Health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Sunday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 425 patients were screened today and seven of them, who had fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of 48 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said that while 15 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While six patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 24 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-41-new-covid-19-cases-gb-nagar-total-count-reaches-632/story-cEYFvr7MViCTCXfZHEpBUN.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||City reports highest single-day spike of 230 cases||The city recorded 230 Covid-19 cases on Sunday — the highest single-day jump in Covid-19 infection, according to the state health bulletin. With this, the total count of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2(the virus that causes Covid-19) jumped to 1,922. The previous highest single-day spike of 215 cases was reported on May 4. The total number of coronavirus fatalities stands at four. Out of the 1,922 cases, 451 have been discharged while 1,467 are undergoing treatment or are under home isolation. Almost 10 patients are in a critical condition and are kept in ventilator. It includes four patients in Medanta, and three, each, in Fortis Hospital and Medeor Hospital, Manesar. On Sunday, Haryana reported 496 new cases, out of which 230 are from Gurugram alone. Other high numbers are reported from Sonepat (73) and Faridabad (56). Notably, Haryana has exceeded the neighbouring state of Punjab in the total number of cases. Punjab has 2,376 cases, while Haryana has 4,448.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-230-cases/story-yNdETeWSpLdKMAaSaNB35M.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-positive man jumps quarantine; nabbed in Hissar||A 51-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been quarantined at his home in Sector 109, was booked for allegedly violating quarantine regulations and travelling to his hometown in Hissar on Saturday, said police. He was later traced by authorities and quarantined in a facility in Hissar.Police said the man, a vegetable vendor, had tested positive for Covid on May 28 and was placed in isolation at his house in a EWS flat in Sector 109. His wife and two children had been living in Hissar for a few months when the man tested positive.According to the police, on Saturday afternoon when a medical officer of the primary health centre in Daulatabad called on the man to check on him, he was reported missing. “The patient told him that he had left for Hissar in his car. The medical officer immediately alerted the local police, following which health authorities in Hissar were also informed. He was traced later in the day and sent to a quarantine facility there,” said a police officer, privy to the investigations.A case was registered against the man under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at Bajghera police station on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-positive-man-jumps-quarantine-nabbed-in-hissar/story-GndSSZrpp4000v1ZitxSoK.html
07-06-2020||City||As Covid-19 cases rise, Ghaziabad faces shortage of beds at L1 hospital||Ghaziabad: With rising number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, the district is facing a shortage of L1 category operational beds. As a result, the health department is forced to admit the L1 category patients to its L2 Covid hospital at Sanjay Nagar.In Ghaziabad, ESIC Hospital in Sahibabad is an L1 category facility where all the 76 beds are fully occupied, while the district hospital at Sanjay Nagar is a L2 category hospital with 100 beds. Another L1 category hospital at Muradnagar has 30 beds, but the facility is currently not operational, health officials said. The Uttar Pradesh government has created a dedicated chain of Covid-19 hospitals in the state — L1, L2 and L3. The L1 category of hospitals deals with uncomplicated cases of Covid-19 and each district has at least one such hospital, while the cases that require more attention are sent to L2 category hospitals and critical patients are sent to L3 category hospitals for specialised treatment. “Of 100 beds in our hospital, 49 are occupied at present. But about 40 of these patients are L1 category ones, as all beds at L1 category ESIC Hospital are occupied. The other 30-bed L1 hospital at Muradnagar was also closed down. I have written to senior health department officials in Lucknow about this issue,” said Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital.On Sunday, Ghaziabad reported 32 new Covid-19 cases, taking the district’s tally to 474, while the active cases stood at 158. The health department officials expect that with markets, malls and other public places getting opened up, there will be a rise in number of Covid-19 cases. There has been a surge in positive cases in June. As per records, 169 cases have been added during the period from June 1 to June 7.Vij said that they are facing issues due to the admission of L1 patients. “The L2 patients are generally bed ridden and put on drip or need oxygen support. On the other hand, the L1 patients are generally asymptomatic and they have tendency to move around in the ward. So, we need to make extra efforts to control them. Further, if our beds get filled up, there is no other L2 hospital in Ghaziabad,” Vij added.Notably, the 30-bed L1 category facility at CHC Murdnagar was the first Covid-dedicated hospital in Ghaziabad. The health department closed it down after it remained operational for over a month. Now, the ESIC Hospital in Sahibabad has taken up the workload of admitting L1 patients.“Since L1 category ESIC Hospital is fully saturated, we have shifted L1 patients to the Sanjay Nagar hospital. Our main focus now is to create L1 hospitals,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.He said that the L1 hospital at Murdnagar was shut down as the same staff which looked after 30 beds will now be roped in for the proposed 200-bed L1 facility at Niwari.“We have now planned to soon open up 60-bed Mariam Hospital in Nandgram and 200-bed Divyajyoti College at Niwari as our new L1 hospitals. We are making arrangements. The L1 category facilities are being developed as the number of cases is rising, and only about 10% patients need treatment at L2 or L3 hospitals. Unlike other states where home quarantine for asymptomatic patients is prevalent, we have no such arrangement. Further, it also becomes difficult to monitor movement of home quarantined patients,” Gupta said.Recently, the district came up with an L3 facility at Santosh Medical College.“At present, we have only one L3 hospital at Santosh Medical College which has 400 beds. We have 18 patients admitted there. The ventilator support is only available on 16 beds, while rest of the beds are equipped with oxygen support. In a way, the beds having only oxygen support can be considered as L2 beds,” the CMO said. He also said that there is a proposal for converting quarantine centres to ‘L1 attached’ hospitals where purely asymptomatic patients will be kept.“Once they come up, we will transfer positive patients having very mild symptoms to L1 hospitals while asymptomatic patients will be kept at L1 attached hospitals. So, under this procedure we have planned to tackle rising number of cases,” Gupta said.In Ghaziabad, the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 5, and the figure slowly reached 50 cases on April 22 after about 48 days. The next 50 cases were reported by May 5 in a span of about 13 days. The next 50 cases (total case count 150) happened in another 10 days on May 15 while the district crossed the 200 mark on May 21 in another six days. However, the next 100 cases arrived in just 10 days with the district crossing the 300 mark on May 31. The next 100 cases have arrived in a span of just six days and the total on June 6 stood at 442.According to health officials, the 32 Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday include one each from Loni, Khoda and Indirapuram, five from Vasundhara, two from Surya Nagar and two staff of MMG Hospital. The district has witnessed nine deaths due to coronavirus disease.“The 28 patients out of 32 are already in quarantine facility and they will be shifted to dedicated Covid hospital,” said Gupta, the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-19-cases-rise-ghaziabad-faces-shortage-of-beds-at-l1-hospital/story-kmlWqQzCZW1qImFwIX7LUJ.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana issues guidelines for reopening hospitality services, owners not ready yet||The Haryana government on Sunday issued guidelines for the reopening of restaurants, hotels and other hospitality services across the state, including Gurugram and Faridabad, with the restriction of hosting only 50% of the guest-limit. According to the guidelines, all commercial establishments can open between 9am and 8pm. The government, however, maintained that shopping malls and places of worship will not reopen in the district till further orders.Officials of the excise department confirmed the issuance of guidelines. “We have received fresh guidelines regarding the reopening of restaurants and pubs. We will follow the guidelines and will ensure that no one is violating the rules and regulations. We will take strict action against anyone found violating these rules and regulations under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said.The directions, which were shared by the district administration, said that restaurants in hotels will be allowed to operate at only 50% capacity. No buffet service will be allowed. Only a la carte (ordering individually on the menu) services will be allowed.The government has not allowed reopening bars in restaurants. Gaming arcades and children play areas (wherever applicable) will remain closed. Also, all workers need to wear masks, the order stipulated.“Deputy commissioners will enforce these directions in their respective districts and violations will be punishable under the disaster management act and sections of the Indian Penal Code,” the order stated.Shopping malls in Gurugram will not be allowed to open due to a rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the order said.However, the government allowed banquet halls to reopen with the option to serve only 50 guests while following social distancing norms.Owners in a fix over restarting operationsThe restaurant owners of the city are not ready to restart their operations despite the government allowing them to do so. According to them, the guidelines are not clear and there are too many restrictions which make resuming business inviable.They said the industry is facing challenges in terms of staffing as most migrant labourers working in areas like Cyber Hub, Sector 29, Sohna Road, and Golf Course Road have left for their homes. The owners added that they are trying to get them back from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and West Bengal. There are hardly any stewards, waiters, and chefs available in the city.There are about 300 pubs, bars and restaurants, and about 25 hotels wherein liquor is available as part of dine-in services. All these establishments are shut since March 22, the Janata Curfew day, since the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a lockdown. The industry is seeking the government’s help to tide over their burgeoning losses.“A lack of clarity, time restrictions till 8pm (which means establishments must close much earlier), no alcohol, negligible business because of no footfall (customers are panicked because of the rising number of cases in Delhi and the NCR) will affect the businesses,” Lalit Ahlawat, the director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, said, adding that the impact was visible across the industry.Inderjeet Banga, the owner of Prankster and Pirates of Grill and chapter head of Gurugram National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said that all owners want to reopen their restaurants, but with so many restrictions of timing, the 50% occupancy rule and, most importantly, bars being closed, they won’t be able to achieve over 15% to 20% of their original sales. “In such scenarios, with no support of landlords, restaurants shall bleed to permanent death. Hence, we request the government to give us time until 11pm, at least, to begin with so we survive,” he said.Most bars and restaurants have paid an annual licence fee in lakhs, they owe rent and are facing huge losses due to the shutdown. The association members have made a representation to the government to refund their license fee for the corresponding period to tide over the losses.Varun Duggal, Head of Alliances at Massive Restaurants Pvt. Ltd., said that reopening restaurants only for food will make them bleed more. “We demand that the timings and rentals be relaxed. We are in discussions with the developers on renegotiating the rentals before we open,” he said.The owners said that they are working on their reopening strategy.“Most of our staff has left for their hometowns. We don’t want to call our employees back until commuting is a challenge. We will soon start hygienic and safe food delivery and take away options,” Duggal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-hospitality-services-owners-not-ready-yet/story-0Sh70hRIdgg4DLxKMWVl5I.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||1.75km PGIMER-Sarangpur flyover project in the works in Chandigarh||The geo-technical study for the construction of a flyover from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to Sarangpur has started.The technical consultant — General Highways and Infracon Pvt Ltd — appointed by the UT administration last week has been asked to submit the detailed project report within 30 days.According to initial plans prepared by the UT engineering department, the project to be constructed at a cost around ₹90 crore will comprise of 1.75km road with 1.3km elevated stretch.It will start from near the PGIMER and will end near the Botanical Garden, Sarangpur, after crossing over Khudda Jassu and Khudda Lahora villages. The planned total width of the flyover is around 19.1 metres, and the carriageway width will be 17.5 metres.“The administration has planned to provide a four-lane elevated highway in Khudda Lahora village in order to provide hassle-free movement of traffic from the PGIMER side (Madhya Marg) towards Sarangpur, Kurali and Baddi,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.After the consultant’s report, the cost, plans and drawings of the proposed road will be finalised by the administration. The project plans will also need to be approved by the heritage committee and require environmental clearance, said the official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-75km-pgimer-sarangpur-flyover-project-in-the-works-in-chandigarh/story-6sJ5aMxWPg94BpVG6yv2wI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior’s antim ardas held in Chandigarh||The antim ardas of legendary hockey player and triple Olympic gold medallist Balbir Singh Senior, who passed away on May 25 at the age of 96, was held at his daughter’s residence in Sector 36 on Sunday. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the ceremony remained a low-key affair with only 15 persons in attendance. International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach, FIH president Narinder Batra, President Ram Nath Kovind, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and sports minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi sent in their condolences letters to the family. Punjab Olympic Association senior vice-president and former DGP Rajdeep Singh Gill and sports writer Principal Sarwan Singh, who has authored the biography of Balbir Senior in Punjabi, paid tributes to the departed soul online.Dr Rajinder Kalra, a long-time associate of Balbir Singh, recalled the days of 1975 World Cup and shared his memories from the camp to becoming the world champion.Singh, grandson of Balbir Singh Senior, thanked all those attended the ceremony in person and paid respects online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/condolence-messages-pour-in-for-hockey-legend-balbir-singh-senior/story-JiHg7SCPatGgqklYK4dp0M.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Western disturbance exits region, mercury expected to rise||The city witnessed thunderstorms accompanied by scattered showers on Sunday morning as overcast skies prevailed over the sky, a result of another western disturbance passing over northwest India. The temperatures are, however, expected to rise between two to four degrees Celsius in the next few days, while the India Meteorological Department(IMD) has predicted fresh showers after June 11. The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 34.6 degrees, while the minimum temperature stood at 21 degrees. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to rise further and touch 38 degrees Celsius on Monday, as per IMD’s weekly forecast. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 24 degrees on Monday.“The western disturbance affecting northwest India will now begin moving eastward, and its impact will begin to reduce. Strong surface winds, between 25 to 35kmph, will prevail over the Delhi-NCR region in the coming days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, spokesperson, IMD. Srivastava also said that temperatures over the next week are unlikely to cross 40 degrees Celsius. “Due to light rain and cloudiness over the region, heatwave conditions in Delhi-NCR will not prevail until June 15,” he said.However, the formation of a low-pressure zone in the Bay of Bengal, expected to occur around June 10 (before beginning its movement toward Madhya Pradesh), will bring moisture-laden winds to Delhi-NCR via Uttar Pradesh. “Gusty winds of up to 50 to 60kmph speed, along with thunderstorm and light rain, are expected during the between June 11 evening and June 13, with peak activity on June 12,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/western-disturbance-exits-region-mercury-expected-to-rise/story-W3F8OBlQPmS1P9kMuuQXTJ.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG reopens parks after two months; fitness enthusiasts welcome move||Over two months after they were closed down due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the nationwide lockdown, the 793 parks in the city operated by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), reopened their gates for residents on Sunday.Despite an early morning rain, morning walkers, yoga enthusiasts, and people looking to exercise could be spotted in the parks with many saying this was the first time they were stepping outside their residential complexes since March 22, when the parks were closed by the MCG due to the Covid-19 outbreak.“As a senior citizen, I had restricted myself to staying indoors during the outbreak and had to give up on my morning stroll, which was a part of my daily routine. An acquaintance told me yesterday that parks will reopen from Sunday and although I was initially reluctant to step out, I changed my mind when I saw from my balcony that there were some people my age who were walking in the park. I interacted face-to-face with people other than my family for the first time in months, although we were all wearing masks and had to communicate from a distance,” said Rajinder Yadav, a resident of Sector 5.Yoga enthusiasts, meanwhile, said that they wanted to use this opportunity to start preparing for National Yoga Day on June 21.“My friends and I have been doing yoga at our respective homes ever since the lockdown. The feeling of practising it together though was a completely different experience. A few of us got together in a park near Galleria market and started practising yoga while maintaining the requisite social distance. We have around two weeks of regular practice left,” said Rohit Aggarwal, a resident of DLF-4.MCG officials said that they will be monitoring all parks, along with residents’ welfare association (RWAs), regularly to ensure that social distancing measures are being adopted.“We have decided to open parks as it gives residents an opportunity to keep themselves fit and healthy, which is extremely important amid the Covid-19 outbreak. MCG officials, as well as RWAs, have been directed to ensure residents maintain social distancing and wear masks all the time,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The MCG directly maintains 310 parks in the city while RWAs have the responsibility of overseeing 483 parks.Over the last three months, MCG had pasted stickers across gates of all parks in the city stating that entry is forbidden and a breach would lead to action being initiated against the violator for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-reopens-parks-after-three-months-fitness-enthusiasts-welcome-move/story-YYh4l9zLs5uFVPGUlFTs2L.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Search on for Covid-19 patients who had given false info, legal action on the cards||Taking cognisance of the fact that 19 persons who had tested positive for coronavirus in Faridabad had given false details — wrong phone numbers, addresses and names — the district administration has asked the police to trace such patients and initiate legal action against them. The issue came to the notice of the health department, as officials could not contact them after they were found to be positive.On Sunday, Faridabad reported 106 new positive Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 771 in the district, with 14 deaths. Three deaths — two men and a woman, all aged 65 — were reported on Sunday due to multiple co-morbidities.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said such issues cause panic among residents and lead to the spread of the virus. “It is important to take action against such people, who are a threat to society and can be dangerous for others. People who have tested positive should immediately be placed under isolation and samples of their close contacts have to be collected,” he said.Yadav, saying that they pose a “public health risk”, appealed to them to come forward.The deputy commissioner further said, “We had sent the samples of 14,732 people (for testing), of which 771 had tested positive and the results of 960 are awaited. At least 231 people are currently hospitalised.”The infected people have been admitted to the ESIC hospital, officials said, adding that at least 12,729 people are under home quarantine in the district and 10,638 people are on surveillance for influenza-like illnesses.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said, “We want to reiterate to people that they have to give their real name, correct mobile phone number and an emergency contact at the hospital,” he said.Rao said it is important to trace close contacts and travel history of the positive cases. Not being able to trace those who have tested positive or those who have been in close contact with positive cases is a serious problem, he said.The police has directed all hospitals, private and government, and labs to verify the mobile numbers before taking the samples. If anyone is found giving false information, officials should immediately inform the police control room.Rao said they have received several complaints and have traced more than 15 such people, but it becomes difficult in some cases. “We will start registering cases starting Monday against such anti-social elements and strict action will be taken against them for endangering lives of others,” he said.Around 2,000,000 residents of Faridabad, including 100,000 senior citizens were surveyed to identify those who are most vulnerable to contract Sars-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/search-on-for-covid-19-patients-who-had-given-false-info-legal-action-on-the-cards/story-g8ZSIr6fWWyEMFCsbeUepO.html
07-06-2020||City||On the lines of Delhi, city to have SOPs for private hospitals treating Covid-19 cases||Gurugram: The district administration is likely to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for private and government-run hospitals in the city for the clinical management of patients of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease by June 9, on the lines of the Delhi government’s guidelines for the same. Officials said that the SOPs have to be followed by all hospitals for streamlining the handling of suspected and confirmed patients of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.“The SOPs have been prepared and will be issued by Tuesday,” said Vivek Kalia, the designated officer for the supervision of health facilities for beds and ventilator management in the district. “They include how a patient has been attended to in the hospital and reasons for hospitalising or not hospitalising the patient. Even if the patient requires critical care or a separate bed for isolation, the SOPs will cover everything, from the time a patient reaches the hospital to the time of their discharge,” he said.The national capital had issued its SOPs on June 5. Currently, at least 921 beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients across the 23 private and government-run hospitals in the city, out of which as many as 676 beds were vacant till June 5, said Kalia. While the total number of beds available in Gurugram for both Covid and non-Covid patients are as many as 3,399. However, the state government is dependent upon private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.In a meeting held with representatives of 15 private hospitals on Sunday, officials inquired about the issues faced by them. “As part of the SOPs, hospitals will have to share the reasons for not admitting patients. A written log has to be created, citing reasons. Apparently, only critical or those having coronavirus symptoms have to be admitted to hospitals,” said Kalia.Notably, the district administration had issued notices earlier this week to three private hospitals for refusing to take patients. Instances have been reported where pregnant Covid-19-positive women were denied treatment.The meeting with hospital representatives was taken by Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited’s (GMCBL) chief executive officer Sonal Goel, who is also the in-charge of supervision of health facilities for beds and ventilator management. It was decided in the meeting that there has to be separate counters for Covid-19 cases at the hospitals, where the name and number of the hospital supervisor designated by the hospital has to be displayed, including the fees being charged by them.Officials also said that an online portal has been created in association with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) where beds availability and occupancy details of the admitted patients will be made available on a realtime basis. For this, six volunteers have been deputed to coordinate with the hospitals for data, which will be updated twice a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-lines-of-delhi-city-to-have-sops-for-private-hospitals-treating-covid-19-cases/story-sgcYI40RE9IvQuilNVdFSL.html
07-06-2020||City||Gurugram admin to create database of Covid-19 patients||Gurugram: The district administration is creating a centralized real-time database of all Covid-19 patients. Officials said that a digital application is being developed that will be used to integrate all the data of a Covid-19 patient, starting from the day a person is tested positive to hospitalization or home isolation, tracing his/her high-risk contacts and the day of discharge.As the Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in the Gurugram, data management of such patients and their high-risk contacts has emerged as a critical issue. The officials said that the data duplicity has been reported in the past, and now the application would prevent all sorts of discrepancies.“An application is being developed that would help create database of Covid-19 cases in an integrated manner. It is for real-time database management. All the details of a person tested positive for coronavirus will be fed into the application. Details of the people with whom the patient has been in contact will also be included to help the teams who will be contacting them,” said Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner.Sangwan said that the urban primary health centres (PHCs) have been collating the data which is currently fragmented. “This data needs to be integrated to understand the prevalence of infection and control its transmission,” he said.According to him, the application will be used across the board in different PHCs, community health centres (CHCs) and various government offices, who are assigned different roles. “The application would be entirely functional in the next few days,” he said.Recently, the administration divided all crucial tasks related to Covid-19 like collecting lab reports, contact tracing, timely hospitalisation/home isolation among at least 14 officials of different government departments. The details collected by the health team deployed at the ground level to conduct surveillance and contact tracing of positive patients will be first fed into the application. It will be further modified based on the calls made by the call centre set up by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran and the district administration, which are assigned the task of monitoring the health of high-risk contacts of a positive patient. During the monitoring, if a suspected case is traced and admitted to a hospital, then the team designated for bed capacity and ventilator management will add their inputs. Even when the patient is discharged after treatment, those details will also be added, the officials said. Notably, to streamline the Covid-19 reporting, the district administration has already divided the city into seven zones, including five in the city and two in Sohna and Pataudi. As per the plans shared by the officials, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which has been assigned to liaison with private and government labs for test results, will segregate the test reports based on the areas falling under different zones. The nodal officer for each of these zones will coordinate with the health team of PHC or CHC of that area to reach the affected patient at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-admin-to-create-database-of-covid-19-patients/story-skkbcYr76IKcSvhpj93iIJ.html
07-06-2020||City||Panchkula society declared containment zone after fresh case||A 28-year-old man, who resides in a group housing society in Sector 20, Panchkula, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 34. Only eight of these cases are active.Following this, the society has been declared a containment zone.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said the man, who works in the local district courts, went to Delhi on May 15 and returned on May 31. After he tested positive, he was isolated at the civil hospital in Sector 6. Samples of his wife have been taken.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old man from Gurugram, who was visiting a relative in Panchkula, has also been admitted to the isolation ward after testing positiveTwo Delhi men go missing after testing positiveTwo Delhi men are untraceable after being tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Sunday.The two, aged 22 and 29, had arrived here on bus recently.While being tested, they had mentioned an address in Sector 14, but the house was found to be locked when health officials reached there on Sunday. Their mobile phones were switched off. “We have complained to police and the district administration about the missing persons,” said the civil surgeon. The Delhi authorities have been informed as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-society-declared-containment-zone-after-fresh-case/story-wnP4mTqEuKiPNLrYqp3MgK.html
07-06-2020||City||With 620 fresh infections, J&K crosses 4,000 mark in 91 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded the biggest single-day spike of 620 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 4,087 in 91 days, officials said.Officials said of the new cases, 583 were reported in Kashmir division, which has been consistently recording majority of the cases as compared to Jammu division where 37 more people have tested positive for the virus. Among these new patients, 32 have a travel history.Since the initial cases of Covid-19 on March 9, it for the first time that the UT has seen a massive spike of more than 600 cases in a day. The highest jump of cases in Kashmir was recorded in Kulgam with 161 people testing positive. Baramulla recorded 132 new cases followed by 87 in Srinagar, 60 in Pulwama and 59 in Anantnag.The highest jump in Jammu division was recorded in Jammu district with 22 cases followed by five in Doda.TWO MORE DIE IN KASHMIR, DEATH TOLL 41Two more people have also died due to the virus in Kashmir, taking the death toll in the UT to 41.“The samples taken from a non-local, who passed away in Srinagar on Saturday, tested positive for the disease on Sunday. The 38-year-old man, a resident of Kolkata, died of brain haemorrhage at the SMHS hospital,” medical superintendent of SMHS, Nazir Chaudhary said.Another patient, a 70-year-old man from Srinagar, died due to the virus at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial hospital in Srinagar late on Saturday.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary tweeted: “We should emphasise on precautions in public instead of triggering panic with numbers. In the later case it’s also true that out of 23,589 #Srinagar residents tested so far only 400 odd are +ve, including less than 50% travellers. Let’s encourage everyone to follow precautions.”Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah also tweeted: “620 new cases in J&K today & only 32 are returning travellers. This is a big spike in local numbers considering the administration has some of the toughest restrictions in the country. A small district like Kulgam with a jump of 160 cases is deeply worrisome. What is going wrong?”NINE DISTRICTS DECLARED RED ZONE Amid sudden spike in Covid-19 infections, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday put nine districts in red zone, nine in orange zone and two in green zone. An order issued by chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, in his capacity as chairperson of state executive committee for disaster management, said Srinagar, Pulwama, Shopian, Anantnag, Kulgam, Budgam, Baramulla, and Kupwara in Kashmir division and Ramban in Jammu division have been declared red zone districts. Ganderbal and Bandipora in Kashmir division and Kathua, Samba, Reasi, Udhampur, Poonch, Rajouri in Jammu division have been put in orange zone while Doda and Kishtwar in Jammu division were declared green zone districts. Kathua and Samba districts in Jammu region were dropped from the list of red zones, while Poonch and Rajouri lost their green tags. The four are now included in the list of orange zones. Kathua district’s Lakhanpur, will be a red zone with a 500 metre buffer.RELIGIOUS PLACES TO REMAIN SHUT IN UTThe Jammu and Kashmir administration announced that religious places would continue to remain closed in the Union Territory as it allowed certain activities, including reopening of malls, barber shops, hotels and restaurants with new guidelines from Monday. The administration has also exempted private transport from the purview of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown outside containment zones but decided against allowing inter-state and inter-province movement without passes.Meanwhile, 90 more patients were discharged on Sunday—nine in Jammu division and 81 in. So far, 1,216 people have recovered of which 1,016 are from Kashmir and 200 from Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 2,146 and 684 in Jammu.Till date, 2.11 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 41,848 in home quarantine, 52 in hospital quarantine and 55,994 under home surveillance. Besides these, 110,748 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-620-fresh-infections-j-k-crosses-4-000-mark-in-91-days/story-EzIKdnAb8XzalcBXDzLWWI.html
07-06-2020||City||Tilling row: Son of Tarn Taran-based sect’s head among 100 booked in two cases||Widening the rift between two heirs of Sursingh-based Baba Bidhi Chand sect over the possession of 550 acres of land, the police have registered two separate cases, including one with murder-bid charges, against 100 followers of sect head Baba Avtar Singh.They were accused of attacking the supporters of the sect head’s younger brother Baba Gurbachan Singh over the tilling of land.In one of the cases, the sect head’s son Prem Singh is among the 47 accused. This case has been registered under sections 307 (murder bid), 379-B (theft by force) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Bhikhiwind police station.The complainant, Baba Gurbachan Singh’s follower Narbir Singh, said after the death of Baba Daya Singh, 103 acres of land were being tilled by Baba Gurbachan, while the rest was being looked after by the sect head.He said, “Baba Daya Singh had distributed the total land equally between both his sons. However, Baba Avtar had been claiming that the land belonged to him as he is the sect’s head. Baba Gurbachan had already procured a stay order from court regarding the tilling of the land. On Saturday, the followers of Baba Avtar forcibly tilled the land situated in Bhikhiwind. They also attacked the followers of Baba Gurbachan and snatched their vehicles at gunpoint.”The second case has been registered on Narbir’s complaint at Chabhal police station against Baba Avtar’s 54 followers under sections 341, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC.Satnam Singh, an assistant of Baba Avtar, said the land was donated by the sangat to the sect and it is not the property of the family. He said the sect head would soon conduct a press conference to clear the issue.The sect (a Nihang jathedbandi), which has around 80 gurdwaras in Punjab and dozens in other states and foreign countries, is headquartered in Sursingh village falling under Bhikhiwind sub-division of the district. In 2014, after Baba Daya’s death, his elder son Baba Avtar took over as the sect’s head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tilling-row-son-of-tarn-taran-based-sect-s-head-among-100-booked-in-two-cases/story-CnWu0qD78nazXfcMT4LWXJ.html
07-06-2020||City||11 new cases take Himachal Covid-19 count to 411||Eleven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 411, officials said.Four cases were reported from Kangra, two each from Hamirpur and Chamba and one each from Mandi, Shimla and Bilaspur, said Nipun Jindal, special secretary (health).Active cases in the state have come down to 183 as twenty-nine people have recovered, he added.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said among the fresh cases is a 16-year-old youth from Panchrukhi, who returned from Delhi on May 31. He was under institutional quarantine.Another patient is a 33-year-old man from Naganpat area, who travelled back from Gurugram on May 26 and was under home quarantine. The third patient is a 46-year-old man from Dhaliara who came from Nakodar in Punjab on May 30 and was under institutional quarantine.Besides, a 51-year-old woman from Fatehpur sub-division has also tested positive. She has no travel history but is a secondary contact of an already positive patient. Her contacts are being traced.Two cases from Hamirpur include a 26-year-old man from Dhirwin village, who returned from Mumbai on May 18 and was under home quarantine.The second patient, a 53-year-old man from Jahoo, returned from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine. Two cases were also reported in Chamba. Both are primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient.The Mandi patient is a 28-year-old man who returned to Kangra in a flight from Delhi and from there he travelled in a taxi to his home in Lad-Bhadol tehsil of the district. He was under home quarantine. One case has been reported from Shimla.RECOVERY RATE MORE THAN 50%The recovery rate of Covid-19 cases in Himachal has gone up to more than 50% as 29 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 219.The second wave of Covid-19 cases hit Himachal on May 4. Since then, 345 people have tested positive for the virus. As many as 77 new cases have been recorded this week.So far, eleven of the total twelve districts in the state are affected by Covid-19. Tribal district of Lahaul & Spiti is the only Covid-free district.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 123 cases followed by Kangra with 109 cases. A total of 42 cases have been reported in Una, 32 each in Solan and Chamba, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Mandi, 13 in Shimla, 11 in Sirmaur, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-new-cases-take-himachal-covid-19-count-to-411/story-0n6eqR43l9lwtqWjrEypcN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt forced Sikhs to pick arms in 1984: Akal Takht jathedar||A day after courting a controversy over his remarks in favour of Khalistan as a separate Sikh state, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday said it was the Indian government that forced members of the community to pick arms in 1984. In a message relayed on a web channel, which was recently banned in India for its alleged anti-national content, the jathedar while referring to the Operation Bluestar said that “picking arms was the last resort for the Sikhs for getting their demands heard by the government”. “We should ascertain as to why the Sikhs picked arms. When India got independence in 1947, the country’s leaders made some promises to the Sikhs such as giving them due respect and rights besides safeguarding their principles and traditions. But then, the Sikhs were tagged as a “criminal community” instead of delivering these promises,” the head priest of temporal seat said.He said, “As if this was not enough, police personnel were made to enter the Golden Temple in 1955 with shoes. This was the first incident of sacrilege in the shrine in free India, which hurt the Sikhs. The government supplied Punjab’s river water to other states in violation of the norms. This paved the way for destruction of Sikhs in Punjab and angered them.” “Sikhs had to wage a struggle for the formation of a Punjabi-speaking state to safeguard their mother tongue. Many were killed while agitating in Delhi in support of their demand. When members of the community opted for an armed struggle, the government used forces to repress them. These atrocities continued well beyond 1984,” he added.The jathedar was not available for comments over his giving a message on via banned web channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-forced-sikhs-to-pick-arms-in-1984-akal-takht-jathedar/story-QARLycI888jY8Bmb9851cO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Wild Wisdom Quiz: School students told to register till August 5||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has asked the affiliated schools to encourage students, aged between 8 to 13 years, to participate in the Wild Wisdom Quiz, which will be conducted online this year and register themselves till August 5.A circular in this regard was uploaded on the board’s website on Saturday.The initiative has been taken to instill a sense of concern among students for the natural world. The theme of the quiz this year is reimagining ‘our planet’.With summer vacations going on, city private schools have asked students of Classes 3 to 8 to engage themselves by participating in the contest and explore wildlife conversation. Paramjit Kaur, principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “We will send details of the competition on students’ profile so that those who are interested can participate. These competitions give a platform to students to gain knowledge and have indepth understanding on wild life conversation.”Bandana Sethi, principal of Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School, Udham Singh Nagar, said, “We will circulate information regarding the quiz among students. I am sure many of them will be interested in participating in the quiz. Students will get more exposure by participating in these online contests.”The quiz is an attempt to provide a unique opportunity for students to delve deeper into India’s amazing wildlife, gain knowledge and take pride in its natural diversity.The quiz will be conducted at two levels - Classes 3 to 5 and middle classes 6 to 8. The registrations are open and students can register online till August 5. Participation is voluntary.To register online, students have to fill the registration form using the URL link. They will be informed regarding the prelims and the finale quiz. The preliminary round will be conducted on August 9 and the final on August 16.Every registered student will get the WWF newsletter, ‘Wisdom Nuggets’ and a participation certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wild-wisdom-quiz-school-students-told-to-register-till-august-5/story-uLtGi7WuAvh0AuIMs95uyJ.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Strictly adhere to safety protocols: Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday appealed to the people to adhere to the safety protocols and restrictions to save themselves, their families and the state.He said the state had adequate essential equipment to manage further spread of the pandemic, which it had been largely able to control so far and the focus was on saving lives.Responding to questions during the latest FB Live edition of #AskCaptain, the CM said the Covid situation in Punjab had so far been manageable due to the strict lockdown and people’s cooperation. On Friday alone, 4,600 challans had been imposed for failure to wear mask in public, 160 for spitting and around two-dozen for not adhering to social distancing norms. Such irresponsible behaviour could not be permitted as it could push Punjab on the same path as many other states, he added.The CM said with 2,608 total positive cases, of which 2,106 had recovered, Punjab’s situation had been under control so far. Fifty-one people had died of the infection. A total of 1,24,266 samples had been tested, and only 451 persons had to be put in isolation, with just three persons having to be placed on oxygen and another three on ventilator since the outbreak of the pandemic in the state, said Amarinder.Despite this, however, the state government was not taking any chances, said Amarinder. In the first stage, 4,248 beds in government hospitals had been set aside, with another 2,014 now being added, while the private hospitals had allocated 950 beds for Covid-19 patients, he said. The total number of isolation centres identified to accommodate a large number of cases if the crisis aggravates stands at 52 government and 195 private, he added.Of the 554 ventilators available, only one was in use, as of Saturday, he said , adding that in addition to the equipment already handed over to hospitals and other frontline workers, the health department had stocks of 4,88,000 N95 masks, 64 lakh triple layer masks, 2,28,000 PPE kits and 2,223 oxygen cylinders.On problems faced in paddy sowing due to the shortage of migrant labour, the CM said that less than 5 lakh of the total 13 lakh migrant labourers in Punjab had left the state. With over eight lakh migrant workers still here, along with the state’s own local labour, there were no problems in the field or in the industrial units, he said.On the issue of private schools charging fees for the lockdown period, the CM said the state government will go in appeal against the high court ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/strictly-adhere-to-safety-protocols-capt/story-SU1oK4EZAnARbCYjLxBrpI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala MC issues rebates for various categories of property taxpayers||Property owners of Lal Dora villages who deposit their pending property tax or arrears for years between 2010-11 and 2019-20 before August 31 will get 50% rebate, Ambala municipal commissioner Partha Gupta said.During a review meeting with MC officials, Gupta said, “This move comes keeping in mind the deteriorating economic condition of the people amid the Covid-19 lockdown.”“Other than this, charitable educational institutions and charitable hospitals for children with special needs will get 100% exemption. We have also issued various proportions of rebates for different categories. However, waiver of tax for agriculture (milk dairies) and dhabas has not been notified and tax will be collected for these activities as per prior notification,” he added. The MC commissioner said that in case of delayed payment, interest will be charged @ 1.5% per month and detailed information can be checked on the MC website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-mc-issues-rebates-for-various-categories-of-property-taxpayers/story-k0YUWwPEYZIy9KM6WsipTO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||CISF constable tests positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh||A 33-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constable posted at the Punjab Civil Secretariat tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in Chandigarh to 314.A resident of Daria village, he was not on active duty since May 31, and had visited Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, twice in the last week.“I had high fever and irritation in my throat, following which I took leave. On visiting GMSH-16 on June 2, I was given some medicines and sent back. After there was no improvement, I went back to the hospital on June 5 and was sampled,” he said. Health officials said 21 community and family contacts of the person have been quarantined.Though the CISF has been tasked with screening his colleagues, SP Singh, commandant of the battalion, refused to share any information as of now. Trader found infected too, confusion over tallyMeanwhile, the owner of a computer shop in Sector 20 who lives in Manimajra has also tested positive for Covid-19.However, there is no clarity over which city would account for the case, as he has been diagnosed at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. While the UT spokesperson said it would be added to the Panchkula tally, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said it should be counted as a Chandigarh case. PAST CASES OF SECURITY PERSONNELMay 12: A Chandigarh Police constable found positive. The 25-year-old woman cop was putting up in the barracks of the recruit training centre in Sector 26June 6: A 20-year-old constable posted at the DSP’s office in Kharar, Mohali, tested positive. A resident of Kurali, he was tested according to the protocol before proceeding for the basic recruits training course||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cisf-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh/story-8jm07MD6OL5Bknifup5Y2H.html
07-06-2020||City||Sangrur SSP to supervise both firing cases against Moose Wala||Sangrur Patiala zone inspector general of police (IGP) Jatinder Singh Aulakh has handed over the supervision of investigation into a firing case registered against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala in Barnala district to Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg instead of Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel. Moose Wala has another case registered against him in Sangrur. Garg will now supervise investigation in both the First Information Reports (FIRs). The two cases relate to firing from a police assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village of Barnala on May 4, and another instance of firing from a pistol/revolver at the Ladda Kothi shooting range of Sangrur on May 5.“I have decided to handover the supervision of both the cases to one SSP. However, SPs of Barnala and Sangrur will continue their investigation independently,” Aulakh told HT.“Both the SPs probing the cases will now report to me. Sidhu Moose Wala has been booked under non-bailable offences and will be arrested soon,” SSP Garg told HT.Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI) SP Rupinder Bhardwaj is heading the probe into the Barnala case, while SP Gurmeet Singh is leading the Sangrur probe. SP Bhardwaj said a notice has been sent to the singer to appear at his office on June 12. In the Barnala case, a case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Dhanauala police station against nine persons, including Moose Wala and some cops. On May 18, sections of the Arms Act were added to the FIR. Eight police personnel, including DSP Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan SHO Gurpreet Singh Bhinder and three assistant sub-inspectors, were suspended. On June 2, a Barnala court dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of six cops, including Jangsher Singh, son of DSP Daljit Singh Virk. Jangsher, however, got anticipatory bail from Punjab and Haryana high court on June 5.In the May 5 firing incident, the Sangrur police booked Moose Wala and six cops at Sadar Dhuri police station under Section 188 of the IPC and Arms act. A Sangrur court, however, granted them anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-ssp-to-supervise-both-firing-cases-against-moose-wala/story-Uvcvz8oL4uMwlM7hM0zT9J.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||PPCB fines Zirakpur builder Rs 84 lakh for environmental violations||Mohali: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has imposed a fine of Rs 84 lakh for environmental violations on Barnala Builders who own the commercial project Maya Magnesia in Singhpura village of Zirakpur.The violations include non renewal of no objection certificate (NOC) related to pollution and disposal of septic tank waste, it has been learnt.The PPCB said that the NOC for pollution acquired by the builder on November 23, 2016, for development of the four acre project was valid only up to November 22, 2017, with certain conditions. But the builder, despite show cause notices, had not applied for extension to the Board under the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and the Air (Prevention and Control of pollution ) Act, 1981. PPCB officials who had visited the site in January detected a number of violations. Six borewells were being used to extract groundwater to stop the outflow/seepage in the basement area. Domestic effluent generated from the washroom used by 120 labourers was being discharged in a septic tank (installed by the builder in 2018) and thereafter lifted by using a tanker to be disposed of at an undisclosed location, in violation of the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the conditions of the expired NOC.“The act and conduct of the promoter company relating to the disposal of wastewater of the septic tank to an unknown place by using a tanker during the period from July 1, 2018, up to the date of making the statement on January 21, 2020, is a serious violation of the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, in the furtherance of degrading the environment,” a PPCB statement said.The board asked the builder to deposit the fine within 15 days, failing which necessary action would be taken to recover it.Even after repeated attempts, however, Satish Jindal, managing director of the project did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ppcb-fines-zirakpur-builder-rs-84-lakh-for-environmental-violations/story-kkunmNKacnNlujmQH5tajI.html
07-06-2020||City||Migrant labourer hangs self in Ludhiana||A migrant labourer allegedly ended his life by hanging himself at his rented accommodation in Ludhiana’s Shivpuri area on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The victim worked at a hosiery factory. His co-worker was the first to see the body hanging from a ceiling fan on Sunday morning, when he returned home. He raised alarm and informed the police.According to police, the victim was living here alone, while his wife and two children were in Bihar.The police are investigating to know the reason behind the extreme step. No suicide note has recovered from the spot. The police have informed his family about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourer-hangs-self-in-ludhiana/story-bff94766zOr7YRJ3NfgV2O.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospital told to seek consent before referring patients to PGIMER emergency ward||Struggling with the huge rush of patients at the emergency ward, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has asked hospitals under the jurisdiction of Chandigarh health department to seek consent before referring patients to the institute.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said this is a precautionary measure taken in view of the heavy rush of patients at the institute.“We need to develop a system through which hospitals can arrive upon a decision on referrals after mutual consultations. We have taken up the matter with the UT health department and administration officials at different levels,” said Dr Jagat Ram.He added that sometimes when critical patients are referred to the institute, there are no ventilators available, which makes it a life-threatening situation. “If we are aware of the incoming patients, we can make timely arrangements for them,” he said.Earlier, PGIMER had written to the neighbouring states, asking them to seek permission before referring patients to the institute.In view of the increasing rush, PGIMER had set up 30 cubicles each at the emergency ward and advanced trauma centre to ensure social distancing between the patients. “This has eaten up a lot of space but we are still accommodating patients and trying our best to treat them,” said Dr Ram said. He said that before the lockdown, PGIMER saw an average footfall of around 250 to 300 persons at the emergency ward and advanced trauma centre everyday. The number has now increased to around 400 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospital-told-to-seek-consent-before-referring-patients-to-pgimer-emergency-ward/story-JEQsPI42CnQ0mfPdQtG5qI.html
07-06-2020||Dehradun||War of words over CM Covid Relief Fund breaks out in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand Congress has demanded that the BJP-led state government make the accounts of Chief Minister COVID Relief Fund public to prove that the fund has been utilised properly.The demand was made by Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana while attacking the state government over its handling of the ongoing pandemic in the state. Dhasmana said, “The government has been collecting a significant amount of money through donations in CM Covid Relief Fund from various sections of the society. It announces daily who donated how much to the Fund. But no information regarding where the money is being utilized has come out?”He cited the demands for audit of the PM CARES Fund to seek transparency from the state government.“As all have seen how the Centre is sternly opposing the demand of revealing the details of the PM CARES Fund in which it collected thousands of crores from the public in the name of Covid-19 relief, we also doubt the transparency in this CM Covid Relief Fund. The state government should immediately disclose the total amount of money collected and its expenditure so far,” said Dhasmana. The Congress leader also demanded to know if Uttarakhand had received “its share” from the PM CARES Fund. “The ONGC which is headquartered in Uttarakhand had donated about Rs 300 cr in the PM CARES Fund but not in CM Relief Fund as the Centre had said that all Central PSUs will donate to Centre, not the state. Then, Uttarakhand should get a share of ONGC’s donation. The CM should speak out on it as people have every right to know about it,” said Dhasmana. He also attacked the state government for allegedly “surrendering” in the fight against the pandemic as positive cases grow in numbers. “It has completely surrendered in the fight and has told the public to look after themselves, which is evident in its recent actions. When the cases are increasing every day, it has decided to reopen schools and religious places, which is just ridiculous,” said Dhasmana, adding, the situation is so worrisome that the state high court had to intervene.The state BJP hit back at the Congress alleging it was busy doing politics over the pandemic from the day one. “Congress has been shamelessly doing politics on this pandemic from the first day. On the other hand, the state government and the BJP have been helping the needy in every possible way, including with ration and medicines. Congress is nowhere to be seen as far as helping the people is concerned; it is busy in dirty politics in this crisis situation,” said Ajendra Ajay, BJP state spokesperson.On the demand for making the accounts of CM Covid Relief Fund public, Ajay said the demand was baseless.“Whenever the Congress is in power either at the Centre or in state, it has been involved in corruption, unlike the BJP, where no leader including the PM has been accused in even a single case of corruption. As Congress themselves are deeply in corruption, they suspect everyone of doing the same. There is no irregularity either in the PM CARES Fund or CM COVID Relief Fund.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/war-of-words-over-cm-covid-relief-fund-breaks-out-in-uttarakhand/story-HDu5wdp516BkfEKp2DnwhI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands waiver of fixed power charges for industrial sector||letterschd@hindustantimes.comShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday demanded waiver of fixed charges for all industrial and trade establishments for the three-month lockdown period besides allowing both sectors to retain the state share of GST for this period.In a statement here, SAD spokesperson and former president of its Beopar wing NK Sharma said he had held a series of meetings with industry representatives on the directions of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the consensus was that in case the Congress government did not extend any concessions to the industrial sector, it would be pushed back by 20 years.“Punjab already has a lot of farmer debt, and will now incur trade and industry debt too. Small traders, including shopkeepers, hardware sellers, and professionals such as photographers and barbers have been affected the most. A cycle shop owner has already committed suicide and there is a sense of utter despair among the trading community at large,” Sharma said.The SAD spokesperson said it was incumbent on the government to provide a healing touch in this hour of crisis. “The least it can do is give relief where possible by allowing the industry and trade sector to retain the state GST share for three months,” demanded Sharma.He said there was resentment among people that instead of providing financial aid where needed, the Congress government had given a relief of ₹673 crore to liquor contractors and ₹150 crore to the sand mafia. This is the reason why nearly 32,000 industrial units have not restarted their operations yet, he said.Sharma assured the traders that the party would raise their voice at appropriate forums, including the governor to force the Congress government to resolve their grievances and extend due relief to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-demands-waiver-of-fixed-power-charges-for-industrial-sector/story-E4YfWYp6uYKqq809YYR2ZJ.html
07-06-2020||City||Three held for killing 20-year-old youth in Rajpura||Four days after a 20-year-old youth went missing, the police on Sunday arrested three persons for allegedly murdering him in Shamdu village of Rajpura sub-division here.A dismembered body of the deceased, identified as Lalit Kumar, was recovered from the Bhakra canal on Sunday.Police said Lalit had developed animosity with the accused after allegedly circulating an obscene video of one of the accused’s sister.“On June 2, the accused came to Lalit’s house in the evening and took him out on the pretext of resolving the issue. But my son didn’t return home that night,” said Lalit’s father in his police complaint.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh said based on the complaint, three of the accused – Arjun Kumar, Bittu and Darshan Kumar – were arrested.“During interrogation, the accused revealed that they drank liquor till with Lalit till 2am on June 3 and then beat him up,” the DSP said, adding that the accused then drove Lalit to Bhakra canal and pushed him in.The other accused have been identified as Sunny, Dellu alias Nepali, Aman and Suraj.The police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-killing-20-year-old-youth-in-rajpura/story-AWyCF0HwcN9tV3IQMiZpHN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four held for attack on two youths in Sector 38 West||Four persons were arrested for allegedly attacking two youths over personal enmity, at their residence in Shahpur Colony of Sector 38 West on Friday night.The accused have been identified as Ajay, Krishana, Naveen and Sanjeev, all residents of the same colony. As per the police, the clash took place “over a girl” and the accused had threatened the victims--Shovinder Singh and his friend Guri-- before turning up at the house with rods and sticks. The accused also smashed the windows of Shovinder’s Hyundai Accent car.As per information, the four accused were accompanied by some other youths who managed to get away.Guri was rushed to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, where his condition is stated to be stable.The case has been registered under Sections 147(rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said that the accused worked odd jobs and were in their early 20s. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-held-for-attack-on-two-youths-in-sector-38-west/story-5AaukrTQMju4d60u6rn2CL.html
07-06-2020||City||Cong MLAs react strongly to Akal Takht jathedar’s statement over Khalistan||Three Congress MLAs Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surinder Dawar and Kuldeep Singh Vaid have reacted strongly to the statements of Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal over Khalistan.The acting jathedar had said on Saturday that the Sikh community will accept Khalistan, a separate state for Sikhs, if the government offers it.The MLAs have urged SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal to clarify their stand on the statements.The trio stated that both the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were indulging in divisive politics to grab power in the state.Both parties are playing divisive politics to create turmoil in the state, which has attained peace after losing so many innocent lives during the dark days of militancy, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-mlas-react-strongly-on-akal-takht-jathedar-s-statement-over-khalistan/story-VqqpRL0fN7cMKEVNckYbDK.html
07-06-2020||City||PSA against J&K bar association chief: Police register FIR over social media criticism of HC verdict||The Jammu and Kashmir police have registered a case against unknown persons who according to them has criticised a recent judgment on social media which was passed against J&K High Court Bar Association president, Mian Abdul Qayoom.ShaheedGanj police had received information from reliable sources that certain comments have been uploaded on social media in respect of a recent judgment passed by the division bench of the HC, in a case titled as Mian Abdul Quyoom vs Union Territory of J&K and others, dismissing the habeas corpus petition.“It Prima-facie reveals that the comments so uploaded on social media had been made with the intention not only to disrepute the HC but also causing disharmony in the general public and thereby making an attempt at dissuading them from reposing faith in the institution of judiciary. The comments are also aimed to push the miscreants to cause public disorder in the society,” the statement said adding that case has been lodged under the relevant sections of law. “Further investigation has been initiated in the case,” the statement said.Last month the HC had asked incarcerated Qayoom if he would like to shun his ‘secessionist’ ideology and then left it to the government to take a decision after such a representation.While dismissing an appeal by Qayoom against his detention under Public Safety Act, the division bench of the court comprising justices Vinod Chatterji Koul and Ali Mohammad Magrey endorsed the stand of advocate general that the FIRs and the grounds of detention against Qayoom depict and relate to the secessionist ideology of the detainee.“While addressing his arguments on the ideology nourished and nurtured by the detainee, the learned advocate general submitted that such ideology cannot be confined or limited to time to qualify it to be called stale or fresh or proximate, unless, of course, the person concerned declares and establishes by conduct and expression that he has shunned the ideology (emphasis supplied),” the court had said.The justices also had left it to the discretion of the government or the concerned authorities to take a decision in terms of the relevant provision(s) of the J&K PSA on any such representation, if made, by the detainee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/psa-against-j-k-bar-association-chief-police-register-fir-over-social-media-criticism-of-hc-verdict/story-dmOPQ0jTjHlBNt7PRI0sGK.html
07-06-2020||City||Brutality against pregnant cow: Himachal DGP summons DIG, Bilaspur SP||A day after police arrested a man for feeding wheat dough stuffed with firecrackers to a pregnant cow in Jhandutta area of Himachal Pradesh, director general of police Sanjay Kundu has summoned deputy inspector general of police central range Madhusudan Sharma and Bilaspur superintendent of police Dewakar Sharma to review the cruel act. The pregnant cow’s jaw was severely injured after being fed the wheat dough, which wildlife officials say is a common practice among farmers to kill wild animals to protect their crops. The incident had led to widespread public outcry in the state.The Jhandutta incident allegedly took place on May 26, but came to light on Saturday when the cow’s owner Gurdayal Singh uploaded a video of the injured bovine on social media. Besides, Kundu will also review the social media post claiming that there were irregularities in purchase of ventilators in the state even as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has clarified numerous times setting aside the letter which he termed ‘anonymous’. Thakur, who also holds the home portfolio, has ordered a police probe to trace the origin of the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brutality-against-pregnant-cow-himachal-dgp-summons-dig-bilaspur-sp/story-oli7Ny7vdnYjeL12BK7axJ.html
07-06-2020||City||Kullu man, Russian woman who were held while sneaking to Shimla to tie knot||A man from Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district and his Russian girlfriend who were arrested last month while trying to sneak into Shimla in a truck amid the imposition of curfew to contain coronavirus, will soon tie a knot in Durah village. On Sunday, the couple reached Kullu from Noida and have been put in institutional quarantine for 14-days. After the completion of the quarantine period, the couple will tie a knot, they said. On May 29, they registered their marriage in a court and will now be marrying in his native village by following rituals. Jitender, 24, who runs a cafe in Kasol fell in love with Lidia Volf, 35, a painter from Russia when she visited his cafe two years ago. In May, the duo was arrested at Shoghi town, some 15 km from here on the Chandigarh-Shimla national highway. They were coming from Noida in Uttar Pradesh without curfew pass and hiding in the truck. They were planning to get married on reaching the groom’s hometown Nirmand in Kullu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-man-russian-woman-who-were-held-while-sneaking-to-shimla-to-tie-knot/story-rrZz7uwNAzfIAibhDI6YvL.html
07-06-2020||City||Two of family among three Covid-19 positive cases in Mohali; district count climbs to 131||Three people, including the wife and son of an infected person, tested positive for coronavirus disease in Mohali on Sunday, taking the district’s count to 131.Two days after a resident of Sector 70 tested positive for Covid-19, the tests of his 57-year-old wife and 30-year-old son also confirmed infection.The third case is of a 32-year-old photographer from Dhakoli in Zirakpur. He had gone to Amritsar on an assignment with his friends, and returned on June 1. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said it is suspected the man got infected during his trip to Amritsar. His contact tracing is being conducted, he said.All the patients have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and they are responding well to the treatment, he said.At present, Mohali has 20 active cases, as 108 people have recovered while three have succumbed to the disease. The recovery rate stands at 82% and the case fatality rate at 2.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-of-family-among-three-covid-19-positive-cases-in-mohali-district-count-climbs-to-131/story-U7CnL8zVAO8tg28qaHh73M.html
07-06-2020||City||As cops fine woman doctor, Patiala health dept says driving car sans mask no violation||After a woman doctor was fined for not wearing mask inside her car, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra on Sunday termed termed the challan “unreasonable” and a violation of the government’s order.He also wrote to the Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP), asking him to implement the official orders accurately.Car occupants can be challaned for not maintaining social distancing, but not if they are not wearing masks.On Saturday, the Patiala police had issued a challan to Dr Harjot Kaur, a medical officer at the primary health centre in Sauja of Bhadson block, for not wearing a mask while driving in her car.In his letter to SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu, the civil surgeon wrote, “It has come to my notice that SHO Kotawali has issued a challan to Dr Harjot Kaur for not wearing mask in car while she was on Covid-19 duty. In this regard, the health department is also receiving verbal complaints that challans have been issued for not wearing masks in car, which is a violation of government’s order, as per which, people will be fined for not wearing masks in public places only. Therefore, you should direct the officials and officers to stick to that.”“The motive behind writing to the SSP is to highlight the need of sensitisation among police personnel, who are responsible for implementation of government’s order,” Dr Malhotra said.HEALTH DEPT SENSATIONALISING ISSUE, SAYS SSPThe issue has brought the police and health departments at loggerheads now.Responding to the civil surgeon’s letter, SSP Sidhu advised him to revisit the notification of health and family welfare department and refrain from sensationalism.“Punjab health services director in a notification dated May 15 had declared that every person travelling by a vehicle should be wearing a mask. In the same notification, it has been said that those found without masks will be fined ₹200, which was enhanced to ₹500 on May 29,” the SSP said.On civil surgeon’s claim that in the revised advisory there was no mention of the said challan, the SSP said, “The revised advisory is not stand-alone and was issued in continuation of earlier advisory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cops-fine-woman-doctor-patiala-health-dept-says-driving-car-sans-mask-no-violation/story-46slbzsfsOo3im6kX0WuKM.html
07-06-2020||City||HP govt trying to hush up health department bribery case: Senior Congress leader GS Bali||A day after the state vigilance bureau arrested the supplier in the health department bribery case, senior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali accused the BJP-led state government of trying to hush up the matter.Addressing a press conference in Kangra on Sunday, Bali said questioned the delay in arrest of the supplier Prithvi Singh.“The delay in the arrest of Singh indicates that someone is putting pressure on investigation agency,” alleged Bali.The bribery case came to the light last month when a 43-second audio clip went viral in which the then director of health services Dr AK Gupta was heard seeking bribe from Prithvi Singh.“Our concern is that it may be an attempt to hush up the matter. The government should come clear on this matter,” said Bali.He said that any laxity in the probe puts a question mark on the functioning of the government and its agencies.Bali also raised the issue of a BJP-affiliated contractor not paying full salary to the sanitation workers deployed at the quarantine centre set up at Rajiv Gandhi Government Engineering College, Nagrota Bagwan.He said that on papers the sanitation workers get ₹7,500 pay but in reality, the contractor was paying them only ₹5,500.“The issue was first raised by the director of the college. He has also written to the state government and labour commissioner but no action has been taken against the contractor,” he alleged.He said that a video of the contractor assaulting sanitation workers has also gone viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-trying-to-hush-up-health-department-bribery-case-senior-congress-leader-gs-bali/story-HFVypuoQri5h8d5fIaQmwI.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Documents submitted by lawyers in Pune court to be quarantined for 24-36 hrs||: The Bombay high court registrar general has ordered that legal documents submitted by lawyers in the Pune district court will be quarantined for 24 to 36 hours. The order is with reference to the legal paper documents which are deposited before the court by advocates.Similarly, the family court will keep the documents quarantined for a span of 48 hours. The quarantine directions are in line with the safety guidelines issued by the Bombay high court registrar general. The family court has also issued a notification seeking 48-hour quarantine for the new court documents.Pune bar association president Satish Mulik said, “The new documents will be kept isolated between 24 to 36 hours which is nearly two days. The high court registrar general has issued the standard operating procedure ( SOP).”According to the administrative guidelines, the principal and district sessions judge may fix a particular time slot and dedicated staff for accepting of filing of cases of urgent nature. The person other than those involved in transacting judicial working will be assigned the work.The staff will earmark the location, preferably on the ground floor for the working of filing the cases, affirmation/declaration. A mechanism might be put in place in the form of a token system giving a particular time slot for filing of such cases. It is possible that such files will be kept isolated for a reasonable period between 24 to 36 hours but not exceeding 72 hours, the order stated.Family court lawyers association president Vaishali Chandane said that an independent section has been started at the entrance of the court main gate for the court work and only one lawyer would be permitted inside the premises for filing the court petition. “After 48 hours, the documents will be processed and if there is an instance of incomplete documents, then the concerned lawyer will be informed about it, ” she said. The registrar general further stated that all advocates and staff shall observe social distancing norms, seating arrangements in court halls and the departments must be adjusted. No visitors other than advocates and parties in person whose matters are listed shall be allowed in the court premises. Similarly, the services of contractual servants, sweepers shall be monitored by a responsible officer to ensure proper upkeep of the court building and surrounding area neat and tidy as well as sanitising with disinfectants with the help of local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/documents-submitted-by-lawyers-in-pune-court-to-be-quarantined-for-24-36-hrs/story-4UfKCQjPwCfZ3SM5QWCzSL.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Kothrud’s internal roads open for public||After nearly three months, internal roads and alleys in Kothrud reopened for the public on Saturday.According to PMC assistant commissioner Sandeep Kadam, who is incharge of the Kothrud ward office, barring the containment area currently covering Shastri nagar, Postman Colony, PMC colony, Rahul Complex, Kelewadi Ganpati Mandir area and the Vitthal Mandir area, all other areas have been been opened and roads too, have been opened for vehicular movement.“We don’t need to shut areas that are free from the virus and have no cases. Only containment areas are under lockdown now,” said Kadam.Kothrud has seen, relatively, fewer number of Covid positive cases compared to other areas in the city. As of June 4, Kothrud had 23 active cases out of 46 progressive cases.The areas comprising Mhatobdhara, Sutardhara, Kishkinda nagar and Jaibhavani nagar had been facing restrictions in the aftermath of the lockdown.According to officials, on Saturday evening, a 68-year-old woman passed away at her residence in Sutardhara due to prolonged illness. However, her family faced difficulty in transportation from the house to the hospital due to a tin sheet that was blocking the opening of the lane. Nearby residents came to their rescue and forcibly removed the tin sheets. This incident prompted the administration and also the elected representatives to take up the issue on a priority basis and action was taken.PMC corporator Deepak Mankar said that the area has been under lockdown for nearly months and some residents had lost their livelihood. “They need to step out for work and keeping the area closed was not appropriate,” he said.Sandeep Waghmare, an autorickshaw driver from Sutardhara said, “We don’t have any work and with restrictions, it was difficult to step out. Despite the lockdown conditions being eased, the situation in our area and surroundings was still the same as the roads were blocked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kothrud-s-internal-roads-open-for-public/story-w9AJHu92B9EIcKzMucLqWI.html
07-06-2020||City||Reopening of temples may take little longer as HP officials await SOPs||Reopening of temples in Himachal Pradesh may take a little longer up to the second week of June as the state authorities are yet to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) and conduct training of staff for implementation of those guidelines. The Centre has allowed opening religious places from June 8— the first phase of Unlock 1.0— and SOPs in this regard were issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on June 4. However, the state is yet to come up with SOPs. Himachal Pradesh has some major Hindu shrines which are visited by lakhs of pilgrims every year from all over the country.Temples were closed for the public on March 17 to thwart the spread of novel coronavirus. “We are in no hurry to open the temples. I will hold a meeting with all the temple SDMs tomorrow in this regard,” said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati.He said that the language art and culture department of the state government will soon be issuing the guidelines to be implemented in the temple premises.Next week we are conducting the training of staff, priests, guards and shopkeepers around the temples for implementation of SOPs, he said.“So, temples may open next week or maybe after that,” said Prajapati adding that the temple trust has enough funds to pay their staff.Kangra has famous shrines including Jawalaji, Chamunda, Brajeshwari Devi, Baijnath, Mahakal and Baglamukhi. All of the temples in the district, except Baglamukhi temple, are under government control.Meanwhile, the Chintpurni Temple in Una district will also remain closed that till guidelines are issued in this regard.Local traders and the priests have hailed the district administration’s decision.The Baba Balak Nath Temple and Naina Devi shrine would also keep their doors shut.Temple tourism is an important part of the economy of Himachal Pradesh. The economy of towns like Baijnath, Jawalamukhi, Kangra remains dependent on visiting pilgrims.However, since the lockdown, the income of these temples has come to naught.Hotels to remain shut as wellMeanwhile, the hoteliers in the state have also refused to operate from Monday. They are of the view that that opening the hotels without tourists will cause them huge losses.Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association President Sanjay Sood said that there was no point in opening the hotels. “What would we earn when the tourist is not allowed in the state,” said Sood. He said that the peak season was already gone so they will keep the hotels shut.McLeodganj Hotel and Restaurant Association President Ashwini Bamba said that that they have already decided to keep the hotels shut till June 30.Private buses to remain off-roadPrivate bus operators have also refused to ply their buses. State Private Bus Operator Association’s general secretary Ramesh Kamal said that they were suffering losses as there were no passengers. He said that the government should help private operators or increase the bus fare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-of-temples-may-take-little-longer-as-hp-officials-await-sops/story-NOy56QdPwb1jmXVhRPUebJ.html
07-06-2020||City||60-year-old woman becomes Ludhiana’s 10th Covid casualty||A 60-year-old woman from Habib Gunj became the tenth Covid-19 casualty of Ludhiana district. Confirming this, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the patient was undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and died during treatment on Saturday night.She had been brought into the hospital on June 4 after she experienced a sudden fall in blood pressure. She was also found to be suffering from a chronic kidney disease and bilateral pneumonia, stated the public relations department of the hospital.The department further stated that the patient was kept in the intensive care unit (ICU) on ventilator support. Her Covid-19 test results came in on Saturday, which declared her positive for the virus. She succumbed a few hours later.THIRD DEATH IN A WEEKTwo other deaths had been witnessed in the last one week, which included an octogenarian ex-serviceman, who succumbed to the virus at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital on June 2, and a 64- year-old resident of Jalandhar, who died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on June 3.EIGHT FRESH CASES Seven more persons tested positive for the virus on Sunday evening. One of the patients is a 40-year-old woman, who is a contact of Pritpal Singh of Chhawani Mohalla, who had succumbed to the virus on May 29.An 11-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy, who tested positive, are relatives of a 54-year-old woman who was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital earlier with the coronavirus disease. An 18-year-old contact of another positive patient has also tested positive.A 48-year-old patient of Daad village is the sister of 54-year-old Covid-positive woman admitted at DMCH. A contact of the doctor couple from Khanna has also tested positive. Besides, a 40-year-old woman from Ambala, who is the sister of a patient from Khanna, has also tested positive. She won’t be counted in Ludhiana’s tally as she is a resident of Ambala.The district currently has 80 active cases, of which, seven were found on Sunday evening. The district’s tally now stands at 254, not including the patients from other states or districts who tested positive here. As many as 164 patients have been cured so far, say health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-woman-becomes-ludhiana-s-10th-covid-casualty/story-f3k6mu2HYztNBsDQRnQuLJ.html
07-06-2020||City||Diva level crossing maintenance work completed within 15 days amid lockdown||The Central Railway (CR) has recently completed the repair and maintenance of one of the busiest level crossings near Diva railway station within 15 days amid ongoing lockdown.“The maintenance and repair work including overhauling of the Diva level crossing number 29 was carried within 15 days of span during the second half of May. The maintenance work includes the repair work of the railway lines constructed through the concrete road of the level crossing,” said a senior public relations officer from Central Railway, Mumbai.According to the CR official, the maintenance work of level crossings is carried once every two years. Hence, considering the total number of railway lines at this station, the maintenance work would have needed around four to five months, but it was completed in a short time amid lockdown.“The Diva level crossing consists total eight railway lines, hence in the normal situation, completing this maintenance work would have needed around four-five months by carrying out five blocks of four to five hour each on every two lines. However, taking advantage of the lockdown, it was completed within 15 days. Simultaneously, the maintenance of level crossing number 67, between Atgaon and Asangaon section of Central line, was carried during the same span,” said CR official.The overhauling and maintenance work includes the repairing of the uneven surface of the road constructed on the railway crossing. This also consists complete renewal of sleepers, rail and fittings placed under the crossings. The repair work prevents the delay of trains, informed an official from CR, Mumbai.“The maintenance work of the level crossings was carried by a team of trackmen and supervisors of the engineering department of CR; following all the guidelines of social distancing and taking all the precautions to curb the spread of Covid-19,” added CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/diva-level-crossing-maintenance-work-completed-within-15-days-amid-lockdown/story-QU5uM6H0nH9vq7jKrXitpO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||36-year-old man injured in Friday’s hit and run dies at PGIMER||CHANDIGARH: A motorcyclist hit by a Toyota Innova near the Sector 49 petrol pump on Friday evening succumbed to his injuries on Saturday even as police continued efforts to trace the owner of the car that sped away from the spot after the accident.The deceased, 36-year-old Sukhwinder Singh of Burail Village in Sector 45, worked as a mechanic. His motorcycle was hit on the side by the Innova that eyewitnesses said was driving over the speed limit and did not slow down after the crash.Even as passers by called an ambulance and moved Sukhwinder Singh to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), he succumbed to his head injuries on Saturday.A case has been registered under sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and added 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 49 police station against the unidentified driver. Police said the car was registered at Patiala, adding that a team had gone to the registered address but could not find the car. “We have received inputs on the whereabouts of the driver and will arrest him shortly,” an official privy to the matter said.There have been 15 fatalities in 13 accidents this year. This was the second mishap after the lockdown was imposed on March 24.On May 16, an unidentified car had hit 67-year old Kaushalya while she was walking near the Gurdwara at the PGIMER Campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/36-year-old-man-injured-in-friday-s-hit-and-run-dies-at-pgimer/story-ACscD5VgPxxwgGFHMQxKHK.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer ends life after travel agent fails to return Rs 10 lakh||A 37-year-old farmer who attempted suicide at Bhaini Sahib village by consuming poison on Friday died in hospital on Saturday night. A suicide note recovered by the police said he was taking the extreme step as a travel agent who had taken Rs 10 lakh from him to help him go abroad was not returning the money.The travel agent, Gurinder Singh of Sahnewal Khurd village, was arrested following a complaint filed by the farmer’s sister.She told the police that the travel agent was a friend of her brother and had promised to arrange for a work permit for him. In 2013, after taking Rs 10 lakh from her brother, Gurinder sent him to the UK on a tourist visa, but failed to organise a work permit after he returned to India.Despite her brother’s entreaties, Gurinder refused to return the money and, upset with the developments, he took his life, she said.Assistant sub-inspector Sahib Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police had registered a case against the accused under section 306 (abetment to suicide) and efforts were being made to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-ends-life-after-travel-agent-fails-to-return-rs-10-lakh/story-8IketG5XLGYDyTN9KxkETO.html
07-06-2020||City||Rs 49 lakh looted from an ATM in Kalyan||Four unidentified persons looted Rs 49 lakh from an ATM near Kalyan railway station road. The incident came to light on Friday night when people went to use the ATM and saw the machine was open and had no cash. Mahatama Phule police, who are investigating the case, said the accused hacked the system of the machine, in a way only workers who refill the ATMs can, to loot the money.V Pansare, deputy police inspector, Mahatma Phule station, said, “ About Rs 49 lakh was looted from the ATM, without breaking it. We have called three staffers of the bank for questioning. Investigation is on.”On Friday night, when some people went in to withdraw money from the IDBI Bank ATM near the railway station, they saw the machine was open and cash was missing. They informed the bank and its officials filed a complaint.“The thieves didn’t use any gas cutter or broke the machine. They have used some codes which only money refilling teams know,” said an officer from Mahatma Phule station.The CCTV camera at the ATM was not working, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-49-lakh-looted-from-an-atm-in-kalyan/story-lCS5f6cspdUiEMkU3rhZ0O.html
07-06-2020||City||Urban internship programme to provide graduates with experiential learning opportunities: HP minister||Urban development minister Sarveen Chaudhary on Sunday said that the Union government recently launched The Urban Learning Internship Programme (TULIP) for providing internship opportunities to fresh graduates in all urban local bodies (ULBS) with a vision to equip the youth with problem-solving and critical thinking skills in India’s fast-growing urban ecosystem. She said this programme will provide a platform for fresh graduates with experiential learning opportunities in the urban sector.Chaudhary said that this would help enhance the value-to-market of state’s graduates and help create a potential talent pool in diverse fields like urban planning, transport engineering, environment, municipal finance etc. thus not only catalysing creation of prospective city managers but also talented private/ non-government sector professionals. Minister said that TULIP was a stepping-stone towards self-reliant and self-sufficient India and would immensely benefit the youth of the state. The programme will aggregate opportunities for graduates on a single platform and allow them to apply for internships in the domain of urban governance.This would lead to an infusion of fresh ideas and energy with the engagement of youth in the co-creation of solutions for solving India’s urban challenges. TULIP would also help fulfill twin goals of providing interns with the hands-on learning experience as well as infusing fresh energy and ideas in the functioning of State’s ULBs, she added.The minister said that with the objective to enhance livelihood security in urban areas by providing 120 days of guaranteed wage employment to every household in the financial year 2020-21, the state government has launched Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Yojana, as well. It would facilitate skill enhancement of persons engaged in waged labour jobs to provide them better livelihood opportunities and to set up their own enterprises by imparting entrepreneurship training as well as subsidy linked credit linkages. It would also strengthen urban infrastructure and provisioning of quality civic amenities in the urban local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/urban-internship-programme-to-provide-graduates-with-experiential-learning-opportunities-hp-minister/story-B2lttaeTdTKbzL2TSqd6xK.html
07-06-2020||City||Himachal vigilance bureau arrests Punjab firm employee in bribery case||The State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (SV&ACB) on Saturday arrested Prithvi Singh, a resident of Renuka of Sirmaur, in a bribery case involving former director of health services Dr AK Gupta.He was produced before a district court on Sunday that sent him to five-day police custody.Additional director-general of police, (vigilance and anti-corruption bureau) Anurag Garg said that Singh was arrested under the charges of offering ₹5 lakh bribe to the health director, who is currently on bail.He said that Singh was summoned to the vigilance office around 8 pm for questioning. He evaded specific queries when he was shown new evidence collected by the bureau. He was later put under arrest and was taken to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) for medical examination.Vigilance sleuths had arrested Dr Gupta on May 20 after the surfacing of an audio in which he was purportedly heard seeking a bribe of ₹5 lakh. Searches were conducted in his offices.The other person who was in conversation with Gupta in the 43-second audio clip was later identified as Prithvi Singh. The 46-year-old works as a frontman for medical equipment suppliers in Punjab and also has political links. Reportedly the middleman had been in constant touch with the health officials and is said to be close to high profile political leaders. He had made several calls to bureaucrats and the political leaders on the day vigilance sleuths arrested Gupta after his audio clip surfaced.The political snowballThe graft case had snowballed into a political row as it saw the Nahan legislator Rajeev Bindal stepping down as state BJP chief on “moral grounds”The opposition took an offensive stance against the government on the issue. There were vague accusations against Bindal in the entire episode. Later, charges of scam in the purchase of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and ventilators were also leveled.However, the government has denied all the charges and a case has been registered against the person who leveled the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-vigilance-bureau-arrests-punjab-firm-employee-in-bribery-case/story-z5ixxsBEjVUf4EzkwAWYmO.html
07-06-2020||City||No hike in power tariff in Himachal this year||In a major relief to consumers, the Himachal Pradesh Electricity Regulator Commission has decided not to increase power rates for 2020-21 in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The tariffs for various categories of consumers were released on Saturday without any hike. The tariffs will come into effect from June 1.“The commission has considered it prudent not to hike the power rate because of problems faced by people due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” said executive director Pankaj Singh Kishtwaria.The commission has determined the aggregate revenue requirement of the state electricity board for 2020-21 as ₹5,384.14 crore. For lifeline consumers, who consume 0 to 60 units, the tariff will be only ₹1 with government subsidy of ₹2.30 per unit.For others who consume 61 to 125 units, the tariff will be ₹1.55 per unit with subsidy of ₹2.40. For 126 to 300 units, consumers will be charged ₹2.95 per unit and subsidy of ₹1.90.For 301 and above units, the tariff will be ₹4.40 with government subsidy of ₹1.05. For prepaid consumers the per unit rate will be ₹2.95. As a relief for new industries coming into production after June 1, the energy charges will be 10% lower than the approved charges for three years. For the existing industries, which have undergone expansion in 2018-19 or will undergo expansion in 2020-21, energy charges will also be 10% lower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-hike-in-power-tariff-in-himachal-this-year/story-G8EahiUYxoU041KymxGT3I.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Murder accused out on bail, ends up behind bars next day for stealing||A day after being released on bail, a 20-year-old murder accused was arrested by Juhu police after he broke into three houses and stole ₹58,000 in cash and electronic appliances and equipment in Vile Parle (West).The arrested accused is identified as Raj Sakhre, a resident of Nehru Nagar, Vile Parle. Pandharinath Wavhal, senior inspector from Juhu police station, said, “The accused was released from jail on June 4, and on June 5 he broke into three houses. He did not find anything from the first two houses but found cash in the third house.”“We were working on another case and looking for a house breaking accused who had stolen valuables from Bollywood director Soham Shah’s house when we came to know about this case,” said sub-inspector Ajay Bhosle.Afterwards the police learnt from informers that Sakhre was last seen venturing in that area. Later a detection team from Juhu police station picked him on the basis of suspicion and during questioning he confessed to the crime. The police have recovered the stolen electronic equipment but are yet to recover the cash.According to the police, when Raj broke into these house there were no one was present there, but the neighbours informed the police. Due to lockdown, residents of these houses had left for their native place. As they had been quarantined in their homes by the local authority at their native places they were unable to return. In 2018, when Sakhre was a minor, he was arrested by Juhu police in connection with a murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/murder-accused-out-on-bail-ends-up-behind-bars-next-day-for-stealing/story-k2nxvRwZr2UGuZqCqUSltL.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Warje urban forest to be role model for 200 such forests across country: Javadekar||Pune’s Warje urban forest christened as ‘Smruti Van’ (memorial park) has been declared as the role model for the development of 200 urban forests across the country in the next five years, according to officials of the forest department.The urban forests will be developed under the ‘Nagar Van’ scheme with people’s participation and collaboration between the forest department, municipal bodies, NGOs, corporates and local residents. This was announced by Union environment, forest and climate change minister Prakash Javadekar on the occasion of World Environment Day on Friday in New Delhi. The environment ministry announced the scheme in 2016, but officials said it couldn’t be implemented on a large scale so far.Javadekar also released a brochure on the best practices on urban forests. He said the forests will work as lungs of the cities and will primarily be on the forest land in the city or any other vacant land offered by local urban local bodies. Spread over 25 hectares of urban wasteland in Warje, this forest is home to several species of flora and fauna and frequented by over 1,500 nature lovers on daily basis. TERRE Policy Centre, an NGO, had been instrumental in developing urban forestry at Warje as a flagship project since 2015. It is the first-ever urban forestry project in Maharashtra, undertaken in collaboration with Tata Motors and Persistent Foundation as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) partners, according to the Terre website.TERRE has planted around 9,500 plants with a height of 6-8 feet which have now grown taller.During the past few years, the dense forestry has grown widely and has enriched the biodiversity of the area. The plantation includes around 23 indigenous plant species namely banyan, peepal, sonchafa, apta, neem, kanchan, goden bamboos, Badam, Kaat, amla and umbar, among others. Visitors have found around 29 local bird species, 15 butterfly species, 10 reptile species and 3 mammal species. Inside the forest, there is a provision of two huge water resources which are filled during rainy days and later the water is used for plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/warje-urban-forest-to-be-role-model-for-200-such-forests-across-country-javadekar/story-yj0c461VGTLpAejSuH2nHL.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Cannabis farm found in Pune, drugs worth Rs 21 lakh seized||A farm of cannabis was found by the local crime branch (LCB) of Pune rural police on Friday evening. A seizure of drugs worth over Rs 21 lakh was made during the raid on the farm, according to the police. One man identified as Dattu Shankar Shinde, 47, a resident of Shinde vasti area of Girim in Daund taluka was arrested from the farm. The arrested man is suspected to be the farmer of the narcotic plant which is illegal in the country.A total of 140.1 kg of cannabis was found on the farm. A total of 173 plants were found on the farm, according to a statement issued by the LCB officials. Two sacks full of dried leaves, meant for sale, were also seized from the land. The value of the seized drugs is estimated to be Rs 21,01,500.The crime branch officials had received information about such a farm. The information was passed on to a team led by deputy superintendent of police Aishwarya Sharma of Daund division.A case under relevant sections of the narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances act, 1985 was registered at Daund police station. Police inspector Sunil Mahadik of Daund Police station is investigating the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cannabis-farm-found-in-pune-drugs-worth-rs-21-lakh-seized/story-KANuPReLR3xAstTMB6SaHO.html
07-06-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Labourers must be treated with respect, say readers||Fixed-term employment, a long-term solutionMigration is a reality. It is about states having different levels of demand-supply gaps for labourers, especially the unskilled or semi-skilled labourers that are large in numbers. There is a significant migration of labour from northern and eastern belts to the southern and western belts of India. There is also a large migration from Marathwada, Vidarbha and Konkan to Mumbai, Pune and other parts of western Maharashtra. These are all functions of intrastate and interstate regional imbalances of economic growth and there will continue to be large migrations for employment till we achieve balanced regional growth. Most labourers whether from out-of-state or from within, work as temporary workers and hence have almost no social security. A wider adoption of ‘fixed-term employment’ (FTE) contracts directly with employers as against the current practice of a labour contractor and will ensure higher social security for labourers. FTE should be acceptable to employers as it is not about taking liability for lifetime, even beyond life of business. I am all fine for calling them guest workers as against migrant workers, if that helps the cause, but I am keener to advocate for legal frameworks and safety nets that are sustainable, one example being above mentioned ‘FTE’. -Prashant GirbaneLabourers treated unfairlyWhat’s in a name? It’s how we treat them that matters. Are they being looked at as human beings or as cut pieces of lemon - to be squeezed as long as they have juice and then chucked away? If they can make a decent living in cities, why would they want to go home? Can’t we give them homes where they work? How many who built our houses have a roof over their heads?-Ravindranath ChandranMust address labourers as workersAll the labourers must be called as workers and this is the most common denomination for their recognition in the society. The central government had sanctioned and implemented the Social Security Act in 2008 and it gives crystal guidelines for considering all labourers as workers. They must be addressed as only workers and not by another identity.-Baba AdhavCitizens, not migrantsNo. I don’t agree with both the words, migrants or guests. They are the citizens of this country and that’s it.-Mahesh ZagadeNeed for sympathy towards poorKerala government has given migrant workers a lot of dignity and went out of the way in helping them in the times of crisis. This is one of the most outstanding methods of giving dignity to the working class of India. The rest of the countrymen and also the ruling class of India must learn how to respect these workers. The government is negligent to the cause of the masses and the classes. It is interested only in serving the rich class through crony capitalism. The current dispensation is against the people and anti-human nature. We need a complete overhaul of the system and need new persons who are sympathetic to the cause of the poor.-BJ Kerkar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-labourers-must-be-treated-with-respect-say-readers/story-SqwIym0ReA7lVrNv1iJFtN.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Ghatkopar blast case: 16 years on, four cops accused in alleged custodial killing of Khwaja Yunus reinstated||An assistant police inspector and three constables, who were suspended 16 years ago for the alleged custodial killing of Ghatkopar blast case suspect Khwaja Yunus, have been reinstated in service by Mumbai Police, an official said on Sunday.The four policemen, who were suspended in 2004, are facing trial on various charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, in the Yunus case.Following their reinstatement on Friday, assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and constables Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai resumed duty in the local arms unit on Saturday, while constable Rajaram Nikam was reinstated in the motor vehicles department, a police official said.Vaze, a 1990 batch police officer and an encounter specialist, was arrested in 2004 and chargesheeted in the alleged custodial killing case for concealment of facts.He resigned from the police force in November 2007.But, his resignation was rejected pending inquiry against him, the official said.Khwaja Yunus, 27, a native of Maharashtra’s Parbhani resident, was an engineer and used to work in Dubai.He was detained soon after the December 2002 Ghatkopar bomb blast case.While the police claimed Yunus escaped when he was being taken to Aurangabad for questioning, a Criminal Investigation Department (CID) inquiry ordered by the Bombay High court on a petition filed by his father earlier revealed he died in police custody.The inquiry had indicted 14 policemen, but the government sanctioned prosecution of only four - Vaze, Tiwari, Nikam and Desai - who are facing charges of murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort confession, fabricating evidence, and criminal conspiracy in the case.A prosecution witness earlier told a sessions court here that Yunus was stripped, and beaten on chest and abdomen with a belt in a lockup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ghatkopar-blast-case-16-years-on-four-cops-accused-in-alleged-custodial-killing-of-khwaja-yunus-reinstated/story-SCsA8d3D2CiMKrq2LMe4JP.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Caretaker overcomes lockdown hurdles to look after destitute infants in Pune||When the Covid-19 lockdown was clamped in Pune on March 25 along with the rest of the country, one of the establishments that was hit hard was Shreevatsa Child Care Institute which takes care of infant destitutes and abandoned babies.Located inside the premises of the government-run Sassoon General Hospital, Shreevatsa, run by the Society of Friends of Sassoon Hospital (Sofosh), had 46 infants in its custody at the time of the lockdown. Taking care of them became an issue as the lockdown hampered the movement of its 70 caretakers.That is when Shalini Suresh Wadkar a 29-year-old caretaker with Shreevatsa, decided to stay at the itself rather than go home and be away from work. She was among the 25 caretakers who stayed at the child care centre for 15 days at a stretch.Working at Shreevatsa for the last 10 years, Shalini, a mother of three children, began staying at the centre for 15 days and then going home for a week. She received full support from her family while adapting to this new, demanding schedule.However, this was not just a job for Shalini who went out of her way to care for these children.Recently when one of the new born babies had some health issues and needed to be hospitalised, this caretaker voluntarily came forward to stay with the baby in the hospital for 24 hours. “For the next one week she was with that baby in the hospital, just as a mother would have done, till it was cured and discharged. She would give me a daily report about the baby’s recovery,” said Sharmila Sayed, administration in-charge at Sofosh.About this incident Shalini said it was on May 7 that this baby was admitted to a nearby private hospital and she immediately volunteered to stay with it. “I felt it was unsafe to leave the baby alone at the hospital,” she said. On one occasion when she was not allowed to go inside the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) because she was not the mother, Shalini insisted that “she was as good as the baby’s mother and she wanted to go in like the other mothers who were being allowed inside.” Finally, the nurses relented and she was allowed.“I just wanted my baby to recover fast and bring it back home to our centre,” she said.Upon their return, both she and the baby had to stay in isolation for a week as they had returned from a hospital.“During this period I would video-call my children and speak to them,” she said.Sayed recalled that a year ago Shalini had given birth to her own baby. When she re-joined duty, she breast-fed not just her own chid but, with permission, also a premature baby at the centre.”Hailing from a lower-middle-class family, Shalini is married to an autorickshaw driver who has lost his earnings due to the lockdown. The family is now solely dependent on her income with her husband and parents taking care of her three children when she is away at the child care centre.“I have two daughters and a son at home and my family is very supportive of my work. Because of them I am able to stay at the centre and work round the clock for my other children who are at the child care centre. These children need us and we have a different bonding with them. When I am at the centre staying with them, I am completely immersed in my work as this also is my family,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/caretaker-overcomes-lockdown-hurdles-to-look-after-destitute-infants-in-pune/story-f9JnoaZHdfEmDIdOV0zOXK.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Doctor among six deaths, 275 fresh Covid cases recorded in Pune on June 6||The city, on Saturday, reported six deaths including three of those residing out of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits which also included a doctor. The city also reported 275 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 taking the count of progressive positive to 7,722. The death toll in the city is now 372. In addition, 259 were discharged on Saturday which takes the count of those cured and discharged to 4,934. Out of the 2,413 active patients in the city, 195 are critical patients. The three deaths reported of those from outside Pune includes a 66-year-old male doctor practising in Bhadgaon, Jalgaon, who was admitted at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on May 27 and was declared dead on Friday. The patient also suffered from valvular heart disease.Two of Saturday’s deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital of those from outside the city which include an 80-year-old male residing at Nilanga. The patient was admitted on May 21 and was declared dead on June 5. The patient reportedly had no comorbidity.The second death from the hospital is that of an 84-year-old male, a resident of Baramati who was admitted on June 4 and declared dead on June 5. The patient also suffered from diabetes and lung ailment.The other three deaths reported from PMC limits include a 70-year-old female residing at Mangalwar peth reported dead from KEM hospital. She was admitted on May 17 and declared dead on Friday. The patient also suffered from diabetes and hypertension, along with Covid-19.A 68-year-old female residing at Yerawada was declared dead at Sahyadri hospital. The patient was admitted on May 23 and declared dead on Saturday.A 42-year-old male from Juni Wadarwadi was reported dead at Poona Hospital on Saturday. The patient was admitted on Friday.PMC to increase testing capacityPMC will increase its testing capacity even further as Sassoon has got an automatic RNA (ribonucleic acid) extractor which will reduce testing time for each slot from hours to a few minutes.Currently, the city’s testing capacity stands at around 5400, including Sassoon, NIV, IISER and private laboratories. There are 14 private and government labs in the city which totally have a testing capacity of at least 5,400 tests per day. Dr Ramchandra Hankare, chief health officer, PMC, said, “Sassoon’s current capacity is at least 100 samples per day for PMC which will go to 200 and IISER will go up to 150 from current 100. Testing is done as per ICMR protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/doctor-among-six-deaths-275-fresh-covid-cases-recorded-in-pune-on-june-6/story-u6fhHGRIozBxR5LeeuYL9L.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP chief, party MLAs detained during protest against AAP govt||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and his party’s MLAs were detained for alleged violation of lockdown norms on Sunday after they gathered at Rajghat to protest against the AAP government over “deteriorating” healthcare services in the city. Gupta, along with 14 others, was detained for organising the protest in violation of the lockdown norms, a senior police officer said. The detained BJP leaders were taken to Rajender Nagar police station and released later. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri said the BJP will continue to protest against the AAP government over alleged deteriorating healthcare services in the national capital. “The Delhi BJP president was detained by the Delhi Police at Rajghat during a protest against the Kejriwal government for collapse of health services in Delhi,” a statement by the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-chief-party-mlas-detained-during-protest-against-aap-govt/story-ApuvH8knVsZGJ4hWYR0uXP.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Fire dept probes gas leak source in Mumbai. What we know so far||Residents in several areas of Mumbai complained of a foul smell on Saturday night, prompting the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Mumbai Fire Brigade to launch an investigation.BMC had received complaints from residents of Chembur, Mankhurd, Ghatkopar(East), Ghatkopar(West), Powai, Andheri, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli about a foul pungent odour.The civic body had earlier suspected that the smell originated from the US Vitamin Company near Indira Apartment in Govandi(East), which later spread toward Andheri and Powai. Here is what we know so far:■ The chief of the Mumbai Fire Brigade have not identified the source of the foul smell yet. ■ “We investigated the entire premises and nearby areas of US Vitamin Company but no leakage was found. We followed the exact locations of complaints given by the BMC’s disaster management control room that received the calls,” P Rahangdale, chief fire officer, said. ■ Officials said they are also looking at other possible sources of the foul smell. ■ “We are also looking into the possibility if it could be a methane build-up in drains. The investigation is on-going,” a senior officer said.■ According to preliminary information from BMC’s disaster management cell, the incident was reported at 9:53pm. ■ The gas leakage was reported at US Vitamin Company in Govandi (East).■ “Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for response if required,” the civic body tweeted.■ A fire appliance is a vehicle which assists in firefighting and other rescue operations. It is normally based on a truck chassis and weighs more than 12 tonnes.■ “All concerned agencies have been mobilised to check the source of the foul smell being complained of by several residents in the areas of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai,” the corporation added.■ BMC asked people in the areas not to panic and said that the situation is being monitored. ■ “Any one having problems due to the foul smell please put a wet towel or cloth on ur face covering nose (sic),” it tweeted.■ Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, whose party controls the BMC, also tweeted that the situation is under control. ■ “I urge all not to panic. All possible and necessary resources are mobilised,” Thackeray said.■ “With regards to the foul odour across some parts of Mumbai, as of now, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been activated with its SoPs. I appeal to all to stay indoors, not panic. Close your windows,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-dept-probes-gas-leak-source-in-mumbai-what-we-know-so-far/story-8ujsjxGbGr1pen8Jb09OJI.html
07-06-2020||Lucknow||Kanpur IG fined for not wearing mask, pays Rs 100||Inspector General of Police (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal got himself fined for not wearing a mask in public.Agarwal asked the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Barra police station, Ranjeet Singh, to fine him for stepping out without wearing a mask.The SHO made the challan and handed over a copy to the IG who paid Rs 100 as fine on the spot.Agarwal later told reporters that he had gone to Barra on Friday for inspection and had stepped out of his vehicle without a mask.“I had discussion with the subordinates, including circle officers, and later realised that I was not wearing a mask. I immediately took out my mask from my official vehicle and put it on. But I felt it was ethical to get myself fined and set an example for police and public,” he said.The state government had said that a fine of Rs 100 would be levied on those not wearing face covers in public. This was part of its measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kanpur-ig-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-pays-rs-100/story-5UomDTozMFOP3VC0jPD6AI.html
07-06-2020||Jaipur||Couple beaten to death in Rajasthan’s Dholpur over affair||A couple from Rajasthan’s Dholpur district was beaten to death by the woman’s family on Saturday because they didn’t approve of their relationship, police said on Sunday.Police said the man was the woman’s nephew and their families were against their affair.According to the complaint by the man’s family, 22-year-old Bantu Singh was sleeping in the afternoon when 20 people from the neighbouring house, carrying weapons, barged into their home.They brought Singh into the courtyard where they tied him to a tree and later got 20-year-old Anita to the spot and began thrashing the two.Lakshman Gaur, deputy inspector general of police (DIG) of Bharatpur Range, said police reached the spot after some locals informed them.“The man died. We rushed the woman to hospital but she succumbed on the way,” he said.Mridul Kachawa, the superintendent of police (SP), said one of the accused had been arrested. “The others named in the FIR are absconding. We will arrest them soon,” he added. Kachawa said the post-mortem of the bodies were completed and the last rites were conducted on Saturday night on the orders of the district collector.“Police are deployed in the village to maintain peace,” he said.Congress legislator Rohit Vohra, district collector Rakesh Jaiswal, sub-divisional officer Santosh Goyal and other senior officials also reached the spot.The district administration has instructed leaders of the Nishad community, to which the couple belonged, to stay in the village to prevent any tension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/couple-beaten-to-death-in-rajasthan-s-dholpur-over-affair/story-MnoaHXl5GWQ1KjOEXxlnAI.html
07-06-2020||Patna||Political parties gear up for upcoming Bihar Assembly polls||With Bihar Legislative Assembly elections just months away, political parties have started preparations for the impending contest. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, political quarters are taking a virtual turn and are banking on social media platforms to reach out to voters.Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to launch the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election campaign in the state virtually. The party has chosen Bihar BJP Facebook and YouTube pages for the live streaming to reach out to the people residing in the 243 Assembly segments of the state.“On June 7, Amit Shah will be addressing party workers that will be live-streamed at 60,000 booths that have internet connectivity. Regular rallies came to a halt due to the pandemic, which will be resumed now with help of digital medium,” Bihar BJP President Sanjay Jaiswal told ANI.Meanwhile, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) will observe ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ to counter Shah’s rally. Recently, Tejashwi Yadav attacked the BJP for campaigning stating, “BJP is the richest party in the country as well as in the world and “it only cares for rich people and not the poor”.Also read: RJD launches protest ahead of Amit Shah’s virtual rally in Bihar“This party (BJP) is calling migrants workers goons. We will celebrate Garib Adhikar Diwas today in protest,” said RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari while speaking to ANI.Notably, the poster war has also started in the state. The Janata Dal-United (JDU) in the morning pasted posters depicting RJD leader and former Chief Minister Lalu Prasad Yadav in jail at Income Tax and Dak Bungalow crossroads in Patna to oppose ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas.’Posters featuring Lalu Prasad Yadav and Mohammad Shahabuddin banging ‘thalis’ inside the jail. The slogans on these posters read ‘Kaidi baja raha thali, janata bajao taali’ in an apparent jibe at the two RJD leaders serving terms in prison.“Tejashwi Prisoner no 3351 (Lalu Yadav) who is lodged in Hotwar Jail will today bang the plates from the prison and people will clap today,” said Niraj Kumar of JDU and added, “Tejashwi is the king of corruption who is 8th pass. He copies Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar in politics.”BJP, JD(U) and Lok Janshakti Party are part of the NDA in Bihar and are likely to be challenged by an alliance of the RJD and the Congress besides some smaller political parties in the upcoming Assembly elections.In the 2015 Assembly Elections, the NDA was defeated by the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress. However, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar later broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered in an alliance with the BJP again after a gap of over four years. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/political-parties-gear-up-for-upcoming-bihar-assembly-polls/story-eYQeiIThHsNjsHuEEwN3DK.html
07-06-2020||Bhopal||This 5-year-old tiger who killed 2 humans to spend life in enclosures||A five-year-old tiger, who had killed at least two people before it wandered into Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra, was shifted to Van Vihar National Park in Bhopal from Kanha Tiger Reserve on Saturday, officials said.The tiger, which couldn’t be rewilded due to its instinct of returning to human habitats, may have to spend rest of its life in enclosures in Van Vihar, the officials added.“The male tiger kept in Ghorela enclosure in Kanha Tiger Reserve was brought to Van Vihar National Park, Bhopal on Saturday. As per chief wildlife conservator, Maharashtra this male tiger had killed 2 persons in Amravati district in Maharashtra in October 2018,” a release from Kamalika Mohanta, the director of Van Vihar National Park, said.“It wandered into Betul (Madhya Pradesh) in December 2018 where it was rescued from a residential area in Sarni town on December 11, 2018,” it added.Mohanta said the tiger will be displayed only the Central Zoo Authority gives its nod.The tiger has been named as Saran.L Krishnamurthy, the director of Kanha Tiger Reserve, said the tiger is originally from Chandrapur area in Maharashtra. “It had killed two to three persons on its way to Sarni from Chandrapur area. That time the Maharashtra government had ordered to capture the animal. It was captured near the thermal plant area in Sarni,” Krishnamurthy said.“We kept it for some time at Kanha Tiger Reserve and tried to rewild it by releasing it into the Satpura Tiger Reserve in 2019 but it got back to the residential area again before it was rescued again in February 2019,” he added.Officials of the forest department officials said the tiger was tranquillised in Kanha before it was shifted to Bhopal by a team of AK Jain, the assistant director at Van Vihar, and veterinarians.“The shifting was done successfully. The tiger has been put in quarantine as of now. It is fine,” Dr Atul Gupta, a veterinary doctor at Van Vihar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/this-5-year-old-tiger-who-killed-2-humans-to-spend-life-in-enclosures/story-87m86SaP8GxTuptiWp6jxK.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi borders opening from tomorrow, hotels and banquet halls to remain closed: Kejriwal||A day before nationwide relaxations come into effect, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday that hotels and banquet halls will remain closed in Delhi.He said that restaurants, malls and places of worship will open but said the government will take a call on opening banquet halls later.The chief minister also announced opening of Delhi’s borders from Monday. Also Watch | ‘Delhi govt hospitals will only cater to residents of capital’: Arvind KejriwalHe also asked people to keep following social distancing and other norms even during relaxations. “Relaxations do not mean that coronavirus disease has ended,” Kejriwal said at a press conference.“You are not doing anyone a favour by wearing mask, it’s for your own safety. I am still getting reports that people are going out without masks,” he added.He also urged senior citizens to observe extra caution, and reduce interact “even with family members” as much as possible.The chief minister said that the hospitals in Delhi will only cater to Covid-19 patients from the national capital for now. “The government hospitals in Delhi will not serve patients from other parts of the country for a few days,” said Kejriwal.The private hospitals, that offer specialised surgeries like oncology surgery transplantation etc, will remain open for all the patients.He said that this decision has been taken because experts have told him that Delhi will need 15,000 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients by end of June because of surge in the number of cases. He said that the number of patients will go up once the borders are open.Kejriwal had served a stern warning to private hospitals on Saturday, accusing some of them of lying about the number of beds they had for patients of the coronavirus disease and promising tough action against health facilities that, he said, were engaged in extortionist practices during the public health crisis.The comments came against the backdrop of a spate of reports and social media posts detailing difficulties people faced in hospital admissions.The Delhi government later issued an order making it mandatory for hospitals to admit and treat patients who were in moderate to serious condition even if Covid-19 tests hadn’t been conducted on them or test results were still awaited.“Accordingly, if found positive, then she/he shall be kept in the Covid hospital and otherwise transferred to non-Covid hospital for further management,” the order read.In the past six days (Monday to Saturday) Delhi has seen an average of 1301 new cases a day. The city’s total n Saturday night stood at 27,654 cases, 16,229 active cases, 10,664 recoveries, and 761 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-opening-from-tomorrow-hotels-and-banquet-halls-to-remain-closed-arvind-kejriwal/story-xEuiEERMIi6A02bjW7eitM.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Source of foul smell remains unidentified: Mumbai Fire Brigade||The Mumbai Fire Brigade is yet to identify the source of the foul smell, which was reported by residents in parts of the city’s eastern suburbs late on Saturday night, the department’s chief said on Sunday morning. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Saturday night received complaints from residents of Chembur, Mankhurd, Ghatkopar(East), Ghatkopar(West), Powai, Andheri, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli about a foul pungent odour, giving rise to suspicions of a gas leak.The civic body had earlier suspected that the smell originated from the US Vitamin Company near Indira Apartment in Govandi(East), which later spread toward Andheri and Powai. “We investigated the entire premises and nearby areas of US Vitamin Company but no leakage was found. We followed the exact locations of complaints given by the BMC’s disaster management control room that received the calls,” P Rahangdale, chief fire officer, said. The fire brigade had deputed 17 fire engines and senior fire officers for an investigation and searched areas in the periphery of up to 2km from the location of callers’ addresses. Its hazmat vehicle, deployed to deal with disasters related to hazardous chemicals, has also been kept on stand-by. The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Mahanagar Gas Ltd (MGL), Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers (RCF) and Mumbai police have been asked to remain on alert.Officials said they are also looking at other possible sources of the foul smell. “We are also looking into the possibility if it could be a methane build-up in drains. The investigation is on-going,” a senior officer said.The civic body’s disaster management department had received 37 complaints from 15 locations of suspected gas leakages in September last year and the fire brigade got 50. Some citizens had also reported about a suspected gas leakage to the police. However, the source of a possible leak was never detected despite investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/source-of-foul-smell-remains-unidentified-mumbai-fire-brigade/story-vl5fYCqql9PyVtLnSdIdlM.html
07-06-2020||Ranchi||Skilled workers should not sit idle, says Jharkhand’s finance minister||Concerned about dearth of work for skilled migrant workers and stagnant economy, Jharkhand planning and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday said they should go back to their workplace and resume work at the earliest.“Big cities are favourable for skilled workers and those who returned home during lockdown should go back to their workplace soon after things start normalising in order to help push the country’s economy,” he said, while stressing that they should not sit idle. About five lakh workers returned to Jharkhand during lockdown, he said, adding stress was on creating as many man-days they can under MNREGA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/skilled-workers-should-not-sit-idle-says-jharkhand-s-finance-minister/story-c93ECXn65EP57GQ99BVwRN.html
07-06-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow zoo set to reopen, no kids below 10 years allowed||A visit to the Lucknow zoo from Monday will be marked by several conditions due to the corona pandemic.R. K. Singh, Director of the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden in Lucknow, said, “Tickets will now have to be purchased online from the website and the ticket window will remain closed as a precaution to minimise human contact.”The timings for entry will also be divided into three parts with two-hour each to allow the sanitization process to take place in between the next set of visitors. The total number of persons who will be allowed entry in one time slot will be limited to 500.Apart from this, all visitors will have to undergo thermal scanning, wearing of masks has been made mandatory and only water bottles will be allowed inside the zoo.“The toy train, battery operated vehicles, food court, canteens, souvenir shop, nocturnal house and other covered areas will remain closed for the safety of the public for the time being, but the animals will be there for all to see and enjoy,” said the director.In what will be a major disappointment for children, those below 10 years will not be allowed to enter the zoo. The entry of persons above 65 years and pregnant women is also barred in the zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-zoo-set-to-reopen-no-kids-below-10-years-allowed/story-dUprnD8FiBhai2bOMGA0hO.html
07-06-2020||Ranchi||Beds to increase to 1,000 in Jamshedpur, state’s top Covid-19 hotspot||With the state’s top hotspot Jamshedpur now having 173 Covid-19 cases, East Singhbhum district has set the ball rolling to augment the number of dedicated Covid-19 beds to over 1,000. Currently, the district has a doubling rate of 3.46 per day vis a vis seven-day doubling rate of 8.53 days in Jharkhand and 15.48 days in India.“We currently have 600-700 dedicated Covid-19 beds ready but we need to have additional beds as per our strategy of testing and treating ‘as much and as early as possible.’ We have started a dedicated facility at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Hospital (MGMMCH) which was hitherto being used mostly as an isolation ward. It now has five positive patients. Tata Main Hospital (TMH) here has 600 such beds ready and we are converting the Homeopathy College into a quarantine centre as well,” Ravishankar Shukla, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner (DC), said on Saturday.“Eight more positive patients were detected on Saturday, of which six have a travel history while the other two were detected through contact tracing. They were admitted to TMH on Saturday evening,” added Shukla.The district’s tally went up to 173 after 15 cases were reported by late Friday night and eight more on Saturday. Of these, 34 have so far recovered and have been discharged from TMH. Kolhan division’s tally also went up to 214 with West Singhbhum having 21 positive patients and Seraikela-Kharsawan district having 20 patients till the time of filing this report. Three more patients were discharged in West Singhbhum on Saturday.MGMMCH superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar said on Saturday they had turned the 100-bed isolation ward into a Covid-19 ward and would create another 100-bed ward in the new building. State health minister Banna Gupta had also called for an additional 200-bed Covid-19 ward in MGMMCH recently. Apart from this, the TMH has 600 beds, Uma Hospital has 100 beds, Tata Motors Hospital and UCIL Hospital have 50 beds each. According to sources, the MGMMCH isolation ward was being shifted to Singhbhum Homeopathic College (SHC) where 50 beds were being readied for the purpose.This will be the 297th state quarantine centre in Jamshedpur which had only 11 quarantine centres on May 12 when the district saw its first two Covid-19 cases. These centres now accommodate over 6,600 suspect cases and migrants coming from different states and districts.Tata Steel general manager (GM, Medical Services) Dr Rajan Chowdhary said on Saturday that they currently have 280 dedicated beds in use to treat Covid-19 patients, while a total 600 more beds lie ready for patients. “We are currently testing 150 samples a day which will be increased to 500 a day after new RNA Extraction is installed shortly. We have tested over 3,700 samples since May 24,” he said.As per Dr Chowdhary, TMH had 166 Covid-19 patients till Friday, of which 45 have been discharged. “This includes 39 cured patients from Jamshedpur and six from Seraikela-Kharsawan. Presently, we have 107 positive patients and 73 contacts thereof, taking the total to 180 patients,” he said. Tata Motors Hospital has another nine positive patients while MGMMCH has five positive patients as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-numbers-rising-jamshedpur-to-increase-number-of-covid-beds-to-1-000/story-FS6zg5bTGJK3DV9DURww6M.html
07-06-2020||Lucknow||FIR against UP teacher who withdrew over Rs 1 crore in salary from 25 schools||An FIR has been lodged against a teacher, Anamika Shukla, who had allegedly withdrawn over Rs 1 crore in salary for over a year from 25 different schools.Shukla was allegedly working as a teacher in 25 schools for 13 months and was withdrawing salary from all of these.“Basic Education Officer has given a written complaint against the teacher Anamika Shukla. The complaint reads that she had landed the jobs through forged documents. FIR has been registered and further action will be taken,” said Atul Sharma, SP (rural) while speaking to ANI.Anjali Agarwal, Basic Siksha Adhikari (BSA), Kasganj also commented on the same and said, “A notice was sent to the teacher after we found that documents of Anamika Shukla are listed for multiple postings, following which she came to our office to submit her resignation. She has been handed over to the police.”Satish Dwivedi, Uttar Pradesh Education Minister told ANI that the government got to know about this case from the media and an investigation has been initiated into the matter.“We got info through media that a teacher has been posted at 25 places. It has been found that there have been postings at Baghpat, Aligarh, Amethi, Saharanpur, and Ambedkar Nagar using records of Anamika Shukla. An investigation is underway,” said Satish Dwivedi, Uttar Pradesh Education Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fir-against-up-teacher-who-withdrew-over-rs-1-crore-in-salary-from-25-schools/story-vpDjogV2lHZAjO2YpxUTfN.html
07-06-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt launches urban street vendor welfare programme||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday launched Street Vendor Registration Portal and “Mukhyamantri Shahri Path Vyavsayi Utthan Yojana” and transferred Rs 300 crore to urban local bodies.The Chief Minister also interacted with street vendors through video conference.“A few days ago we provided Rs 1,555 crore to 22,800 Gram Panchayats for development purpose and today’s amount has also been transferred to the accounts of urban local bodies amid the Covid-19 crisis,” the Chief Minister said. Speaking about the current Covid-19 situation in the state, Chouhan said that the number of active patients in the state was not a matter of concern.“We cannot impose lockdown for a longer time, we need to take precautions in order to stay safe. We need to revive the businesses as well,” he added. “I would like to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for starting Pradhan Mantri Path Vikreta Aatmanirbhar Nidhi Karyakram along with this Shehri Path Vyavasayi Utthan Yojana will commence in order to benefit the state’s urban businessmen under which small businessmen or vendors will be given Rs 10,000 in the form of working capital,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-govt-launches-urban-street-vendor-welfare-programme/story-GG9GCQHdhhsjahoB84bN7N.html
07-06-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police constable being treated for Covid-19 dies: Report||A constable of Kolkata Police who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a state-run hospital died Saturday, a source at the health department said.The constable, who was posted at the Shakespeare Sarani police station, succumbed late Saturday evening but the cause of his death was not stated by the health department, he said.“Whether he died of any comorbidity also needed to be checked,” the source said.On Saturday, 17 people died because of Covid-19, taking the toll in West Bengal to 311.At least 427 people have tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 7,738.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-police-constable-being-treated-for-covid-19-dies-report/story-MW3uVSXCw0s4QV4eKWGg4M.html
07-06-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee govt fudging Covid figures in Bengal, says state’s BJP chief||West Bengal BJP President Dilip Ghosh on Saturday demanded that the Mamata Banerjee government publish a “white paper” on the Covid-19 situation in state, accusing the dispensation of fudging figures and deliberately delaying test results.Ghosh told reporters that the delay in test results was fuelling suspicion of a community transmission of the virus and many persons were dying even before getting the test results.“Everyday they are issuing misleading figures to hide the real situation,” he alleged.“There are discrepancies in the official number of tests and results as the results are higher than total number of tests. They think no one will crosscheck and they will carry on with their falsehood. But at whose expense, at the expense of the common man.” He said the government is not involving Indian Council of Medical Research in the testing process and vested everything on the health department “so that the real truth doesn’t come out.” “In these circumstances, we demand the state government come out with a white paper on the total number of active Covid-19 cases, the total number of deaths caused by the virus, the total number of tests done every day, the time taken to get the results for tests - everything. If the real figures come out, we will know about the actual situation,” the MP said.Ghosh also accused Banerjee of giving conflicting figures about the total affected people in Cyclone Amphan.“Initially she said 3 lakh people were affected by the cyclone. She revised that to 5 lakh within a few days. Now she is saying the devastation affected lives of not more than 8 lakh people. This means she is raising the figure to get more central help. Why should the Centre trust her,” he asked.The BJP leader also asked what is happening to the foodgrains quota for 450 fair price ration shops, which were shut down after corruption charges were proved against these dealers. “Are the foodgrains quota for these shops being siphoned off,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-govt-fudging-covid-figures-in-bengal-says-state-s-bjp-chief/story-w4HShIpUSuCepSrgT8FyaJ.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 6 days of June were coldest in 9 years with temperature below 40 degrees||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said the first six days of June have been the coldest in the last nine years in Delhi and there is no possibility of scorching heat till the 15th of the month.Delhi, which experiences scorching temperatures in June, has got relief because of rains and storms in the area.Western Disturbance and severe cyclonic storms in the Arabian Sea have cooled Delhi’s weather to a great extent.The temperature has not even reached 40 degree Celsius even one day in the first six days of June. Whereas, the mercury usually touched above 40 degrees Celsius two to six days in the past years. According to the weather bureau, in 2019, the temperature was consistently above 40 degrees from June 1 to 6. Whereas, the temperature was recorded above 40 degree Celsius during the first five days of the month in 2018, four days in 2017, five days 2016, two days 2015, five days 2014, four days in 2013, six days 2012 and three days in 2011.Most parts of Delhi were cloudy since morning on Saturday. It was sunny in some parts of the day. The maximum temperature recorded on Saturday was 36.8 degrees at the weather centre in Safdarjung, Delhi, which is three degrees below normal. Whereas, the minimum was 24 degrees Celsius which is four degrees below normal.IMD has forecast a slightly cloudy day on Sunday as well.It says Delhi residents will get relief due to the low air pressure area being created in the Bay of Bengal. Due to this, there will be easterly winds which will bring moisture from the Bay of Bengal. Slight drizzles can occur somewhere between June 12 to 14 and, at the same time, the temperature will remain below 40 degree Celsius till June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-6-days-of-june-were-coldest-in-9-years-temperature-remained-below-40-degrees/story-FEPdkSg9TdwCCPJQGflq9H.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Only one online class a day in Chandigarh govt schools||Chandigarh Students from classes 6 to 8 in Chandigarh’s government schools will now log into only one online class a day during the Covid-19 lockdown period when institutes are closed instead of three subjects as directed earlier, the UT education department has said.“The aim is to ensure that the classes reach as many students as it possibly can,” said a department official privy to the developments on Sunday who did not wish to be named. “There are many students whose parents have just one mobile phone, that they usually have to share with their siblings,” she said.“By holding just one class a day for a stipulated time, we assume that all students can have access to it in a household,” she added.This will also limit screen exposure time, she added.The message sent to school principals informally by the office of the district education officer (DEO) Alka Mehta states that the time table to be followed for online teaching for classes 6 to 8 is: English on Sunday, science on Monday, Hindi on Tuesday. After the first weekly off on Wednesday, math will be taught on Thursday and social studies on Friday, before the second weekly off on Saturday.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education (DSE) said school studies had been adversely affected because of the extended lockdown and long vacations. “The government of India is planning to start schools in July. We have provided the required impetus to online classes by increasing the involvement of teachers,” he said.Authorities will start using school infrastructure for online mode from June15 and submit school wise opening plan through the heads, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-one-online-class-a-day-in-chandigarh-govt-schools/story-EE8chibSl15ozxSyKQQPDI.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Probe into violence unbiased, say cops||Delhi Police registered 750 different first information reports (FIRs) related to the northeast Delhi riots in February and arrested around 1,400 people, including around 620 Hindus and 683 Muslims, the department said on Saturday. The department is releasing data on the religious identity of the arrested suspects because of false reports on social media suggesting that the police probe in the riots was biased and that one community was being targeted, Delhi police spokesperson MS Randhawa said. Police also said that until Saturday morning, the department has filed charge sheets in 79 riot cases, in which 510 people were charged with offences.“The 510 persons charged include 205 Hindus and an equal number of Muslims. The cases are being probed by the local police, crime branch, and the special cell. We are releasing the data in this format because of the misinformation on social media,” said Randhawa.At least 53 people died and 400 were injured when clashes between opponents and supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act acquired a communal colour and turned into rioting between Hindus and Muslims in the northeastern parts of the city in late FebruaryThe police, in submission to the courts, have said that the riots were planned and executed by some activists of the anti-CAA group who held road blockades across the city. The riots in northeast Delhi were triggered by a clash between pro-CAA and anti-CAA groups near the Jafrabad metro station.The police’s special cell, which is probing a suspected larger conspiracy behind the riots, has arrested student leaders, members of the Jamia Coordination Committee and activists and accused them of hatching a conspiracy to start the riots.“We have sufficient evidence to show how these leaders fanned the passion of the citizens by blocking roads. We have messages that they shared, in which they are discussing that riots could break out but continued to hold protests. We are probing the conspiracy and will file a detailed charge sheet later,” said an investigating officer who requested anonymity.Meanwhile, on Saturday, during a hearing on a bail plea by former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for delivering inflammatory speeches during the anti-CAA protests, the police told the Delhi high court that speeches caused “ communal strife and promoted enmity between various religious groups.” The plea is scheduled to come up for hearing on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/probe-into-violence-unbiased-say-cops/story-nV5GOYu7WXwu7R9kiTnJUJ.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Special cell officer found dead in his car in N-W Delhi||A Delhi Police inspector, posted with the Special Cell, was found dead in his car in northwest Delhi’s Keshavpuram on Saturday morning. Senior police officers said the man had no external injuries, and his family members have so far alleged no foul play. Police said the autopsy report is awaited. Police said they received a call around 4.30 pm reporting that a man was lying unconscious in a car parked at Rampura Main Road in Keshavpuram. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said, on receiving the call, a police team reached the spot and found the man lying in the car, that bore a Haryana registration number. “He was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in an ambulance where the doctors declared him dead,” Arya said.Arya said a preliminary probe revealed that the man was a Delhi Police inspector who was posted with the Special Cell. He was a resident of Shalimar Bagh,” Arya said. “All possible angles are being looked into”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/special-cell-officer-found-dead-in-his-car-in-n-w-delhi/story-JuxA0VF2zLk0Vj1ufzZgFK.html
07-06-2020||Lucknow||One held for drawing ₹5 lakh pay from schools||The Uttar Pradesh education department has begun a massive exercise of verifying the documents of 5,000 teachers after a woman suspected to have drawn over ₹5 lakh in salary from multiple schools was arrested in Kasganj on Saturday.The suspect, who police said initially identified herself as Anamika Shukla, taught at the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) at Faridpur in Kasganj. Her alleged crime was discovered after education department authorities discovered her name appearing in more than one school.“She was arrested from the BSA (basic shiksha adhikari) office when she had arrived to resign. A case has been registered at the Soron police station in Kasganj,” said Kasganj additional superintendent of police Pavitra Mohan Tripathi. “When questioned, she said her name was Anamika Shukla but later said it was Priya Singh. These facts are being investigated to ascertain her real identity. In her appointment letter of 2018, her name is Anamika Shukla and she claimed to be a resident of Kayamganj in Farrukhabad.”The arrested woman told the press that she was working at the Faridpur school for the last 18 months. She claimed a person named Raj helped her get the job in exchange for money.Confirming the arrest, basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi on Saturday said, “Our findings suggest a sum of ₹2.31 lakh was paid to Anamika in Ambedkar Nagar, ₹1.16 lakh in Saharanpur, ₹93,530 in Aligarh and ₹68,200 in Amethi. This matter came to light after the Yogi government decided to upload details of teachers’ attendance and salary on the web portal to minimise foul practices which had been going on for several decades.”Dwivedi said the database of teachers on the Manav Sampada portal required personal records of teachers. Now, the process of verifying documents of all 5,000 teachers of KGBVs has started to check more such cases, the education department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/one-held-for-drawing-5-lakh-pay-from-schools/story-lQ9lkqWRzg2uLR826fKl8I.html
07-06-2020||City||Portions of two-storey structure in Kalyan collapse||Some portions of a 70-year-old two-storey structure near the Kalyan court fell on Saturday. No one was injured. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation shifted residents living near the building to a safe place. The building, Shree Krishna Bhojanalay, which has a hotel and residential houses, was vacant at the time of the incident. As per the KDMC, the building has been listed as extremely dangerous this year and a notice was also served to its owner to demolish it.On Saturday, around 2.15 pm, the KDMC disaster management cell was alerted about portions of the building falling.“There were five people living in another structure near the building. We asked them to shift. The building is extremely dangerous and we will soon demolish it. We had already served a notice to the building owner to demolish it before the monsoon,” said Kishor Kutade, ward officer, KDMC.“Since it rained, the structure has weakened and some of its portions of the wall fell and tilted a bit,” added Kutade.In Thane, a portion of a balcony at Gupta chawl in Gandhi Nagar, Thane, fell on Saturday. No one was injured in the incident. “The balcony on a one-storey structure at Gupta chawl probably became weak due to heavy showers for the past two days,” said an official from Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), Thane. “The chawl is near Mahatma Gandhi School, Gandhi Nagar, and has many illegal structures. The house whose balcony fell is occupied. However, the structure is not in a dangerous condition so nobody was shifted after the incident,” added the RDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/portions-of-two-storey-structure-in-kalyan-collapse/story-M6xGLakpgH4GSAdbCURafL.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Keventers CEO Sohrab Sitaram addresses online session on impact of Covid-19 on businesses at Chitkara University||Sohrab Sitaram, chief executive officer of Keventers, on Saturday addressed an online session organised by Chitkara University on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on business environment.He was speaking through Chitkara University’s Facebook page which was accessed by people from across the country. Speaking on maintaining a balance between financial viability and taking care of one’s health and protecting lives amid the Covid-19 crisis, Sitaram said, “One has to be extremely cautious while maintaining a balance between the two and everything must be done keeping in mind the best interests of those worst affected like daily wagers and other marginalised sectors.”He spoke on new normal for the hospitality industry which will take a paradigm shift owing to the new circumstances. Sitaram also spoke on the drop in the life span of new companies where average age of a company was 100 years earlier, which has now slipped to 20 years. So, frugal spending and reducing fixed costs is need of the hour, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/keventers-ceo-sohrab-sitaram-addresses-online-session-on-impact-of-covid-19-on-businesses-at-chitkara-university/story-My9GjIArs7Md4SfFQvHTpO.html
07-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records highest single-day spike of 128 cases||Navi Mumbai recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid cases with 128 new cases reported on Saturday. The total in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) jurisdiction is 2,771. The previous highest spike was 105 cases on May 11.Nine children tested positive on Saturday. One death was reported, taking the total death toll to 88. A total of 56 new Covid 19 cases were reported in Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area on Saturday. The total in the region is now 693. This is the highest ever single day spike in the region. The previous highest spike was 30 cases on May 31. Three deaths were reported in Panvel.A 32-year-old resident from New Panvel, a 56-year-old resident from Kamothe and a 93- year-old resident from Kamothe died after being infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-128-cases/story-kWPrAE5z3JnD8VBaFNzWiI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Agri ordinances not violative of federal structure: Centre||With the Punjab government targeting the Centre over an ordinance which allows barrier-free trade in the farm sector, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the ordinance would not violate the spirit of federal structure in any way.Tomar also slammed opposition parties for creating “illusions” over the minimum support price (MSP) for foodgrain and said the assured price to farmers would continue.“I want to clarify that this ordinance does not violate the spirit of the federal structure. Agriculture is a state subject but the Union government was empowered by the constitution to bring any reform related to agricultural produce. It’s a historical moment for the farmers as change in rules will end the inspector raj,” said Tomar, while addressing reporters here through videoconference.The Union minister’s statement came a day after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh dubbed the ordinance as “violative” of the federal structure. Captain had also warned that it could pave the way for disbanding the MSP regime as well as the foodgrain procurement regime, triggering unrest among the state’s farmers.The Centre on Friday notified two key ordinances to kick in agriculture reforms and help farmers trade freely and fetch better prices.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance-2020 allows barrier-free trade in agriculture produce outside the notified APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) mandis. It proposes to bar state governments from imposing taxes on sale and purchase of farm produce undertaken outside the mandis and give farmers the freedom to sell their produce at remunerative prices.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance-2020 empowers farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters through advanced agreements on pre-agreed prices.Tomar said the state’s APMC Act will stay and the states continue to collect taxes within their mandis. He said the Centre had neither intention nor tried to force any law on any state. He was reacting to Amarinder Singh’s remarks that the law was forced on Punjab.Defends Harsimrat’s statementWhen questioned over Akali Dal’s statement on these reforms, especially by Bathinda MP and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Tomar said, “The Akali Dal represents farmers and the party has all right to express all sort of feelings of the peasantry,”.The ordinances, he said, were brought after through discussions in the cabinet.“Moreover, Harisimrat has not said anything against ordinances at all. She had only reacted to questions over apprehensions on stopping the MSP system and rightly said that MSP should not be stopped. She has only cleared Centre’s position as MSP will continue,” said Tomar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/agri-ordinances-not-violative-of-federal-structure-centre/story-IMHyiqFGGfE3VB7XaB8IuK.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Over 72% of fresh Haryana cases from 3 NCR dists||Haryana’s national capital region (NCR) districts continued with the trend of throwing up big number of coronavirus cases. The three NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat made up for more than 72% of the 355 positive cases reported on Saturday, which pushed the state’s Covid count to 3,952. With 129 fresh infections and a tally of 1,345 active cases, Gurugram accounted for 50% of the total active cases in the state. 89 cases were detected in Sonepat and 39 in Faridabad. Among other districts, Rohtak reported 23 cases, followed by Palwal (19), Karnal and Yamunanagar (10 each), Kaithal (9), Fatehabad (8), Panipat (5), Hisar and Ambala (4 each), Jind (3), Kurukshetra (2) and Sirsa (1). The number of critically ill Covid-19 patients requiring ventilator and oxygen support, however, increased to 25 on Saturday. Though the medical bulletin mentioned limited cases, many district administrations logged different figures. Ten new cases of coronavirus were reported in Karnal on Saturday, taking the number of total infected people to 91 and active cases to 48. Among the patients, seven belonged to Karnal city and three were from Singh Sahab gurdwara in Nissing village. Deputy commissioner said the new patients were in contact with the infected persons. In Kaithal, nine new cases were detected. Kaithal chief medical officer Rakesh Sehl said while three patients, including two women, belonged to Panth Nagar colony of Kaithal city, four patients were from Jakholi Adda locality, one from Gamri village and another from Arjun Nagar. Four members of family besides three more people tested positive in Panipat. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said a 52-year-old man had tested positive for the virus at PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he had gone to avail treatment.Yamunanagar saw the biggest single-day spike with nine new cases. Yamunanagar civil surgeon said, “Eight members of an infected person’s family and an international traveller, who had come from Nigeria on May 2, have been found infected.”A Qatar-returnee is among four people found positive in Ambala.  Shopping malls, religious places not to open in Ggm, FaridabadHaryana government on Saturday decided to allow reopening of places of worship and shopping malls for public in the state from June 8 except in Gurugram and Faridabad districts.A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday.Hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will be reopened with generic preventive measures across the state. The timing of opening for will remain between 9am to 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-72-of-fresh-haryana-cases-from-3-ncr-dists/story-l2EJJE1Nocu7eanCpNUNDK.html
07-06-2020||City||Man, his uncle die in bike crash in Thane||A 28-year-old man and his uncle, residents of Kalwa, died after their bike crashed on the cement railing of Castle Mill flyover in Thane on Saturday.The police said Nilesh Gaikwad and his uncle Ramesh Gaikwad, 38, was sitting pillion. They were returning from Majiwada when the accident took place around 5.30pm. Senior inspector of Thane Nagar police station R Somawamshi said, “The man was not wearing a helmet and he was speeding. While taking a turn on the bridge, the two-wheeler skidded and crashed on the bridge railing. They fell and died on the spot.”He added that they will register a case against Nilesh who was riding the bike and was speeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-his-uncle-die-in-bike-crash-in-thane/story-IPbdnylc9ErROXhdaw9OJN.html
07-06-2020||City||Ghatkopar man jumps from Vashi bridge, rescued||A 40-year-old man, who jumped into the Vashi creek on Saturday, was rescued by the police and a local fisherman. The police said the man was angry over a personal family matter.The police said the man lives in Chirag Nagar area of Ghatkopar and came to the bridge in an auto.“Around 12.45pm, we received information that a man had jumped into the Vashi creek. A constable and a sub-inspector rushed to the spot. They sought help from the local fisherman, Mahendra Koli, and pulled him out,” said Sanjeev Dhumal, senior inspector from Vashi police station.Koli took his boat near the drowning man and pulled him out, said police.He told the police that he was angry over a family problem.After counselling him, the police called his younger brother, who came to take him home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghatkopar-man-jumps-from-vashi-bridge-rescued/story-iCq5iUkthUJeVYcMtkpnZM.html
07-06-2020||City||Kalyan Covid count nears 1,500 mark||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 71 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll of positive cases to 1,453. Three deaths due to the infection were reported on Saturday, taking the death toll to 37.The three are senior citizens. A 73-year-old man from Dombivli (East) had fever since May 22. He was admitted to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli and shifted to Neon Covid hospital on May 26. He tested positive on May 27 and he died on May 29.“He was suffering from hypertension and had high fever. Although he tested positive last week, we had to wait for his report to declare it as Covid death,” said a KDMC official. A 72-year-old man from Dombivli (East), who was admitted to Shastrinagar hospital on May 31, died on June 2. His test report came on June 6 and he tested positive. The third death is of a 60-year-old man from Dombivli (West) who was also admitted to Shastrinagar hospital on June 1. He died the next day and his test report came on Friday.KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has appealed to residents to call up helpline numbers 0251-2211373 and 0251-2201168 if they need an ambulance for a Covid patient.“The civic body health officers will take care of the requirement, co-ordinate and send the ambulances,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-covid-count-nears-1-500-mark/story-o8FtyV53t42Hn6mC5OrxVM.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nobody from AAP in touch with Sidhu, says Bhagwant Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Bhagwant Mann on Saturday asserted nobody from his party was in touch with Navjot Singh Sidhu and asked the Congress MLA to clear his stand on the reports saying poll strategist Prashant Kishor approached him to take him into AAP. On Friday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said Kishor has denied to him he was in any discussion with Sidhu to take him into Aam Aadmi Party ahead of the 2022 state polls. Mann said “Sidhu Sahib” should clarify his position on the issue. “He can clarify on his ‘Jittega Punjab’ (YouTube channel),” said Mann, replying to a question on Sidhu during a press conference here. “We have already clarified that neither any of our leaders in Delhi had communicated with him (Sidhu), nor we had communicated with him,” said Mann. However, the Sangrur MP said AAP will welcome anyone who comes to it without any condition and is committed to work for the state. Sidhu, who had been at the loggerheads with Amarinder, had resigned last year as a minister after he was stripped off key portfolios in a cabinet reshuffle. He has stayed away from the media since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nobody-from-aap-in-touch-with-sidhu-says-bhagwant-mann/story-7jDuiVQ6E1g2wgI3lURa6O.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet ladder hits parked IndiGo aircraft amid gusty winds||A SpiceJet ladder hit the wing of an IndiGo aircraft in the apron area at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Saturday morning when the city received heavy rainfall with gusty winds for an hour. IndiGo spokesperson confirmed the incident and said, “This incident occurred at Mumbai airport early this morning. A stepladder belonging to SpiceJet got detached from its parked position and damaged a stationary aircraft belonging to IndiGo. The incident is under investigation by relevant authorities.” The ladder rammed into the wing of the aircraft damaging its engine’s cowling. A SpiceJet official said that its step ladder was parked on stand C87 (where one of their aircraft VT-SLA was parked) at the Mumbai airport and an IndiGo aircraft was parked on stand C86. “In the morning around 7.30 am, sudden strong winds picked up. There was no prior weather warning or advisory. SpiceJet stepladder, which was well secured and with chocks in place, was moved backwards and hit the Indigo aircraft on its right wing,” SpiceJet spokesperson said. Meanwhile the nose wheel of another aircraft from Air India’s fleet swang due to strong winds. The aircraft was parked at a hangar. “Due to strong gusty winds the nose wheel of an AIXL aircraft VT-AXW parked in the Air India NEC swang to the right around 6.30 to 6.45. Damage is being accessed by the structural engineer. No injuries to any personnel or any other damage to aircraft was reported,” said the airline spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-ladder-hits-parked-indigo-aircraft-amid-with-gusty-winds/story-iC2tR2lCIQnpRRaEns6GMK.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||17,000 trees to be axed in Bathinda, Muktsar for widening NH-7||The already semi-arid south Malwa region is set to lose over 17,000 trees over the next few months for the widening of 38-km Bathinda-Fazilka stretch of the national highway number 7 to four-lane. Part of the Centre’s ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’, the highway further connects to Sriganganagar in Rajasthan.Bathinda divisional forest officer Swaran Singh said, “The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change granted permission to cut trees on May 13. The process to pull down the trees is expected to begin by June-end. Afforestation will be done as per the environment compensation protocol.”For the project, around 77.4 hectare land will be cleared in Bathinda and Muktsar forest divisions in the next few weeks. Bathinda will lose 7,133 trees and 393 bamboo plants, while Muktsar will lose 5,910 trees and 3,900 bamboo plants.According to the plan that the National Highways Authority of India has formulated, a distance 107-km between Bathinda and Fazilka will be strengthened and widened. Of this, the Union environment ministry has granted permission to upgrade the Bathinda-Malout (Muktsar district) section measuring 38-km. Sources in the state forest department said the south Malwa region may lose even more forest cover, as permission to cut trees from Malout to Abohar in Fazilka district for the widening of the same highway is also under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-000-trees-to-be-axed-in-bathinda-muktsar-for-widening-nh-7/story-gmYpvacluRozKevgY2BkkK.html
07-06-2020||City||Residents in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs complain of gas leak||Late on Saturday evening, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received complaints of suspected gas leakage from several residents in Ghatkopar, Powai, Vikhroli and Chembur after foul smell emanated in the eastern suburbs. According to preliminary information by BMC’s disaster management cell, the leakage was reported at a firm in Govandi (East) at 9.53pm. However, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the source is not confirmed yet. “We are still investigating the case,” Prabhat Rahangdale of MFB said. Earlier, taking cognisance of complaints by residents, BMC in a tweet, stated, “We have received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai. The fire brigade is checking and we will update facts soon.”State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray also took to social media to update on the situation. “We’ve got tweeted to about foul smell in Chembur and Chandivali. The @mybmc (BMC) disaster control room is locating the source and the Mumbai Fire Brigade is operating as per SoPs. Shall update as soon as source is located,” Thackeray tweeted.Last year in September, the civic body’s disaster management department had received 37 complaints from 15 locations of suspected gas leakages, while the MFB got 50 plaints. Some citizens had also reported about a suspected gas leakage to the police. However, despite investigations, the source of a possible leak was never detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-in-mumbai-s-eastern-suburbs-complain-of-gas-leak/story-tmICwvtAXy5ShrDMxfb8zJ.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||City’s second bout of heavy pre-monsoon showers uproots trees, floods roads again||From Monday, only 30 passengers will be allowed, with a maximum of five standing, in a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus as it restarts operations — the first public transport system in the city to resume services after remaining shut for three months owing to the pandemic. The administration said social-distancing will be strictly followedBEST is the second-largest mass transport system in Mumbai after the suburban train network and ferries 30 lakh commuters daily. It had shut services after the lockdown was announced, although a few buses were plying for ferrying staffers in essential services. From Monday, it resumes operation with restrictions in view of the Covid-19 outbreakThe normal sitting capacity of a BEST bus is 54 passengers. The 30 passengers allowed to board a BEST bus from Monday will include 25 sitting and five standing. One passenger each will be allowed to sit on the left and right sides of the bus. The second seat will be kept vacant. BEST has a fleet of 3,500 buses.Initially, the administration has stated that nearly 2,000 buses will be introduced and later approximately 300 buses will be added every week after checking the increase in number of passengers. “30 people will be allowed to commute in one bus. A proportionate number of people will be allowed to commute in double deckers and mini buses. The buses will be operational throughout the city,” said Manoj Varade, BEST spokesperson.Transport experts have, however, pointed out that there is a possibility of social-distancing norms not being adhered to in the buses and have asked the administration to bring in school buses. During morning and evening peak hours, BEST buses are often jam-packed. “There are chances of crowding in buses and social distancing norms not being adhered to. There are 6,000 school buses kept idle, which should be introduced along with BEST buses. The presence of buses on the road should be felt.” said transport expert Ashok Datar. Meanwhile, suburban trains will remain shut. There are no plans to start local trains in the city immediately. More than 80 lakh passengers travel by local trains every day. “There has been no discussion or plan on resuming local train services in the city as of now. It can be risky to commence local trains due to the easy spread of coronavirus,” said a railways official.The BEST had earlier commenced its bus services for transporting essential workers in the city. 1,800 buses were being operated daily for transport of essential workers in the city. Later, BEST air-conditioned (AC) minibuses were also converted into ambulances for transporting patients in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-second-bout-of-heavy-pre-monsoon-showers-uproots-trees-floods-roads-again/story-ehAk47c7TsjDo61lcIcKjJ.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Only 30 passengers in BEST’s ‘social distance’ mode||From Monday, only 30 passengers will be allowed, with a maximum of five standing, in a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus as it restarts operations — the first public transport system in the city to resume services after remaining shut for three months owing to the pandemic. The administration said social-distancing will be strictly followedBEST is the second-largest mass transport system in Mumbai after the suburban train network and ferries 30 lakh commuters daily. It had shut services after the lockdown was announced, although a few buses were plying for ferrying staffers in essential services. From Monday, it resumes operation with restrictions in view of the Covid-19 outbreakThe normal sitting capacity of a BEST bus is 54 passengers. The 30 passengers allowed to board a BEST bus from Monday will include 25 sitting and five standing. One passenger each will be allowed to sit on the left and right sides of the bus. The second seat will be kept vacant. BEST has a fleet of 3,500 buses.Initially, the administration has stated that nearly 2,000 buses will be introduced and later approximately 300 buses will be added every week after checking the increase in number of passengers. “30 people will be allowed to commute in one bus. A proportionate number of people will be allowed to commute in double deckers and mini buses. The buses will be operational throughout the city,” said Manoj Varade, BEST spokesperson.Transport experts have, however, pointed out that there is a possibility of social-distancing norms not being adhered to in the buses and have asked the administration to bring in school buses. During morning and evening peak hours, BEST buses are often jam-packed. “There are chances of crowding in buses and social distancing norms not being adhered to. There are 6,000 school buses kept idle, which should be introduced along with BEST buses. The presence of buses on the road should be felt.” said transport expert Ashok Datar. Meanwhile, suburban trains will remain shut. There are no plans to start local trains in the city immediately. More than 80 lakh passengers travel by local trains every day. “There has been no discussion or plan on resuming local train services in the city as of now. It can be risky to commence local trains due to the easy spread of coronavirus,” said a railways official.The BEST had earlier commenced its bus services for transporting essential workers in the city. 1,800 buses were being operated daily for transport of essential workers in the city. Later, BEST air-conditioned (AC) minibuses were also converted into ambulances for transporting patients in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-30-passengers-in-best-s-social-distance-mode/story-k6jUYcMpuXaZrCjm9KjLdJ.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||BEST to resume bus ops from Monday; Covid tally is 82,968||The state on Saturday reported 2,739 new Covid-19 cases and 120 more deaths, taking the tally and toll to 82,968 and 2,969 respectively, as the government moved towards easing curbs in a graded manner, which includes BEST resuming bus operations, albeit with restrictions, in the city from Monday — around three months after it was shut owing to the pandemic. The state expects the coronavirus curve to start flattening within the next 10 days.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that the government will procure 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injections for critical patients. Mumbai, the worst-affected Indian city, saw 1,274 more cases, taking its count to 47,354, while the toll rose to 1,577 with 58 more deaths. The state’s recovery rate improved to 45.06% as 37,390 infected people have been discharged so far. A total of 2,234 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The fatality rate slightly increased to 3.57% as the past five days have seen an average of more than 100 deaths reported per day. The state health department has, however, clarified that only 30 deaths happened in the past two days, while the remaining 90 casualties are from the May 3 to June 3. The state government has started rolling out its Mission Begin Again from Wednesday by extending more relaxations in a phase-wise manner. After allowing travelling within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and opening of shops on odd-even basis early this week, private offices will start operating at 10% of their total staff strength from Monday. The state government expects an initial surge in cases in the wake of these relaxations, but it is also hopeful about a downward trend in the next ten days. Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads a task-force of 11 doctors constituted by the government for the clinical management of critically ill patients, said a flattening of the curve is expected by June 17. “I look at Wuhan where the flattening of the curve was witnessed on the 72nd or 76th day of the lockdown, and by that parameter, we expect it in the next ten days. We also expect herd immunity to develop among people in the next few days. There will be a rise in cases over the next ten days in Mumbai owing to the resumption of activities. There is no doubt that there would be a surge, but there is no need to worry as the infrastructure is ready to cope with the surge,” he said. State health officials say that Mumbai is expected to take ten days more than Wuhan due to the high density of population and hence they expect the downward trend by June 15. According to the officials from the state government, authorities have been directed to tighten curbs in containment zones and at the same time improve health infrastructure at the local level. “There will be a rise in Covid-19 cases over the next few days after the beginning of relaxations in the lockdown. Like the surge witnessed in districts such as Osamanabad, Beed, Parbhani, there will be a rise in cases in the red zones over the next week. The authorities have been asked to brace for complete tracing in 24 hours after a patient is reported. Most of the cases reported in the rural parts and semi-urban areas are patients who are travelling from big cities such as Mumbai and Pune. The authorities have been directed to monitor the influx minutely to contain the spread from these travellers,” an official, who did not want to be quoted, said.Dr Oak said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been requested to begin medical camps in densely populated areas from Sunday to trace vulnerable people at the early stage. He said this would help them in keeping the number of Covid-19 cases in check.Tope announced on Saturday that the state government will procure 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injection. “The injection proved effective against SARS infection and is expected to be beneficial for coronavirus too as suggested by the World Health Organisation (WHO). We have decided to purchase 10,000 vials of the injection from the Corporate Social Responsibility fund of corporate houses,” he said. “GoM to procure 10k vials of Remdesivir. Based on evidence from Laboratory, animal and clinical studies, It has generated promising results in MERS-CoV and SARS, which are also caused by coronavirus,” Tope tweeted. The injection, which is expensive, is being used by some Covid-19 patients who can afford it. Tope said that the state government will finalise standard operation procedure for the use of injections for general patients. Of the 120 deaths reported on Saturday, 90 were from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 58 in Mumbai, 10 in Thane and six each in Ulhasnagar and Navi Mumbai. Ten were in Pune and five each in Satara, Nashik and Mira-Bhayander. 53 of the people who died were above 60 years of age and 69 of them had comorbidities . The state now has 85 testing laboratories functional, including 38 private labs. 14,178 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 19.31%. State has 3,603 containment zones, which have greater curbs of lockdown in place, while 18,422 surveillance teams ensure tracing of contacts. Currently, 5,46,566 people are under home quarantine.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar warned private hospitals with strict action against negligence in treating infected patients. He has directed authorities to take strict action against the hospital administration for unethical practices and appoint senior officials for the coordination.Tope also hinted that the fall in coronavirus tests is expected after the committee of the state medical officers appointed for the fixation of the rate submits its report. He said that since the kits required for the tests are now available in the domestic market, the charges of the test need to be looked into again. The state health department issued a notification on Saturday, allowing home quarantine for Covid-19 patients with no or very mild symptoms. The norm ,which was applicable in Mumbai, has now been allowed across the state. Patients with adequate facilities for home isolation will be allowed to home quarantine for 17 days from the sample taken for the test. Dedicated caretaker for such a patient has been made mandatory. The notification has also issued guidelines for such home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-to-resume-bus-ops-from-monday-covid-tally-is-82-968/story-OFGQeXVdzSwba49i9d8j5O.html
07-06-2020||City||Cyclone Nisarga: Turtle nesting sites along Ratnagiri witnessed severe damages, says forest department||Beaches designated as turtle nesting sites along Ratnagiri – south of Raigad district – have witnessed severe damages owing to the cyclone that brushed past the district, the mangrove cell of the Maharashtra forest department has said. Beaches such as Velas, Anjarle, Kelshi, Gaonkhadi, Dabhol, as well as those in Mandangad and Dapoli, have all witnessed tree fall incidents. “We had been lucky that the entire nesting season was over before the cyclone made landfall north of Ratnagiri. However, each beach has witnessed at least 50 tree fall incidents, and this has damaged most of the sheds and artificial structures we had made to protect the nesting sites. A report is being prepared on the total extent of damages, which will be ready by next week,” said Ramakant Bhawar, divisional forest officer (Ratnagiri).Before the cyclone, around 600 locals, each from Velas and Anjarle alone, were evacuated and relocated to villages away from the coast for a couple of days. “While we were safe, there was damage to our properties. The restoration process is underway,” said Mohan Upadhyay, a resident of Velas.Meanwhile, an Indian Ocean humpback dolphin had washed ashore at Undi beach, Jaigad in Ratnagiri on Saturday. The local fishing community managed to rescue the mammal and ensure its safe release into the sea. “There have not been any cases of marine animal stranding cases post the cyclone,” said Bhawar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-turtle-nesting-sites-along-ratnagiri-witnessed-severe-damages-says-forest-department/story-f5nrg1BefkDb8uri9Fkt0K.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 72 fresh cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 72 new coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 2,630‬. In Amritsar, 28 people tested positive for the virus. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said: “Eight are community transmission cases. The 20 other patients are close contacts of Covid patients. With this, the district’s tally has reached 468 cases of which 344 have recovered. The district has reported eight deaths so far.”PREGNANT WOMAN AMONG 4 POSITIVE IN PATHANKOTPathankot senior medical officer Dr Bhupinder Singh said, “Four more residents of Pathankot tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. A pregnant woman had gone to Ranjit Sagar Dam Hospital for her routine check-up where she tested positive.”10 NEW CASES IN JALANDHARHealth officials said 10 persons, including five women and three minors, tested positive for the vius in Jalandhar of virus infection. Officials said 9,922 samples have been taken of which 8,827 tested negative while results of 630 are still awaited.Five persons with travel history tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur. Health officials said of these, two patients belong to Malerkotla town and the others from Sangrur villages. 2 COPS AMONG 5 TEST POSITIVE IN FARIDKOTFive persons, including two cops tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot district on Saturday, with this district tally has reached 71. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that a 25-year-old woman of Tehnan village, an assistant sub-inspector and a constable of Punjab police and two other persons were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot after they tested positive. A combine operator, who returned from Odisha on June 3, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga. Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said the person belonged to Dadahoor village in Moga district and was home quarantined upon his return. TWO DELHI-RETURNEES TEST POSITIVE Two Delhi-returnees tested positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda and Fazilka districts on Saturday.District authorities said both patients were in home quarantine since their arrival to their respective places. One patient belongs to Maur in Bathinda whereas the 64-year-old woman is a resident of Jalalabad in Fazilka. Both are being treated at government hospitals.COP TESTS POSITIVE IN BARNALAA constable, 30, with Mehal Kalan police station has tested positive for coronavirus in Barnala. He had come in contact with a Malerkotla-based chemist arrested by police recently on charges of drug peddling.Seven more persons, including a family of five, have tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala.Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a Rajpura family residing near Mati Das Gurdwara recently returned from New Delhi.The other patients include 46-year-old returnee from Kuwait and 26-year-old youth from Shergarh village in Patran sub-division.Meanwhile, 16 persons tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana. While 13 belong to Ludhiana, the other three are from Amritsar, Fazilka and Delhi. Among the 13 patients tested positive from Ludhiana, four are expecting mothers and three are staff members of DMC hospital.(Inputs from Patiala, Sangrur, Faridkot, Bathinda, Fazilka and Moga, Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-72-fresh-cases/story-m6n4LlOE8i4EMyHIaavSSI.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: 23 of 25 structures in Pune village damaged||Twenty-three of the 25 structures at the Udaywadi village near Rajmachi Fort in Pune district have been damaged owing to Cyclone Nisarga, residents have said. One structure – a government building made of concrete – survived high speed winds, while the other that did not sustain any damage was a house which had four layers of tin, making it difficult for the combined sheets to fly off. “The rest of the village is brutally damaged,” said Rangnath Vare, a resident of the village who teaches in a Lonavala college. “While there were high speed winds through the day, the main impact was felt around 3pm on Wednesday, when most of the structures lost their rooftop and even utensils or metal doors went flying.”The local tehsildar had come to inspect the damages at the site on Friday. “We had been told that help will be provided by Monday. Another village, less than 300 metres from ours, did not witness this much damage. It seems that the system would have passed over this particular region before weakening,” added Vare. Three casualties were reported in Pune district over the past three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cyclone-nisarga-23-of-25-structures-in-pune-village-damaged/story-FIVH6HKjj52hx5aNcJ4SiP.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Three days on, rescuers finally reach landfall site Shrivardhan||Three days after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall, teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and local administration on Saturday finally reached Shrivardhan taluka in Raigad district, which was the most affected along the Maharashtra coast.On Wednesday, around 12.15pm, Nisarga made landfall at Diveagar located, 21 km north of Shrivardhan and left a trail of destruction within a 100-kilometre (km) radius north and south of the landfall site. Raigad’s district collector Nidhi Choudhari said rescue teams from other parts of the district had been directed to Shrivardhan. “The scale of damage in this taluka is very high. We have still not received reports from all affected villages yet. We are sending teams from rest of the district to Shrivardhan. Three NDRF teams from Murud and Alibag are on their way as well. A 60-member damage assessment team from Uran, Karjat, and Panvel tehsils have additionally been deployed for Shrivardhan,” said Choudhari.A few Shrivardhan residents managed to inform the district headquarters in Alibag on Saturday morning of the scale of damages. “On Friday late evening, NDRF teams cleared trees and electric poles from the Mhasala Bypass road that connects Shrivardhan taluka to other northern talukas in the district. That is how we reached Alibag on Saturday,” said Siddhesh Raut, resident of Arati village in Shrivardhan. “Large beach-facing hotels have lost their rooftops and windows were blown away. It will take us months to recuperate.”“Relief and rehabilitation work are underway after all roads leading to Shrivardhan were cleared of fallen trees,” said Mahesh Kumar, inspector, NDRF.Kedar Wani, resident of Shrivardhan city said electric poles, trees and structures across Shrivardhan city, Harihareshwar, Bagmandla, Kolmandale, Puradure, Dighi, Kondvil, Diveagar, Nanavali, Shekhadi, Arati, Borli, and Bharadkhol suffered maximum damage. “We have been without electricity and no communication for 72 hours since the cyclone. Almost 97% of major structures that had tin roofs have either been damaged or do not have a roof at all. Only those with strong foundation and concrete rooftops have survived. However, some of those have also had trees falling on them,” said Wani.So far, two deaths have been reported in Raigad district and two in Pune. Of these, one was of a 15-year-old boy who fell under a collapsed wall in Nigdi village. “There may be more cases in remote villages, but since there is no connectivity, critical information is not being transmitted to local authorities,” said Wani.Sarfaraz Darzi, a resident of Borli village, said, “Owing to maximum houses having no rooftops and sporadic showers at least three to four times a day, furniture and all other household items are being destroyed. Some houses were flooded post the cyclone. On top of this there is no electricity.”Preliminary assessment of damages from the cyclone across eight of 15 tehsils in the district showed over 5 lakh structures were partially damaged, 1.10 lakh tree fall incidents, over 2,200 power lines affected and close to 500 network towers destroyed. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced an immediate relief package of Rs 100 crore for the district.“Our property damage assessment work will be completed by Monday, and the relief amount declared by the CM will be used on priority towards property damages,” said Choudhari.Meanwhile, for the third day in a row, several areas did not have electricity. “We have been informed by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited that all efforts are underway to restore power across the district within four to five days while some areas have begun receiving mobile network. It is expected to be completely restored by next week,” said Manoj Sanap, district information officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-three-days-on-rescuers-finally-reach-landfall-site-shrivardhan/story-leQ9XTWt0MW2pvcnSQzrKP.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab set to launch door-to-door campaign to screen all residents||With a view to containing the spread of the coronavirus, the Punjab health department is all set to launch a door-to-door campaign to medically screen all residents in the state for the disease as part of a community surveillance project.To start with, the department will launch the programme in Patiala and Mohali most likely on Monday, followed by the rest of the districts by the next week. “The department will prepare a detailed data on co-morbidities of the residents. The project will in finding whether the community transmission stage has started in the state or not. The accredited social health activists (ASHAs), along with officials of the health department and administration in every district will conduct the survey. They will record the health-related data of each resident. Those found symptomatic will be tested for Covid-19,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.“This will help us provide timely treatment to those infected as well check the further spread of the disease. The health officials will update the data of residents aged above 30 on a new web portal which has been named as ‘house to house surveillance’,” he added.The web portal, Dr Bhaskar said, is ready and assessment is going on in Patiala and Mohali to check its functioning. “The civil surgeons of all the districts have been told to keep their surveillance teams ready. The health teams will be equipped with equipment and protection gears,” he informed. Amritsar admn started drive in April, stopped midwayThe already undergoing door-to-door screening initiative of the Amritsar administration, the health department and the municipal corporation has come to a halt.Over 53,867 residents of Sultanwind Road and Krishna Nagar localities were screened in three days after the project was its launch on April 12. In the next step, screening of those living in the walled city was to be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-set-to-launch-door-to-door-campaign-to-screen-all-residents/story-wlYb304ykm9fg6jSfJOTOM.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Hindustan Unilever donates 74,328 testing kits||Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) has donated 74,328 RT-PCR Covid-19 testing kits worth ₹13 crore across the country. Of these, the Maharashtra government has received around 28,800 kits. Additionally, the Indian Council of Medical Research received 20,160 kits, Metropolis Labs received 8,088, and Apollo Hospitals got 17,280. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and MD, HUL, said, “Sufficient supply of testing kits and other medical equipment will help frontline warriors competently tackle the Covid-19 virus. This will not only allow for free testing in critical regions, but also accelerate the process of testing asymptomatic patients, supplementing government efforts to flatten the curve and arrest the spread of the pandemic in the country.” Earlier, the company had donated 29 ventilators worth ₹3 crore to government hospitals in Maharashtra, and 5,000 sets of PPE, 20,000 N95 masks, 2,00,000 gloves, 112 pulse oximeters and 28 oxygen concentrators worth ₹2 crore to the Maharashtra public health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hindustan-unilever-donates-74-328-testing-kits/story-muR6sRxUopTWhLx5MdRK9L.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||25-year-old breaks into Bollywood director’s house, arrested||A 25-year-old man who broke into the house of Bollywood director Soham Shah and stole two mobile phones and cash on May 26 was arrested from Vile Parle on Saturday.The accused identified as Prem Lognathan Devendra was identified on the basis of a tattoo on his left hand that a CCTV had captured while he and his accomplice, 24-year-old Arjun Sureshbabu Devendra, were entering the building in the wee hours when everyone including the security guards of the building were sleeping.Complainant Soham Shah, who directed movies like Kaal and Luck, said, “CCTV images show that the accused climbed the scaffolding arranged around the building to colour the walls and entered the fourth-floor bedroom of my flat. I was sleeping in the next bedroom. They picked up two cellphones and some cash kept in the drawer.”Pandharinath Wavhal, senior police inspector at Juhu police station, said, “After scanning the CCTV footages of the building, we noticed two burglars entering and exiting from Shah’s building. They were wearing masks on their face but one of the accused had a tattoo inscribed on his left hand with a name “Malika”. On the basis of this clue, API Ganesh Todkar, PSI Ajay Bhosle and their team searched the accused and found him from Indira Nagar in Vile Parle.”“We are looking for Arjun Sureshbabu Devendra,” said Wavhal.Wavhal said there were five previous cases of chain snatching, robbery, housebreaking and theft registered against Prem while Arjun had four cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-year-old-breaks-into-bollywood-director-s-house-arrested/story-m4OuE943aBwkQPPL0PjrDJ.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Continue wheat procurement till June 30, Hooda urges Haryana govt||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday said the decision of the BJP-JJP government to stop the procurement of wheat and other crops was not in the interest of farmers. Hooda said since the government had assured to continue the purchase till June 30, the commitment should be honoured. The leader of the opposition in a statement said farmers should get more time to sell their crops in line with the schedule announced by the government. “I urge the government to show a sense of urgency in lifting crops from market yards and make payments to the farmers instead of closing the purchase process three weeks ahead of the schedule. About 17 lakh MT of wheat is yet to be lifted from the markets,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/continue-wheat-procurement-till-june-30-hooda-urges-haryana-govt/story-5w0RfOgTlI1apiL3bdGMWL.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra farmers hold protest against ‘pick and choose formula’ of procurement||Agitated over delay in the procurement of sunflower seeds, Kurukshetra farmers on Saturday staged a dharna at the marketing committee office in Shahbad. They accused the officials of adopting ‘pick and choose formula’ and giving preference to the farmers known to them while buying the produce. As per the schedule, 100 farmers are allowed to sell their crop daily, but the protesters alleged that the officials did not prepare any chart to choose the farmers. They (officials) had been randomly calling the farmers known to them, claimed Rakesh Bains, a farmers’ leader. Mandi officials, however, accepted their demand of selecting the farmers by alphabetically arranging the names of their villages, following which, the protesters lifted their dharna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kurukshetra-farmers-hold-protest-against-pick-and-choose-formula-of-procurement/story-XdRyc8nQCtFc5G5gDSI0SI.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||IAS officers to address complaints about private hospitals in Mumbai||To ensure that private hospitals regulate their management, increase accountability, streamline bed management, and not overcharge patients or deny admission, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tasked five IAS-level bureaucrats to oversee 35 private hospitals in Mumbai, alongside two municipal auditors per hospital. Citizens who face problems at any private hospital can now complain to these assigned IAS officers via email. The complaints will be investigated by the IAS officers, and if found to be true, action will be taken against the owner or trustee of the hospital. The officers will ensure that charges for patients for 80% of the beds are levied as per government norms. They are also expected to ensure patients are discharged as per government policy; availability of beds is updated on the BMC dashboard in real-time; hospitals do not deny admission to symptomatic suspected or positive patients; and are not admitting asymptomatic patients. Any discrepancy will need to be brought to the attention of the BMC control room and municipal commissioner.IAS officers in-chargeDeputy secretary of VJ/NT, Madan Nagargoje: covid19nodal1@mcgm.gov.inBombay HospitalSaifee HospitalJaslok HospitalBreach candy HospitalHN Reliance HospitalBhatia HospitalConwest Manjula S Badani Jain HospitalSRCC HospitalManaging director of Maharashtra Information Technology Corporation Ltd, Ajit Patil: covid19nodal2@mcgm.gov.inMasina HospitalWockhart HospitalPrince Ali Khan HospitalGlobal HospitalTata Memorial Hospital*KJ Somaiya HospitalGuru Nanak HospitalPD Hinduja HospitalChief officer of Mhada, Radhakrishnan: covid19nodal5@mcgm.gov.inSL Raheja HospitalLeelavati HospitalHoly Family HospitalSevenHills HospitalBSES Hospital, AndheriSusrusha HospitalHoly Spirit HospitalDeputy secretary for school education Sushil Khodvekar:  covid19nodal4@mcgm.gov.inKohinoor HospitalHindu Sabha HospitalSRV Chembur HospitalGalaxy Multispeciality Hospital, WadalaLH Hiranandani HospitalSurana Sethia HospitalFortis Hospital, MulundJoint managing director of Cidco, Prashant Narnavre: covid19nodal3@mcgm.gov.inKaruna HospitalKokilaben HospitalSanjeevani HospitalNanavati HospitalApex HospitalApex Super Speciality Hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ias-officers-to-address-complaints-about-private-hospitals-in-mumbai/story-CgBT3KxcaRcvsH30IKEItN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Properties of 100 convicted gangsters to be attached in Kapurthala||Local police have identified 100 convicted gangsters, who will have their property and assets attached over the next few weeks. A list has been compiled of properties where drug money has been invested and the value of these assets is around Rs 33 crore. The majority of these properties include chunks of agricultural land and residential buildings, along with expensive vehicles and cash in bank accounts. Work on attaching such ill-gotten assets is an ongoing process, but this year, police have adopted a more focused and targeted approach. To date this year, property worth Rs 18 crore has already been seized against the corresponding figure for 2019, which was only Rs 2 crore. In May, police attached asserts of 26 drug smugglers valued at Rs 14.2 crore on the orders of the competent authority under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, and Section 68F (2) of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Earlier this year, district police seized assets of around Rs 2 crore of five drug peddlers. This included a double-storey house and a vehicle worth Rs 55 lakh of Malkeet Singh in Latiyawal village and a house and a car of Harpreet Singh in Toti village valued at Rs 43 lakh. “We have sent a list of eight more drug peddlers for the seizure of assets of around Rs 2.8 crore to the competent authority in Delhi this month. Thirty more gangsters are on our radar. Seizure of properties will break the backbone of illegal drug trade and will act as a deterrent,” SSP Satinder Singh said. He added for specific, immediate seizure, properties of two more drug peddlers had been identified. “These Delhi-based smugglers are under arrest, and were active in this region for the higher profit margin.” Tackling the issue of drug peddling from another front, the district police had also adopted 16 villages in 2019. On the list were the two villages of Latiyawal and Toti, notorious for this trade; 30 FIRs were registered under the NDPS Act in these villages in 2019. Under the police plan, the DSP supervises a ‘Nasha Mukti Dal’ (Freedom from Drugs group) in each of the adopted villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/properties-of-100-convicted-gangsters-to-be-attached-in-kapurthala/story-7fLviWyFj5U1PhedEwZQhP.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Operation Dolphin Nose: NIA arrests 53-year-old bizman for leaking vital Navy information||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested a 53-year-old Abdul Rehman Abdul Jabbar Sheikh, a Mumbai resident, who is believed to be a conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case. Sheikh’s wife Shaista Qaiser, who was born in Pakistan, was earlier arrested in connection with the same case for terror funding as part of the operation code-named ‘Dolphin Nose’.Sheikh, a resident of Agripada in south Mumbai, is a businessman and runs a firm named ‘SR Enterprises’ which exports groundnut to Afghanistan. Sheikh used his wife’s phone to share crucial information regarding positioning of Indian Navy ships and submarines at its critical bases. NIA conducted a search at Sheikh’s residence on Saturday and seized digital devices and incriminating documents from his house, said an NIA official. Earlier, apart Qaiser, NIA had arrested key conspirator Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala from south Mumbai on May 15. During searches at Lakdawala’s house, several digital devices and incriminating documents had also been seized by NIA.Sheikh is the fifteenth arrest made in operation ‘Dolphin Nose’ wherein the espionage racket was busted by the Special Intelligence Branch of the Andhra Pradesh Police along with Naval Intelligence and the Intelligence Bureau. The case was later transferred to NIA.“Lakdawala had travelled to Karachi under the guise of conducting cross-border trade and used to meet Pakistani spies, possible code-named Akbar alias Ali and Rizwan,” said an NIA official. The first arrests were made on December 20 when the agencies arrested seven Indian Navy personnel from Visakhapatnam, Mumbai and Karwar bases along with one hawala operator. Later in February, three more navy personnel were arrested in the case along with Pakistan-born Indian national Shaista Qaiser.Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agents had honey-trapped the Indian sailors through Facebook, WhatsApp and online dating sites, and were allegedly paid through Indian conduits for getting crucial information regarding positioning of Indian Navy ships and submarines at its critical bases, said sources in the intelligence agencies. After the sailors fell for the ‘women’ on the dating sites, which were profiles created by ISI, the ‘women’ would introduce them to a businessman, a Pakistani handler, who elicited information the sailors, said NIA officials. If the sailor refused to reveal certain information, the ‘women’ would then blackmail them by threatening to reveal their online chats which were sexual in nature, and extract information about positions and movements of our vessels, added NIA officials.The espionage racket started in 2018, and the sailors were paid through a hawala operator who has been arrested. Lakdawala was directly involved in depositing money into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel at regular intervals through different methods,” said an official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/operation-dolphin-nose-nia-arrests-53-year-old-bizman-for-leaking-vital-navy-information/story-ACMiIajqp0U6vBG8gPL59N.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||32-year-old out on bail arrested for setting ablaze lodge door||A 32-year-old man who was released on bail from Arthur Road prison during the lockdown was arrested by JJ Marg police after he set ablaze the door of a lodge in south Mumbai after the establishment refused to accommodate him.The arrested accused Mohammed Aziz Abu Salem Khan was arrested on June 3 after JJ Marg police station registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 436 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) based on the complaint of the manager of the lodge, Rajnish Mishra.According to the complainant, on May 7, around 5.30pm, three persons identified as Khan, Moin Batla, and Jira entered the lodge and demanded to rent a room.“We did not give them the room considering the lockdown rules,” said Mishra in his complaint. On May 8, Khan returned with a carry bag and threw petrol from a bottle on the door of the lodge before setting it on fire.Khan went into hiding after the incident but was tracked down and arrested on June 3. “While he was being taken for remand, he complained of chest pains. He was taken to JJ Hospital where he is under observation and undergoing treatment,” said a police officer.Avinash Dharmadhikari, assistant commissioner of police, Dongri division, confirmed the arrest and said that Aziz had at least five cases of dacoity, murder, and extortion registered against him. He was released on bail in a bid to decongest Arthur Road jail during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/32-year-old-out-on-bail-arrested-for-setting-ablaze-lodge-door/story-EtrR9OWWs8pX97QgrN8w4O.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown 4.0: Max dip in PM2.5 in Mumbai||The city’s air had the least amount of tiny and deadly pollutant particles during lockdown 4.0 as compared to Delhi, Ahmedabad, and Pune.The concentration of PM2.5 — breathable particulate matter of 2.5 micron size that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments — was the lowest among four cities being monitored by air quality researchers during lockdown 4.0 as compared to the same period in 2019. Mumbai also showed the highest percentage decline in PM2.5 among major cities of the country.Lockdown 4.0 from May 17 to May 31 was the fourth phase of nationwide clampdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), which has been publishing regular reports of each lockdown period, released the latest one on Saturday.According to the analysis, Mumbai recorded a 56% reduction in PM2.5 during the 15-day period as compared to the corresponding time last year. The reduction in Ahmedabad was 30%, Delhi 13%, and Pune 7%. Similarly the concentration for PM2.5 was 20 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3) in Mumbai during lockdown 4.0 as opposed to 48μg/m3 last year. It was 35μg/m3 and 31μg/m3 in Pune in 2020 and 2019 respectively. The concentration was the highest in Delhi with 53μg/m3 during lockdown 4.0 followed by Ahmedabad at 45μg/m3. In 2019, both cities recorded 65μg/m3 and 64μg/m3.“Mumbai had much more cleaner air during lockdown 4.0 due to a combination of factors. Air quality improved as an effect of natural weather factors such as windy conditions and sporadic rain but most importantly the lockdown compliance was strictly followed as relaxations in Mumbai were minimal as compared to other cities,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR.Meanwhile, a similar trend was witnessed for PM10 (larger coarser particles) pollutants. Mumbai witnessed maximum reduction at 54% followed by Pune (32%), Ahmedabad (31%), and Delhi (16%). However, nitrogen dioxide (NO2) level — which results from vehicular emissions and fossil fuel burning — decline was the highest in Delhi and Pune at 49% each followed by Mumbai at 48% and Ahmedabad 22%. “This is because movement of vehicles began across all major cities in the fourth phase of lockdown,” said Beig adding, “Mumbai can expect clean air through the week but air quality may witness a spike if rainfall is not there.”Meanwhile, a study by air quality research group UrbanEmissions.info found that over all four periods of lockdown, most Maharashtra cities, including Mumbai, had achieved 20%-30% reduction in PM2.5 levels as hoped to be achieved by the Centre’s National Clean Air Action Plan (NCAP). Maharashtra has 18 non-attainment cities, highest in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-4-0-max-dip-in-pm2-5-in-mumbai/story-cKpickzF5WoKhtIhpfVBhP.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||FIR against former DGP Saini: CBI says no record available of probe into Multani’s disappearance||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday told a Chandigarh court that it does not have any record of the preliminary investigation in the alleged abduction and fake encounter case of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991, involving former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP), Sumedh Singh Saini. The CBI’s response came on an application moved by the Punjab Police seeking documents of the preliminary probe, when the CBI was investigating the disappearance of Multani in 2007. It had also sought that the court summons record of the same.Last month, a case was registered against Saini and seven others under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali, on a complaint from Multani’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani. SAINI IS ON BAIL GRANTED BY A MOHALI COURT.On Saturday, the CBI submitted before special magistrate Ravish Kaushik that the documents collected during the investigation were either returned to the departments concerned or weeded out as per norms. Balwant Singh Multani, son of an IAS officer who worked as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), was allegedly picked up by two police officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP. In the attack, four policemen in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police in Punjab and his whereabouts, since then, were not known.In 2007, the CBI had started investigating the case under the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court. In 2011, however, the Supreme Court quashed the probe after an appeal from the state government. The matter will be taken up for further arguments on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fir-against-former-dgp-saini-cbi-says-no-record-available-of-probe-into-multani-s-disappearance/story-AGGeinZ3rYeTyMb5yZhQVI.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC receives complaints of gas leak from multiple locations, asks residents not to panic||Late on Saturday,several residents complained of suspected gas leak from Mumbai’s Ghatkopar, Powai, Vikhroli, Chembur areas. The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) was trying to detect the source by investigating the same, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Preliminary information by BMC’s disaster management cell reveals the incident was reported at 9:53 pm. The gas leakage was reported at US Vitamin company in Govandi (East).Source of the gas is unconfirmed, our investigation is ongoing, said Prabhat Rahangdale of Mumbai Fire Brigade.In a tweet BMC stated, “We have received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai. The fire brigade is checking and we will update facts soon.”“Please don’t panic or create panic, appeals BMC. It adds, 13 fire appliances to monitor situation situation have been activated as a precaution. Any one having problems due to the foul smell please put a wet towel or cloth on ur face covering nose”, BMC said in a tweet.“Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for response if required,” it added. Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for response if required. #BMCUpdates https://t.co/ceQmF9ZqyuEarlier, a similar gas leak complaints were filed by citizens in September 2019, however, the source of gas leak was detected.The BMC’s disaster management department had got around 37 complaints from over 15 locations, followed by over 50 complaints by MFB and few complaints by the Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-receives-complaints-of-gas-leak-from-multiple-locations-asks-residents-not-to-panic/story-fx5ewPXSWvlEwPPiUbJujI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM forms excise reforms panel to ‘break liquor nexus’||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday constituted a five-member excise reforms committee to break the nexus between the liquor manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers. This comes a day after Amarinder formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged illicit liquor scam in the state. The panel, comprising housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, public works minister (PWD) minister Vijay Inder Singla, financial resources adviser VK Garg, secretary (school education) Krishan Kumar and retired IAS officer DS Kalha, has been asked to submit its recommendations in 60 days on breaking such network and as how to increase the excise revenue, a government spokesperson said.While working in coordination with the SIT, which has been tasked with investigating all aspects of illicit liquor trade, including complicity of excise officials, the committee will identify the gaps causing revenue losses to the state exchequer.The CM mandated the panel to offer suggestions on long-term legal and administrative reforms after consultations with the stakeholders.Amarinder pointed out that despite various policy changes by the excise and taxation Department, inadequate increase in revenue besides illicit liquor trade remain a matter of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-forms-excise-reforms-panel-to-break-liquor-nexus/story-Cuwj3hEfRHFNvmtluUROsJ.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabis hurt at jathedar’s Khalistan statement: Kalia||Former minister and senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia on Saturday rejected the statement of Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh that Sikhs will accept Khalistan if the government offers it, adding that Punjabis were hurt at it. “People holding responsible posts should not issue statements that could disturb the communal harmony and peace of Punjab. By justifying the demand of Khalistan, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has hurt the feelings of Punjabis. This is not expected of a person sitting on a responsible post,” Kalia said, in a release. He added that Sikhs and Hindus respected each other, and both communities had fought terrorism jointly. “Communal harmony and Sikh-Hindu brotherhood had always won in Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabis-hurt-at-jathedar-s-khalistan-statement-kalia/story-PXkWLpfAMQrZMcDwrHvhSI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Living with Corona: Surgeries in three-layer PPEs new normal at Chandigarh’s PGIMER||For doctors at the neurosurgery department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), it was going to be a routine surgery performed in emergency situations. But only a few minutes before the surgery, the patient with a head injury tested positive for the coronavirus.It was the first of its kind surgery that the doctors at the institute had to perform on a Covid positive patient that continued for around three hours on May 29. Another such surgery followed that was conducted earlier this week. So far, around four surgeries on suspected or positive patients have been conducted at PGIMER.“We had been preparing for this. We knew this was going to happen soon, but we expected them to be cases of pregnant women about to deliver, but this was unexpected. We had conducted mock drills in which we noted actual time to shift the patient from the wards concerned to the designated Covid-19 operation theatre,” said professor Vipin Koushal, in-charge of Covid hospital at PGIMER.The main concerns remain, “How to shift the equipment from the respective departments’ operation theatres to the Covid facility and more importantly, training surgeons to don and doff personal protection equipment,” he added.REAL CHALLENGE BEGINS IN OT“It is a totally different setup now. Covid-19 has changed the way surgeries are performed. Surgeons have to don PPE including face shields and perform complicated procedures wearing those heavy suits,” said Dr SK Gupta, head of neurosurgery department, PGIMER, during a media interaction.The emergency and trauma services of the institute have been fully functional throughout the lockdown period. In surgical specialties, around 40-50 such patients are being managed every day. In neurosurgery alone, 545 emergency and trauma cases have been operated upon. These were patients with head injury, spine injury, brain hemorrhage, brain stroke and brain tumours. However, doctors say it is tough to conduct these procedures wearing PPE suits, without air-conditioners.Dr Anurodh Kumar, one of the surgeons, said: “When there is an open skull in front of you, you don’t think about what you are wearing. But when you sit down for a break, you notice the sweat and fog on your face shields. It is tough but there is no choice here. You have to continue anyhow. It has to get normalised and we are getting training for it.”‘TESTING MUST BE RAMPED UP’Commenting upon how this can be managed in the future, Dr Gupta said there is no short-cut to it, but testing has to be ramped up. “For emergency patients, we cannot wait for a long duration for the patient’s Covid status, but PGIMER has started using a tuberculosis machine, GeneXpert, for quicker diagnosis,” he said.The GeneXpert was launched at PGIMER in 2016 to speedily diagnose multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing system generates results in two hours, which can otherwise take somewhere between 6-7 hours.“If you know the Covid status of the patient, you plan the surgery accordingly but with precautions always. Virus is going to stay for a long time, and this process has to become the new normal now,” Dr Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/living-with-corona-surgeries-in-three-layer-ppes-new-normal-at-chandigarh-s-pgimer/story-HhlHPuvjpwH4U1Ycxizg3O.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Norms on reopening shrines: SGPC objects to ban on serving parsad, langar in gurdwaras||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the historic gurdwaras such as the Golden Temple, on Saturday raised objection over the government’s guidelines disallowing serving of parsad and langar at the Sikh shrines as places of worship reopen on Monday. In a statement, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “Karah parsad and langar are an integral part of the maryada of gurdwaras. Prohibiting both the services is not fair. The needy, who lost their livelihoods during the lockdown, are being provided free food from the community kitchens. We are following all the guidelines of the health department while preparing the langar and serving it.”“The decision onreopening the gurdwaras is welcome but ban on langar and parsad must be reviewed. Religious sentiments of the devotees are linked with it and the government should give respect the same,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/norms-on-reopening-shrines-sgpc-objects-to-ban-on-serving-parsad-langar-in-gurdwaras/story-OY2RVJfvm7CbuhIcUotQhN.html
07-06-2020||Education||CBSE, ICSE boards share Class 10, 12 data with Maharashtra to plan board exams||Two days after the Maharashtra government requested the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to postpone Class 10 and 12 exams or mark students on their internal assessments, the state held a virtual meeting with board officials on Saturday morning to further discuss the issue.Officials from both boards submitted data on students from the state who will appear for their board exams this year. As per the data, nearly 12,000 students in the state are enrolled for their Class 12 CBSE examinations which are set to take place between July 1 and 15.There are no pending Class 10 CBSE papers in the state. Nearly 23,000 students from the state have registered for the ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) exams which were scheduled to be held between July 1 and 14, as per the revised schedule.The state government will now look at the data and come up with a possible solution to the issue. “It will take some time to arrive at a decision because the situation in each part of the state will have to be considered separately. Based on the data, the education department will see what is best for students,” said an official privy to the meeting. Other officials who were a part of the meeting refused to comment on the issue.On June 4, the state government had written to the heads of both boards requesting them not to conduct exams in July. It had said that in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis in the state, students would find it difficult to travel to their centres and conducting examinations would mean risking the health of several students. The letter thus stated that the government would not permit the boards to conduct the exams as there is too much risk involved.CBSE and ICSE officials said that complete cancellation of exams might not be possible. “We have already allowed students to participate in compartmental exams which will be conducted after the main exams, in case of unforeseen circumstances. Students who cannot reach centres for some reason or reside in areas that are containment zones can apply through their schools and avail a concession,” said an official from the ICSE board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbse-icse-share-class-10-12-data-with-state-to-plan-exams/story-Y3v1MdWhLDM98bon0gDL7N.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s coronavirus count up to 47K, case doubling rate reaches 22 days||As the number of cases in the city inches towards the 50,000-mark, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claims to have traced over 8.94 lakh high-risk and low-risk contacts of over 45,854 positive cases. Meanwhile, the doubling rate in the city rose to 22 days on Saturday, according to the data from the civic body. Of the 8.94 lakh contacts traced, around 2.19 lakh were high-risk and 6.74 lakh were low-risk. High-risk contacts are those who are directly in touch with the Covid-positive patient, for example, a family member or friend. Low-risk contacts are those residing around, but not in direct contact with the infected person. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC, said, “It is because of proactive contact tracing that we have been able to contain the virus spread. We have also collected 500 blood samples for a sero-surveillance test under which antibodies are detected. The results for the same are awaited.” BMC officials have credited the aggressive contact tracing for keeping the case numbers lower than its projections. The civic body claims that it had predicted over 45,000 cases by the end of May but the 45,000 figure was crossed only on June 5.Further, the overall growth rate of the infection in the city is now 3.28%, for which BMC has conducted over 2.20 lakh tests. The latest doubling rate of the city is 22 days, up from 10 days in the first week of May. However, since the first week of May, the case count has almost doubled. The doubling rate determines the time taken for the number of positive patients to double in a specific area.On Saturday, the city reported a total of 1,274 cases and 58 new deaths, taking the total case count to 47,354 and the death toll to 1,577, according to state health department data.The total number of active cases in the city as of Saturday stands at 25,794.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-coronavirus-count-up-to-47k-case-doubling-rate-reaches-22-days/story-odaz2c5p1cntdRIANQvztN.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Operation Bluestar: Will decide after due deliberations, says SGPC on Centre’s offer on damages||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Saturday said they are yet to take a decision on the Centre’s offer for an out-of-court settlement in the ₹1,000 crore damage suit filed in the Delhi High Court for carrying out the Operation Bluestar at the Golden Temple in 1984. Talks are on for the past few months to fix a meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and Longowal to negotiate a settlement to the 35-year-old case.The communication, initiated on the Delhi High Court’s orders following a hearing on December 4, 2019, came to a halt due to the pandemic outbreak. “We will discuss the matter with our legal experts and Sikh scholars and act accordingly,” said Longowal replying to a media query during an interaction at the Akal Takht secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/operation-bluestar-will-decide-after-due-deliberations-says-sgpc-on-centre-s-offer-on-damages/story-EhxrDQ6tMXN50D6LtvIl9H.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis: Maharashtra government suffers from ‘action paralysis’||Claiming that the number of tests for Covid-19 in Mumbai has reduced drastically despite there being a rise in cases, Leader of Opposition and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis said the Maharashtra government is suffering from “action paralysis”. “The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is not only suffering from policy paralysis but also action paralysis. There is no coordination among the three ruling parties, coordination is also lacking between the government and the administration. This has affected their decision making,” said Fadnavis while addressing an online press conference on Saturday.Fadnavis also alleged that testing for Covid-19 in Mumbai has dropped drastically over the past few days when the number of patients increased to a large extent. He said that testing in Mumbai compared to state figures has dropped to 27% as on May 31, from 56% on May 1. “This is a serious lapse and the government should immediately increase the number of tests being conducted in the city,” he said. The BJP leader criticised the government for failing to implement its own announcements. “They announced plans to reserve 80% of the beds in private hospitals for the poor, but in reality, the acquisition has not happened from the [hospitals associated with] ‘influential’ people. The treatment announced under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the medical insurance scheme extended to the entire population, is not applicable in many Mumbai hospitals,” he said.The former CM also blamed the government for the lack of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for frontline workers. “The initial stock of the kits was procured from corporate houses under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) drive. To shrug off responsibility, the state has blamed the Centre for inadequate supply of PPE kits,” he said.Lashing out at the Shiv Sena, Fadnavis said that the party was inconsistent in its political stand. “Sometimes they praise the Prime Minister, while the next moment they criticise him. Similarly, they attack the Maharashtra governor over some issue and bow before him the next moment,” he said. He also demanded that an adequate relief package be announced for citizens affected by Cyclone Nisarga this week. “The government should look beyond the standing NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) norms for the relief package for the natural calamity. We had given relief three times more than the norms to the Sangli-Kolhapur flood-affected people last year. A similar policy should be allotted by the government for the cyclone-affected people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-maharashtra-government-suffers-from-action-paralysis/story-e08D7Ll3vpl0SjvilOgpvL.html
07-06-2020||City||Three persons including a woman arrested with 1kg heroin in Mohali||Police have arrested three persons including a woman with 1.04 kg heroin from Industrial Area, Phase 7, Mohali.Sachin Kumar and Jasbir Kaur, alias Simty, of Sirsa, Haryana, were arrested on a tip-off from Industrial Area, Phase 7, while they were out to supply heroin to customers. The duo then led the police team to the arrest of their aide Raghbir Singh of Kharar.During initial questioning, accused Sachin and Jasbir told the police that they had bought the heroin from a Nigerian national in Delhi. The duo were produced before the court and remanded to three-day police custody.The police said that the worth of the seized heroin is ₹5 crore in the international market. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered.TWO HELD WITH POPPY HUSKPolice arrested two persons with 31kg poppy husk from Kharar. Balbir Singh of Harlalpur village and Gurnam Singh Gogi of Jandpur village in Kharar were arrested after a truck was impounded on Harlalpur-Jandpur road. A case under NDPS Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-persons-including-a-woman-arrested-with-1kg-heroin-in-mohali/story-RifLWejcY0iqdxlHQI2Z4J.html
07-06-2020||Mumbai||Dearth of beds for Covid-19 patients as Mumbai prepares for surge in cases||While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) says it is prepared to tackle the expected rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, data shows that despite BMC increasing the number of beds for critically-ill patients, only 3% of beds in intensive care units (ICUs) and with ventilators are vacant.In the past two weeks, BMC has increased the bed strength in hospitals. Till May 25, BMC had 644 ICU beds, which has increased to 1,102. The number of ventilators has increased from 359 to 459 in the same time period. However, available data shows that only nine beds in ICU are available for critically-ill patients in ICU and only 32 of the beds with ventilators are available for patients with severely low oxygen saturation.In Mumbai, 4,650 beds with oxygen facility are available but only 26% are empty. Also, while BMC has increased the bed strength for suspected Covid-19 patients to 1,205 in 128 hospitals across the city, 77% of the beds are occupied.BMC has maintained it is prepared to handle the spike in reported cases that is expected with the lockdown being relaxed. “The cases might increase with the relaxation but we are ready to handle it. We have increased the bed strength and will add more into it. Overall, we have over 25,000 beds including the Covid care centres (CCC),” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner.BMC has also increased the strength of CCC-2, where asymptomatic patients along with mildly symptomatic patients may be admitted. These are in makeshift grounds, lodges, schools, colleges among other structures. The total capacity in CCC-2 has been increased to 7,105 and 61% of the beds are occupied.On June 2, Ravi Ram Ahuja, a 53-year-old resident of Shivajinagar, was rushed to a local nursing home in the afternoon, which refused to admit him as he didn’t have a certificate declaring he was Covid-negative. Suffering from fever, cold and diarrhoea — all symptoms of Covid-19 — he was referred to Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital. After being made for two hours, Ahuja’s family was informed that the patient needed to be admitted to ICU. However, as no beds were available, the hospital couldn’t admit the patient.“We called the helpline number of BMC (1916), but they gave us a waiting list of 26. But my father was already suffocating. We called nearby private hospitals, but no ICU beds were available,” said Sanjay Ahuja, his son. After waiting another hour, they took Ahuja to BYL Nair Hospital. At around 4pm, Nair Hospital admitted Ahuja and immediately shifted him to a ventilator.“Next day, early morning, he was declared dead. His Covid [test] report came on June 4, a day after his death. He was Covid-positive,” said Ahuja, adding that BMC has refused to test his mother, who is diabetic, as she isn’t showing any symptoms.HT has reported several stories of patients who have struggled to avail treatment for Covid-19.Medical experts and officials expressed concern about BMC’s preparation and the healthcare infrastructure since the number of reported cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai continues to be more than 1,000 daily.“In the two months of lockdown, we failed to increase the strength of the beds, ambulances and oxygen. The main motive of a national lockdown is to strengthen the infrastructure to fight against Covid-19. The whole nation is lagging behind,” said a senior health officer from the state government.As HT reported on Saturday, the doubling rate of the infection has improved in several wards, but there are questions raised about whether enough tests are being conducted. BMC is currently at 65% of its official daily testing capacity of over 7,000 samples a day.Borivli resident Surendra Shah, lost his father to Covid-19 on May 31. For the past five days, he has been trying to get his mother, who is diabetic, tested for Covid-19.“Private labs won’t test without prescription and as my mother is asymptomatic, physicians aren’t prescribing swab tests. My mother is a high-risk contact, but there is no option to get tested. If anything happens to her, who will be responsible?” said Shah.Leader of the Opposition in BMC, Ravi Raja said, “Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, all private hospitals come under the purview of the corporation. Despite this, BMC took two months to procure 80% of the beds from private hospitals. Now, they are still considering requesting private ambulances. Why so many delays when people are dying?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dearth-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients-as-mumbai-prepares-for-surge-in-cases/story-cRrVMVpwDQwmYU7wNvtGaO.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman chained to bed by brother to prevent from solemnising love marriage rescued||A 36-year-old woman confined in her house by being chained to a bed to prevent her from solemnising love marriage was rescued in the Gawalmandi area of Amritsar district on Saturday. The woman was in a relation with a man of her locality for the last few years but her family members, especially her younger brother, were opposed to the affair, police said. A case was registered against her younger brother under Sections 343 (wrongful confinement for three days or more) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Cantonment police station.The police swung into action after they were informed about the confinement by members of Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association alleging violation of her human rights.“I wanted to marry my lover three years ago, but my brother did not let it happen making one excuse or the other. When I decided to marry him this time, my brother chained me. He also threatened to kill my lover,” she told the police after being rescued. Station house officer (SHO) Ranjit Singh said the role of her parents in the confinement episode was also being probed. “If they are found guilty, action will also be taken against them as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-chained-to-bed-by-brother-to-prevent-from-solemnising-love-marriage-rescued/story-cj8zpJPtoepkpTLMHBF5VI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Trial of clothing not allowed in malls, no ‘prasad’, ‘langar’ at religious places||The Punjab government on Saturday announced to open malls, restaurants and places of worship from Monday with guidelines that the visitors to malls must have COVA app on their mobile phones and there will be no trial of clothing. In temples and gurdwaras, there will be no ‘prasad’ and ‘langar’ distribution.The COVA Punjab (Corona Virus Alert) app has been developed by the state to provide people with preventive care information and government advisories. A family can be allowed to enter a mall if one of the members has COVA app installed in his/her phone, the guidelines said.The new guidelines forbid loitering in malls. A token system for entry will be introduced and there will be a provision for maximum time limit for which a visitor can stay inside a shopping mall, the guidelines read.“The maximum capacity of persons allowed in each shop in the mall shall be fixed on the basis of maintenance of six-feet distance,” it added.With the management being responsible for ensuring maximum capacity of the mall, not more than 50% of the maximum capacity shall, at any point of time, enter the mall, the guidelines said.Each shop shall have markers to indicate social distancing while lift shall not be used except in case of differently-abled person or medical emergency.Restaurants or food courts in any of the malls shall not operate except for takeaway or home delivery, it said.For hotels and other hospitality units, the hotel restaurants will remain closed and food will be served only in the rooms of guests. The management of hotels will make adequate arrangements to ensure social distancing, wearing of masks and hand hygiene.In case of religious places, the maximum number of persons at the time of worship shall not exceed 20 with due distancing.These guidelines have been issued to all the administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and district police chiefs by the home department. RICKSHAWS, CABS ALLOWED FROM 5AM TO 9PMThe Punjab government has allowed all private (non-transport) and public service vehicles to operate from 5am to 9pm, except in containment zones.Transport minister Razia Sulatana said that vide notification issued by the Punjab government on May 31, all the public service vehicles including e-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, maxi cab/ motor cab and private vehicles (non-transport) were prohibited from plying between 9pm and 5am up to June 30. She said that permission to ply public service vehicles has been granted with a condition that not more than 50% of the seating capacity of the vehicle shall be occupied at any time during the journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trial-of-clothing-not-allowed-in-malls-no-prasad-langar-at-religious-places/story-uc6SHP1LuQNWHZoVc8Mr6M.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Malls, restaurants draw up plans to restart businesses but with restrictions||Anticipating that the Delhi government will allow them to reopen businesses after June 8, restaurants and mall owners in the national capital are busy with preparations to open shop after a gap of over 70 days. Restaurant owners said they are working on a set of plans such as opening with just 30% to 50% seating capacity, putting a cap on parking facility to ensure less crowding, and presenting patrons with e-copies of drinks and food menus to minimise contact with staff and ensure social distancing. Restaurants and shopping malls have been shut since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe standard operating procedures (SOPs) prepared by the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) states that thermal screening of all guests will be compulsory at entry points and all patrons will have to wear masks. Provisions will also be made for special UV light filters, air filters and air purifiers on the premises. The air-conditioners will be kept at a constant temperature between 25 and 30 degrees Celsius. Manpreet Singh, treasurer NRAI, said, “We are ready to open restaurants as owners are suffering huge losses. We will follow social distancing and other preventive measures. Restaurants will operate at reduced seating capacity of 30% to 50%. All staff members will wear masks, face shields, gloves and hand sanitisers will be placed on all tables. Thermal screening will be mandatory for visitors.” Singh further said guests will have to sit on alternate tables, and all crockery and cutlery will be sanitised. Visitors will be given sanitised copies of the menu card. They will also have an option of checking the menu on their phones and place orders from their phones while seated inside the restaurant. He said the digital mode of payment will be encouraged.Sunil Malhotra, of Embassy Restaurant in Connaught Place, said, “It is not yet clear when the government will allow us to open. But when the nod comes, we will follow all guidelines issued by the central and state government.”Sandeep Khandelwal, president, Delhi Hotel and Restaurants Owners Association, said, “Nearly 50% of the workforce has returned to their home towns and so we will have to operate with fewer staff members. We want that the government to consult us before taking a call on the opening.” Over 40 mall owners on Saturday convened a meeting with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) trade wing and appealed to the government to allow the opening of malls.Brijesh Goel, AAP’s Delhi trade wing convener, said there are nearly 100 malls and shopping centres in the city. “The government gets about ₹3 -10 crore revenue a month from each mall. Due to the closure of malls, the government is losing about ₹500 crore a month. A decision regarding the opening of malls is likely to be taken next week,” Goel said.Harshvardhan Bansal, owner of Unity Mall Group, said closure of malls has caused a job crisis for 10,000-odd employees.“We will have separate entry and exit points in every mall and all employees will be required to wear face shields and masks. Visitors will undergo thermal screening at every entry point and guards will also wear perosnal protective equipment kits, if required,” he said.A spokesperson at Select City Walk mall said they have prepared SOPs which include markings on the floor to help visitors and retail outlets maintain social distancing. “Parking will be restricted and will be kept to 50% of the total capacity, and we are looking at having contactless service. There will also be proper markings at counters and cash registers to prevent crowding, Plexiglas shields at all checkout points are also being looked into. Markings for social distancing will be made on escalators; whereas elevators will operate with a maximum of four people at a time,” the spokesperson said.“We will have isolation rooms and various retail outlets are formulating guidelines on the trials and return / exchange of products and will be as per the policies of individual brands,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/malls-restaurants-draw-up-plans-to-restart-businesses-but-with-restrictions/story-zNqGUQfsCUvOPVboyIEDbP.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||Plea in HC against Delhi govt order forbidding testing of asymptomatic patients||A plea has been filed in the Delhi High Court on Saturday challenging a June 2 order of the Delhi government about rules for the testing Covid-19 patients in the national Capital, stating that it violates the Constitution of India.The petition filed by advocate Abhay Gupta stated that the Delhi government in its June 2 order had allowed the testing of only symptomatic persons, and asymptomatic individuals are restricted from being tested. The plea is likely to be heard on June 9. Gupta said that the order also restricted the testing for direct and high-risk contacts only to those who are diabetic, have hypertension or cancer, and are senior citizens.“The change will only make it more difficult for asymptomatic people that have been exposed to infected people to be tested. That earlier, family members living in the same house or doctors and health care workers exposed to a Covid-19 patient were tested even if they were asymptomatic...,” the plea read.The petition also said that with the increasing number of cases, the government should administer more tests.Meanwhile, another plea was filed in the Delhi High Court by an ENT doctor, Manni Hingorani, seeking to test asymptomatic patients who are going in for surgery. Both matters are likely to be heard on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-against-delhi-govt-order-forbidding-testing-of-asymptomatic-patients/story-xmj6Bvod8r8u1g9JCFgTlM.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||1,320 fresh cases take Delhi’s Covid-19 tally to 27,654; death toll at 761||On Saturday, Delhi recorded 1,320 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 27,654, according to the Delhi health bulletin released by the Delhi government.From over 7,000 tests being done towards the end of May when Delhi started reporting 1,000 cases a day, the number of tests has dipped to 5,100 over the last couple of days. The Delhi government on June 3 banned six laboratories from conducting Covd-19 tests in the city after theyw ere found flouting norms.The number of cases has remained above 1,000 with the positivity rate going up to 25% over the past two days. This is after the government changed the testing criteria to exclude asymptomatic contacts who had no comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, and cancer.On Saturday, Delhi also saw 53 deaths due to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 761, according to the bulletin. The total number of deaths has now taken the case fatality rate to almost 2.7%.Currently, there are 16,229 people living with the infection.Of them, 4,225 are those with severe symptoms such as elevated respiratory rate and low oxygen saturation. They have been admitted to Covid-19 hospitals, according to the daily health bulletin. This means that 26% of all those with the infection are having to be hospitalised.And, 1% of those with the infection are requiring to be admitted to the intensive care unit, the data shows. There are 11,267 Covid-19 positive people in home isolation in the city. This is almost 67% of all those currently living with the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-320-fresh-cases-take-delhi-s-covid-19-tally-to-27-654-death-toll-at-761/story-m9GLTEzpJACfQrdNQC4hRO.html
07-06-2020||Delhi||RML screening centre to function only between 9am and 5pm from Sunday||The central government-run Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital has curbed the timings of their screening centre to limit the number of Covid-19 test samples collected. The screening centre, which used to be open throughout the day, will now function only between 9am and 5pm Sunday onwards, according to an order issued by the hospital.The hospital has seen a sharp increase in the number of patients coming in for Covid-19 testing over the last two days when the Delhi government barred seven laboratories in the city from testing samples. The government said they were not following proper Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for testing.The hospital can test 300 to 350 samples a day. However, it was routinely stretching its capacity to test about 400 samples a day.“We have been working over capacity for some time now; we had to ask our staff to work overtime. But, over the past two days we have started receiving around 500 samples a day and it has become unmanageable. Hence, we have curtailed the timings,” Dr Minakshi Bharadwaj, medical superintendent of the hospital, said.The Aam Aadmi Party had earlier alleged that they found a 45% error on retesting 30 samples tested at RML hospital. The hospital said that the subsequent samples had been collected after 7 to 14 days, during which time the patients might have cleared the virus from their system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rml-screening-centre-to-function-only-between-9am-and-5pm-from-sunday/story-zJGL1vZkMCCwxGv1FEsl0L.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Shopping malls to remain closed, hotels and restaurant to reopen in Gurugram, Faridabad||Shopping malls, religious places, places of worship for the public will remain closed in Gurugram and Faridabad but will be allowed to open in a regulated manner in all other districts of Haryana from June 8. However, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services are likely to reopen across the state, including in Gurugram and Faridabad, with generic preventive measures and at 50% capacity. All commercial establishments will operate between 9am and 8pm, the government said on Saturday.A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting in Chandigarh, which was chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. In the meeting, the CM directed that commercial activities should be regulated following the guidelines and instructions issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs amid the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.Dushyant Chautala, the deputy chief minister, confirmed that except Gurugram and Faridabad, shopping malls will reopen in the rest of the state, but all safeguards pertaining to social distancing will have to be followed. “Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, religious places and shopping malls will not reopen in Gurugram and Faridabad,” he said, adding that restaurants will be allowed to reopen at 50% capacity and directions in this regard will be issued by respective district administrations. As per the latest directions, there will be no buffet service, only a la carte (ordering individually on the menu) services. Bars in restaurants will not be allowed to reopen. Room service or takeaways for dine-in rooms will be allowed.Gaming arcades and children play areas (wherever applicable) will remain closed.Banquet halls will be allowed to operate with a maximum of 50 guests at a time; they will have to follow the norms of social distancing.The government has also decided that there will be no congregation or mass gathering for prayers. Only individual prayers will be allowed and no physical offering like prasad distribution or sprinkling of holy water will be allowed inside the religious place.It was also decided that community kitchens/langars/ann-daan, etc. at religious places should follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/shopping-malls-to-remain-closed-hotels-and-restaurant-to-reopen-in-gurugram-faridabad/story-3HuSUAi0zReiD4DwaGB7ZP.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 129 test positive for Covid-19, city about to touch 1,700-mark||With 129 new Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, the total count of persons infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus has breached the 1,600-mark. According to the state health bulletin, the tally of cumulative cases stands at 1,692, of which 1,345 are hospitalised or under home isolation and 343 have recovered from the illness. The death count stands at four.According to the district health department, of the 1,345 active cases, more than 750 people are under home isolation, 305 are in government and private hospitals, while 290 patients are in government-paid isolation facilities set up in hotels and guest houses across the city. Health officials said that nearly 80% of the patients infected with Covid-19 are asymptomatic and therefore can stay in home isolation. Data shows that of the 3,952 cases reported in Haryana, Gurugram’s share is almost 43%—the highest in the state. The test positivity rate is almost 47% while the doubling rate of the infection is almost four days, which means the infection is spreading at a rapid rate in the city. District administration officials said that they are strengthening the critical care facility. A designated team is collecting information from private hospitals regarding beds designated for Covid-19 patients and ventilators available in their facility. Besides ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and Medeor in Manesar, the administration has reserved 100 beds in SGT Medical and some in World College of Medical Sciences, Jhajjar.Considering the surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration has improvised the referral ambulance service. Sixteen telephone lines have been added to the 108 ambulance helpline number. The call centre for 108 is now functional at the Mini Secretariat. The Saral Kendra on the ground floor has been converted into a call centre, where 12 telephone operators are deployed. They will work 24x7 in three shifts. Ashok Sangwan, the divisional commissioner, visited the call centre on Saturday. Currently, the health department has 17 ambulances, of which only four are being used for Covid-19 patients and 13 are for non-Covid-19 ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-129-test-positive-city-about-to-touch-1-700-mark/story-MQ0SbmMHnzmxlJDUc3e1GJ.html
07-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops on lockdown duty to be tested thrice for accurate results, families of personnel in police lines to be screened||In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases among police personnel, the health department has begun screening 450 personnel deployed across the city on lockdown duty. Officials said that personnel deployed on lockdown duty will be screened thrice in the next 14 days.Also, around 600 family members of police personnel living in police lines in Gurugram and Manesar will be screened within 10 days, after 10 policemen tested positive on Friday and Saturday.At present, 30 personnel — mostly deployed at borders and containment zones — have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gurugram. Officials said that the testing will be done thrice, as second tests of positive cases, done within four days of the first, gave a different result in at least 14 instances. According to the health department officials, conducting a screening every fifth day would help in identifying patients with symptoms. The incubation cycle of the coronavirus is at least five to seven days, therefore, it is crucial to screen suspected cases after every fifth day. Also, asymptomatic personnel in the first screening might turn out to be a Covid-19 patient in the second or third screening. The police said the most of the personnel who tested positive were asymptomatic, except for the police spokesperson, who worked out of the commissioner’s office building and three others. At least 10 of the 30 policemen are presently placed in home-isolation, while the rest are at a quarantine facility at police lines in Manesar.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the infected police personnel have been put under isolation and contact tracing is being carried out.The police commissioner of Gurugram, Muhammad Akil, said that several measures are being taken to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread among the police personnel at different locations. “The health team is monitoring their health and if they spot any symptom, such as cough, cold and fever, will take their samples for testing and advise them to remain in isolation until their test results are declared,” he said.Officials said that steps are being taken to ensure supply of essentials and medical assistance to the family members of the 10 policemen who tested positive in police lines of Gurugram and Manesar.Akil said that an ambulance has also been retained on standby, to handle any emergency. “We have assigned an assistant commissioner of police, who is the nodal officer, to ensure the well-being of the families and ensure their demands are taken care of. Many had requested to allow tuition teachers due to the loss of studies before the online classes started. We have requested two teachers, who work in private schools, living on the campus to hold free online classes to help students facing difficulties,” he said.The police said that entry of outsiders in police lines has been suspended since the first week of April. Also, a quarantine ward was set up in April, said officials.Akil said they are maintaining a database of senior citizens, mostly parents of police personnel, and those with comorbid or underlying medical conditions for close monitoring and surveillance. A team of doctor and nurses have been deployed for the purpose, full time, for the past two months.Two mobile phone numbers of senior officials have also been shared with the families of police personnel, to cater to any exigency, said police. An assistant sub-inspector at the commissioner’s building has been directed to maintain a logbook of distress calls received from family members and mention the resolution. The ACP of the area shall inspect the logbooks weekly to ensure appropriate action has been taken, said officials.Regular sanitisation is conducted in police lines. Police personnel have been advised to spray sanitiser on themselves before entering their homes and to take a hot water bath before touching objects in the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-on-lockdown-duty-to-be-tested-thrice-for-accurate-results-families-of-personnel-in-police-lines-to-be-screened/story-7fbFVKjM4EzHox3BAOgThM.html
07-06-2020||Noida||Mercury to rise but no heatwave anymore, says weather department||While the mercury is likely to rise in the next few days, the weather department has predicted that heatwaves will not return in the region this year.According to the weather analysts, between June 8 and 11, the moisture-laden easterly winds in the region will keep the rise in the maximum temperatures under control, and the mercury levels will not exceed over 40 degrees Celsius. After June 11, patchy rains predicted in Noida, Ghaziabad, and the rest of western Uttar Pradesh will further keep the mercury levels in check. “Officially, we can say that there will be no heatwave till June 15. As per the previous records, after June 15 incidences of heatwaves don’t occur anyway due to pre-monsoon climatic conditions accompanied by cloudiness. Hence, we can say that the region is safe from the heatwaves for this year,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Noida, Ghaziabad and neighbouring Delhi had suffered heatwaves between May 19 and 24.“For heatwaves to occur, the temperatures have to exceed over 45 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature predicted for the next few days will be experienced on June 11, which is likely to be around 40 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava added.On Saturday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 36.8 degrees Celsius (three notches below the season’s average) against 36.1 degrees on Friday. The minimum temperature was recorded at 24 degrees Celsius against Friday’s 24.9 degrees Celsius.According to IMD, the maximum temperature will rise by 2 to 4 degrees between June 8 and 11.Strong surface winds of 25-35 kmph speed also expected during the same period. Thunderstorm with light rain accompanied with gusty winds (50-60 kmph in speed ) is expected from June 11 evening and June 13 in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mercury-to-rise-but-no-heatwave-anymore-says-weather-department/story-GOZeIyklbqjcdwHle2bT4J.html
07-06-2020||Noida||19 persons ‘falsely’ tested positive in Gautam Budh Nagar, count reaches 591 with 21 new Covid-19 cases||In yet another alleged incident of ‘false’ positive reports given by private laboratories in Gautam Budh Nagar, as many as 19 people admitted to different Covid-19 facilities in the district two days ago were discharged on Saturday after they tested negative for the deadly infection in cross-verification tests by government labs.Meanwhile, 21 new positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported on Saturday taking the overall tally of the district to 59. Apart from these cases, 52 other cases have been reported cross-notified to other districts and states. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said out of 591 positive cases reported till Saturday evening, 382 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, while eight patients lost their lives. “The district now has 201 active cases currently and 52 cases have been cross-notified from other districts and states,” he said.Dr Ohri further said 29 Covid-19 patients – including 21 patients from Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital in Sector 30 and eight from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida​ – were discharged on Saturday. The list of discharged patients included the 19 persons who were admitted to Covid-19 facilities based on ‘false’ positive reports submitted by private labs.The CMO further said the district health department will issue show-cause notices to the private laboratories whose reports proved false on Saturday. “Such false reports create panic among the people during a pandemic. On Thursday, all private laboratories had been asked to strictly comply with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Giving such false reports is a blatant violation of the ICMR guidelines,” he said. Dr Ohri also said health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places, including Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9, and 10, on Saturday. “A total of 552 patients were screened today and 10 of them, who had symptoms of fever and ILI (influenza-like illnesses ), have been referred to the district hospital. Two people have been put under quarantine” he said.Giving details of 52 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said while 15 patients are from Delhi, one patient each is from Haryana, West Bengal, and Andhra Pradesh. “While eight other patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 26 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/19-persons-falsely-tested-positive-in-gautam-budh-nagar-count-reaches-591-with-21-new-covid-19-cases/story-UpBpiucH1wgK73xUkWiucI.html
07-06-2020||Noida||Pregnant woman dies after being denied treatment by 8 hospitals, DM orders inquiry||A 30-year-old pregnant woman died on Friday evening after she was allegedly denied treatment by at least eight government and private hospitals in Noida and Ghaziabad due to non-availability of beds. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, has ordered an inquiry into the incident.The woman, 30-year-old Neelam, was eight months pregnant and a resident of Azad Vihar in Khoda colony, Ghaziabad. According to the family members, she had complained of breathlessness on Friday morning and was first rushed by her husband in the autorickshaw to ESIC hospital in Noida’s Sector 24 at 6am.“Thereafter our ordeal continued till 7.30pm when she died after we took her for second time to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). From where we brought her body in an ambulance around midnight to Ghazipur where her last rites were performed. It is our request to all authorities to take steps so that no other woman suffers such a painful death like Neelam,” said Shailendra Kumar, brother-in-law of Neelam. She was driven in an autorickshaw from one hospital to another for about six hours, her family members said. According to the family, they took her to seven hospitals (government and private) in Gautam Budh Nagar and one (Max Hospital in Vaishali) in Ghaziabad.“At ESIC hospital, the staff told us to go to the district hospital in Sector 30. There also she was denied medical help. She had been undergoing treatment at Shivalik hospital in Noida, but it also did not admit her,” said Bijender Singh, the woman’s husband.The family took her to some private hospitals like Fortis in Sector 62, followed by Jaypee hospital in Sector 128 and Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida. The family members alleged that all hospitals denied her treatment citing unavailability of bed. After Sharda, the family took her to the GIMS, then to Max Hospital in Vaishali and finally back to GIMS where she was declared brought dead.“I pleaded the officials at GIMS and then they tried to put her on ventilator but could not save her,” said the husband.When asked, Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS, said, “They had called us in the evening, but we didn’t have a bed. They came to the hospital in the end, but by then the woman had died.” Shailendra, who owns an auto and drove Neelam, along with her husband, from one hospital to other, said that most of the hospitals denied her admission on pretext that they don’t have vacant beds while some referred her to higher hospitals. “She kept crying in pain in my auto for hours, but I continued to drive her from one hospital to other. I drove her for about six hours in my auto. In between one private hospital arranged for an ambulance when her condition deteriorated further, and I paid Rs 5,800 to the driver,” Shailendra said.Neelam was pregnant for the second time with her first child being a five-year-old son. “She worked at a factory in Sector 58 and also held an ESIC card. So, initially we took her to the ESIC hospital in Sector 24, but they asked us to take her to the district hospital. She was under treatment at Shivalik hospital from May 31 to June 4 when she got discharged. We again took her to the hospital but this time they did not admit her,” said the husband.Taking note of the alleged negligence by the hospitals, the district magistrate called for an inquiry in the matter.“The investigation of the whole case where she died as she was not admitted by several hospitals nor provided treatment has been given to ADM (finance) MN Upadhyay and chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri. They have been asked to take prompt action in the case,” said a statement released by the DM’s office.The family performed the last rites of the woman on Saturday morning.“We have spoken to the family. We will find out what went wrong. Action will be taken against the hospitals if found responsible after a thorough investigation,” said Upadhyay, ADM (finance).Private hospitals have, however, denied any negligence on their part and claim that they were only following procedures.“The emergency doctors said that she had all Covid-19 symptoms like fever and breathlessness. According to instructions given by the government to all private hospitals, we referred her to GIMS ,where Covid patients are treated, after she was counselled and given a referral letter,” said a statement by Jaypee Hospital.Sharda hospital also referred her to an advanced centre. “When she came to us in the afternoon, she was in need of oxygen. She was then stabilised. But there was no space in the ICU, and ICU allotment happens through the office of the CMO. So, she was referred to a higher centre,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson, Sharda hospital.In a statement, Fortis hospital said, “The patient was brought in a critical condition around 11am. Doctors advised immediate resuscitation to stabilise her. Due to unavailability of room in ICU isolation ward, she was provided oxygen and nebulised in the waiting area. The husband was counselled and explained the need for resuscitation and transfer to another hospital in an advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) ambulance without delay. However, he refused resuscitation and ventilation support. He also declined our insistence and medical advice for ACLS transfer and the patient was taken from our hospital in an auto.”Meanwhile, the spokesperson from Max Hospital, Vaishali in Ghaziabad said, “As per our records, no such patient was registered in our emergency.”Despite repeated attempts, the district magistrate did not respond to calls.Atul Garg, Uttar Pradesh minister for medical, health and family welfare, and also Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Ghaziabad, on Saturday evening said that he had no information about the incident.“I will inquire into the incident and get back. Since I am on visit to districts in western UP, I had no information about the case so far,” he said.Vimla Batham, the chairperson of UP state women commission, said that she will get an inquiry done into the incident on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pregnant-woman-dies-after-being-denied-treatment-by-8-hospitals-dm-orders-inquiry/story-oDRFyMKHoM4QLQpRcPRIkM.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||Aspiring to join Lawrence Bishnoi gang, student turns shooter, executes firing outside bizman’s house in Chandigarh||Eager to join the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, a 23-year-old Ludhiana youth pursuing hotel management course from a private university in Mohali turned shooter to execute the firing outside a businessman’s house in Sector 33, Chandigarh, on May 31, police said after his arrest on Saturday.Identified as Karan Sharma, he was one of the five men who had fired 17 shots outside the bungalow of hotelier Rakesh Singla, what police said was a targeted attack on his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.This is the third arrest in the case after Sewak alias, Guri, 25, who lives and runs a gym in Kharar, and Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, 40, of Sarangpur village were held for their alleged role in the crime. However, Karan is the first shooter to be arrested.“Karan is one of the shooters. The earlier arrests were of people who provided logistical support,” said Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (SP, crime), Chandigarh.Meena said after committing the crime, Karan was hiding in Mauli Jagran, waiting for further instructions. He was arrested following disclosures made by Sewak. He will be produced in court on Sunday. Bishnoi’s aide gave instructions from jailLawrence Bishnoi, who studied from DAV College, Sector 10, has been running his gang in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from behind the bars. He had even threatened to kill film actor Salman Khan. Investigations revealed that Bishnoi, who is lodged in the Bharatpur jail in Rajasthan, planned the attack and got it executed through his key aide Deepu Banur, who is lodged in the Ambala jail in Haryana.Karan was staying in Banur and studying in a private university. “He got in touch with Deepu Banur through Facebook in February this year, aiming to become a part of the gang,” said a senior police official, privy to the investigations.“It was Deepu who directed Karan to execute the firing along with four other gang members,” said Meena.Karan was reportedly told that if he succeeds, he would become a part of the gang. Though he was also promised money, no payment had been made yet, said sources.To unearth the conspiracy and ascertain the motive, police are now seeking Deepu’s custody.“We have sought his production remand. He is likely to be produced before court on June 9,” said Nilambari Vijay Jagadale, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.Gym owner spilled the beans“Deepu was in direct touch with Sewak, after the two came in contact in the Ambala jail. Sewak had provided logistical support to the Lawrence Bishnoi gang on earlier occasions too,” said sources.Sewak, during his interrogation, allegedly told police that Deepu had called him from jail, asking him to contact Bishnoi for some work. Sewak, in his initial questioning, had told police that he had received a WhatsApp call from Bishnoi, asking him to arrange a vehicle for his men who were coming to Chandigarh for sightseeing. He had then borrowed a Ford Ikon from Gurdeep Singh of Banur and handed it to the men, who executed the shooting. Gurdeep has become an approver for the police, and it was on his statement that Sewak was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aspiring-to-join-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-student-turns-shooter-executes-firing-outside-bizman-s-house-in-chandigarh/story-i7edSaVFKzCPceCsZ23WNJ.html
07-06-2020||Pune||PMC to have dashboard with availability of beds in private hospitals||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will soon start a dashboard to show the availability of beds for both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients at private hospitals, according to civic officials.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “We will launch the dashboard by Tuesday hopefully and all private hospitals and nursing homes will have to update the dashboard every two to three hours on a daily basis. This will help residents get live updates on the number of beds with and without oxygen, the number of ventilators and ICU beds or even general beds available.”“We had to introduce this dashboard after we got complaints that patients are being neglected treatment or diverted to other hospitals despite beds being available,” said Gaikwad.The dashboard would come up on the PMC website, he added.Since the outbreak of the pandemic, non-Covid-19 patients are either avoiding going to the hospital or have delayed important surgeries. Now, that the state government has ordered a cap on 80 per cent of the beds and critical care services in private hospitals too, it has been found that many private hospitals have been denying treatment to patients or are diverting them to other hospitals. The dashboard will provide real-time data which will be accessible for residents to know the availability of beds and ventilators, said officials.Dr Aarti Nimkar, secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune, said, “The dashboard system should work if execution is done properly. The administration should also address problems of the hospitals as there is a fear among doctors of the risk of infection. We, as doctors, also want things to go smoothly during this pandemic.” The civic chief has written a letter, dated June 5, to all private hospitals and nursing homes in the city warning them of strict action against hospitals which deny treatment to Covid-19 and non-Covid patients. The letter states, “Non-Covid-19 patients must get treatment without any delay, be it in private hospitals or nursing homes. Hospitals must ensure timely treatment for patients apart from those suffering from Covid-19 infection. Hospitals must ensure that there is no mortality due to lack of medicines or negligence from the hospital’s side.” On June 1, the district administration formed a committee especially to look into complaints by residents in case of any delay in treatment and any other related complaints. Till date, the district administration has issued show-cause notice to at least two private hospitals after it was found that prima facie the hospitals neglected proper treatment to patients or denied admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-have-dashboard-with-availability-of-beds-in-private-hospitals/story-AdKo7YWhQfL8oxGQT9wBWI.html
07-06-2020||Pune||PCMC to review ban on people from Pune on Monday||Pune residents who are working in Pimpri-Chinchwad industries can heave a sigh of relief as the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be reviewing its decision, of non-entry of Pune residents, on Monday. “We will be reviewing the decision on Monday. Prior to giving approval there is a procedure which needs to completed and hopefully from Monday we will be allowing Pune residents who are working in the industries to come to PCMC for work,” said Shravan Hardikar, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner.Earlier the decision of not allowing Pune residents to enter the twin township for work was taken by the PCMC as there had been a rise in the number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in Pune.Till Saturday, Pune city has 7,447 cases out of which 369 total deaths have been taken place. In comparison, PCMC has recorded a total of 708 coronavirus positive cases out of which 12 people have been died.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had not imposed any such restriction on people from PCMC entering Pune city.PCMC entry ban had been impacting many Punekars as they had not been able to join their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-review-ban-on-people-from-pune-on-monday/story-4gDXJYTefmTefTP8CwqguL.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Four arrested for murder of teenager in Thergaon||Four men have been arrested on Saturday by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the murder of a teenager in Thergaon on Friday evening.The deceased has been identified as Vrushabh Gaikwad, 18, a resident of Jagtapnagar area of Thergaon gaonthan, according to the police.The four arrested have been identified as Kishor alias Gudya Dnyandeo Shelar, 25, a resident of Chinchwad; Sijin Filip George, 26; Rohit Lalan Singh, 22; Sachin Sathe, 26; all residents of Kalewadi, according to police. Gudya Shelar has a history of seven cases against him, according to officials at the Wakad police station.The deceased teen was involved in a dispute with George days before his death.“George and Gaikwad had been involved in a dispute for the past seven-eight months after Gaikwad used abusive language towards George’s mother. They all regularly consumed alcohol and used drugs. They were known to each other,” said police sub-inspector Harish Mane of Wakad police station.The four had attacked the deceased with sharp weapons and injured him on his head, stomach, and right hand. They had also bludgeoned him with stones before he succumbed to his injuries in the lanes of Jagtapnagar area.A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-murder-of-teenager-in-thergaon/story-6snKhZWgDFLLm0HMZdGa1K.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Cloudy weather, light rain forecast for Pune||Pune is likely to witness cloudy weather, light rain, thunder activity and lightning during the next twenty-four hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD has forecast light showers of rain, which are remnants of the now gone Nisarga cyclone, very likely to occur during the next 24 hours. The city on Saturday recorded a maximum temperature of 31.07 degrees Celsius while Lohegaon recorded 32.05 degrees Celsius. The city recorded 7mm of rainfall at 5.30pm, according to IMD.The IMD stated that the low-pressure area, a remnant of severe cyclonic storm Nisarga over Bihar and North East has become less marked. The southwest monsoon has further advanced into some parts of interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and most parts of South West Bengal and some parts of West Central and North East Bengal, the IMD stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cloudy-weather-light-rain-forecast-for-pune/story-yyG1CSqtyEC4DSoKVXSPsJ.html
07-06-2020||City||J&K sees 143 new cases, tally rises to 3,467||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 144 fresh infections and three deaths due to Covid-19, officials said.The total number of positive cases in the Union territory is now 3,467 and the death toll has risen to 39, officials said.Of the new cases, 100 people have tested positive for the virus in Kashmir region and 43 in Jammu division.J&K nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Salim Khan, said two patients died due to the virus in Kashmir on Saturday. “A 70-year-old man from Shopian who was admitted at the Chest Disease hospital died in the morning while another elderly patient from Handwara who was admitted in SMHS hospital died in the afternoon,” he said. Medical superintendent of Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu, Dr Dara Singh said, “A 62-year-old woman from Jammu’s Miran Sahib area has died due to the virus in the morning. The woman had comorbidity like congestive cardiac failure, chest infection and fluid in lungs.” Officials said there are 2,302 active cases in the UT—1,646 in Kashmir and 656 in Jammu. A total of 1,126 patients have recovered, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-records-143-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-3-467/story-btyDEXNPtNa8K3brdlEuOP.html
07-06-2020||City||No check on entry and exit points at containment zone in Ludhiana||With a major threat looming over residents of densely-populated Chhawani Mohalla after the area was declared as a containment zone on Friday, there was limited check on the entry and exit of residents in the area on Saturday. While most parts of the Chhawani Mohalla were open and a rush was witnessed on the streets and shops, only three to four streets on the way to Covid-19 casualty’s house have been blocked. Residents were, however, seen moving through the barricades freely with no or limited presence of police and traffic marshals (volunteers). A few non-essential shops were also open in the areas barricaded by the police.The residents, however, demanded that strict action should be taken to stop the movement of the public, otherwise infection might spread in the coming days.A resident of Chhawani Mohalla, Gurdeep Singh, said, “Fear had engulfed the residents after the administration announced the area as a containment zone on Friday and claimed that a curfew-like situation would prevail in the area. But, the authorities failed to implement the norms at the ground level and many residents were moving freely in the area, due to which a threat looms over the area. The shops are open in the area and even many residents are not paying heed to the problem and are moving freely on streets.”Another resident, Harmeet Singh, said, “Family members of deceased Pritpal Singh, who have also tested positive, had been visiting the local gurdwara and one of the family members is also an office-bearer of the gurdwara management committee. But, the gurdwara street was not barricaded by the police and their entire locality is fearing spread of the virus. The police are adopting a casual approach towards the violators, which is a matter of concern.”Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said, “Police have been deployed in the area and barricading has also been done. I would take up the matter with the police department for ensuring strict implementation of norms.” The health department had announced Chhawani Mohalla as Ludhiana’s first containment zone on Friday after 15 contacts of deceased Pritpal Singh, 53, who died at the DMC Hospital on May 29, also tested positive of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-check-on-entry-and-exit-points-at-containment-zone-in-ludhiana/story-iHUZ4kvdbIZwCnHdKwdTqL.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Roadside eateries and outlets see brisk business in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Tea stalls and snack centres in Pimpri-Chinchwad generated a decent rush of people in the morning hours on Saturday with greater relaxation under the Covid-19 ‘Mission begin again’ unlock 1.0 plan of the Maharashtra government.“We started our tea centres today. As compared to routine days, the public is less, but we expect more people in the coming days. We are following social distancing norms and not allowing more than one person inside our shop,” said Vikas Sawant who runs Yewale tea centre at Kalewadi road.Parcel service at snacks centres saw a good response from people working in the IT industry.“I am making everything on a limited basis as the customers come in. I make fresh wada-pav and tea. Since today is Saturday, more people from the IT industry are coming” said Vitthal Aware of Sai Snacks at Dange chowk.At Chinchwad, rain ware shops had big queues of customers with the arrival of rains in the city. As of Saturday, Pimpri-Chinchwad had a total of 708 Covid-19 positive cases of which 437 had recovered and 251 were still undergoing treatment. The twin township has recorded 12 deaths due to the disease as of Saturday.Clothes, hardware shops had queues while ceramic, furniture shops were waiting for customers.“At least till afternoon, we have had a good number of customers. The number goes down after 2pm although we are keeping our shops open till 5pm,” a shopkeeper at Kunal Fabrics in Pimpri market said.The shops at Pimpri market have been following P1-P2 rule with shops on one side of the road remaining open on even dates while shops on the other side of the road open on odd dates. At Kalewadi, only a couple of customers were seen at ceramic and furniture shops.“Our shops are open since May 26, but we have very less customers. There are no new orders for wall ties, floor tiles and sanitary ware. We have completed pending orders. Since transport service s still not in full flow, we are receiving less material from companies,” said Jitu Patel of Radhe Ceramics who orders all material from Morbi, Gujarat.What is open: Shops selling clothes, rainware, branded showrooms of clothes, hardware and electricals, vehicle showrooms, automobile repair and accessories, furniture showrooms, ceramic, liquor shops, footwear , mobile phone showrooms, sweet marts, tea, snacks and wadapav centres (only parcel)Yet to open: Malls, cinema halls, hotels (in dine facility), ice cream parlours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tea-stalls-and-snacks-centres-see-brisk-business-in-pcmc/story-gkVeoPlZDfmSCmVud62b4I.html
07-06-2020||Pune||Pune NCL develops indigenous nasopharyngeal swabs for Covid-19 sample collection||The National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) here has successfully developed an indigenous nasopharyngeal (NP) swab for collecting samples from the throat cavity of patients affected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.The NCL, a lab under the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), will manufacture one lakh nasopharyngeal swabs a day, a press release issued by the organisation said.A team of three scientists, namely, Chandrashekhar V Rode, Dr Prakash P Wadgaonkar and Dr Anuya A Nisal worked on the specifications of nasopharyngeal swab polymers and adhesives. Ashwini Kumar Nangia, director, CSIR-NCL, said, “This is an excellent example of optimising the polymer specifications and validating the chemical analysis of an urgently needed medical swab product in a very short time.”It said that the nasopharyngeal swabs are in huge demand across the globe and therefore, their supplies are not dependable and could result in delays, escalated prices and variable quality. The organisation, therefore, decided to make indigenous nasopharyngeal swabs in mid-April. The nasopharyngeal swab is a medical device with stringent specifications of quality, polymer grade, dimensions and sterilisation.“It consists of a cylindrical plastic stick with a brush-like tip of synthetic bristles/flocks. Flocking is a very important processing step in the manufacture of medical swabs, which is to align the fine bristles in a parallel orientation on the stick head, much like a toothbrush, except that this has round uniform geometry and the nasopharyngeal swab bristles are of micron diameter,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-csir-ncl-develops-indigenous-nasopharyngeal-swabs/story-AwFr2jfRngv4LsoUzVyqpM.html
07-06-2020||City||Himachal hits 400-mark with seven fresh Covid-19 infections||Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 400, officials said. Four cases were reported from Kangra and one each from Hamirpur, Chamba and Una, said Nipun Jindal, special secretary (health). Active cases in the state are 201, he added.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said all four patients had returned from Delhi. “One of them is a 48-year-old driver from Ghallaur village of Jawalamukhi sub-division. He had returned to Himachal on May 30 and was institutionally quarantined in Jawalamukhi town. Another patient is a 27-year-old man from Lambagaon who had returned on June 4,” the DC said. The third patient is a 46-year-old man from Baijnath, who travelled back on May 28. A 32-year-old man from Mahakal who returned to the state on May 29 is also among the fresh cases. All four were under institutional quarantine.With this, Kangra’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 105 and active cases are 54.Besides, one case was reported from Hamirpur where a Ghaziabad-returned woman was found positive. She was under home quarantine and her contacts are being traced, said Hamirpur DC Harikesh Meena. A 32-year-old woman has also tested positive for the virus in Chamba.A 21-year-old woman from Una, whose test report came out positive late evening became the 400th case of Covid-19 in the state.DOUBLING RATE SLOWS DOWNHimachal’s doubling rate has slowed down in the past few days. Presently, the doubling rate stands at 48.8 days compared to 5.9 days on May 26. However, it is still slightly quicker than the country’s average of 51.9 days. Himachal has breached the 400-mark in 79 days as the first case was recorded on March 20. Earlier, the state’s tally had hit 100-mark in 61 days on May 20. The state’s testing rate is much better at 4,705 per million against India’s 2,338.The fatality rate in the state is 1.48% against the national average of 2.44%. The recovery rate is 48.24%, slightly higher than the country’s 48.20%.201 ACTIVE CASES, 190 RECOVEREDThe second wave of Covid-19 cases hit Himachal on May 4. Since then, a total of 338 people have tested positive for the virus. Five people have died due to the contagion.As many as 70 new cases have been recorded this week.So far, eleven of the total twelve districts in the state are affected by Covid-19. Tribal district of Lahaul & Spiti is the only Covid-free district.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 121 cases followed by Kangra with 105 cases. A total of 42 cases have been reported in Una, 32 in Solan, 30 in Chamba, 21 in Bilaspur, 20 in Mandi, 12 in Shimla, 11 in Sirmaur, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur. Till date, a total of 190 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/48-year-old-driver-tests-positive-in-kangra-himachal-s-covid-19-count-rises-to-394/story-Q3NVBD82XNJtzgj5GSgdsI.html
07-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Sikhs will accept Khalistan if govt offers it’: Akal Takht jathedar||The Sikh community will accept Khalistan, a separate state for Sikhs, if the government offers it, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said on Saturday.The jathedar of Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, was talking to the media on the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, which was carried out between June 1 and 8 in 1984 to flush out heavily-armed terrorists holed up in the Golden Temple complex.“If the Indian government offers us Khalistan, what else do we need? We will accept it. Which Sikh is there in the world, who doesn’t want it?” he said.Asked about sloganeering at Akal Takht in favour of Khalistan by Sikh hardliners, the jathedar said: “There is nothing wrong in it. But they should have done it after religious programme, which was in progress at the Akal Takht, as sloganeering disrupts the function.” “The vision of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale needs to be alive at this time. So, history of this episode should be penned down,” he added.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal, who was present during the media interaction, endorsed the jathedar’s stance, saying: “if the government offers it (Khalistan), it will be acceptable to us. When do we refuse to take it? No Sikh can refuse to take it.”Taking on the Centre in context of the Operation Bluestar, the jathedar said: “The Union government’s gesture has remained anti-Sikh for the last 36 years.”Earlier, a bhog ceremony, ardas and kirtan were performed at the Takht in memory of those killed in the Operation Bluestar.During the function, which was held amid heavy rain, the jathedar delivered his sandesh (address) and pointed out to police restrictions for devotees at the Golden Temple. “Sikhs lack unity. This is the why there are these restrictions,” he said, adding: “The community members need to sit together to achieve the goals set by the Sikh leaders in 1984. For this purpose, we need good policy and honesty” he said in the sandesh, while paying tribute to Bhindranwale who led the militants, and other persons killed in the operation. Parallel acting jathedar Dhian Singh Mand, who was present at the complex along with radical Sikh leader Jarnail Singh Sakhira and others, also read out his ‘sandesh’.The function was held amid tight security. In a first, the media was barred from covering the event inside the Golden Temple complex. Restrictions were imposed in the city to prevent gathering in the complex. There was curfew-like situation in the city and all the markets remained almost closed on Saturday.A majority of people in the gathering were SGPC employees and police in plainclothes. Despite making efforts, the police and SGPC staff could not ensure social distancing inside the complex to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Meanwhile, the anniversary was also observed by Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal, which was once headed by Bhindranwale, at its headquarters Chowk Mehta in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/every-sikh-wants-khalistan-will-accept-it-if-government-offers-akal-takht-jathedar/story-GIo3eft11db6YW2K4D4fII.html
07-06-2020||World||World reaches 4,00,000 coronavirus deaths, at least 6.9 million infected||The confirmed global death toll from the COVID-19 virus reached at least 400,000 fatalities on Sunday, a day after the government of Brazil broke with standard public health protocols by ceasing to publish updates of the number of deaths and infections in the hard-hit South American country.Worldwide, at least 6.9 million people have been infected by the virus, according to Johns Hopkins University, whose aggregated tally has become the main worldwide reference for monitoring the disease. Its running counter says United States leads the world with nearly 110,000 confirmed virus-related deaths. Europe as a whole has recorded more than 175,000 since the virus emerged in China late last year.Health experts, however, believe that the John Hopkins tally falls short of showing the true tragedy of the pandemic.Many governments have struggled to produce statistics that can reasonably be considered as true indicators of the pandemic given the scarcity of diagnostic tests especially in the first phase of the crisis. Authorities in Italy and Spain, with over 60,000 combined deaths, have acknowledged that their death count is larger than the story the numbers tell.Brazil’s government has stopped publishing a running total of coronavirus deaths and infections; critics say it’s an attempt to hide the true toll of the disease.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro went as far as to tweet on Saturday that his country’s disease totals are “not representative” of Brazil’s current situation, insinuating that the numbers were actually overestimating the spread of the virus.Critics of Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly clashed with health experts over the seriousness of the disease and has threatened to take Brazil out of the World Health Organization, said the decision was a maneuver by the hardman-style leader to hide the depths of crisis.Brazil’s last official numbers recorded over 34,000 virus-related deaths, the third-highest toll in the world behind the U.S. and Britain. It reported nearly 615,000 infections, putting it second behind the U.S.After Bolsonaro stoked his clash with health experts, Pope Francis cautioned people in countries emerging from lockdown to keep following authorities’ rules on social distancing, hygiene and limits on movement.“Be careful, don’t cry victory, don’t cry victory too soon,” Francis said. “Follow the rules. They are rules that help us to avoid the virus getting ahead” again.The Argentine-born pontiff has also expressed dismay that the virus is still claiming many lives, especially in Latin America.Francis was clearly delighted to see several hundred people gathered below his window in St. Peter’s Square on Sundays for the pope’s noon blessing after Italy eased its restrictions on public gatherings.Many counties like the U.S. and Britain insist that they can ease restrictions before having stalled their outbreaks.In the U.S., the virus churns on underneath the unrest provoked by the death of George Floyd and increasingly directed at President Donald Trump’s handling of the protests.On Sunday, the U.K. revealed that places of worship can reopen from June 15 — but only for private prayer.Worries have surfaced over the past couple of weeks that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is easing the restrictions too soon, with new infections potentially still running at 8,000 a day. As things stands, nonessential shops, including department stores, are due to reopen on June 15.Professor John Edmunds, who attends meetings of the British government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, said the epidemic “is definitely not all over” and that there is an “awful long way to go.”In France, the government announced that from Tuesday, it will ease restrictions limiting travel from the French mainland to overseas territories in the Caribbean and Indian Ocean.Spain is preparing to take another step forward in the scaling back of its containment with Madrid and Barcelona opening the interiors of restaurants with reduced seating on Monday.In Turkey, Istanbul residents flocked to the city’s shores and parks on the first weekend with no lockdown, prompting a reprimand from the health minister.Russia remained troubling, with nearly 9,000 new cases over the past day, roughly in line with numbers reported over the past week.Pakistan is pushing toward 100,000 confirmed infections as medical professionals plead for more controls and greater enforcement of social distancing directives. But Prime Minister Imran Khan said a full shutdown would devastate a failing economy.India confirmed 9,971 new coronavirus cases in another biggest single-day spike, a day before it prepares to reopen shopping malls, hotels and religious places after a 10-week lockdown.China has reported its first non-imported case in two weeks, an infected person on the island of Hainan off the southern coast.___Frances D’Emilio in Rome, Pan Pylas in London and AP journalists around the world contributed to this report.___Follow AP pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-reaches-4-00-000-coronavirus-deaths-at-least-6-9-million-infected/story-ZYySNzrxm51kJap7zOR98N.html
07-06-2020||World||China defends fight against coronavirus, says US was informed on January 4||China on Sunday defended its actions on fighting the coronavirus outbreak in a lengthy white paper which said Beijing “wasted no time” in sharing information on the virus with the WHO and that the Chinese Centre for Disease Control informed its US counterpart about the unknown virus as early as January 4.The coronavirus disease first emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year before rapidly spreading within the country and then globally.National health commission, Ma Xiaowei, said: “The Chinese government did not delay or cover up anything”.“Instead, we have immediately reported virus data and relevant information about the epidemic to the international community and made an important contribution to the prevention and control of the epidemic around the world,” Ma said at the release of the official document in Beijing on Sunday.Also read: The first move on the India-China chessboard | HT EditorialUS president Donald Trump’s administration has accused China of cover-ups and lack of transparency regarding the pandemic. The US president has also made efforts to launch an international probe into the origin of the virus.Beijing has repeatedly denied Trump’s allegations, saying it kept the world informed from the start, and adding that it was in favour of a WHO-led probe after the pandemic was over.The white paper, an official government document, said researchers from a high-level expert team organised by China’s top national health body confirmed that the coronavirus was transmissible among humans at midnight on January 19.The report, which is more than 60 pages long, praised China’s success in reducing the daily increase in new cases to single digits within about two months and the “decisive victory ... in the battle to defend Hubei Province and its capital city of Wuhan” in about three months.It said the medical cost of all the coronavirus patients in China totalled 1.35 billion yuan ($191 million) as of the end of May.Also read: China to firmly fight back against shifting of blame, rejects ‘politicization’ of Covid-19Until Saturday, China has reported 4,634 deaths and more than 83,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19.The document said it was on December 27 that the Hubei Provincial Hospital of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine reported cases of pneumonia of unknown cause.By December 31, the Wuhan city health commission (WCHC) confirmed 27 cases and urged “…the public to stay away from enclosed public places with poor ventilation and venues where large crowds gathered. The commission also suggested the use of face masks when going out”.By January 5, laboratory tests ruled out respiratory pathogens as the cause of the pneumonia such as influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus, and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus.The head of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention briefed his US counterpart by phone on the then-unknown virus as early as January 4, which was followed up by another phone conversation on January 8.The report credited Chinese President Xi Jinping with making the January 22 decision to lockdown Wuhan by cutting transportation links and banning people from leaving or entering the city.Speaking at the press conference, science and technology minister, Wang Zhigang said China will also strengthen international cooperation in future Covid-19 clinical vaccine trials, building on earlier collaboration in vaccine development.Xi said last month at the World Heath Assembly, the WHO’s governing body, that vaccines China’s develops will become a “global public good” once they are ready for use, and it will be China’s contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-defends-fight-against-coronavirus-says-us-was-informed-on-january-4/story-Y03G2Pr8ZAamboHMb1dy5M.html
07-06-2020||World||Covid-19: Late lockdown in UK cost lot of lives, says expert||As the UK registered the second highest toll of 40,465 last week, an epidemiologist on a key government committee said on Sunday that ‘a lot of lives’ have been lost because the lockdown was imposed as late as March 23.John Edmunds, who is on the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) that provides scientific inputs to government decisions, believes that the lockdown in the UK should have been announced earlier. There have been 284,868 cases in the country so far.Edmunds said: “We should have gone into lockdown earlier. I think it would have been very hard to pull the trigger at that point but I wish we had - I wish we had gone into lockdown earlier. I think that has cost a lot of lives unfortunately.”But he told BBC that it would have been “hard to do it” earlier than March 23 because the data the Boris Johnson Government had in the early part of March and “our kind of situational awareness” was “really quite poor”.The Johnson government has come under considerable criticism for its responses in the early stages of the pandemic. Chief scientific advisor Patrick Vallance told MPs in March that a death toll of below 20,000 would be a ‘good result’ but the latest figure is double that estimate.Health secretary Matt Hancock, however, responded to the criticism by insisting that the government had made the “right decisions at the right time” and had been guided by a “balance” of scientific opinions on the issue.Asked if he was sure that the lockdown’s timing had not cost lives, he said: “I am sure, as I keep looking back on that period, I’m sure that taking into account everything we knew at that moment - my view is that we made the right decisions at the right time.”“There’s a broad range on SAGE of scientific opinion and we were guided by the science which means guided by the balance of that opinion as expressed to ministers...That’s the right way for it to have been done”, Hancock added.The Observer described the government’s response to the pandemic ‘dire’, calling for a public inquiry.It said in an editorial on Sunday: “This is a pandemic that has tested the public health response of governments in every corner of the world. But the UK has performed poorly on any measure: the death toll is now more than double what the government’s scientific advisers said would be a ‘good outcome’, and, at this point, it has one of the worst excess deaths rates in the world”.“Yet the prime minister has offered no apology for the serious mistakes the government has made so far: its haphazard procurement of protective equipment for frontline workers; the tragedy it did too little to prevent unfolding in Britain’s care homes; its unforgivably slow efforts to build up testing capacity”.“All along, there have been worrying signs that this was a government prepared to put politics above pandemic management; in the past two weeks, that sense has only intensified as Johnson has rushed in multiple lockdown relaxations in what looks like an attempt to distract from the rule-breaking of his top adviser”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-late-lockdown-in-uk-cost-lot-of-lives-says-expert/story-WPP7wyf0flYtBnSMUcZsZJ.html
07-06-2020||World||Plant-derived drug under testing, cancer drug shows promise: Covid-19 vaccine update||The need to develop a vaccine against Covid-19 is getting more urgent by the day as coronavirus cases across the globe head towards another grim milestone. With 7 million people infected worldwide and 4 lakh people dead, experts and scientists are ramping up effort to develop a potential Covid-19 vaccine.  While experts at the University of Oxford, in collaboration with British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca, have pushed their drug contender to the clinical trial phase, another popular candidate, remdesivir, is also seen as one of the top contenders after countries like the US and India approved its emergency usage in treating Covid-19 patients. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 246,628, death toll at 6,929Ten vaccines against Covid-19 are in the clinical trials phase. Researchers at the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca hope to have the first phase 3 data in hand this summer.As per a Lancet report, “the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca have embraced a recombinant vaccine called AZD1222 to achieve a similar effect, engineering a chimpanzee adenovirus to carry DNA for the spike antigen,” the report read.Here are the latest developments around Covid-19 vaccine: • AstraZeneca Plc has approached rival drugmaker Gilead Sciences Inc about a potential merger, news agency Reuters reported citing Bloomberg News. Both companies are leading the drug industry’s efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic. AstraZeneca’s cancer drug has also shown promising results in the fight against Covid-19• Gilead’s antiviral drug remdesivir is the first drug to lead to improvement in Covid-19 patients in formal clinical trials. • Japan’s Fujifilm Holdings Corp said its research on Avigan as a potential treatment for Covid-19 may drag on until July.Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses Spain• On June 4, AstraZeneca said it had doubled manufacturing capacity for its potential coronavirus vaccine to 2 billion doses in two deals involving Microsoft billionaire Bill Gates that guarantee early supply to lower-income countries. • AstraZeneca has also entered into an agreement with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) to produce the vaccine currently under trial at the University of Oxford on a mass scale, if successful.• Indian drugmaker Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd said on Friday it was testing a plant-derived drug, AQCH, for the potential treatment of Covid-19 as part of a mid-stage trial, with results expected by October.• Moderna’s mRNA-1273 is another contender in the race. It entered into clinical trials just 66 days after SARS-CoV-2 was first sequenced. In India, the Covid-19 tally touched 246,628. While 119,292 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion in the country, 6,929 people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-covid-19-vaccine-updates-plant-derived-aqch-drug-under-testing-astrazeneca-s-cancer-drug-shows-promise/story-VM3NkHA4ovlIPbLUC8HUQM.html
07-06-2020||World||Polls say support for UK PM Boris Johnson drops, says report||Public support for Boris Johnson is dropping over his government’s management of the coronavirus crisis, while backing for the opposition Labour party is on the rise, Mail Online reported, citing two surveys.A poll of 2,000 adults carried out by Opinium Research on Thursday and Friday placed support for Johnson’s Tory government at 43%, the lowest since the 2019 general election. Around 47% said they disapproved of how the government is handling the pandemic. Forty-four percent said they are dissatisfied with Johnson’s performance as prime minister, while backing for opposition leader Sir Keir Starmer has gone up to 40%, the newspaper reported.A separate poll conducted by Survation on Wednesday indicated that support for the Tories fell to 41% from 45%, while backing for Labour rose by 5 percentage points to 39%, the Daily Mail said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polls-say-support-for-uk-pm-boris-johnson-drops-says-report/story-2AWqsnW2GTvPmqQzQv9RaI.html
07-06-2020||World||George Floyd death: Largely peaceful protests against police brutality in US||Massive protests against police brutality nationwide capped a week that began in chaos but ended with largely peaceful expressions that organizers hope will sustain their movement.Saturday’s marches featured few reports of problems in scenes that were more often festive than tense. Authorities were not quick to release crowd size estimates, but it was clear tens of thousands of people — and perhaps hundreds of thousands — turned out nationally.Wearing masks and urging fundamental change, protesters gathered in dozens of places from coast to coast while mourners in North Carolina waited for hours to glimpse the golden coffin carrying the body of native son George Floyd, the black man whose death at the hands of Minneapolis police has galvanized the expanding movement.Collectively, it was perhaps the largest one-day mobilization since Floyd died May 25 and came as many cities lifted curfews imposed following initial spasms of arson, assaults and smash-and-grab raids on businesses. Authorities have softened restrictions as the number of arrests plummeted.Demonstrations also reached four other continents, ending in clashes in London and Marseille, France. In the US, Seattle police used flash bang devices and pepper spray to disperse protesters hurling rocks, bottles and what authorities said were “improvised explosives” that had injured officers, just a day after city leaders temporarily banned one kind of tear gas. Around midnight in Portland, a firework was thrown over the fence at the Justice Center, injuring a Multnomah County deputy, Portland police Lt. Tina Jones said. Smith said police had declare an unlawful assembly and were making arrests.The largest US demonstration appeared to be in Washington, where protesters flooded streets closed to traffic. On a hot, humid day, they gathered at the Capitol, on the National Mall and in neighborhoods. Some turned intersections into dance floors. Tents offered snacks and water.Pamela Reynolds said she came seeking greater police accountability.“The laws are protecting them,” said the 37-year-old African American teacher. The changes she wants include a federal ban on police chokeholds and a requirement that officers wear body cameras.At the White House, which was fortified with new fencing and extra security measures, chants and cheers were heard in waves. President Donald Trump, who has urged authorities to crack down on unrest, downplayed the demonstration, tweeting: “Much smaller crowd in D.C. than anticipated.”Elsewhere, the backdrops included some of the nation’s most famous landmarks. Peaceful marchers mingled with motorists as they crossed the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco. Cars had been cleared from the Brooklyn Bridge as protesters streamed into Manhattan on a day that New York police relaxed enforcement of a curfew that has led to confrontations. They walked the boulevards of Hollywood and a Nashville, Tennessee, street famous for country music-themed bars and restaurants.Many protesters wore masks — a reminder of the danger that the protests could exacerbate the spread of the coronavirus.Roderick Sweeney, who is black, said the large turnout of white protesters waving signs that said “Black Lives Matter” in San Francisco sent a powerful message.“We’ve had discussions in our family and among friends that nothing is going to change until our white brothers and sisters voice their opinion,” said Sweeney, 49.A large crowd of Seattle medical workers, many in lab coats and scrubs, marched to City Hall, holding signs reading, “Police violence and racism are a public health emergency” and “Nurses kneel with you, not on you” — a reference to how a white officer pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for several minutes.Atop a parking garage in downtown Atlanta, a group of black college band alumni serenaded protesters with a tuba-heavy mix of tunes. Standing within earshot, business owner Leah Aforkor Quaye said it was her first time hitting the streets.“This makes people so uncomfortable, but the only way things are happening is if we make people uncomfortable,” said Quaye, who is black.In Raeford, North Carolina, a town near Floyd’s birthplace, people lined up outside a Free Will Baptist church, waiting to enter in small groups. At a private memorial service, mourners sang along with a choir. A large photo of Floyd and a portrait of him adorned with an angel’s wings and halo were displayed at the front of the chapel.“It could have been me. It could have been my brother, my father, any of my friends who are black,” said Erik Carlos of nearby Fayetteville. “It made me feel very vulnerable at first.”Floyd’s body will go to Houston, where he lived before Minneapolis, for another memorial in the coming days.Protesters and their supporters in public office say they’re determined to turn the outpouring into change, notably overhauling policing policies. Many marchers urged officials to “defund the police.”Theresa Bland, 68, a retired teacher and real estate agent protesting at the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus, envisioned a broader agenda.“I’m looking at affordable housing, political justice, prison reform,” she said.Congressional Democrats are preparing a sweeping package of police reforms, which is expected to include changes to immunity provisions and creating a database of use-of-force incidents. Revamped training requirements are planned, too — among them, a ban on chokeholds.The prospects of reforms clearing a divided Congress are unclear.Back in North Carolina, the Rev. Christopher Stackhouse recounted the circumstances of Floyd’s death for the congregation.“It took 8 minutes and 46 seconds for him to die,” Stackhouse said at the memorial service. “But it took 401 years to put the system in place so nothing would happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-death-largely-peaceful-protests-against-police-brutality-in-us/story-cj0N4zE583I9TI8CiYC4mN.html
07-06-2020||World||Sri Lanka holds mock poll to test Covid-19 guidelines for parliamentary election||Sri Lanka’s election commission has held a mock poll in the southern Galle district to test the Covid-19 health guidelines and its preparedness for the parliamentary polls likely to be held between late July and mid August.The parliamentary polls were initially to be held on April 25, but had to be postponed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic which prompted the authorities to announce a nationwide lockdown from March 20.Later, the election commission shifted the date to June 20. It was again deemed not suitable in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic, which has claimed 11 lives and infected over 1,900 people in the island nation. A majority of the patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals.Some 200 voters from the Ambalangoda polling division in Galle district were chosen to ‘vote’ at the mock poll, according to an official.“We wanted to learn from the exercise so that the lessons can be applied at the real election when it happens,” senior election commission official Saman C Ratnayake told reporters at the Buddhist temple hall which was used for the mock poll.The selected voters were given instructions at their homes on Saturday and were asked to bring along a pen to mark the vote while wearing a face mask.The election commission said they had formulated guidelines to conduct the polls in close cooperation with the health authorities.Election chief Mahinda Deshapriya said the guidelines were revolving around social distancing, washing hands and wearing face masks.At the mock poll, attention was given to the time it takes to cast a vote while sticking to the health guidelines.The poll date to elect a 225-member parliament is yet to be announced. According to officials, it is likely to be held anytime between late July and mid August.The opposition parties and civil society groups have challenged the holding of the election in the midst of health risks posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Over 16 million voters are eligible to vote to elect 196 members under proportional representation and a further 29 members on national cumulative votes of each party based on proportional representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-holds-mock-poll-to-test-covid-19-guidelines-for-parliamentary-election/story-2ZqYLYlvaT9gbmSiRVtN6L.html
07-06-2020||World||Protesters topple Confederate statue in Virginia capital||A small group of demonstrators toppled a statue of a Confederate general in the the former capital of the Confederacy late Saturday, following a day of largely peaceful protests in the Virginia city.The statue of Gen. Williams Carter Wickham was pulled from its pedestal in Monroe Park, a Richmond police spokeswoman said. She said she did not know if there were any arrests or damage done to the statue.A rope had been tied around the Confederate statue, which has stood since 1891, The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported, adding that someone urinated on the statue after it was pulled down. Photos and video from the newspaper showed the what appeared to be red paint splashed or sprayed on the statue.In 2017, some of Wickham’s descendants urged the city to remove the statue.Confederate monuments are a major flashpoint in Virginia and elsewhere in the South. Confederate memorials began coming down after a white supremacist killed nine black people at a Bible study in a church in South Carolina in 2015 and then again after the deadly white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017.Last week, Gov. Ralph Northam announced that a state-owned statue of former Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee would be removed from its perch on the famed Monument Avenue “as soon as possible.”The Lee statue is one of five Confederate monuments along Monument Avenue, a prestigious residential street and National Historic Landmark district. Monuments along the avenue have been rallying points during protests in recent days over Floyd’s death, and they have been tagged with graffiti, including messages that say “End police brutality” and “Stop white supremacy.”Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney last week announced plans to seek the removal of the other Confederate monuments along Monument Avenue, which include statues of Confederate President Jefferson Davis and Confederate Gens. Stonewall Jackson and J.E.B. Stuart. Those statues sit on city land, unlike the Lee statue, which is on state property.Stoney said he would introduce an ordinance July 1 to have the statues removed. That’s when a new law goes into effect, which was signed earlier this year by Northam, that undoes an existing state law protecting Confederate monuments and instead lets local governments decide their fate.Wickham’s statue stood in Monroe Park, about a mile away from the Lee statue and surrounded by the Virginia Commonwealth University campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-topple-confederate-statue-in-virginia-capital/story-cGjMeIGhTsTFfMeezTVKbO.html
07-06-2020||World||China to firmly fight back against shifting of blame, rejects ‘politicization’ of Covid-19||China lambasted suggestions that it hid information about the coronavirus outbreak, saying in a newly published white paper that it has acted transparently and informed the world of developments in a timely manner.“Some foreign politicians and media have presumed guilt for the origin of the virus, put labels on the virus and politicized the epidemic,” Xu Lin, head of State Council Information Office, said at a briefing in Beijing Sunday. “The fabricated assumptions -- like the ‘China origins of the virus,’ ‘China concealed the virus’ and ‘it’s China’s responsibility’ -- are utterly baseless, unreasonable and disrespectful of science.”With almost 400,000 deaths globally, the Covid-19 pandemic has become a point of tension in China’s relationship with a number of countries, most notably America. President Donald Trump has repeatedly faulted China for having failed to contain the coronavirus when addressing the outbreak in the US, which now leads the world in both infections and deaths.China has adamantly defended its actions. It’s also sent medical supplies and doctors to countries battling infections, with President Xi Jinping pledging to make any Chinese-developed vaccine a “global public good.” At the same time, Beijing has sought to cast doubt on the theory that the virus originated in China, with a foreign ministry official having promoted conspiracy theories that linked the outbreak to the U.S. military.The white paper published Sunday by the State Council Council Information Office describes as a “calculated slur” accusations that China concealed information about the virus or that it didn’t disclose the actual number of deaths. It also says Beijing shared information in “clear and unambiguous terms” but that this was ignored by certain countries, which now seek to blame China for their own failures.“While certain countries madly defame China with every conceivable means to shed their own responsibilities, China must firmly fight back against the shifting of blame,” Ma Zhaoxu, deputy foreign minister, said at the briefing.Though neither the white paper nor any of the Chinese officials who spoke at the briefing mentioned the U.S. by name, the criticism levied Sunday did appear to address Washington’s actions.Trump and US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo have suggested a link between the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which runs a laboratory that studies dangerous pathogens in the city where the virus first emerged, and the outbreak. Pompeo said earlier this month that there was “enormous evidence” to trace the virus back to the laboratory.China has dismissed the allegation as “pure fabrication” and characterized U.S. assertions as an election-year strategy to deflect attention from the U.S.’s poor handling of its own outbreak.Meanwhile, the white paper pledges that China will continue to supply the international market with materials to fight the outbreak, including pharmaceutical goods, daily necessities and other supplies. The nation will continue to open its markets, expand imports and outbound investment, and contribute further to other countries’ fight against the virus and to a stable world economy.Deputy Foreign Minister Ma also argued that China’s relationship with most countries has actually become “more stabilized” during the pandemic. “The relationship with our friends is closer and our circle of friends has expanded,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-firmly-fight-back-against-shifting-of-blame-rejects-politicization-of-covid-19/story-mJCi7BhDOLoaGfzsObAl3N.html
07-06-2020||World||Shanghai Junshi Biosciences in human tests for coronavirus antibody drug||Shanghai Junshi Biosciences has started an early-stage study in China to test a potential antibody treatment against the coronavirus in uninfected people, official paper Liberation Daily said on its online channel on Sunday.The experimental drug, JS016, is also expected to begin human study in the United States in the second quarter of this year, through collaboration with Eli Lilly and Co.Junshi is among a few biotech firms and research institutes backed by global pharmaceutical giants to work on antibody-based therapies to help those infected with the fast-spreading new coronavirus, which has killed nearly 400,000 globally.The company hopes that its antibody, isolated from recovered patients’ blood and engineered by researchers, can also protect healthy people with high infection risk, such as medical workers and the elderly, from getting the virus, said Feng Hui, chief operating officer of Junshi. But the product can be much more expensive than a vaccine, a more commonly used preventive medicine for which multiple candidates are being tested, as Junshi’s antibody drug is expected to contain larger amounts of costly proteins in one dose than a vaccine, Feng said. “Vaccines and antibodies have their own intended consumers and they cannot replace each other,” Feng said in an interview with Reuters before the announcement.“Vaccines are cheap and suitable for nationwide immunization, but older people with relatively weak immunity may not have as robust a response to vaccines as healthy adults and children,” Feng said. “Antibodies can better protect those people from the virus.”To make the drug, Junshi has been placing orders with overseas suppliers for materials and items such as specialised vials 12 months prior to delivery, instead of the usual six months, for fear that the virus outbreak would further disrupt logistics and supply chain bottlenecks.Although further study is needed to determine how much protein to put in one dose, Feng said Junshi’s manufacturing capacity and access to key supplies allow it to make enough doses to serve 100,000 people “with absolutely no problem” by the end of the year, based on one gram of protein in a shot for one person.However, Feng cautioned that it remains uncertain whether they can find enough participants to use the drug in later-stage, larger-scale human tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shanghai-junshi-biosciences-in-human-tests-for-coronavirus-antibody-drug/story-GjtLqRRyBpOkQJXftUuQZK.html
07-06-2020||World||Fujifilm says Covid-19 drug research may drag on into July||Fujifilm Holdings Corp’s research on Avigan as a potential treatment for Covid-19 may drag on until July, the company said on Sunday, a further setback in the Japanese firm’s race to find a vaccine.“There is a possibility that clinical trials will continue in July,” a Fujifilm spokesman said, responding to a Nikkei report that any approval will be delayed until July or later, due to a lack of patients for trials.After the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gave up on getting approval for the drug by the end of May, the aim was to complete clinical trials this month.But researchers have only been able to get around 70% of the patients needed for the trials, and because it takes 28 days to get results, the process will continue until at least July, the Nikkei business daily said, citing an unnamed source.The spokesman said Fujifilm does not make public details of the progress of clinical trials but it has expanded the number of medical institutions that are cooperate in the trials. “We aim to complete clinical trials as soon as possible.”Drugmakers around the world are scrambling to develop a vaccine for the new coronavirus, which has infected nearly 7 million people globally, while the disease it causes, Covid-19, has killed nearly 400,000.Many countries are focusing on drugs like Gilead Sciences Inc’s antiviral remdesivir and some are using the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, touted by U.S. President Donald Trump. Abe’s government has championed Japanese candidate Avigan, also known as Favipiravir.Countries that have succeeded in curbing infections have sometimes paradoxically found it difficult to sustain clinical trials because of dwindling sample sizes for patients.Japan has avoided the explosive outbreaks seen in some other nations, with about 17,000 infections, and the number of daily infection has been falling, according to public broadcaster NHK and the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fujifilm-says-covid-19-drug-research-may-drag-on-into-july/story-St527qEEHQlB71PvEOuS3N.html
07-06-2020||World||Brazil leads surge as global Covid-19 cases near 7 million||The number of global cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 is fast approaching the seven million mark, and the surge is now led by Brazil.Though about 30 per cent of those cases, or two million infections, are in the United States, Latin America now accounts for roughly 16 per cent of all cases. The total count of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Brazil - a Latin American country - has shot past 6,72,000, more than anywhere outside the United States.Late on Saturday, Brazil reported 27,075 new confirmed infections and 904 related deaths since its Friday update.Brazil reported more new cases and deaths from Covid-19 than any other country on four consecutive days this week.Fatalities in the Latin American country are rising rapidly and it may overtake the United Kingdom to have the second-largest number of deaths in the world.Globally, death toll from the coronavirus disease is approaching 4,00,000. The number of deaths linked to Covid-19 in just five months is now equal to the number of people who die annually from malaria, one of the world’s most deadly infectious diseases.The first Covid-19 death was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, China, but it was early April before the death toll passed 1,00,000. It took 23 days to go from 3,00,000 to 4,00,000 deaths. Brazil, with about 210 million people, is the globe’s seventh most populous nation.Meanwhile, Brazil’s health ministry removed the data from a website that had documented the Covid-19 pandemic over time and by state and municipality. The ministry also stopped giving a total count of confirmed cases.President Jair Bolsonaro defended the move. “The cumulative data ... does not reflect the moment the country is in,” he said on Twitter, citing a note from the ministry. “Other actions are underway to improve the reporting of cases and confirmation of diagnoses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-leads-surge-as-global-covid-19-cases-near-7-million/story-1u6igHw5PKFERChHDzoSfL.html
07-06-2020||World||The Great Diamond Glut: Miners stuck with gems worth billions||In one of the world’s biggest diamond vaults, hidden inside a nondescript office compound on the dusty outskirts of Botswana’s capital, the precious stones just keep piling up.Owner De Beers, which mines and auctions most of its gems in the southern African nation, has barely sold any rough diamonds since February. Neither has Russian rival Alrosa PJSC. Now, as the coronavirus restrictions that froze the global industry for months begin to lift, the unsold diamonds present a dilemma: how to reduce billions of dollars’ worth of stocks without undermining the nascent recovery.The pandemic has devastated the diamond world. Jewelry stores closed their doors, India’s cutting and polishing artisans were forced to stay home and De Beers had to cancel its March sale because buyers couldn’t travel to view the merchandise.De Beers and Alrosa have moved to defend their market. The miners refused to cut prices, instead allowing buyers unprecedented freedom to renege on contracts to buy stones. They’ve also reduced production in an effort to control stock levels. Yet the diamonds keep piling up.The five biggest producers are probably sitting on excess inventories worth about $3.5 billion, according to Gemdax, a specialist advisory firm. The figure could reach $4.5 billion by the end of the year, or about one-third of annual rough-diamond production.“They’ve tried to restrict rough-diamond supply to protect the market and protect value,” said Gemdax partner Anish Aggarwal. “The question will be, how does this destocking occur? Can miners destock and keep protecting the market?”After being forced to cancel the March event, De Beers managed to hold a sale in May but didn’t announce the results like it usually does. According to people familiar with the situation, the sale yielded about $35 million. Last year that sale was $416 million.The next big test for the industry comes later this month, with De Beers’s next sale. The company is going out of its way to attract customers, including by allowing diamond viewings outside of Botswana. Buyers will still be allowed to refuse goods they’ve contracted to purchase.De Beers’s customers, some of whom had been deeply frustrated with some of the company’s sales methods in recent years, have welcomed its actions so far.Yet while De Beers and Alrosa have stood firm on pricing – even refusing approaches from customers offering to buy at special terms – smaller diamond producers have dropped their own prices, according to people familiar with the matter.Junior miners, some of which were fighting for survival even before the pandemic, have been offering steep discounts of as much as 25% in trading centers such as Antwerp, the people said. That could make it tough for the large companies to convince big buyers to come to the table.Diamond miners face “a double whammy of weak prices and a sharp decline in sales volumes on a scale reminiscent of the 2008-09 crisis,” Societe Generale analyst Sergey Donskoy said this week.“Can miners destock and keep protecting the market?”Managing supply has been a constant headache for the diamond industry ever since De Beers ended its monopoly. The company spent the early 2000s running down about $5 billion in stock, and industry inventories ballooned during the global financial crisis and again in 2013. Each time, selling down the stockpiles has caused buildups of polished diamonds, putting huge pressure on the cutters, traders and manufacturers that buy from them.It may be even harder this time around. Those middlemen of the industry were already struggling even before the pandemic, while retail is one of the sectors hardest hit by the virus measures.Alrosa said Friday that its diamond inventories could rise to 30 million carats by the end of the year, roughly the same as its annual production, but didn’t give a value. The company said it wants to cut those stocks to 15 million carats in three years.There are some signs of recovery. Chinese retailers are open again and India has allowed manufacturing to restart in the key Surat polishing hub, albeit at only 50% of capacity. The main Indian trading offices are allowed 10% of employees on site.Still, manufacturers bought heavily in the first two months of the year in anticipation of a recovery in the market. With cutting centers shut for the past two months, that inventory is expected to last until July or August. That’s left little need to buy now.“At this stage it’s hard to speculate on what the recovery curve will look like,” said Aggarwal. “What we’re not expecting is an immediate jump back in consumer demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-great-diamond-glut-miners-stuck-with-gems-worth-billions/story-Qo1hrXhQ6T33rB40ClX00O.html
07-06-2020||World||18-year-old cleans street after protest in US, gets car and scholarship as reward||The protests against the killing of a black man at the hands of a white policeman have been raging across the United States. The protesters have clashed with the police, threw bombs and other things at them and even burned stuff.All this led to garbage lying around in the streets.An 18-year-old decided to do something about it. Antonio Gwynn Jr grabbed a broom, brought some garbage bags and started cleaning the streets of his hometown Buffalo, in the state of New York. He started at 2 am on Monday and did not stop for the next 10 hours, CNN reported.The word soon spread and Gwynn was all over the news. It was then, the CNN reported, that his community responded. One of the residents Matt Block decided to gift Gwynn his 2004 red Mustang convertible.Another local businessman extended a year of free auto insurance. A college in Buffalo offered Gwynn full scholarship where he plans to study business, CNN further reported.On Saturday, Buffalo saw pockets of looting after dark like many cities across the United States, where countless otherwise peaceful protests were staged in the wake of the death of George Floyd, a black man in police custody in Minneapolis on May 25.Two Buffalo police officers were arraigned on Saturday on felony assault charges after a viral video showed them shoving an elderly protester who remains critically injured after falling at a march against racism.Officers Aaron Torgalski, 39, and Robert McCabe, 32, were part of a unit in tactical gear enforcing an 8 pm curfew on Thursday during the protest involving long-time community activist Martin Gugino, 75, Erie County District Attorney John Flynn said in a statement. Both pleaded not guilty to second-degree assault during the virtual arraignment before Buffalo City Court Judge Craig D Hannah. They were released on their own recognizance and are due back in court on July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/18-year-old-cleans-street-after-protest-in-us-gets-car-and-scholarship-as-reward/story-b9s4UUp86EZnJdqIkvAykI.html
07-06-2020||World||Egypt’s president offers initiative to end conflict in war-torn Libya||Cairo [Egypt], June 7 (Xinhua/ANI): Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi announced on Saturday that Libyan Parliament Speaker Aguila Saleh and eastern-based military leader Khalifa Haftar have welcomed an initiative to end the military conflict in the neighbouring war-torn Libya.Sisi’s announcement came after a meeting with the visiting Libyan leaders in Cairo during which they discussed the recent developments of the ongoing war civil war in Libya.The initiative, dubbed Cairo Declaration, seeks a cease-fire between warring Libyan parties starting from June 8, a UN-supervised election of a Libyan presidential council and drafting a constitutional declaration to regulate elections for the later stage, Sisi said in a joint press conference with Haftar and Saleh.Under the initiative, foreign mercenaries would pull out from Libya and militias would dismantle and disarm, so that the Haftar-led Libyan National Army (LNA), in cooperation with the security apparatuses, can take over their security and military responsibilities in the country, according to the Egyptian president.Libya has been locked in a civil war since the ouster and killing of former leader Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.The situation escalated in 2014, splitting power between two rival governments: the UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) based in the capital Tripoli and another in the northeastern city of Tobruk allied with Haftar’s LNA.Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, France and Russia support Haftar’s LNA, while the GNA is backed by Turkey and Qatar, in addition to Italy.The eastern-based army launched a military campaign in April 2019, attempting to take over Tripoli from the UN-backed government.The fighting killed and injured hundreds of civilians and forced more than 150,000 others to flee their homes.According to Sisi, the initiative seeks to unify and regulate Libyan institutions to be able to perform their duties and guarantee fair and transparent distribution of Libyan resources to all citizens, hindering the monopoly of any extremist groups or militias over the country’s resources.“The initiative calls for respecting all relevant UN efforts and initiatives,” he noted, stressing that deteriorating security situation in Libya affects the security of neighboring states regionally and internationally.“The initiative will mark a beginning for a new stage towards the return of normal and safe life to Libya,” Sisi said, adding that it also calls for continuing the UN-sponsored talks by the 5+5 Libyan Joint Military Commission in Geneva.Sisi expressed Egypt’s aspiration for all countries and regional and international powers to support this step in order to end the Libyan crisis.He also called on the UN to assume its responsibility to invite all Libyan parties to the UN headquarters in Geneva to relaunch the political process.Speaking at the press conference, the speaker of the Libyan parliament said that the presidential council proposed by the initiative will consist of a president, two deputies, and a prime minister, adding that council’s term will be 18 months.“The council will not marginalize or exclude anyone,” he said, adding that “we will accelerate drafting of a constitution after which presidential and parliamentary elections will be held.”However, he stressed that the LNA is determined to expel the militias from the capital in order to “unify the Libyan institutions.”Hours after it was declared, Sisi’s initiative was welcomed by several countries including the U.S., Russia, France, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Jordan.Egyptian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sameh Shoukry reviewed on Saturday the elements of the initiative during phone calls with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki, as well as foreign ministers of Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Niger, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Jordan.Shoukry expressed Egypt’s keenness to coordinate with the countries concerned with the situation in Libya.He affirmed that Egypt will continue pursuing, along with friendly countries, a political solution in light of this initiative, and in the context of the objectives agreed upon in the framework of the conclusions of the Berlin process, with a view to achieving full stability in Libya. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-s-president-offers-initiative-to-end-conflict-in-war-torn-libya/story-oNQkTAAcOcwqSGoMAljVRM.html
07-06-2020||World||Floyd protests: Philadelphia Inquirer’s top editor Stan Wischnowski resigns over ‘Buildings Matter’ headline||A top editor in the United States resigned over a headline in connection with the George Floyd protests which have singed the country for more than 10 days.Stan Wischnowski, the Philadelphia Inquirer’s senior vice president and executive editor said on Saturday that he was stepping down. His resignation came after an uproar over the ‘Buildings Matter, Too’ headline lamenting damage to businesses amid turbulent protests denouncing police brutality against people of colour.The Inquirer had apologised for a “horribly wrong” decision to use the headline on a column Tuesday about looting and vandalism on the margins of protests.In its apology piece, The Inquirer that the headline “offensively riffed” on the Black Lives Matter movement. It called the error unacceptable.The note, however, said that the comparison between the loss of buildings and the lives of black Americans was not intended, and that the intent was ultimately irrelevant.It further described the headline-writing process followed at the news organisation, and vowed to change it after the error.The backlash came as The New York Times was widely criticised for publishing an opinion piece by US Senator Tom Cotton advocating the use of federal troops to quell the protests.About 30 members of the Inquirer’s 210-member editorial staff called in sick earlier this week, and black staff members angrily condemned the headline.The piece was written by architecture critic Inga Saffron, who worried that buildings damaged in violence over the past week could “leave a gaping hole in the heart of Philadelphia.”The Inquirer drew fresh scorn after it replaced that headline online with one that read, “Black Lives Matter. Do Buildings?” Eventually, the newspaper settled on “Damaging buildings disproportionately hurt the people protesters are trying to uplift.” Publisher and CEO Lisa Hughes said in a memo to staff that the headline was “offensive and inappropriate” and said the newspaper needed a more diverse workforce.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/floyd-protests-philadelphia-inquirer-s-top-editor-stan-wischnowski-resigns-over-buildings-matter-headline/story-HDaDEOhGXGlZ7fIhMcAjfM.html
07-06-2020||World||Australian surfer killed in shark attack||A three-metre (10-foot) shark attacked and killed a 60-year-old Australian man on Sunday while he was surfing in the north of New South Wales (NSW) state, police said.Several board-riders came to the assistance of the Queensland man and fought the shark off before pulling him to shore at Salt Beach, near Kingscliff, some 800 km (500 miles) north of Sydney.“He was rendered first aid for serious injuries to his left leg but died at the scene,” police said in a statement.Although shark-related deaths are rare in Australia, it has recorded a number of unprovoked shark encounters with humans.Australia’s beaches with their pumping ocean breaks draw surfers from around the world. Based on data from the Taronga Conservation Society, a government agency in charge of several zoological parks, Sunday’s death would be the third in Australia this year.There were no fatalities last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-surfer-killed-in-shark-attack/story-4q4luJnE3DbPZFmhrf53uK.html
07-06-2020||World||Washington protesters express optimism after week on edge||On Monday, they were forcibly removed from the street by law enforcement. On Saturday, they danced.The tens of thousands of racially diverse demonstrators who flooded Washington to protest injustice and police brutality reshaped the mood of a city that has been on edge this week. Bursts of looting and violence early in the week prompted a dramatic clampdown by law enforcement that gave the nation’s capital the feeling of an occupied city, complete with military vehicles, helicopters buzzing low to the skyline and National Guard troops on patrol.But on Saturday, go-go music — a distinctive D.C. offshoot of funk — blared from a truck that looked more like a parade float. Impromptu dance parties popped up. A black man shared a fist bump with a black police officer. People used chalk to write messages of support on the street.The purpose of the protest was somber: to demand changes to police practices and pay homage to George Floyd, the black man killed by Minneapolis police. But the displays of levity, unfolding against the backdrop of damaged buildings marked with graffiti, amounted to a moment of catharsis for a city and nation in crisis.Some said they saw the beginning of a new movement.“This is us walking across the Pettus Bridge,” said Kendyll Myles, a 33-year-old project manager, referring to site of the iconic 1965 civil rights march in Selma, Alabama. “This is that type of awakening that our country needed.”The scene on Saturday was starkly different from earlier this week when law enforcement moved aggressively to push back protesters from a park in front of the White House. Within minutes, President Donald Trump walked across the park to appear before cameras at a church where he held up a Bible, but didn’t offer any prayers. The episode has been widely criticized.As demonstrations are expected to spill into another week, there are questions about whether the scope of the protests can become something more durable.Unlike the major Washington protests of the past, Saturday’s events weren’t strongly organized. In some cases, they were mini-marches that began in residential neighborhoods before converging on 16th Street, one of the major roads leading to the White House, where Trump spent the day without any public appearances.Many protestors carried signs urging participants to vote with the passion they brought to the streets. The Rev. Al Sharpton has said he’s organizing a March on Washington for late August that would energize voters heading into the fall presidential campaign.There were signs of cultural change. Those who led demonstrators in chants were almost exclusively people of color.Several white people who were approached for an interview demurred, saying that white people do enough talking and that this was a moment for their black and brown counterparts to have the spotlight and set the agenda.That’s one reason some black protestors said they thought this moment was different from previous demonstrations against police brutality. The fact that large numbers of white people would march alongside them fueled some hope that change might happen.“You can finally see it, the different races out here,” said Carl Sirls, a 26-year-old airline worker. “It’s not just black people. It’s not just white people. It’s everyone.”Pamela Reyolds said she hoped the massive size of the crowd and the diversity of the participants would help build momentum behind reforms including a ban on police chokeholds and a requirement for law enforcement to wear body cameras.“It took protest, it took rioting to happen,” the 37-year-old teacher said. “But I think they’re finally listening and they’re seeing that this is everybody’s fight.”There were still plenty of signs of anger on Saturday.Outside the FBI headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue, a protestor moved close to a line of law enforcement and shouted they had no right to patrol the city. A few blocks away at the Trump International Hotel, protestors regularly shouted epithets at the building. One man used a bullhorn to ask police how they could justify guarding a building associated with a president who has backed aggression toward protestors.More broadly, the expressions of hope don’t mask the deeper challenges facing Washington or the nation.The city is home to one of the largest income inequality gaps in the country, according to the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute. The racial divide is stark and has grown as longtime black neighborhoods have gentrified, sending home prices soaring. The coronavirus has taken a disproportionate toll on the black community.Mayor Muriel Bowser is under pressure to reduce funding for the city’s police and reinvest that money elsewhere. The local chapter of Black Lives Matter derided Bowser’s widely publicized move to paint Black Lives Matter across one of the streets near the White House.“This is performative and a distraction from her active counter organizing to our demands to decrease the police budget and invest in the community,” it said on Twitter.But as Bowser strolled that section of the street, the crowd in this overwhelmingly Democratic city burst into applause for a woman who is increasingly the subject of Trump’s ire. Art Lindy, a fifth-generation Washingtonian, shouted “Vice President Bowser” as she walked by.Bowser “has done an incredible job standing up to the face of federal power,” the 56-year-old construction manager said.A few blocks north, Jake Mathai was passing out free bottles of water to any demonstrator who needed relief from the heat and humidity. He said it was the least he could do for protestors and expressed particular admiration of younger people who showed up.“When I was 18, I was never doing this kind of thing,” the 36-year-old said. “These kids are going to be me in 18 years. But much better because I wasn’t doing this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-george-floyd-washington-protesters-express-optimism-after-week-on-edge-donald-trump-latest/story-2LZZae5EPDpYW9q10Y8u8J.html
07-06-2020||World||At least 23 police officers injured during Black Lives Matter protests in London||At least 23 police officers were injured in past several days during ongoing protests against racism and police brutality in London sparked by George Floyd’s murder in US’ Minneapolis city in late May, Jo Edwards, a police superintendent, said. Thousands of people marched through central London on Saturday, despite the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and calls by the authorities to refrain from gathering to avoid a sharp increase in infections.“We understand peoples’ passion to come and let their voice be heard, they protested largely without incident. Our officers have been professional and very restrained but there was a smaller group intent on violence towards police officers. Twenty-three officers have received injuries, doing their job, policing protest over the last few days, and that is totally unacceptable,” Edwards said, as quoted by a statement published on the London Metropolitan Police’s website.According to Edwards, 10 policemen were wounded and 14 people were detained during Saturday’s marches alone.The death of Floyd on May 25 has sparked a worldwide movement against police brutality, racism and social injustice, as a video showing a white police officer, Derek Chauvin, kneeling on Floyd’s neck after the latter had been arrested was widely circulated online on the next day. Apart from the United States, mass protests have taken place in Greece, Italy the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany, France, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, and other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-23-police-officers-injured-during-black-lives-matter-protests-in-london/story-lSKTIawZzeV20YphLCbwNM.html
07-06-2020||World||China would make a coronavirus vaccine a ‘global public good’||China will increase international cooperation if it succeeds in developing a novel coronavirus vaccine, the science and technology minister said on Sunday.China would make a vaccine a “global public good” when it is ready, the minister, Wang Zhigang, told a news conference in Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-would-make-a-coronavirus-vaccine-a-global-public-good/story-Yu0AjBU5hiYh7zzYjNArGP.html
07-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests mostly peaceful in Australia||Black Lives Matter protests across Australia proceeded mostly peacefully Saturday, as thousands of demonstrators in state capitals honored the memory of George Floyd and protested the deaths of indigenous Australians in custody.Organizers of the Sydney protest got a late reprieve when their appeal against a Friday ruling declaring the rally unauthorized was granted. The New South Wales Court of Appeal gave the green light just 12 minutes before the rally was scheduled to start, meaning those taking part could not be arrested.Up to 1,000 protesters had already gathered in the Town Hall area of downtown Sydney ahead of the decision.Floyd, a black man, died in handcuffs on May 25 while a Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee on his neck even after he pleaded for air and stopped moving.In addition to Australia, protests were held in other countries as well on Saturday, including South Korea and Japan.In Sydney, there was one early scuffle when police removed a man who appeared to be a counter protester carrying a sign reading, “White Lives, Black Lives, All Lives Matter.”“If we don’t die from the (coronavirus) pandemic, then we will die from police brutality,” Sadique, who has a West African background and said he goes by only one name, said in Sydney.The rally appeared orderly as police handed out masks to protesters and other officials provided hand sanitizer.Bob Jones, 75, said it was worth the risk to rally for change despite the state’s chief health officer saying the event could help spread the coronavirus.“If a society is not worth preserving, then what are you doing? You’re perpetuating a nonsense,” Jones said.Crowds filled Victoria Square in Adelaide after police gave special permission for the event to proceed despite Covid-19 restrictions. The march through the southern Australian city was held after police Commissioner Grant Stevens approved the rally on Friday.“This is a unique and extraordinary event. There is a sentiment that suggests people should have a right to protest on significant matters,” Stevens said.In Brisbane, the Queensland state capital, organizers said about 30,000 people gathered, forcing police to shut down some major downtown streets. The protesters marched from King George Square, across the river to South Brisbane, where they demanded to have Australia’s Indigenous flag raised at the police station.State Environment Minister Leeanne Enoch encouraged Queenslanders to speak out.“Whether you’re talking about the US or right here in Australia, black lives matter,” she said. “Black lives matter today. Black lives matter every day.”A Maori group did a traditional haka, or war dance, during the Brisbane protest. The large crowd later marched to a local police precinct, some chanting, “They say justice, we say murder.”On Friday, 2,000 demonstrators gathered in Canberra, the country’s capital, to remind Australians that the racial inequality underscored by Floyd’s death was not unique to the United States.“Australians have to understand that what’s been going on in the United States has been happening here for a long time,” said Matilda House, an elder of the Ngambri-Ngunnawal family group, the original settlers of the Canberra region.A demonstrator who interrupted House, arguing that the rally’s focus should be on “what’s happening in the United States” rather than Australia’s colonial history, was shouted down in a heated confrontation with several protesters. The demonstrator eventually followed the crowd’s advice to leave.Indigenous Australians make up 2% of the the country’s adult population, but 27% of the prison population. They are also the most disadvantaged ethnic minority in Australia and have higher-than-average rates of infant mortality and poor health, as well as shorter life expectancies and lower levels of education and employment than other Australians.Protesters gathered in South Korea’s capital for the second straight day to denounce Floyd’s death.Wearing masks and black shirts, dozens of demonstrators marched through a commercial district in downtown Seoul amid a police escort, carrying signs such as “George Floyd Rest in Peace” and “Koreans for Black Lives Matter.”“I urge the US government to stop the violent suppression of (US) protesters and listen to their voices,” said Jihoon Shim, one of the rally’s organizers. “I also want to urge the South Korean government to show its support for their fight (against racism).”On Friday, protesters gathered in front of the US Embassy in Seoul to condemn what they described as US police brutality toward demonstrators in America. They also urged South Korea to push for an anti-discrimination law that had been opposed by conservatives for years to address its own problems with discrimination.In Tokyo, dozens of people gathered in a peaceful protest.“Even if we are far apart, we learn of everything instantly on social media,” Taichi Hirano, one of the organizers, shouted to the crowd gathered outside Tokyo’s Shibuya train station.“Can we really dismiss it all as irrelevant?” he asked rhetorically, stressing that Japanese are joining others raising their voices against what he called “systematic discrimination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-mostly-peaceful-in-australia/story-oSGuLKW3rcOj5loMEtxWBP.html
07-06-2020||World||Mike Pompeo slams China over ‘callous exploitation’ of George Floyd’s death||US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo on Saturday (local time) hit out at China for “callous exploitation” of George Floyd’s death saying that “this laughable propaganda can’t fool anyone”.“The Chinese Communist Party’s callous exploitation of the tragic death of George Floyd to justify its authoritarian denial of basic human dignity exposes its true colours yet again. As with dictatorships throughout history, no lie is too obscene, so long as it serves the Party’s lust for power. This laughable propaganda should not fool anyone,” Pompeo said in a statement.Pompeo said that contrast between the US and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) could not be more stark.“In China, when a church burns, the attack was almost certainly directed by the CCP. In America, when a church burns, the arsonists are punished by the government, and it is the government that brings fire trucks, water, aid, and comfort to the faithful,” said Pompeo.US and China have been at loggerheads with each other on a range of issues in recent times including the coronavirus pandemic and Hong Kong.The US Secretary of State said: “In China, peaceful protesters from Hong Kong to Tiananmen Square are clubbed by armed militiamen for simply speaking out. Reporters writing of these indignities are sentenced to long terms in prison. In the United States, law enforcement - both state and federal - brings rogue officers to justice, welcomes peaceful protests while forcefully shutting down looting and violence, and exercises power pursuant to the Constitution to protect property and liberty for all. Our free press covers events wall to wall, for all the world to see.”“In China, when doctors and journalists warn of the dangers of a new disease, the CCP silences and disappears them, and lies about death totals and the extent of the outbreak. In the United States, we value life and build transparent systems to treat, cure, and underwrite - more than any other nation - pandemic solutions for the globe,” he added.Pompeo said Beijing in recent days has “showcased its continuing contempt for the truth and scorn for law”.The remarks come as Chinese officials have seized on the US protests as a way of hitting back at Washington for supporting pro-democracy demonstrations in Hong Kong in 2019, reported The Hill. “The CCP’s propaganda efforts - seeking to conflate the United States’ actions in the wake of the death of George Floyd with the CCP’s continued denial of basic human rights and freedom - should be seen for the fraud that they are. During the best of times, the PRC ruthlessly imposes communism. Amid the most difficult challenges, the United States secures freedom,” said US Secretary of State.The death of Floyd on May 25 has sparked a worldwide movement against police brutality, racism and social injustice, as a video showing a white police officer, kneeling on Floyd’s neck after the latter had been arrested was widely circulated online on the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-slams-china-over-callous-exploitation-of-george-floyd-s-death/story-saZmLgThelczSameaD46bO.html
07-06-2020||World||Tropical storm Cristobal advances toward US gulf coast||A re-energized Tropical Storm Cristobal advanced toward the US Gulf Coast early Saturday, bringing with it the heavy rains that already caused flooding and mudslides in Mexico and Central America.After weakening to a tropical depression while moving over land in Mexico’s Gulf coast, Cristobal headed back into the southern Gulf of Mexico from the Yucatan Peninsula on Friday and powered back up into a tropical storm. Forecasters said it would arrive on US soil late Sunday but was not expected to grow into a hurricane.The National Hurricane Center in Miami said in its 7 a.m. advisory Saturday that the storm was expected to slowly strengthen until it makes landfall, expected Sunday night along the US Gulf Coast. Tropical storm-force winds could arrive as early as Saturday evening.Cristobal’s maximum sustained winds had strengthened to 50 mph (85 kph) by early Saturday and it was moving north at 12 mph (19 kph). The storm was centered about 310 miles (500 kilometers) south-southwest of the mouth of the Mississippi River.The Hurricane Center said the storm could cause heavy rains from East Texas to Florida this weekend and into early next week. A tropical storm watch was posted for the northern Gulf of Mexico coast from Intracoastal City, Louisiana, to the Alabama-Florida border.In Louisiana, Gov. John Bel Edwards has declared a state of emergency to prepare for the storm’s possible arrival.“Now is the time to make your plans, which should include the traditional emergency items along with masks and hand sanitizer as we continue to battle the coronavirus pandemic,” Edward said in a statement released Thursday.On Friday, he asked President Donald Trump to declare a pre-landfall emergency for the state due to the storm’s threat.“We are confident that there will be widespread, heavy rainfall and coastal flooding,” Edwards said in a letter to the White House. “I anticipate the need for emergency protective measures, evacuations, and sheltering for the high-risk areas. The length of possible inundation is unknown and will likely require post-flood activities.”Jefferson Parish, a suburb of New Orleans, called for voluntary evacuations Saturday of Jean Lafitte, Lower Lafitte, Crown Point and Barataria because of the threat of storm surge, high tides and heavy rain. Residents were urged to move vehicles, boats and campers to higher ground.“We want to make sure residents are safe as this storm approaches so we are taking all the necessary precautions to be fully prepared,” Jean Lafitte Mayor Tim Kerner Jr. told The Advocate.A similar order was issued Saturday for several Plaquemines Parish communities, including Happy Jack, Grand Bayou, Myrtle Grove, Lake Hertiage, Harlem and Monsecour. President Kirk Lepine said the order was issued as a precaution.“We need to ensure residents are protected as this storm draws near, so we are taking all the necessary precautions to be completely prepared,” he said.The hurricane center’s forecast path puts Alabama on Cristobal’s east side, far from where the center comes ashore. Still, the southwest part of the state is expected to get gusty winds, heavy rain, storm surge and possibly tornadoes as the storm moves closer to the coast. Those effects were expected as early as Saturday night.“Sunday will be very wet and windy as Cristobal passes west of the area, placing the central Gulf Coast on the ‘dirty’ eastern side of the storm,” the weather service said.Cristobal formed this week in the Bay of Campeche from the remnants of Tropical Storm Amanda, which had sprung up last weekend in the eastern Pacific and hit Central America. The two storms combined to soak the region with as much as 35 inches (89 centimeters) of rain in some areas over the past week. At least 30 deaths have been attributed to the two storms and the flooding and landslides they unleashed.In Bacalar, in the south of Mexico’s Quintana Roo state, 230 families were isolated by the rains and had to be airlifted out, David Leon, Mexico’s national civil defense coordinator, said Friday. Leon added there had been light damage in 75 municipalities in seven states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-cristobal-advances-toward-us-gulf-coast/story-Q2usyiv9D9XDu9UJ6ZKubO.html
07-06-2020||World||‘Their skin is weaponised when they enter puberty’: Black parents talk about ‘the talk’||The death of George Floyd and subsequent demonstrations nationwide have many families discussing racism -- but for many African American parents, “the talk” has long been a necessity in society where their children must learn the dangers of growing up black in the United States.“I don’t know any black parents that don’t have the talk with their child,” said Tiffany Russell, 26. “But it’s now definitely a good time.”When Russell was three years old, after a dramatic incident, her mother sat her down, explained what happened, and advised her how to behave in the future: “You have to be careful about how you act, about how you react.”“You can’t be too aggressive, too angry. She told me if a police officer stops me just don’t say anything and just listen. Even if you’re upset -- you cannot show that you’re upset.”Glen Henry, a black father of four, spoke less to his two oldest children -- ages five and seven -- about how they carried themselves, focusing more on what they were likely to encounter.A YouTuber, he filmed and posted the conversation. His wife Yvette was initially opposed to bringing up the topic so soon.By the end of the clip, she was in tears.Henry convinced her that recent events justified putting racism on the table with “children who should not have to learn this.”Brittany Everette, a 27-year-old bi-racial mother in Virginia, appealed to Twitter for help knowing if the moment had come to speak to her son.“Children see the world as this bright, shiny place full of opportunity and wonder,” she said, adding that her son who will start kindergarten in the fall sometimes dresses up as an officer. But for Russell, shielding children is “not doing any justice.”“I didn’t think it took away any of our innocence or any part of our childhood,” she said. “It made us aware of our actions.”“It’s the reality.”‘Delicate balance’Everette and her husband, who is black, ultimately agreed two discussions were necessary: first on the question of race, and later on to discuss police brutality against black people.In many ways the discussion is life-long, with added complexities at milestones including starting primary school, entering the workforce, getting a driver’s license.Joseph West, a partner at the law firm Duane Morris and a father, remembers what his own father told him before he went out for his first drive: he taught careful driving and respecting traffic rules, but also no fast moves in case of a police check, and a deferential tone even in case of an unjustified pull-over.The message? “Even though the vast majority of law enforcement officers are good people, they in fact have the power to take your life -- and you are far more likely to have that happen to you if you are a black man than if you’re not.”“It was a chilling realization to have at that time, and it is something that stays with me to this day,” West said.What’s more, the message conveyed to girls and boys often varies, said Everette.“Black boys go immediately from cute little children to threats, while black girls are sexualized and seen as mature at much younger ages,” she said “Their skin is weaponized the minute they enter puberty.”West had already discussed issues of racism with his boys, but delved into the theme once again as disturbing images of Floyd’s death circulated online.“There’s a very delicate balance that has to take place,” he said. “You want to provide enough information so that they can make informed decisions about their interactions... while not tamping down the confidence that you want them to have.”“There is a thin line between confidence which will help you be successful, and being overconfident which could get you killed,” said the lawyer, who is also his firm’s diversity officer.After publishing an essay on Law.com about speaking to black children about the trials they will face, West said he received hundreds of mostly supportive messages.Especially white men, according to West, told him that “what I had expressed never occured to them and that they were going to have that version of the talk with their children.”“And that was very gratifying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-black-lives-matter-donald-trump-racism-their-skin-is-weaponised-when-they-enter-puberty-black-parents-talk-about-the-talk-white-supremacy-protests-us-kkk-klan-riots-us-racism-police-brutality-new-york/story-mhIlcgTgZ1hGGyQUS1ipFN.html
07-06-2020||World||$140 billion at stake for Hong Kong tycoons backing security law||After 12 months of political turmoil, a pandemic and the worst recession on record, Hong Kong’s richest people have emerged with their fortunes intact.The billionaire class of real estate developers, taipans and conglomerate founders who dominate Hong Kong’s economy are now lining up to support a controversial national security law, siding with the Chinese government despite widespread opposition from local residents and Western leaders.The nine richest people with companies listed in the city have endorsed the bill, either personally -- as was the case with Li Ka-shing and Michael Kadoorie -- or through one of their businesses or relatives. Their fortunes are worth a combined $140 billion.“Business leaders in Hong Kong have no choice if they do not relocate themselves and their businesses,” said Steve Tsang, director of the China Institute at SOAS University of London. “The passing of the decision on the national security law is a clear warning to them, and if they do not publicly support it, they know they risk being seen as opposing it.”A developer association representing firms including Lee Shau Kee’s Henderson Land Development Co. and the Kwok family’s Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. said it backs the law because it will guarantee stability and prosperity. The families behind Swire Pacific Ltd., Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. and Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd. have issued similar endorsements.Critics have argued that Beijing’s plan to impose the security bill by side-stepping Hong Kong’s legislature will mark the end of the “one country, two systems” principle that has underpinned the city’s status as a global financial hub.One of the law’s staunchest opponents is media tycoon Jimmy Lai, who has called out his fellow moguls for kowtowing to Beijing. Lai was arrested along with others earlier this year as part of a crackdown on pro-democracy figures who supported demonstrations that began last June.While those protests kicked off one of the most turbulent 12 months in Hong Kong’s history, the collective fortunes of the city’s richest haven’t suffered. Since the unrest started, their net worth has actually climbed 0.7%, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. That compares with an 8.1% slide in the benchmark Hang Seng Index over the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/140-billion-at-stake-for-hong-kong-tycoons-backing-security-law/story-GR83AohK1ysxe83EsL7b6K.html
07-06-2020||World||White House, Pentagon tensions near breaking point||Tensions between the White House and Pentagon have stretched to near a breaking point over President Donald Trump’s threat to use military force against street protests triggered by George Floyd’s death. Friction in this relationship, historically, is not unusual. But in recent days, and for the second time in Trump’s term, it has raised a prospect of high-level resignations and the risk of lasting damage to the military’s reputation. Calm may return, both in the crisis over Floyd’s death and in Pentagon leaders’ angst over Trump’s threats to use federal troops to put down protesters. But it could leave a residue of resentment and unease about this president’s approach to the military, whose leaders welcome his push for bigger budgets but chafe at being seen as political tools. The nub of the problem is that Trump sees no constraint on his authority to use what he calls the “unlimited power” of the military even against US citizens if he believes it necessary. Military leaders generally take a far different view. They believe that active-duty troops, trained to hunt and kill an enemy, should be used to enforce the law only in the most extreme emergency, such as an attempted actual rebellion. That limit exists, they argue, to keep the public’s trust. Vincent K. Brooks, a recently retired Army four-star general, says this “sacred trust” has been breached by Trump’s threat to commit active-duty troops for law enforcement in states where he deems a governor has not not tough enough against protesters. “It is a trust that the military, especially the active-duty military — ‘the regulars’ — possessing great physical power and holding many levers that could end freedom in our society and could shut down our government, would never, never apply that power for domestic political purposes,” Brooks wrote in an essay for Harvard University’s Belfer Center, where he is a senior fellow. Even beyond the prospect of using active-duty forces, the presence of National Guard troops on the streets of the nation’s capital has drawn criticism, particularly after a Guard helicopter may have used improperly to intimidate protesters. Defense Secretary Mark Esper has made known his regret at having accompanied Trump to a presidential photo opportunity in front of a church near the White House. He has said he did not see it coming — a blind spot that cost him in the eyes of critics who saw a supposedly apolitical Pentagon chief implicitly endorsing a political agenda. Esper two days later risked Trump’s ire when he stepped before reporters at the Pentagon to declare his opposition to Trump invoking the two-centuries-old Insurrection Act. That law allows a president to use the armed forces “as he considers necessary” when “unlawful obstructions ... or rebellion against the authority of the United States” make it impractical to enforce US laws in any state by normal means. Esper said plainly that he saw no need for such an extreme measure, a clear counterpoint to Trump’s threat to use force. Almost immediately, word came from the White House that Trump was unhappy with his defense secretary, who often mentions his own military credentials as a West Point graduate and veteran of the 1991 Gulf War in Iraq. After a night of sometimes violent protesting in Washington last Sunday, Esper pulled several active-duty units, including a military police battalion, to bases just outside the nation’s capital. He never called them into action and may have figured that positioning them close to the capital would give him more time to dissuade Trump from resorting to the Insurrection Act. On Friday, officials said the last of those active-duty units were being sent back home. Trump lost his first defense secretary, retired Marine Gen. Jim Mattis, over an accumulation of grievances, and it took an unusually long time to replace him. For half a year after Mattis resigned in December 2018, the Pentagon was run by acting secretaries of defense — three in succession, the longest such stretch of interim leadership in Pentagon history — before Esper took over last July. This week, Mattis added weight to the worry that Trump is militarizing his response to the street protests in Washington and across the nation. Calling himself “angry and appalled,” Mattis wrote in an essay for The Atlantic that keeping public order in times of civil unrest is the duty of civilian state and local authorities who best understand their communities and are answerable to them.. “Militarizing our response, as we witnessed in Washington, D.C., sets up a conflict — a false conflict — between the military and civilian society,” Mattis wrote. The worry felt among Pentagon leaders is reflected in the Joint Chiefs chairman, Gen. Mark Milley, reaching out privately to members of Congress in recent days to discuss concerns about use of the military on American streets. Milley has been publicly quiet since he caused a stir by joining Esper on a walk with Trump across Lafayette Square for a presidential photo opportunity Monday. The optics were awkward. Police had forcibly pushed peaceful protesters out of the way just before Trump and his entourage strolled to St. John’s Episcopal Church in the square, where Trump held up a Bible. (AP) IND IND||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-pentagon-tensions-near-breaking-point/story-MgiV9r89QmSicQiqgEmsjM.html
07-06-2020||World||Amid virus, US students look to colleges closer to home||As students make college plans for the fall, some US universities are seeing surging interest from in-state residents who are looking to stay closer to home amid the coronavirus pandemic.At the University of Texas at Arlington, commitments from state residents are up 26% over last year.Ohio State and Western Kentucky universities are both up about 20%. Deposits paid to attend Michigan State University are up 15% among state residents, while deposits from others are down 15%.Colleges and admissions counselors credit the uptick to a range of factors tied to the pandemic. Students want to be closer to home in case an outbreak again forces classes online.Some are choosing nearby schools where they’re charged lower rates as state residents. And amid uncertainty around the fall term, some are paying deposits at multiple schools to keep their options open.At the same time, scores of universities are bracing for sharp downturns in international enrollments amid visa issues and travel concerns. The result, some schools say, is that campuses will have a more local feel if they’re allowed to reopen this fall.“We are going to be a more regional and local university,” Bob McMaster, vice provost of the University of Minnesota, told the school’s board of regents at a May meeting. “The spheres of geography have certainly changed this year.” Universities across the US have ramped up recruiting efforts amid fears that the pandemic would spur students to rethink their plans.Schools have accepted more students and reached far deeper into wait lists than in the past. Some have increased financial aid. And some have focused on recruiting students in their own backyards.At the University of Minnesota, recruiters shifted attention away from bigger cities to focus on Minnesota, Wisconsin and other nearby states, McMaster said. In May, New Jersey launched a campaign urging students who had left to “come home” for college.Lisa Gelman, a private admissions counselor with Apt Tutoring in Massachusetts, said many students are rethinking earlier decisions to study far away or in cities that have become virus hot spots, including New York.For years, Lizzie Quinlivan dreamed of leaving her home in Massachusetts to study at the University of Southern California. In March, she got in. But by then, the virus was spreading across the U.S.“Anything that required a flight was suddenly off my list,” said Quinlivan, of Hingham. “I completely crossed off all California schools and even Midwest schools because of the pandemic.”Instead, she took an offer from Georgetown University in Washington. The risk of another virus outbreak still worries her, Quinlivan said, but she can get home by car or train if students are forced to leave campus like they were in the spring.For other students, the pandemic opened unexpected opportunities. Before the virus spread, Jessica Moskowitz had been placed on wait lists by some of her top schools.But as colleges scrambled to offset projected enrollment losses, she got offers from New York University, Emory University and Claremont McKenna College.If Moskowitz, of Salt Lake City, had been admitted to Emory under normal circumstances, she thinks she would have accepted. Instead she’s enrolling at the University of California, Santa Barbara, partly to stay closer to home but also because she was accepted there before the pandemic.“They wanted me from the beginning, and it never feels good to be second fiddle, to be someone’s second choice,” Moskowitz said. “Although these are amazing colleges and I was so lucky to be offered admission to them, it feels like maybe they’re just using me to fill seats in the fall.” Amid uncertainty over the course of the outbreak, more than 400 colleges extended commitment deadlines from May 1 to June 1. Scores of universities have announced plans to offer in-person instruction in the fall, but most also are preparing plans to keep classes online if needed.Among 20 public colleges that provided preliminary data to The Associated Press, roughly half reported increases in total freshman confirmations, reaching as high as 30%.The other half saw decreases of up to 15%. Some saw ebbing interest from students in other states, while others held even.Offsetting some increases in in-state students are plunging numbers for international students. At the University of Florida, new international confirmations are down 50%, the school’s data show. The University of Minnesota is down 28%, while Ohio State reported a 21% drop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-virus-us-students-look-to-colleges-closer-to-home/story-hcWukSqxBfhtuXQRriN2qK.html
07-06-2020||World||As Trump blames antifa, protest records show scant evidence||Scott Nichols, a balloon artist, was riding home on his scooter from the protests engulfing Minneapolis last weekend when he was struck by a rubber bullet fired from a cluster of police officers in riot gear.“I just pulled over and put my hands up, because I didn’t want to get killed,” said Nichols, 40. “Anybody that knows me knows I wasn’t out there to cause problems.”Nichols, who before the coronavirus pandemic made his living performing at children’s birthday parties under the stage name “Amazing Scott,” spent two days in jail before being released on criminal charges of riot and curfew violation.President Donald Trump has characterized those clashing with law enforcement after George Floyd’s death under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer as organized, radical-left thugs engaging in domestic terrorism, an assertion repeated by Attorney General William Barr. Some Democrats, including Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey, initially tried to blame out-of-state far-right infiltrators for the unrest before walking back those statements.There is scant evidence either is true.The Associated Press analyzed court records, employment histories, social media posts and other sources of information for 217 people arrested last weekend in Minneapolis and the District of Columbia, two cities at the epicenter of the protests across the United States.Rather than outside agitators, more than 85% of those arrested by police were local residents. Of those charged with such offenses as curfew violations, rioting and failure to obey law enforcement, only a handful appeared to have any affiliation with organized groups.Those charged with more serious offenses related to looting and property destruction – such as arson, burglary and theft – often had past criminal records. But they, too, were overwhelmingly local residents taking advantage of the chaos.Social media posts indicate only a few of those arrested are left-leaning activists, including a self-described anarchist. But others had indications of being on the political right, including some Trump supporters.The president has tried to portray the protesters and looters with a broad brush as “radical-left, bad people,” ominously invoking the name “antifa,” an umbrella term for leftist militants bound more by belief than organizational structure. Trump tweeted last Sunday that he planned to designate antifa as a terrorist organization.“These are acts of domestic terror,” Trump said in a Rose Garden speech Monday, moments after heavily armed troops and riot police advanced without warning on the largely peaceful protesters across the street from the White House.Barr, put in charge of organizing the police and military response, activated the FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force last weekend to target protest organizers.“The violence instigated and carried out by Antifa and other similar groups in connection with the rioting is domestic terrorism and will be treated accordingly,” Barr said in a statement issued Sunday.There have been violent acts, including property destruction and theft. Police officers and protesters have been seriously injured and killed. But federal law enforcement officials have offered little evidence that antifa-aligned protesters could be behind a movement that has appeared nearly simultaneously in hundreds of cities and towns in all 50 states since Floyd’s death.The AP obtained copies of daily confidential “Intelligence Notes” distributed this past week to local enforcement by the Department of Homeland Security that repeat, without citing evidence, that “organized violent opportunists — including suspected anarchist extremists — could increasingly perpetrate nationwide targeting of law enforcement and critical infrastructure.”“We lack detailed reporting indicating the level of organization and planning by some violent opportunists and assess that most of the violence to date has been loosely organized on a level seen with previous widespread outbreaks of violence at lawful protests,” the assessment for Monday says.The following day, the assessment noted “several uncorroborated reports of bricks being pre-staged at planned protest venues nationwide.”“Although we have been unable to verify the reporting through official channels, the staging of improvised weapons at planned events is a common tactic used by violent opportunists,” the Tuesday assessment says.But social media posts warning that stacks of bricks have been left at protest sites in Atlanta, Boston and Los Angeles have been debunked by local officials who have explained that the masonry was out in the open before the protests or was for use in construction projects.Nichols, the balloon artist, hardly fits the portrait of a radical.He recently gained local notice for a giant balloon rabbit and other sculptures displayed in his front yard for Easter. He laughed when asked if he had any ties to antifa or other militant groups. A white man who lives less than a half mile from where Floyd was killed on May 25, Nichols said he protested to support of his neighbors, many of whom are black.“It was the most insane thing I’ve seen in my life,” he said. “The city was going crazy.”Nichols said he and a friend helped douse a dumpster fire near a laundromat. He remembers getting a text from his mother saying that Minneapolis had set an 8 p.m. curfew, but he thought it would be enforced loosely.“Had I known that being out after curfew would be such a severe penalty, I would have never done it,” Nichols said, adding that he missed his son’s high school graduation while he was in jail.Lars Ortiz, a 35-year-old classical musician, said he was driving just blocks from his Minneapolis home on May 29 after visiting a friend recovering from COVID-19 when officers pulled him out of his car at gunpoint. He said he had been unaware of the 8 p.m. curfew enacted that night.Ortiz and another friend in the car with him were put in zip-tie restraints and forced to wait on a bus for hours before police took them to jail, where he would spend the weekend.“It was scary. It was confusing. I felt violated,” said Ortiz, a cellist who identifies as a biracial Mexican American.Ortiz was held on a riot charge and curfew violation. He said he was told when he was released from jail on Monday the more serious rioting charge was dropped.Lt. Andy Knotz of the Anoka County Sheriff’s Office, whose deputies were deployed from the suburban county north of Minneapolis into the city to help with the unrest, said it was a “chaotic scene” and that Ortiz was coming from the direction of the protests. Knotz said Ortiz was removed from his car by the Minnesota State Patrol, and an Anoka deputy took him to the police station.“In chaos like that you can’t determine who is legit and who isn’t,” Knotz said.Natalie Cook, 43, who’s white, said she had never before participated in a protest, but wanted to be there to support and protect her 24-year-old son, who’s black.“Not only did I want to go to be an ally to black people, but I wanted to go to support my son,” Cook said. “Also, I was afraid to send him out by himself.”Cook said they were marching peacefully with about 100 protesters for hours when police started using tear gas and shooting rubber bullets. As they tried to get away, they were pepper sprayed and her son was hit at close range by a rubber bullet, she said. They were both jailed and released on Monday, charged with riot and violating curfew.Cook said her son was deeply affected by Floyd’s death and she doesn’t have any regrets about going out to make their voices heard.“My son was really struggling with it,” she said. “We couldn’t just sit by and watch.”AP filed public records requests seeking arrest reports and other documents that might show what evidence law enforcement officers have against Nichols, Ortiz the Cooks and others arrested in Minneapolis. Those records have not yet been provided.In Washington, the D.C. Metropolitan Police arrested at least 81 people last weekend, including some as young as 13. Most were charged with curfew violations and felony rioting, which could result in up to 180 days in jail and $5,000 in fines.Among the highest profile arrests made by federal authorities in the last week was Matthew Lee Rupert. Prosecutors allege the 28-year-old Illinois man traveled to Minneapolis to participate in riots and then posted videos on a Facebook page showing him looting stores and handing out explosives.In one video, Rupert, a convicted felon, says: “We come to riot, boy! This is what we came for!”Though Rupert is alleged to have targeted police officers, there is no evidence cited in his indictment he is affiliated with any organized group. Among the few indicators of his political beliefs was a series of Facebook posts celebrating Trump’s 2017 inauguration. “Trump is my president but I’m not racist,” he wrote, adding that he loves Mexican food.Rupert, who made an initial court appearance Friday, remains in federal custody. A federal public defender assigned to represent him did not respond to a voicemail message seeking comment.Michael German, a former FBI agent and fellow with the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University, said people often travel and cross state lines to participate in protests and that not all of them have peaceful intent. He said politicians and law enforcement often cite the presence of out-of-towners to justify greater police force against protesters.“It’s an old tactic for law enforcement policing protests to suggest that the problems are being caused by outside agitators,” German said. “It opens up the opportunity for greater police violence in response.”Among those who traveled to Minneapolis to protest Floyd’s killing was Tara Houska, a 36-year-old attorney and member of the Couchiching First Nation from northern Minnesota. An activist for indigenous rights, she was arrested in Minneapolis last Saturday night and charged with not complying with a peace officer.Houska, who attended college and law school in the city, said she was with a group a couple blocks from where Floyd died when police told them they were breaking curfew. They replied they were going home, she said, and then the officers hit them with pepper spray and zip-tied their hands.“Almost everyone that was in our holding tank with us was from Minnesota,” Houska said.Sierra West, 29, of Kansas City, Missouri, said she drove to Minneapolis with a friend because she is “so angry about what is happening” with police brutality and wanted to peacefully protest.After marching for hours, West broke away from the crowds and was walking back to her car through an alley alone when police arrested her early Saturday on riot and curfew violation charges. She said she did nothing to provoke the four officers who confronted her.“They were hiding, and they literally jumped out of the shadows with guns drawn on me,” she said. “The street was completely empty.”West, who is white and describes herself as a strong supporter of the Black Lives Matter movement, was freed from jail on Monday afternoon.University of Minnesota Law School student Santana Boulton, 23, said a police officer pepper-sprayed her in the face on May 28 before she was tear-gassed two days later and then arrested on Sunday, charged with unlawful assembly and violating a curfew.About 15 minutes before the 8 p.m. curfew, Boulton said she and her boyfriend joined a large crowd of marchers on Interstate 35. People linked arms and kneeled before two lines of police officers formed near the protesters. She said she never heard any orders to disperse.“It was nothing like a riot. It was a sit-in,” she said.Boulton, a white woman who moved from Michigan to Minneapolis to attend law school, was arrested and spent 16 hours in custody. She described herself as “philosophically an anarchist,” but “not a revolutionary.”“Antifa isn’t even real,” Boulton said. “As an actual person who identifies with the political label of anarchist, the only thing anarchists do is have meetings where they argue for five hours and get nothing done.”___Kunzelman reported from Silver Spring, Maryland, Bleiberg from Dallas and Durkin Richer from West Harwich, Massachusetts. Associated Press writers Brian Slodysko and Ashraf Khalil in Washington, Amanda Seitz and Don Babwin in Chicago, and Lori Hinnant in Paris contributed to this report.___Follow Associated Press Investigative Reporter Michael Biesecker at http//:twitter.com/mbieseck___Have a tip? Contact AP’s global investigative team at Investigative@ap.org___This story has been corrected to reflect that Trump’s remarks in the Rose Garden came after, not before, authorities advanced on protesters across the street from the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-trump-blames-antifa-protest-records-show-scant-evidence/story-sE8bsVdClbjnKtwYo22xNM.html
07-06-2020||World||‘It’s complicated’: German minister says of ties with US||Germany’s relationship with the United States is “complicated”, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in a newspaper interview, regretting the planned withdrawal of US soldiers from Germany.President Donald Trump has ordered the US military to remove 9,500 troops from Germany, a senior US official said on Friday.“Should it come to the withdrawal of part of the US troops, we take note of this. We appreciate the cooperation with the US forces that has developed over decades. It is in the interests of both our countries,” Maas told Bild am Sonntag.Maas acknowledged problems in Germany’s relationship with the United States, saying: “We are close partners in the transatlantic alliance. But: It is complicated.”On Saturday, senior lawmakers from German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ruling conservative bloc criticised Trump’s decision to order the US military to remove 9,500 troops from Germany.A US official, who did not want to be identified, said on Friday the troops move was the result of months of work by the top US military officer, General Mark Milley, and had nothing to do with tensions between Trump and Merkel, who thwarted Trump’s plan to host a G7 meeting this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-complicated-german-minister-says-of-ties-with-us/story-2pM1TSU2Vrg6x9NClnaA6N.html
07-06-2020||World||Top US military officer reaches out to Capitol Hill leaders||The nation’s top military officer, Gen. Mark Milley, spoke privately with congressional leaders and many other lawmakers as Pentagon officials came under fire for the military’s role in containing protests following the police killing of George Floyd.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., called Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to express her concerns on Tuesday, according to two people who were not authorised to publicly discuss the private conversations and were granted anonymity. That was the day after authorities cleared protesters near the White House so President Donald Trump could hold a photo opportunity at a nearby church. Milley and Defense Secretary Mark Esper were sharply criticised for accompanying Trump and thereby giving the impression of endorsing a politicisation of the military.Milley also reached out Tuesday to Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York, said another person granted anonymity to discuss the situation. A third official said Milley had spoke with perhaps 20 or more members of Congress in the days following Monday’s photo op and Trump’s implicit threat to invoke the Insurrection Act to permit him to use federal troops in a law enforcement role in the nation’s capital and in other cities.The outreach comes as Milley and Defense Secretary Mark Esper have tried to contain damage in the aftermath of Monday’s walk with Trump. Federal authorities used smoke canisters and pepper balls to clear peaceful protesters from a park so the president and his entourage could walk to the church and Trump could pose with a Bible.Late Friday, Esper and Milley declined a request from Democrats to appear before the House Armed Services Committee next week, although on Saturday the Pentagon said the door to testifying was still open.“This is unacceptable,” Rep. Adam Smith, D-Wash., the committee chairman, said in a statement Friday, joined by the panel’s 30 Democrats.“Our military leaders are sworn to be accountable to the people of this country, and Congress is constitutionally responsible for oversight,” the Democrats wrote. “They must appear and testify on these crucial matters in order to meet that responsibility.” The Pentagon’s chief spokesman, Jonathan Rath Hoffman, said Saturday evening that Esper and Milley “have not ‘refused’ to testify.” He said the Pentagon’s legislative affairs office “remains in discussion with” the committee on its request for appearances by Esper and Milley. He said the Army’s top civilian and uniformed officials, plus the head of the National Guard of Washington, DC, will brief Smith’s committee next week on the presence of the Guard in the capital.An informal briefing Friday with the secretary of the Army was canceled, according to a congressional aide who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a matter that had not been publicly disclosed.The White House has prohibited officials from the administration from testifying before the House unless they have cleared any appearances with the White House chief of staff.The protests in Washington were among those nationwide following the death of Floyd, a black man who died when a white police officer pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes.In the call with Milley, Pelosi raised a number of issues that were spelled out in a subsequent letter to Trump seeking an accounting of “increased militarization” in response to the protests.Schumer on Tuesday warned Milley and Esper, in a speech on the Senate floor, not to allow the U.S. military to engage in “ugly stunts” like the event the night before outside the White House.Esper told reporters Wednesday he was not aware of the operation to clear the park and did not know he was heading into a photo op. He also distanced himself from Trump’s threat to step up the military’s role in quelling protests, arguing against invoking the Insurrection Act.Milley released a message this week to military leaders stating that the Constitution “is founded on the essential principle that all men and women are born free and equal and should be treated with respect and dignity” and that it ”also gives Americans the right to freedom of speech and peaceful assembly.” The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, James Inhofe, R-Okla., defended Milley’s handling of the protest.In his own Senate speech Tuesday morning, Inhofe said he wanted to “set the record straight” after conferring with Milley before and after Monday’s events.Inhofe said Milley “told me that he intends to honor his oath and uphold the delicate balance between civilians and the military, and I fully believe him.” In her letter to Trump on Thursday, Pelosi asked the president under what authority and chain of command the troops were operating in the nation’s capital, warning the approach “may increase chaos.” The House Armed Services Committee members said they expect a briefing from the Defense Department by Monday.(AP) RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-military-officer-reaches-out-to-capitol-hill-leaders/story-AG0PRAbMfevoNmT440VCxM.html
07-06-2020||World||Zuckerberg-funded scientists want Facebook to rein in Trump||Dozens of scientists doing research funded by Mark Zuckerberg say Facebook should not be letting President Donald Trump use of the social media platform to “spread both misinformation and incendiary statements.” The researchers, including 60 professors at leading US research institutions, wrote a letter to the Facebook CEO on Saturday asking that he “consider stricter policies on misinformation and incendiary language that harms people,” especially during the current turmoil over racial injustice.The letter calls the spread of “deliberate misinformation and divisive language” the researchers’ goal of using technology to prevent and eradicate disease, improving childhood education and reform the criminal justice system.The researchers’ mission “is antithetical to some of the stances that Facebook has been taking, so we’re encouraging them to be more on the side of truth and on the right side of history as we’ve said in the letter,” said Debora Marks of Harvard Medical School, one of three professors who organized the letter.The other organisers are Martin Kampmann of the University of California-San Francisco and Jason Shepherd of the University of Utah. All have grants from a Chan Zuckerberg Initiative program working to prevent, cure and treat neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. The initiative is run by Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan.They said the letter had more than 160 signatories. Shepherd said about 10% are employees of Chan Zuckerberg foundations.The letter objects specifically to Zuckerberg’s decision not to at least flag as a violation of Facebook’s community standards Trump’s post that stated “when the looting starts, the shooting starts” after unrest in Minneapolis over the videotaped killing of George Floyd, a black man, by a white police officer. The letter’s authors called the post “a clear statement of inciting violence.” Twitter had both flagged and demoted a Trump tweet using the same language.The Associated Press emailed the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative press office for comment. It did not immediately respond.Some Facebook employees have publicly objected to Zuckerberg’s refusal to take down or label misleading or incendiary posts by Trump or other politicians. But Zuckerberg — who controls a majority of voting shares in the company — has so far refused.On Friday, Zuckerberg said in a post that he would review “potential options for handling violating or partially-violating content aside from the binary leave-it-up or take-it-down decisions” “I know many of you think we should have labeled the President’s posts in some way last week,” he wrote. “Our current policy is that if content is actually inciting violence, then the right mitigation is to take that content down — not let people continue seeing it behind a flag. There is no exception to this policy for politicians or newsworthiness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zuckerberg-funded-scientists-want-facebook-to-rein-in-trump/story-2rn0y5UqtSBH0k6oCU7aZN.html
07-06-2020||World||Boris Johnson eyes relaxation of Covid lockdown, extra spending||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is planning to relax rules on outdoor dining and weddings, as well as speeding up government investment plans in a bid to limit the economic damage from the coronavirus, newspapers reported on Saturday.The Sunday Times said Johnson wanted to relax planning restrictions that stop many pubs, cafes and restaurants from using outside areas, and also to make it legal to hold weddings outside - something currently limited to Jews and Quakers.Indoor weddings and funerals with up to 10 people attending would also be permitted from early July, while places of worship would be allowed to reopen for private prayer from June 15, as part of plans to be announced in the coming week, the newspaper said.“Boris wants us back to normal, or as near to it as possible, before the summer,” the newspaper quoted a senior source as saying, adding the prime minister was concerned about forecasts of a sharp rise in unemployment.A spokeswoman for Johnson’s Downing Street office had no immediate comment on the report.Separately, the Sunday Telegraph said Johnson planned to announce in the coming weeks that the government would speed up road improvements and the construction of 40 new hospitals it had promised before last December’s election.“Now is the time to be even more ambitious with his plans to unite and level up the country,” a government source was quoted as telling the Sunday Telegraph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-eyes-relaxation-of-covid-lockdown-extra-spending/story-5sa7aWK4b1ZyhtLCUp0Y6I.html
07-06-2020||World||Mike Pompeo offers US help in cleaning huge Russian oil spill||The United States on Saturday offered to help Russia clean up a vast fuel spill that has fouled an Arctic river in northern Siberia.“Saddened to hear about the fuel spill in Norilsk, Russia,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wrote on Twitter.“Despite our disagreements, the United States stands ready to assist Russia to mitigate this environmental disaster and offer our technical expertise.”On May 29, a diesel-fuel tank at a power plant belonging to the giant Norilsk Nickel mining group collapsed near the Siberian industrial city of Norilsk, sending some 15,000 tons of diesel into a nearby waterway and pouring an additional 6,000 tons onto surrounding land.The spill -- deemed the worst ecological catastrophe of the sort to ever hit the region -- colored remote tundra waterways with bright red patches visible from space. President Vladimir Putin declared an emergency and said he expects the company to pay for the clean up, which could take years.Clean up work however has been complicated by marshy ground amid a springtime thaw and the shallow depths of the nearby Ambarnaya River, which prevents boats from reaching the scene.Russian officials said Friday that the spill was probably caused when long-frozen permafrost under the fuel tank melted and gave way, and ordered a review of infrastructure in vulnerable zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-offers-us-help-in-cleaning-huge-russian-oil-spill/story-1q0ux2hD2LK74T2WqSZbCP.html
07-06-2020||World||Normandy remembers D-Day without crowds amid pandemic||At daybreak on Saturday, Charles Shay stood lonesome without any fellow veteran on the very same beach where he waded ashore 76 years ago, part of one of the most epic battles in military historic that came to be known as D-Day and turned the tide of World War II.Compared to last year, when many tens of thousands came to the northern French beaches of Normandy to cheer the dwindling number of veterans and celebrate three-quarters of a century of liberation from Nazi oppression, the coronavirus lockdown turned this year’s remembrance into one of the eeriest ever.“I am very sad now,” said Shay, who was a 19-year-old US Army medic when he landed on Omaha Beach under horrific machine-gun fire and shells. “Because of the virus, nobody can be here. I would like to see more of us here,” he told The Associated Press.Normally, 95-year-old Shay would be meeting other survivors of the 1944 battle and celebrating with locals and dignitaries alike, all not far from his home close to the beaches that defined his life. “This year, I am one of the very few that is probably here,” he said, adding that other US veterans could not fly in because of the virus.When a full moon disappeared over land and the sun rose the other side over the English Channel, there was no customary rumble of columns of vintage jeep and trucks to be heard, roads still so deserted hare sat alongside them.Still the French would not let this day slip by unnoticed, such is their attachment to some 160,000 soldiers from the United States, Britain, Canada and other countries who spilled their blood to free foreign beaches and fight on to finally defeat Nazism almost one year later. “It’s a June 6 unlike any other,” said Philippe Laillier, the mayor of Saint-Laurent-Sur-Mer, who staged a small remembrance around the monument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/normandy-remembers-d-day-without-crowds-amid-pandemic/story-1gz2wcX395EZtJP4Hl0k8J.html
07-06-2020||World||World witnesses another day of protests over George Floyd’s death||Tens of thousands marched in Australia, Canada, the UK, Japan, Seoul and elsewhere in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement as Washington, DC geared up for what’s being anticipated as the largest ever protest in the US against racism in the wake of the custodial death of George Floyd.Over 1,000 people marched in Sydney after winning a last-minute appeal against a Friday ruling declaring their rally unauthorised. In Brisbane, about 30,000 people gathered, forcing police to shut down some major streets. In the South Korean capital Seoul, protesters gathered for a second straight day to denounce Floyd’s death. Wearing masks and black shirts, dozens marched through a commercial district amid a police escort, carrying signs such as “Koreans for Black Lives Matter”. In Tokyo, dozens of people gathered in a peaceful protest. In Paris, police banned a protest planned for Saturday, citing the risk of spreading Covid-19. In Britain, tens of thousands of people ignored official advice to avoid mass gatherings and came together to protest against the killing.In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made an unannounced appearance at an anti-racial discrimination rally in the capital Ottawa, and then proceeded to take the knee for around nine minutes, along with protesters.US secretary of state Mike Pompeo accused China of using the unrest in the US to justify denying its own people basic human rights. “As with dictatorships throughout history, no lie is too obscene, so long as it serves the party’s lust for power,” he said, referring to the Chinese Communist Party. “This laughable propaganda should not fool anyone.”China has repeatedly criticised the US over the Floyd case.The US is now witnessing a weekend of protests described as the broadest in its history, spreading even to smaller cities and small towns, including deeply conservative ones. District of Colombia, which had another night of curfew on Friday, has seen a surging number of protesters, undeterred by the heavy presence of law enforcement. They demonstrated in front of the White House, which has been turned into a fortress with tall fences and concrete barricades and walked peacefully to the Lincoln Memorial nearby.The protests, now into their 12th day, have spread to more locations than the previous high of 650 places during the Women’s Marches of January 2017, just days after President Donald Trump took office, according to a research published in The Washington Post. The study by professors Lara Putnam, Erica Chenoweth and Jeremy Pressman noted t “the breadth of the protests is significant” and also because they took place without advance planning and in the middle of a pandemic that has kept many Americans home||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-witnesses-another-day-of-protests-over-george-floyd-s-death/story-FIPQonauLyEWfcaqnJ8k1M.html
07-06-2020||India||Delhi govt sets up 24x7 helpdesks in its hospitals to help needy patients||The Delhi government on Sunday announced setting up of 24x7 helpdesks in each of its hospitals to facilitate admissions of needy patients.“It is hereby ordered that a 24x7 helpdesk shall be set up at each hospital to ensure smooth and hassle-free admission to the needy patients in the hospital. The said helpdesk shall function in two shifts of of 12 hours each and shall consist of two officers/officials of govt of NCT Delhi and and one constable during night duty hours….The hospital administration concerned shall extend all cooperation to the officers/officials deployed at helpdesk,” said the order by the Delhi government’s health and family welfare secretary Padmini Singla.It said the decision to set up the helpdesks was taken after it observed that some needy patients visiting various hospitals for admission/treatment of diseases were facing difficulty in admission in government hospitals and that these patients “are being made to suffer.”The Delhi government had recently come under flak for the conduct of hospitals amid the Covid-19 pandemic.On Saturday, the government issued a slew of orders including one to all state-run Covid-19 hospitals that no patient with symptoms of coronavirus should be denied admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-24x7-helpdesks-in-its-hospitals-to-help-needy-patients/story-uMmyY2TQkXA9K0fAGzs9uM.html
07-06-2020||India||PIB Principle Director General tests positive for Covid-19: Reports||Principle Director General of Press Information Bureau, K S Dhatwalia has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to AIIMS, sources said on Sunday.  Dhatwalia had on Wednesday shared stage with Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prakash Javadekar when they had briefed media on the decisions taken by the Cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pib-principle-director-general-tests-positive-for-covid-19-reports/story-OwIwPFa93PsChDbfEotJQN.html
07-06-2020||India||J-K’s Covid-19 tally goes past 4,000 after Sunday’s surge of 620 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday crossed the 4,000 mark with the highest single-day spike of 620 new cases, the government said.The union territory’s Covid-19 tally is now 4,087 after it reported the first case 91 days ago.There were also two casualties in Kashmir division taking the death toll of infected people in the union territory to 41.Officials said that most of the fresh cases were reported from Kashmir division which has been consistently recording the majority of the case load than Jammu division.“In the union territory, 620 new positive cases have been reported since our last update yesterday, 37 from Jammu division and 583 from Kashmir Division,” the government said in a statement.The statement said that among the new cases, 32 were those with travel histories.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.After the first cases of Covid-19 in J&K on March 9, this is the first time that the number of daily Covid cases has crossed 600-mark in the union territory. The last highest jump was on Thursday with 285 new cases. Since May 27, the UT has consistently seen a jump of more than 100 cases.Amid the spike, the government on Sunday put nine districts in the red zone, nine in the orange zone and two in the green zone. In Kashmir division, which has recorded the majority of the cases, eight of its districts are in red with only two districts - Ganderbal and Bandipora- were put in orange zone while in Jammu all the district were either categorized as orange or green zone. Officials said that of the two persons who died one was a 38-year-old tailor from Kolkata working in Srinagar. They said that he had brain haemorrhage and died on Saturday. His sample was taken after his death.“He died on Saturday and his sample was taken which returned positive today,” said medical superintendent of SMHS, Nazir Chaudhary. Another man, 70-year-old from Srinagar, had died at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial hospital in Srinagar on Saturday.So far 41 people have died of Covid-19 in the UT of which 36 are in Kashmir division, five are from the Jammu division.Fresh cases were reported in all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 3,189.The highest jump in Kashmir was in Kulgam with 161 new cases while Baramulla recorded 132 new cases followed by Srinagar, Pulwama and Anantnag with 87, 60 and 59 cases respectively. “We should emphasize on precautions in public instead of triggering panic with numbers. In the later case it’s also true that out of 23,589 #Srinagar residents tested so far only 400 odd are +ve, including >50% travelers. Let’s encourage everyone to follow precautions,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner, Shahid Choudhary in a tweet.In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in seven of the 10 districts taking the division’s tally to 889.The highest jump in the division was recorded in Jammu with 22 cases followed by Doda district with five cases.Ninety patients were discharged after recovery – nine from Jammu division and 81 from Kashmir, the government statement said.So far, 1,216 out of the total 4,087 cases have recovered, 1,016 of those are from Kashmir and 200 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 2,146 and 684 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-s-covid-19-tally-goes-past-4-000-after-sunday-s-surge-of-620-new-cases/story-qL0d0rabDit3N0BVdmieCI.html
07-06-2020||India||Over 4 crore endangered Olive Ridley hatchlings make their way into the sea in Odisha||More than 4 crore Olive Ridley hatchlings have crawled their way to the sea over the past month after emerging from eggs at the Gahirmatha and Rushikulya rookeries in Odisha, signalling the end of the annual sojourn of the endangered species.State wildlife and forest department officials said more than 2 crore turtles emerged out of the eggs and crawled from the Nasi-2 island of Gahirmatha rookery and Rushikulya rookery between the second and third week of May.“If we take into account beach erosion and factors like rain, this year over 70 per cent of the eggs laid by the turtles hatched and baby turtles made their way into the Bay of Bengal. As there was barely any disturbance, the number of hatchlings this year was considerably higher,” Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Rajnagar Mangrove Forest Division, Bikash Ranjan Dash said.Similarly, in Gokharakuda beach of Rushikulya delta in Ganjam district, more than 2 crore baby turtles came out of the eggs and crawled into the Bay of Bengal. Divisional forest officer of Berhampur, Amlan Nayak said inclement weather did not have much impact on the hatching of the eggs.This year, around 4.70 lakh female turtles had turned up to lay eggs between the second and fourth week of March at the idyllic Nasi-2 island of Gahirmatha beach — regarded as the world’s largest nesting ground for Olive Ridley turtles-- while 3.23 lakh had nested at the Rushikulya rookery. Incidentally, the turtles had skipped Rushikulya last year, an event that had baffled turtle researchers. Both the beaches in Odisha are ideal for mass nesting due to their offshore and onshore properties.Each female turtle lays around 100 to 120 eggs. The eggs hatch in 45 to 60 days, depending on the temperature of the sand and atmosphere during the incubation period. “While rains play a role, in Gahirmatha this time we did not have any such problems,” the DFO, Rajnagar said. To protect the eggs from predators and humans, the wildlife department in Rushikulya, had put up metal net fencing over a 5 km stretch.Apart from Rushikulya and Gahirmatha in Odisha, there are only four mass nesting sites in the world for Olive Ridleys - Costa Rica, Mexico, Nicaragua and Suriname.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-crore-endangered-olive-ridley-hatchlings-make-their-way-into-the-sea-in-odisha/story-CM9GdhvR2yuI2g7LSBTcGI.html
07-06-2020||India||Leopard killed and paraded in Assam, 6 arrested||Five adults and a minor have been arrested in Assam’s Guwahati for killing a leopard on Sunday, said police. According to an FIR filed by the forest department, the leopard was killed by locals around 9:30 am in the Kathabari area of the city. The teeth of the animal were removed after it was killed and videos circulating on social media showed people parading the dead animal.“We have arrested 5 persons and a minor on charges of killing the leopard. Investigations are underway to arrest others involved in the act,” Dhirendra Kalita, in-charge of Garchuk police station said. He added that the minor was later sent to a remand home.According to reports, the animal, which looked old and weak due to starvation, was first trapped by the residents in the early hours of the day. However, it managed to escape.The residents allegedly pursued the animal and killed it. Kathabari area falls under the Fatasil reserve forest, spread over 670 hectares in Guwahati. Assam’s largest city has several notified reserve forests in and around it.Sunday’s incident was the fifth reported instance of leopards being killed in Assam. Three leopards were killed in Golaghat district in separate incidents while one was killed in Jorhat in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-killed-and-paraded-in-assam-6-arrested/story-Zk8KyiQRnvN1G7kuOd2G5O.html
07-06-2020||India||Six undertrial prisoners and two doctors among new Covid cases in Odisha||Six undertrial prisoners and two doctors in a Rourkela hospital were among the 75 new cases to test positive in Odisha on Sunday, taking the Covid tally in the state to 2,856. The State also reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 9.Two doctors at Rourkela Government Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infected doctors in Odisha to five. Both the doctors were involved in treating non-Covid patients at the hospital apart from their private clinics. Sundargarh district collector Nikhil Pawan Kalyan said the administration was conducting contact-tracing exercises for the two doctors.On Saturday, a 35-year-old doctor had tested positive in Angul district, while two other doctors — one at Cuttack and the other at Bhubaneswar – are already being treated for the infection.In Rourkela special jail, 6 undertrials, from among the 30 arrested for indulging in violence over the containment zone at Nala Road area, tested positive, Santosh Kumar Upadhyay, director of prisons confirmed. On May 26, thirty members from the minority community were arrested for indulging in violence that left 40 people including 12 policemen and some journalists injured. They were demanding lifting of the containment order imposed on the area after several Covid-19 cases were reported from there.In Bhubaneswar, an eight-year-old girl and her 40-year-old father tested positive for the disease. “The family had a travel history to Delhi,” said Bhubaneswar municipal corporation officials.In Ganjam, a 55-year-old male patient, who had tested positive for Covid, passed away during treatment in a hospital. He was suffering from tuberculosis and other comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-undertrial-prisoners-and-two-doctors-among-new-covid-cases-in-odisha/story-nNxCT9HPaUczJlzARoUuFL.html
07-06-2020||India||Forest department rescues leopard trapped in farmer’s snare in Kerala||Amid the outrage over the brutal killing of a pregnant elephant in Palakkad in Kerala late last month, a leopard was trapped in a snare laid by a farmer in Wayanad on Sunday, forest department officials said. The farmer immediately alerted forest officials after the big cat was trapped. And unlike the elephant, the leopard survived, but not without some drama.When forest department personnel tried to tranquilize the animal it escaped to the nearby forest. But they tracked it and tranquilized it after a three-hour chase. “It will now be relocated in the deep forests,” an official said.The forest department has registered a case against farmer P. Eliyas for laying an illegal trap. Officials said that he claimed to have laid the trap to scare wild boars which often raided his crops.Eliyas was later arrested.The recent killing of an elephant by using cracker-filled coconut had triggered a countrywide outrage. One person was arrested for the elephant’s killing. The latest incident shows many farmers still lay snares to trap boars and other animals that raid the fields to eat the crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-department-rescues-leopard-trapped-in-farmer-s-snare-in-kerala/story-smpjdpGZZKEvPxJiYwUuLP.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt says ‘fine-tuning’ strategy, slams reports claiming experts not consulted||Asserting that coronavirus is a “new agent” about which not everything is known, the government on Sunday defended the timing of imposition of the lockdown and rejected as “baseless” media reports expressing concerns that it did not take inputs from technical experts while drawing up its COVID-19 strategy.The government also said it is “fine-tuning” its strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground.In a statement, the Health Ministry said a section of the media is reporting on the decisions regarding India’s approach to the pandemic and asserted that the decision on the lockdown was taken in the background of rapid escalation of COVID-19 cases. “The doubling rate of cases had dropped to a low level, pointing toward a dangerous trajectory of high case load and high mortality, as experienced by many western countries. The possibility that our health systems could soon be overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients seemed to be real,” the ministry said.There was all round consensus on the lockdown among all state governments, it said.The government has already shared information on the impact of the lockdown and other restrictions to avert lakhs of infections and thousands of deaths, as also enormous gains in the health system and people’s preparedness, the ministry said. It said policies and strategies need to be calibrated to keep pace with the rapidly evolving situation the nation is faced with. “This virus is a new agent, not everything is known about it as yet. Government is fine-tuning the strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground,” the statement said.“As is well known in public health, different stages of epidemic demand different responses, and the nuanced, step-wise response is known to be a positive characteristic of a resilient health system,” it said.The ministry also said there are some reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the government’s efforts towards containment and management of COVID-19 to have excluded the larger wisdom of technical experts.“These apprehensions and allegations are unfounded and baseless. The government is constantly in consultation with experts for technical and strategic inputs, scientific ideas and domain-specific guidance to address the COVID-19 pandemic,” the statement said. A National Task Force (NTF) for COVID-19 is constituted by Secretary DHR-cum-DG- ICMR with Member (Health) NITI Aayog as Chairperson and Secretary (DoHFW) and Secretary (DHR) as co-chairs, it said The NTF comprises 21 members including technical or domain experts from the government and outside the government, the ministry said.Predominant expertise in the Task Force is from public health and/or epidemiology, it noted.Given the complexity and implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, the group has experts from medicine, virology, pharmacology and programme implementation domains as well, it highlighted.The task force has constituted four expert groups and the groups on Epidemiology and Surveillance (13 members) and on Operations Research (15 members) almost entirely comprise of public health and epidemiology experts from the government and non-government arena.The task force has held over 20 meetings and has systematically contributed towards the scientific and technical response to the pandemic, it said. Among other contributions, the Task Force has issued guidelines on testing, prevention, treatment and surveillance.In addition to the NTF, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also constituted a group of experts with public health experts as members, the statement said.The people, the WHO and the global health community have appreciated India’s proactive and pre-emptive approach to COVID-19, it stated.Compared to countries that have eased lockdowns such as UK, Italy, Spain and Germany, India has reported the lowest number of cases per lakh population, at 17.23 cases per lakh population and 0.49 deaths per lakh population, it said, citing a WHO Situation Report.The various policy decisions, interventions and strategies for containment and management of COVID-19 have been placed in the public domain and its impact has been shared with people through various media platforms, regular media briefings, daily press releases from various ministries and departments, panel discussions on electronic and social media, the statement said. The nationwide curbs were first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31 and now has been extended in containment zones till June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-says-fine-tuning-strategy-slams-reports-claiming-experts-not-consulted/story-5OXJcRYNEIflWrcLblbOqM.html
07-06-2020||India||In Jharkhand, delayed testing strands migrants in quarantine centres||After gruelling journeys to return home, many migrants lodged in government quarantine centres across Jharkhand now find themselves stranded due to the inordinate delay in testing of samples that sometimes take over 15 days even as the government struggles to boost testing rate.Some of them have been stuck in these centres for the last 25 days waiting to know their Covid-19 status while some cases have emerged where many inmates have been released from quarantine even before their confirmatory test reports came.As of June 6, there were 70,655 people in institutional quarantine across Jharkhand. There have been reports of clashes between inmates and guards at some quarantine centres in Sahebganj and Singhbhum districts.The return of migrant workers from different states to Jharkhand has increased the pace of sample collection. But it has also created a huge backlog of untested samples as the state has only seven real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines installed in four government owned hospitals. These machines together test 2,000 samples on average every day.As on June 6, Jharkhand had a backlog of 9,599 untested samples.Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta said the government is trying to boost the state’s testing capacity.“In order to ramp up our testing capacity, 30 Truenat machines have already been installed at all 24 district Sadar hospitals and six government owned medical colleges and hospitals. Through these machines, we will be able to sort out negative patients in no time. Swab samples, which are tested positive on Truenat, will then be sent for testing on RT-PCR machines for final confirmation.”The minister also said that the government ordered 30 more Truenat machines that can test four samples in an hour. As per norms, a sample that tests positive on a Truenat machine needs to be retested on RT-PCR machine for confirmation. But, there is no requirement of retest if it turns negative on Truenat.Instances of many migrants now stranded in quarantine centres even after completion of mandatory 14-day period due to delay in testing have emerged from Dhanbad, Hazaribag, Ramgarh and other districts.As many as 14 migrant workers, who have been staying in Dhanbad’s Baghmara block quarantine centre since their return from Maharashtra and Gujarat on May 13, feel cheated as Covid-19 reports of their samples have not arrived even after 25 days.They have completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine period and ought to be released.With patience running thin, one of the migrants in the quarantine centre said, “We pray to God to infect us with coronavirus so that we can get rid of this quarantine centre. We have seen many positive patients get cured and released from hospital even in four to six days. We are healthy but still in quarantine.”Medical officer in-charge of Baghmara CHC-cum-nodal officer of quarantine centre Dr Manish Kumar said, “We had sent several reminders to testing authorities at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, seeking test reports of these 14 migrants as they have completed their 14-day quarantine period on May 28.”But the PMCH says testing quarantine centre inmates has the lowest priority.“Some test reports of Baghmara quarantine centre have been sent and some are in process. We test samples collected from 11 districts leading to delay. Priority is given to samples collected from dead bodies, people admitted in isolation ward and then to people staying in quarantine centres,” PMCH principal, Dr Shailendra Kumar said.In PMCH testing lab, over 4,000 samples including 1715 of Dhanbad district are waiting to be tested.There have been more shocks from Hazaribag and Ramgarh where 10 Covid-19 patients were shown recovered even before the test results of their first swab samples taken could come. All of them had tested positive.Samples of Hazaribag’s five suspects were taken on May 23 during their stay in institutional quarantine but test reports came after 14 days on June 5.In the meantime, after spending 12 days in quarantine, their second samples were taken and tested locally on Truenat machine, as per ICMR guidelines, which disclosed negative results.Finding that the patients had recovered before receipt of their first test reports, the hospital authorities discharged them on June 2.“We had sent samples taken on May 22 and May 23 to Jamshedpur and Ranchi for testing on RT-PCR machines. But their results came on June 5,” said Hazaribag civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.He added, “Of the total 26 people tested positive on June 5, five had recovered and discharged three days ago. Since, these five patients had completed the 14-day quarantine period and found to be asymptomatic, their second samples were taken and tested negative locally on Truenat machine on June 2. The hospital authorities, therefore, discharged them even before the confirmatory reports came on Friday.”Ramgarh also reported a similar case where five suspects tested positive on June 6. They were, however, released much before this disclosure.“Samples of these five institutional quarantined suspects of Gola block were taken long back but their confirmatory test results came on Saturday. Due to delay in results, re-sampling was done in which test results turned negative. They were therefore discharged,” said Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jharkhand-delayed-testing-strands-migrants-in-quarantine-centres/story-EEoIISiJYWzoderZ3OR3EK.html
07-06-2020||India||Unspent funds, incomplete work mark gram panchayats in rural Bengal: Mahua Moitra||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national spokesperson and Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra on Sunday took a swipe at the gram panchayats within her constituency, Krishnanagar, mostly run by her own party, for unspent funds and unplanned work. Moitra has initiated a series of video messages to empower people and educate them about their rights and the need to stand up against corruption by local political leaders.In a 6-minute video clip, Moitra alleged that the gram panchayats were not taking up necessary work that required funds over Rs 3.5 lakh so that they could avoid mandatory administrative scrutiny. She advised people to get their own work done by dealing with the gram panchayats.“The tenure of the 14th finance commission ended in 2019-20 and the money from the 15th finance commission will start coming in soon. A panchayat on an average gets Rs. 1.2 crore every year. Those under the ISGPP (Institutional Strengthening of Gram Panchayats (ISGP) Programme) get around Rs 2 crore a year. There are 82 gram panchayats within my constituency. Many of them have failed to spend the previous money allocated. By rule, 60% of the allotment has to be spent by December, which was not done in many cases. If the money was used in a planned way, there should have been no kutcha roads in those areas,” Moitra said.The TMC MP said that each of the panchayats had unspent money ranging between Rs 1 crore to Rs 3.5 crore. She also said that there has been a misinformation campaign against her at the ground-level for taking up these issues with the administration. She alleged that she had been facing opposition in her drive to get the unspent money utilized. According to an officer of the Nadia district administration, more than 90% of the panchayats within Moitra’s constituency were run by her own party. Explaining why the panchayats were working slow and neglecting focus on essential needs, Moitra said, “The thing is, in 2014, the state government made e-tenders mandatory for any work above Rs 5 lakh. Most panchayats have not created the infrastructure yet and work requiring above Rs 5 lakh has not been taken up at all. Further, scrutiny at the block level is also mandatory for work above Rs 3.5 lakh. So, panchayats are focusing on work requiring less than Rs 3.5 lakh. As a result, crucial roadway connectivity has been neglected. Assets have not been created.”Her comments came barely two days after chief minister and party chief Mamata Banerjee warned TMC leaders about making comments against the party and their colleagues during a meeting over video conferencing. Banerjee’s warning came after consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pandey traded barbs with urban development minister Firhad Hakim, MLA Paresh Pal took digs at Pandey and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee criticised the irrigation minister – all in the media.On Sunday, no other TMC leader agreed to comment on Moitra’s remarks. “She is a spokesperson. If anything has to be said, the party chief will decide,” said a senior minister who did not want to be named.Mitra, herself, knew that her remarks could be politically controversial and gave a disclaimer: “I’m not saying these to turn into a subject of the opposition’s mockery. I am saying these in the people’s interest. Panchayat members are only interested in getting their quota of allocation.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Md Salim said that he agreed with most of what Moitra said and that the panchayat system in Bengal had collapsed under the TMC regime. “Before her, another MP, Kabir Suman, had raised the issue of corruption at the grassroot level. The party chief first dubbed him as a ‘guest’ and then sidelined him. If Moitra keeps making such remarks, she too would be dubbed a guest in TMC soon,” Salim said.Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary Rahul Sinha said, “Why is she publicly slamming panchayats run by her own party? Is she trying to save her skin sensing imminent danger of her party?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-mp-mahua-moitra-slams-party-s-panchayats-for-unspent-funds-incomplete-work/story-4d04FKtCAaAyb1kRaiCRJP.html
07-06-2020||India||World Food Safety Day: Live streaming from kitchens ensures your food is prepared well||For seeing is believing, right? Well, restaurants are going all out to do the same in times of corona. Ever wondered how your pizza or that favourite dish you ordered was made? Fret not, it’s become a reality now with some restaurants taking the baton. As the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic, what gains utmost importance is hygiene and safety when making food, for those ordering from outside. On World Food Safety Day (June 7), we speak to the restaurants taking the lead on this new way to regain customers’ trust.“Anybody can logon to www.instapizza.in/crustflix to see our operational outlets on live stream, all day, every day,” says, Ashwin Jain, founder of the pizza outlet. “We’re really excited about it because it ensures that our current and prospective customers have full transparency and visibility on exactly what we are doing to keep our teams, kitchens, and their food 100% hygienic and safe. Radical transparency in hygiene processes is important as it allows customers to know, with full clarity, what the brands that they frequent are doing to maintain the most effective and strict hygiene standards.In addition, the idea that our operations are on public display also helps keep us accountable to our own extreme standards, whether that includes frequent symptom checks, deep sanitisation every two hours, or handwashing, sanitising every 20 minutes.”For the foodies, this feature ensures complete transparency of the preparation of the food, and indeed is also a fun way to keep the mind busy while your food is being prepared, and you are desperately waiting for it, with a fork/spoon. Roseate Hotels & Resorts is also live streaming, not just for delivery but also the food preparation for dine-in guests. “We are up against unprecedented times. We don’t know how a customer out for a meal, after a prolonged lockdown, behaves. We don’t have any experience to relate to. What we know is they will only be inspired by trust. The trust will come from safety. Hence , an idea like live streaming of kitchen will ensure our customers are confident that their are having food cooked in a kitchen with highest level of sanitary and safety standards. Dining out will cease to be how it was. From selection of menu to viewing it being cooked live will be on an app. Going forward, post invention of vaccine, the trend will remain in some form. People will sometimes deem this kind of dine-out experience as novel and perhaps less time-consuming. However, it will never unseat the traditional dining experience,” says Ankur Bhatia, executive director. A Pan-Asian restaurant, Oishii Wok, in Phase-4 Gurugram, plans to go live every Friday on their social media page so that people feel assured by their safety measures and food preparation techniques. They have been regularly posting videos and pictures of their kitchen on Instagram, to make customers aware of the practices they follow while prepping the food. “We have also started a WhatsApp video and live streaming if any customer asks for it so that they can see how their food is being prepared. This is the time when customer trust is very important, and we keep on planning to gain their trust and support,” says Rohit Kumar, founder of the eatery. And the idea is getting good reviews, too. “It has shown some good results and people have now started to see the whole preparation of their food,” says Kamal Arora, founder of Kaiser, a north-Indian restaurant in Gurugram. So, have you checked out yet how’s your food cooking in the restaurant kitchen? Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/world-food-safety-day-live-streaming-from-kitchens-ensures-your-food-is-prepared-well/story-4x4ZnwgyPrRSgxmuX7FzFK.html
07-06-2020||India||Maharashtra Covid tally crosses 85,000-mark with 3,007 new cases, 91 deaths||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded more than 3,000 coronavirus positive cases to take the state tally to 85,975, including 91 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours that has led to the Covid death toll in the western state reaching the figure of 3,060.A total of 3,007 coronavirus cases were registered in the state on Sunday as per the data released by the state health department. Capital Mumbai recorded close to 50% of the new infections with 1,420 positive cases and it also accounted for more than 60% of the new deaths with 61 casualties out of the 91 recorded in the state in the past 24 hours. Mumbai has registered 48,774 Covid cases and 1,638 deaths so far.Maharashtra is not only the country’s worst affected state in terms of number of positive cases and deaths registered, it also shot past China’s coronavirus tally of roughly 83,000 cases, however, the state has registered fewer deaths than China’s toll of 4,634 deaths. There are only 16 countries that have registered more coronavirus cases than Maharashtra.India registered more than 9,000 cases in the last 24 hours to cross the 240,000-mark on Sunday. The national tally now stands at 246,628 cases as per the data released by the health ministry. Maharashtra alone accounts for one third of these cases.A total of 119,292 people have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals across the country. The national death toll due to the contagion stands at 6,929 which is little more than double the number of casualties seen in Maharashtra. The state yesterday announced procurement of 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to administer to Covid patients after the centre approved its use less than a week ago.Despite the rise in the number of cases, the state government has indicated that it is in favour of continuation of commercial activities in the state in order to prevent the economic situation from becoming even worse. The state along with the rest of the country is preparing to allow shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship to reopen to the public from tomorrow.Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are some of the other states in the country with a high number of positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-crosses-85-000-mark-with-3-007new-cases-91-deaths/story-1YVDZk8hblRmCF8GucOaiJ.html
07-06-2020||India||‘My performance should stand tall...’||Best remembered as antagonist in blockbusters like ‘Chennai Express’ and ‘Ready’, for actor Nikitin Dheer medium of work is never been a matter of concern. Nikitin was awaiting two film releases when the lockdown happened. The well built actor is all upbeat about his OTT debut with a series that was extensively shot in Eastern UP, “I always aspire to not to repeat myself be it on small or big screen as for me medium is a secondary concern. I have been taught to do justice to the characters I play irrespective of the medium. For me, it’s important to continue doing good work and proving myself as an actor,” he says over phone.After shooting for ‘Dabangg2’ in Lucknow, his recent series too was shot in UP. When asked did he undergo any special prep for the role of UP-based warlord, he was quick to reply, “We have used simple UP ‘ki bhasha’ that has a universal appeal and we deliberately didn’t use too much of Bhojpuri or Purvanchal language. Unlike ‘Chennai Express’ where to get into the skin of a Tamilian character I had to go through a four month long prep. For this series I have put all my efforts so that my personality doesn’t overwhelm my character and my performance should stand tall.”He shot for ‘Raktanchal’ in December, last year. “I was in Varanasi for around 16 days. In my adult life this was my first visit and I had a great time there. I got a break of 1-2 days in between so had an opportunity to go for ‘darshan’ of all the important temples. I also went to Prayagraj and had a holy dip at Sangam.”The actor has a strong connection with Kanpur as his father-actor Pankaj Dheer hails from the industrial city. “Not just my father, my wife (Kritika Sengar) is also from Kanpur so it’s a very strong bond with the city and I visit it at least once or twice a year.” Talking about his upcoming films, he said, “Yes, last year was all about work and only work. Before that I was doing TV and did another film which got stuck due to some reasons. Two of my films ‘Sooryavanshi’ and ‘Shershah’ are ready for release. Also, when the work starts, I am committed to the second season of my OTT series.”For Nikitin the ongoing phase had been a lesson. “Honestly, it has been a crazy year. I am thankful to God that all my close ones are safe. Mother Nature is at her angry best with forest fire, cyclones and earthquakes. This lockdown has been a big leveller for the entire human race.”Most of the post-production of his series was done during the lockdown. “We have even done our dubbing from home and it was due pandemic that the project got delayed else it would have release in April mid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-performance-should-stand-tall/story-FmWO5d5LTtScAA3mihd3EK.html
07-06-2020||India||One more ITBP staff tests Covid-19 positive, force’s coronavirus tally now at 35||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Sunday reported one new Covid-19 positive case, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the force to 35.Currently, there are a total of 26 active coronavirus cases in the ITBP and at least 186 ITBP personnel have recovered till date, an official of the force said.On Saturday, three new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police taking the total number of cases in the force to 34.ALSO READ | 45 ITBP men test positive for Covid-19, total cases in CAPFs now 298An ITBP bulletin said that three new cases of the infectious disease had been reported in the force in the last 24 hours, on Saturday. ITBP DG SS Deswal said that all ITBP hospitals will admit Covid-19 cases among veterans of the force and treat them. “We’ve come across news that citizens are facing problems in hospital admissions and treatment. All our veterans are offered health services at our hospitals. All our hospitals throughout the country will admit Covid-19 cases among our veterans and treat them well,” he said. Earlier, in May, the ITBP had sealed the force’s Tigri camp in Delhi after 23 personnel had tested positive for coronavirus at the same time. The camp is used for the 22nd battalion of the ITBP; which has a strength of around 1,000 personnel who had all been placed under observation.With the spread of the coronavirus disease from March this year, the ITBP had designated its largest Covid-19 hospital, in Noida, for troops from all paramilitary forces.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had reported its first Covid-19 case on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-itbp-staff-tests-covid-19-positive-force-s-coronavirus-tally-now-at-35/story-auOlX75yReDuybShEyUPAJ.html
07-06-2020||India||‘ When Indira Gandhi tried to subvert democracy...’: Amit Shah on Bihar’s role in opposing Emergency||Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday recalled the role played by Jayaprakash Narayan movement in opposing the emergency rule imposed by the then Indira Gandhi government in 1975 while addressing the people of the eastern state in a virtual rally held amid the coronavirus pandemic. Shah added that Narendra Modi government’s pro-poor policies in the last 6 years have benefitted the eastern states the most.“When Congress leader Indira Gandhi tried to subvert democracy by imposing Emergency, then the people from Bihar stood up to restore democracy through the JP movement,” Shah said.Shah was referring to the people’s movement-- also referred to as total revolution-- led by socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan, which opposed misrule in the state of Bihar and at the Centre and is widely credited with mobilising opposition to the emergency imposed by the Indira Gandhi government in 1975. Also read: Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit ShahShah also responded to RJD’s criticism that BJP was preparing for elections when the country was fighting coronavirus and said the virtual rally organised by the party was part of its culture of people outreach and is unrelated to polls. Assembly elections are due in Bihar in October this year and the NDA has declared chief minister Nitish Kumar the leader of the alliance for the polls. “This rally is not linked with the assembly elections. BJP believes in democracy. We can’t forget our culture of people outreach.” Shah said.Earlier today, several RJD leaders including Rabri Devi, her sons, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav clanged utensils in a move to protest Shah’s virtual rally and to highlight the plight of migrant workers. The RJD says it is observing Garib Adhikaar Diwas to bring to light the sufferings of the poor class.Shah said he was happy to see people beat utensils since it was in line with an appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during one day long Janta Curfew in March to show respect to corona warriors at the forefront of the fight against the disease.Also read | From Pulwama, Covid-19 to CAA: Key highlights from Amit Shah’s wide-ranging Bihar Jansamvad RallyAmit Shah also touched upon the issue of development in Bihar and said eastern India’s growth had declined since independence due to the neglect shown by past governments before the NDA took over the reins.Narendra Modi ji’s government has worked to improve the lives of crores of poor people in the last six years and this has benefited our people from eastern India the most,” Shah said.The BJP aims to connect over a crore people through virtual rallies in both West Bengal and Bihar.Shah will next address the people of Odisha and West Bengal through virtual rallies on June 8 and June 9 respectively. BJP President JP Nadda and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will also hold virtual rallies tomorrow in Gujarat and Maharashtra respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-indira-gandhi-tried-to-subvert-democracy-amit-shah-rakes-bihar-s-role-in-opposing-emergency/story-CHGU9V9IgiUtGh6u9oGWaN.html
07-06-2020||India||Television journalist succumbs to Covid-19 in Hyderabad, had critical co-morbidity||A 33-year-old journalist working for a popular Telugu television news channel in Hyderabad succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, doctors at Gandhi Hospital announced. He is the first journalist in Telangana to fall prey to the dreaded coronavirus.According to Gandhi Hospital Superintendent Dr Raja Rao, the deceased journalist, who had been working as a crime reporter for a Telugu television channel, had undergone tests for Covid-19 in Fever Hospitals earlier this month.“After he tested positive at Fever Hospital, he was referred to Gandhi Hospital for admission in the early hours of June 4. Immediately, we started treatment, but he developed breathlessness by afternoon on the same day and he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit,” Rao said.ALSO READ | Andhra Pradesh sees 130 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally close to 4000-markHe said the journalist had already been suffering from Myasthenia Gravis, in which all the muscles including respiratory muscles were weak for which he had been taking treatment with steroids.“With this co-morbid condition, he contracted Covid-19 and developed bilateral pneumonia with type 1 respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A team of doctors including physicians, anesthetists and pulmonologists, have given round-the-clock service to him. But, he had a cardiac arrest this morning and could not be revived despite attempts of resuscitation,” he said.The news came as a great shock to the journalist community in Hyderabad. In the last 10 days, at least a dozen scribes, including four belonging to various national media in Hyderabad, tested positive for Covid-19. Some of them were symptomatic and some others asymptomatic.For the last two weeks, Telangana has been reporting high incidence of Covid-19 cases, especially in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, both in terms of deaths and positive cases.On Saturday night, as many as 206 cases and 10 deaths were reported from different parts of Telangana, the highest-ever in a span of 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to 123 and the total number of cases in the state to 3,496.This is the first time that the number of positive cases in a single day has crossed 200 in Telangana. In Greater Hyderabad limits alone, as many as 152 cases were reported, while Ranga Reddy district reported 10 Covid-19 cases and Medchal reported 18. The total cases in GHMC limits alone now stand at 2,096.The state has opened up commercial activity, through gradual relaxation of lockdown restrictions since May 18. Liquor stores were thrown open on May 6. Restaurants, and places of worship and some other sectors will recommence normal activity from Monday as announced by the Centre.Director of Public Health and Family Welfare Dr G Srinivas Rao said surveillance teams had observed a surge in cases across the state.“In view of the surge, the people are requested to be alert and self-vigilant for any signs and symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). In case of onset of any ILI or SARI symptoms, they are requested to immediately contact the nearest government health facility without delay. Early reporting to the health facility will enable prompt diagnosis and management. Seeking medical care soon after the onset of symptoms is vital to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with Covid-19,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/television-journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-hyderabad-had-critical-co-morbidity/story-OAMUMe0Usyu37UlvrByXeN.html
07-06-2020||India||Security forces kill five terrorists in 12-hour operation in J-K’s Shopian||Security forces killed five terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday in a joint operation, officials said.Police said security forces launched the operation early in the morning after a tip off about the presence of terrorists at Reban village in South Kashmir’s Shopian district. The encounter raged for 12 hours before all the terrorists were killed.The Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Shopian Police were part of the joint operation.Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said all five militants were killed in the operation. “The operation has ended.”Police said the militants were holed up in a residential building.Defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said there was no collateral damage in the operation. “Cordon was laid and contact established leading to a firefight in which five terrorists were eliminated. The good drills ensured no collateral damage was caused during the operation.”The identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained. But sources the slain terrorists belonged to proscribed Hizbul Mujahideen terror group and one among them is believed to be a top commander.On Thursday a civilian was injured when militants opened fire on a police patrol party in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district.A day earlier a top Jaish commander and an IED expert along with two other militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.Since the Covid-19 lockdown, 49 militants and two associates have been killed in encounters in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-kill-five-terrorists-in-12-hour-operation-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-cMQHhAod0hztDLAyMUYanL.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Over 2,000 cattle dead at cow shelter,’ says Bikaner mayor citing negligence||More than 2,000 cattle died at a government cow shelter in Rajasthan’s Bikaner in the last five months, states a letter by Mayor Sushila Kanwar which HT has accessed. Kanwar has alleged that the municipal commissioner was not paying attention to the crisis in the shelter at Sarah Nathaniya, situated at the outskirts of the city. Stray cattle are kept in the shelter for which Bikaner Municipal Corporation (BMC) pays Rs 50 a day per cattle to Sohanlalji Buladeviji Ojha Goshala Samiti governed by a Chennai-based businessman.The society signed an MoU with the civic body through which the BMC agreed to pay Rs 5 crore as interest-free loan to develop 148 acres into a cow shelter and to create the infrastructure and maintain the shelter. The BMC had paid Rs 2.5 crore till date. Also read: Couple beaten to death in Rajasthan’s Dholpur over affairThis loan was repaid by the society as a donation in 48 equal instalments of Rs 10.5 lakh per month from the monthly grant given to the society for taking care of the animals.According to the information from the civic body, more than 500 cattle died in March, another 500 in April. Documents showed that 262 bovines died in January, 396 in February, 594 in March, 543 in April and 387 in May. The mayor wrote to the BMC commissioner on April 29 citing poor maintenance of the shelter leading to large-scale deaths. HT has an access to this letter.President of Sohanlalji Buladeviji Ojha Goshala Samiti, Anil Kumar Ojha, said the municipal corporation did not provide doctors and staff to the shelter. “Vets and medical staff are needed for the treatment of stray cattle brought into the shelter because most of them are already sick. They require immediate medical attention,” he said. Bikaner district collector Kumar Pal Gautam said only the civic body could answer queries related to the cow shelter. BMC commissioner Kushal Yaday did not respond to calls made for his response. People in Rajasthan abandon their cattle when the animals become unproductive. Such cattle stray on the streets and are often slaughtered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-000-cattle-dead-at-cow-shelter-says-bikaner-mayor-citing-negligence/story-bvBEXyVEmKDCPrb9STyihN.html
07-06-2020||India||Congress hits out at Arvind Kejriwal over Covid-19 cases, says not right time to open Delhi||Senior Delhi Congress leader Ajay Maken on Sunday targeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for what he said was the government’s unpreparedness to tackle the growing number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. Ajay Maken, the Congress’ spokesperson, blamed the Delhi government citing several reasons including the lack of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and tests.“The Delhi government should have strengthened the health infrastructure before opening restaurants, shopping malls and borders,” Maken said in a virtual press conference.The Delhi government has decided to open restaurants and shopping malls, as well as its state borders from June 8.As he lashed at the Aam Aadmi Party government for indulging in “image-making and event management”, the Congress leader said state-run hospitals must be opened up for Covid-19 patients.“Out of the 4,400 beds for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals run by the Delhi government, only 28% are occupied. And, in private hospitals 40% beds are lying vacant,” he said.He also questioned the action against the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which he said has a 88% occupancy rate. The Kejriwal government filed a first information report (FIR) against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for not following protocols for testing Covid-19 patients.Maken also raked up the report by the five-member committee set up to help the government in planning the augmenting of health infrastructure in the city.“There are about 25,000 Covid-19 cases in Delhi currently and the doubling time is 14 to 15 days. This means, by mid-June, there will be about 50,000 cases and by month-end one lakh cases,” Dr Mahesh Verma, the committee’s chairperson, said.“Now, assuming that 20 to 25% of these patients need hospitalisation, Delhi would need 15,000 beds by the end of the month and 42,000 by mid-July. We have not calculated beyond that,” he added.One of the committee members, on condition of anonymity, has said there will be 100,000 cases of Covid-19 in Delhi by the end of June and it will need 15,000 beds by the end of the month and around 42,000 by mid-July.The committee submitted its recommendations on the number of beds needed till mid-July for the treatment of Covid-19 patients to the government.He also criticised the government for not giving the dead a dignified cremation. “Bodies lie in crematoriums for five days and are not cremated because of Covid-19 protocol,” he said.The Delhi government is deliberately keeping the death toll lower, Maken also alleged.Maken also that the 25% positivity rate in Delhi indicates the onset of community transmission and this was not the right time to unlock the city.Maken said it was shameful that the Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi was the highest in the country and its recovery rate the lowest. This is because Delhi hospitals are in bad shape, he said.“It is premature for the Delhi government to open restaurants, malls from June 8 till health infrastructure is improved,” Maken said at a virtual press conference.According to the Union health ministry’s data, there are 27,654 Covid-19 cases in Delhi and 761 people have succumbed to the disease. It shows 16,229 active cases and 10,664 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-over-covid-19-cases-says-not-right-time-to-open-delhi/story-8KRG2QiWtwpiFjMRdB8cSO.html
07-06-2020||India||From Pulwama, Covid-19 to CAA: Key highlights from Amit Shah’s wide-ranging Bihar Jansamvad Rally||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad Rally’ through video conferencing and said that the rally is to bring the people of the country together amid the coronavirus pandemic and has nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.From emphasising the historical significance of the state to lauding the tireless fight put up by the nation’s ‘corona warriors’, Shah talked about a range of issues during his address.Also read: ‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’ - Amit ShahHere are the key highlights from the event:• “I want to salute the crores of ‘corona warriors’ who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution,” Shah said.• “This virtual rally is not an election/political rally but it is a rally to bring the people of the country together in our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” the home minister said.• The home minister lauded PM Modi’s leadership for carrying out surgical strikes and airstrikes in the interest of the nation. “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP government, we did,” he said. This virtual rally is not an election/political rally but it is a rally to bring the people of the country together in our fight against #COVID19 pandemic: Amit Shah https://t.co/L227X5qdZH• Shah said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. “The whole world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India,” he said.• The minister lauded the many achievements and milestones achieved under PM Modi’s leadership. He talked about the Citizenship Amendment Act and said that it provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India. There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi's darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi & BJP govt, we did surgical strikes & airstrike: Home Minister Amit Shah pic.twitter.com/An4Qxh18LH• On the issue of stranded migrant labourers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Shah said that all arrangements were made, quarantines centres were set up before special trains were run from May 1.• “They were named ‘Shramik trains’ as a tribute to the migrants. Around 1.25 crore migrants have been safely brought to their places by BJP’s Modi government,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pulwama-migrant-workers-to-covid-19-pandemic-and-caa-key-highlights-from-amit-shah-s-wide-ranging-bihar-jansamvad-rally/story-f3ogwczTtZg4FAGnJ85SyI.html
07-06-2020||India||‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that crucial issues which no earlier government had dared to touch  in the last 70 years had been resolved in the first year of the Modi government’s second term, making a reference to the controversial citizenship amendment law, the abolition of triple talaaq and the scrapping of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir.“Modi ji brought in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). This Act provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India,” Home Minister and veteran BJP leader Amit Shah said addressing the Bihar Jansamvad Rally through a video conference.“This virtual rally has nothing to do with Bihar’s assembly poll campaign and is aimed at connecting with people in the fight against Covid-19,” Shah said addressing the BJP workers in Bihar.ALSO READ | Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit ShahThe home minister mentioned all the achievements of the Centre and cited the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), power connections for the poor, toilets, the surgical airstrikes in retaliation to the Pulwama terror attack, the abolition of triple talaq, the Ayodhya verdict and the establishment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) among others.Billed the Bihar Jansamvad Rally, this is the first in a series of virtual meetings that Shah will address. He will address the people of Odisha and West Bengal through virtual rallies on June 8 and June 9 respectively. The Bharatiya Janata Party has selected Bihar BJP’s Facebook and YouTube pages for live streaming to reach out to the people residing in the 243 assembly segments of the state.BJP President JP Nadda and Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh too will hold virtual rallies on Monday in Gujarat and Maharashtra respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-citizenship-law-gave-respect-to-refugees-in-india-amit-shah/story-EpxzUIhaD0w9MjdUZeZqdL.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid poster war, Bihar CM launches JD (U)’s outreach programme and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar launches JD-U’s outreach exercise amid poster war in PatnaThe Janata Dal (United) launched its outreach programme on Sunday to connect the party’s booth-level workers directly with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar through video conferencing to boost their morale and get ground-level feedback ahead of the assembly elections later this year. Read moreCaretaker overcomes lockdown hurdles to look after destitute infants in PuneWhen the Covid-19 lockdown was clamped in Pune on March 25 along with the rest of the country, one of the establishments that was hit hard was Shreevatsa Child Care Institute which takes care of infant destitutes and abandoned babies. Read moreBJP hand behind Sonu Sood’s philanthropy, alleges Sena’s Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday criticised Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been widely appreciated for helping hundreds of stranded migrant workers home, as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party. Read morePolls say support for UK PM Boris Johnson drops, says reportPublic support for Boris Johnson is dropping over his government’s management of the coronavirus crisis, while backing for the opposition Labour party is on the rise, Mail Online reported, citing two surveys. Read moreJust learnt what it meant, now I’m angry: Darren Sammy says he faced racial comments during IPLAt a time when protests against the alleged killing of African-American George Floyd rocked the US, giving rise to the ‘Black Lives Matter’ campaign, former West Indies captain Darren Sammy made a startling revelation of being subjected to racism in India while playing in the IPL. Read moreShilpa Shetty’s lavish home boasts of a gym, garden and several art installations. See inside picsShilpa Shetty has been quarantining with her family at their lavish abode in Juhu which also boasts of a fully-equipped gym and a big garden. The actor often shares a glimpse of her house, named Kinara, on Instagram and it’s nothing less than a treat for her fans. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite to launch in India on June 8Samsung unveiled the Galaxy Tab S6 Lite globally back in April this year. Now, the company is planning to bring the tablet to India. The Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite will be making a debut in India on June 8. Read moreCovid-19 Travel Guidelines: All you need to know about travel precautions during Unlock 1 in IndiaFor the past 4 months we have been experiencing one of the biggest worldwide lockdowns in recent history and needless to say, the impact of this has been severe on the economy as a whole. Read moreMumbai Police uses Bart’s blackboard scene from The Simpsons to put forth important messages on cyber safetyIf you are a fan of The Simpsons, then you need no introduction to Bart’s blackboard scene. For those who are yet to catch up, it is an animated American sitcom. Read moreIndian Army Recruitment Rally 2020: Apply now for post of soldier, 10th, 12th pass students eligibleIndian Army is going to conduct recruitment rallies in Hisar (Haryana), Patiala and Charkhi Dadri (Haryana) in the month of July and August. Aspirants who wish to participate in the Indian Army recruitment rally can apply online at joinindianarmy.nic.in. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-poster-war-bihar-cm-launches-jd-u-s-outreach-programme-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mO9Q8dIhpxfe2xviR3XhIK.html
07-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail declared containment zone after inmates found Covid positive||Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail premises in Udham Singh Nagar district has been declared a coronavirus containment zone on Sunday till June 21, seven days after five inmates there tested positive, said officials “We have declared Sitarganj jail premises a containment zone and imposed complete lockdown there for two weeks. Families of staff will remain in their houses. Essential supplies will be provided to them at their doorsteps,” said Neeraj Khairwal, district magistrate (DM) of US Nagar.On May 31, five prisoners had tested positive in Sitarganj jail, ringing alarm bells. Sitarganj jail has 666 inmates against a capacity of around 300, said jail authorities. The positive cases came to light after random testing of 52 inmates was done on May 28. Five of these samples tested positive on May 31.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe district administration has now instructed the jail staff to stay in a hotel in the nearby industrial area to prevent spread of the infection to their family members, said officials.According to the DM, district supply officer and the assistant director, dairy have to ensure supply of daily items and milk at the doorsteps of staff quarters in the jail premises. Police will set up barricading to stop any movement of people and officials in and out of the premises, the official said.The DM has warned traders and customers to maintain social distance and wear masks.Also Read: Uttarakhand students to now get disaster management lessons at schoolsKhairwal said, “Despite the disease spreading in the state, people are not following guidelines in the district. I have instructed all officials concerned to take action against those who fail to follow the guidelines.”US Nagar is the only green zone district in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-sitarganj-jail-declared-containment-zone-after-inmates-found-covid-positive/story-4YlEolNU3YN6eYordyfmHN.html
07-06-2020||India||Nitish Kumar launches JD-U’s outreach exercise amid poster war in Patna||The Janata Dal (United) launched its outreach programme on Sunday to connect the party’s booth-level workers directly with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar through video conferencing to boost their morale and get ground-level feedback ahead of the assembly elections later this year.The exercise came hours before Union home minister Amit Shah was to address a virtual rally in Bihar.There was also a poster attack on the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) with pictures of Lalu Prasad flanked by Md Shahabuddin and Raj Ballabh Yadav – all serving jail sentences – with a slogan ‘Kaidi bajaa raha thali, Janata bajao taali’ (prisoners are banging plates, public will applaud).The JD-U feigned ignorance about the poster but it seemed to be in response to RJD’s call to oppose the BJP’s virtual rally by beating utensils. The posters came up at various strategic points in the city overnight, indicating that the poster war in the forthcoming assembly elections could get vicious.Bihar’s information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar said he was not aware of who came up with posters against the RJD, but he appreciated the catchy slogan. “Lalu Prasad, Raj Ballabh Yadav and Md Shahabuddin are all judicial migrants and whoever came up with the posters needs to be applauded for bringing out the truth in such an apt way,” he said.Away from the poster war, Nitish Kumar interacted with party’s grassroots level workers in five districts – east and west Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Madhubani. The digital connect with Kumar, who is also JD-U’s national president, will continue till June 12. Due to this, the ‘Sunday Samvad’ of the party involving other senior leaders through Facebook live sessions was held on Saturday.JD-U MP Rajiv Ranjan said the pandemic could change a lot of things, including electioneering.“In the changed scenario, public meetings and rallies will not be possible and hence new ways of connecting with the masses are being found out. CM’s interaction with party’s workers was a step in that direction,” he added.Singh also took a swipe at the RJD, saying those who have to clap or beat utensils should remain busy in their pursuit, while Bihar would repeat the Lok Sabha results in the Assembly polls. “Even after the election, they will have to do the same,” he added. In the LS polls last year, NDA had won 39 of the 40 seats.Another JD-U leader said that the CM could visualize the change in the wake of the pandemic much earlier to plan accordingly. “The CM is not an impulsive user of social media, like many, but he knows the importance of technology, interacting with officials on a weekly basis through video conferencing. He is now using it to connect with the party’s grassroots workers and masses,” he added.The digital connect with the booth-level workers by CM is a sequel to the major digital initiative he had undertaken from May 1-16, connecting with all the party MPs, MLAs, MLCs, district chiefs, VIdhan Sabha in-charges and other senior leaders.“Later through ‘Sunday Samvad’ the continuity was maintained by other leaders, as they reached out to the masses in various assembly segments with the CM’s message and government’s report card, especially the initiatives during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-launches-jd-u-s-outreach-exercise-amid-poster-war-in-patna/story-aHSreOL09toSxibr5k5RgO.html
07-06-2020||India||In major rejig, 17 IAS officers including 7 collectors transferred in Madhya Pradesh||In a major bureaucratic reshuffle in Madhya Pradesh, as many as 17 IAS officers including 7 collectors were shifted by the BJP government on Saturday night.It happens to be the second such major bureaucratic rejig during the present BJP government after as many as 50 senior IAS officers were given new postings on May 9.The collectors shifted on Saturday night include those from Dewas, Dhar, Mandla, Narsinghpur, Rewa, Singrauli and Agar Malwa districts. Of these districts, Dewas and Dhar have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots while Rewa is heading towards an alarming situation. Apart from the collectors, Commissioner, Indore Division Akash Tripathi who happens to be a 1998 batch IAS officer was transferred as managing director, Madhya Pradesh Power Management Company Ltd, Jabalpur while Dr Pawan Kumar Sharma, a 1999 batch IAS officer and commissioner (field), Narmada Valley Development Authority, Indore became the new commissioner of Indore.Commissioner of Bhopal Municipal Corporation, B Vijay Dutta, was shifted to the state secretariat. A 2013 batch IAS officer Rishi Garg who was shifted from the post of Commissioner, Ujjain Municipal Corporation on May 23, was appointed as director of the Industrial Development Corporation, Bhopal through another order by the government. Earlier, the state government had shifted Sagar Division Commissioner Ajay Gangwar as a secretary to the state secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-major-rejig-17-ias-officers-including-7-collectors-transferred-in-madhya-pradesh/story-wzpiCR0J65bJ0bgkb6ZCsM.html
07-06-2020||India||Sonu Sood just a face, BJP running the show: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut targets Bollywood actor||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday criticised Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been widely appreciated for helping hundreds of stranded migrant workers home, as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party.In his Sunday column, ‘Rokhtok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamna, Raut questioned how Sood managed to arrange for buses and flights when many state governments were found to be helpless during the lockdown.Raut, in his piece titled “Ekta Sonu Sood Khara”, meaning ‘only Sonu Sood is real’, indicated that the BJP was helping the actor from behind the scenes to make him a “Mahatma” and soon he would be seen as star campaigner of the BJP.Also Watch l ‘There can be a political director behind Sonu Sood’s actions’: Sanjay Raut Raut said Sood had managed to send 177 girls, stuck in Kerala’s Ernakulam, in a special plane to Bhubaneshwar in Odisha. Raut alleged that since Sood was not able to find a plane in Kerala, a special plane was flown from Bengaluru to Kochi. Raut asked if it was possible for Sood to pull this off without political, government and administrative backing.Read and Watch: Sonu Sood sends 200 idli vendors back home to Tamil Nadu, they honour him with aarti “The Maharashtra government has formed a separate cell to send migrant workers to their native places. But, there is a campaign playing out, saying whoever wants to go back home should send a message on this (number) with your mobile number. Sonu Sood will send you home. This has been deliberately organised. A huge political machinery is on the job from behind. A picture is being created that the government is doing nothing but Sonu Sood is,” states the article.“What machinery did he (Sonu Sood) have (at his service) to send thousands of workers to their homes? The one who was behind this is Shankar Pawar. He is the chief of Rashtriya Banjara Sewa Sangh but he is merely a face,” Raut stated further.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBJP slammed Raut for his comments. BJP leader Ram Kadam said, “This is an extremely unfortunate comment by Raut. It shows the extent of failure of the Maharashtra government in handling Covid-19. If an actor is helping out migrants using his own money, what is Sena’s problem with this? He is doing their job.”Kadam said that it was unfair of the Sena to make Sood a target.Meanwhile, Raut’s piece said, “I read that Sood was daily sending 1000-1200 people to their homes in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. West Bengal chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) had asked not to send workers back home while UP CM Yogi Maharaj was not ready to take anyone in the state without a health certificate, then where did these workers reach? How come so many buses were ‘illegally’ arranged during the lockdown period? It was like Sood was running a parallel government and he was getting whatever he wanted.” Indicating that the actor may join BJP, Raut said, “Soon, ‘Mahatma’ Sonu Sood’s name will appear in one of the episodes of Mann ki Baat of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then, he (Sonu Sood) will leave to Delhi to meet the prime minister and one day, he will appear as BJP’s star campaigner in Mumbai, UP, Bihar, Delhi...”Raut also reminded his readers how Cobrapost in their sting operation a few years ago had exposed Sood for promoting BJP on social media. “Some people from the BJP have adopted Sood and tried to reach out to the North Indian workers by using him as a face... Sonu Sood is an actor. He takes money for acting and saying dialogues. The Cobrapost had exposed Sood in one such sting operation. He had agreed to promote BJP on social media platforms such Instagram and Twitter and had demanded Rs 1.5 crore a month against that,” Raut claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-hand-behind-sonu-sood-s-philanthropy-alleges-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-KRxIjEzTRTSbiMzrMevkeI.html
07-06-2020||India||New low-pressure area likely over Bay of Bengal, to bring rain in Odisha: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that low-pressure area is likely to be formed over east-central Bay of Bengal in the next 48 hours. And under its influence, widespred rainfall is expected in Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh and Telangana from June 9 to 11.In its weather forecast bulletin on Sunday afternoon, the IMD said that the low-pressure area will become more marked in the next 24 hours and will move west-northwestwards.The IMD also predicted heavy rainfall in the Vidarbha region, Gangetic West Bengal, Gujarat and South Madhya Pradesh on June 10 and 11.It further said that the southwest monsoon has advanced to south Karnataka, and condition are becoming favourable for its advancement into parts of Maharashtra, Telangana and coasta, Andhra Pradesh.The IMD said that the maximum temperature is likely to rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next two days.Temperatures in many parts of the country were on Saturday recorded to be below normal for this time of the year with a number of areas receiving rainfall.No heat wave is likely in the country in the next five days, said the IMD. It said that the highest temperature in the country on Saturday afternoon was recorded at Vijaywada and Gannavaram in coastal Andhra Pradesh at 41.4 degress Celsius.The weather department’s regional centre has predicted rains, accompanied with thunderstorms, at some isolated places in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.According to the IMD, heavy rainfall is also expected over Nagaland, Manipur and other North-Eastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-low-pressure-area-likely-over-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-rain-in-odisha-imd/story-p4WcIXepbM0l0PMZK2domL.html
07-06-2020||India||India has another biggest single day jump in Coronavirus cases||India reported 9,971 new coronavirus cases Sunday in another biggest single-day spike, a day before it prepares to reopen shopping malls, hotels and religious places after a 10-week lockdown.India has now surpassed Spain as the fifth hardest-hit by the pandemic with 246,628 confirmed cases and 6,929 fatalities.New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad are among the worst-hit cities in the country. Six of India’s 28 states account for 73% of total cases.India has already partially restored train services and domestic flights and allowed shops and manufacturing to reopen. E-commerce companies have started to deliver goods, including those considered nonessential, to places outside containment zones.Subways, schools and movie theaters remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-another-biggest-single-day-jump-in-coronavirus-cases/story-47h9kGg0dOp842lRx32MOJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Kerala priests don’t want shrines to open, say peak of Covid-19 yet to come||The Kerala government may have given the go ahead to open the places of worship from June 9, but many shrines, mosques and churches are having second thoughts about it.Two prominent mosques in Kerala - Palayam Juma Masjid in Thiruvananthapuram and Muhiyuddhin Mosque in Kozhikode in north Kerala - have already decided to defer opening. And now, other shrines are also following suit.Several priests and believers of the Angamally-Ernakulam diocese, richest Catholic diocese in the country, have opposed opening of shrines in hurry. They cite the warning of medical experts to buttress their point.“Experts say peak of infection is yet to come. In Hinduism, a devotee worships his favourite God by offering prayers to the deity directly. But in Christianity, it is communitarian way of worship with clergy doing a lot of prayers with talking,” said senior priest and former spokesman of the Syro-Malabar church Father Paul Thelekkat.He said the holy mass is complete only when the communion is consumed by believers. “In the current situation it is not impossible as the government banned distribution of offerings and holy water in all shrines,” he said adding that the safety of the believers is more important than opening of shrines.The church is facing another problem - at least 70 per cent of the clergy have crossed 65 years of age. According to the directive of the government, children below 10 and people above 65 years should not be exposed to the marauding virus as they are soft targets.“We have quickly trained some young priests to conduct services including Holy Communion. At least 70 per cent of our priests are above 65. How can we keep them out? It will be a disservice to them,” said a senior priest who did not want to be quoted.Cardinal Mar Baselois Cleemis has urged the government to allow people of all ages to come to church when all sectors have opened up. “It is unfair to put a cap on aged people. It is quite unfair when all other sectors like malls, liquor outlets and hotels opened up. We are ready to make special arrangements for people who crossed 65 as they need religious places most now,” said Cleemis (61), youngest cardinal of the country. (Usually Cardinals select the supreme head of the Catholic church, Pope).Earlier, many religious heads had written to the government to open shrines saying it left a spiritual and emotional vacuum among the faithful. But now, many are having second thoughts after witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 cases. Kerala has recorded 1,807 cases of Covid-19. Out of this, more than 1,000 are active cases. The state has reported 16 deaths due to the disease so far.“Our prime concern is safety of people. Since the disease is spreading at a higher rate, the time is not ideal. It is difficult to keep a tab on people, especially during Friday prayers. So we have decided to wait for some more time,” said Palayam mosque Imam V P Suhaib. The Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which strongly opposed opening of shrines, has lauded the bold initiatives of some shrines. All Hindu shrines are under respective dewasom boards being controlled by the government. Two major temples, Sabarimala and Guruvayur, have decided ‘darshan’ only though virtual queues.“We all are believers. But we are in a war. It is not time to take chances. More than anyone else we feel religious leaders have a bigger role to protect believers,” said medical activist and senior doctor Sulfi M Noohu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-priests-don-t-want-shrines-to-open-say-peak-of-covid-19-yet-to-come/story-9AlEwDuOUg5y8zin63VBhK.html
07-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, man pedals nearly 600 km on stolen bicycle to commit dacoity||Wanted in several dacoity cases in the past, a 30-year-old man pedalled nearly 600 kilometres during Covid-19 lockdown to avoid the police and commit yet another dacoity in West Bengal. He was arrested along with three other associates.“Pritam Ghosh, the mastermind of the case, is accused in several other dacoity cases in West Bengal and Odisha. He seems to have fled from a jail in Odisha and was hiding in Bihar. We are trying to verify. Further investigation is on,” said Humayun Kabir, Police Commissioner, Chandannagar.So far, an investigation has revealed that Ghosh had pedalled all the way from Basara village in Rajapakar area of Bihar to reach Uttarpara in West Bengal’s Hooghly district where he puts up at his in-law’s house.Also read: Separate Covid-19 quarantine centres for pregnant women in Chhattisgarh“He chose to pedal because he could sneak into West Bengal easily. If he had come by bus in the guise of a labourer he would have been checked at the border. He thought he might get caught because he was accused in several cases. He got the idea to pedal from migrant labourers who travelled hundreds of kilometres on foot,” said a senior officer of the local police station.After reaching Uttarpara on Wednesday, he called up his old friends with criminal past and formed a small gang. On Thursday and Friday, the gang did a reconnaissance of the area at least twice before looting the Union Bank around 3 pm on Friday, the police said.“They were carrying firearms and looted around Rs 17 lakhs. Around 10 lakhs have been recovered. We have also seized one firearm. We are also trying to seize the bicycle which he used to come to Uttarpara from Bihar,” S Pattanaik, inspector-in-charge of Uttarpara police station said.His three other associates – Sanjay Paswan, Sanjib Paswan and Tapas Das – have been arrested. Pritam’s wife and mother-in-law were also questioned as he was hiding in their house and also hid a portion of the loot there. Ghosh is the eldest and his associates were all aged between 25 – 30 years. They were all wearing masks during the dacoity and thought police won’t be able to identify them. While Ghosh was waiting outside the bank in a car, the associates entered the bank for the loot.   “It took him three days to reach Hooghly taking rests in between. He was running out of money and hence decided to loot a bank. But as it was a lockdown, he chose to pedal. He cycled all the way after stealing a bicycle. We are still interrogating him to get further details,” said Pattanaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-man-pedals-nearly-600-km-on-stolen-bicycle-to-commit-dacoity/story-Ja3Ueh6oZpPPIS9WfVgwoI.html
07-06-2020||India||Assam activist cites illegal construction in Kaziranga corridor||An environmental activist in Assam has written to the government alleging construction in the private land inside the animal corridors near Assam’s Kaziranga National Park (KNP) in violation of a Supreme Court order.In a letter to Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna on Saturday, activist Rohit Choudhury claimed a building and a concrete approach road were being built in Kanchanjuri animal corridor next to National Highway 37 in Kaliabor circle of Nagaon district.“It is apparent the district administrations of Nagaon, Golaghat, Karbi Anglong and KNP authorities have turned a blind eye to rampant construction activities in blatant violation of SC order,” the letter said.On April 12 last year, acting on an application by Choudhury, the SC had “restrained” all kind of mining and related activities along the southern boundary of KNP and in the entire catchment area of rivers/streams and rivulets originating in Karbi Anglong hill ranges and flowing into the park.“No new construction shall be permitted on private lands which form part of the nine identified animal corridors,” the order further stated.Spread over 430 sq km, KNP is home to over 2,400 one-horned rhinos and around 121 tigers.The animal corridors located in and around the park along NH-37 are used by elephants, rhinos and other animals to search for food and also seek safety in the hills of Karbi Anglong when floods submerge the park every monsoon.In his letter, Choudhury urged the chief secretary to stop the illegal construction activity in the Kanchanjuri animal corridor and get it demolished. It also sought action against forest, civil and police administration officials for failing to enforce the SC order.“Fresh construction has taken place on private land falling in the Kanchanjuri animal corridor. Despite the SC order and our efforts to enforce it, people residing in these corridors are not willing to obey,” P Sivakumar, director of the park said.“This particular corridor is not under control of forest administration as it is revenue land. Last year too, such violations took place and some constructions were removed. We have informed civil administration about the recent violation and they will be removed soon,” he added.Dyotiva Bora, circle officer of Kaliabor, where Kanchanjuri animal corridor is located, said she is not aware of any such construction or has received any complaint regarding it.“We are busy in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and I am not aware of it. I have been posted very recently to Kaliabor. If there’s any violation of SC order, we will look into it and take necessary action,” she said.Mrinmoy Das, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Kaliabor, said they are aware of Choudhury’s letter and would soon get in touch with civil and forest administration and help in demolishing the construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-activist-cites-illegal-construction-in-kaziranga-corridor/story-25ATtxoFBkd8iCQTdmvAOJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh sees 130 new Covid-19 cases, state’s tally close to 4000-mark||Andhra Pradesh reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths in the last 24 hours on Sunday, taking the state’s coronavirus tally to 3,718.The death toll in the Telugu state has now climbed to 75, with the addition of the two latest deaths.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state currently stand at 1,290 and so far around 2,353 people have recovered a from the disease and been discharged.ALSO READ | Optimism and caution as places of worship get ready to reopenA day earlier, as many as 161 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh, taking the state’s tally to 3,588, the state health department data read.The state department had also informed that on Saturday, 29 people had been discharged and no deaths had taken place.India registered its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, with 9,971 new infections taking the country’s tally to a staggering 2,46,628, while the death toll rose to 6,929, according to the Union Health Ministry.India registered 287 deaths in the last 24 hours since Saturday morning.The country had crossed Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of India in terms of the number of coronavirus positive cases. The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,20,406, according to the Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-sees-130-new-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-close-to-4000-mark/story-QD3tuQYpHvZcSEydMtGUpM.html
07-06-2020||India||In Srinagar, dog lovers on a mission to save strays starved by lockdown||At 2 pm every day, a group of some 20 Kashmiri youth spreads out on the streets of Srinagar looking for stray canines to feed.Animal welfare activists say hunger and thirst have been a major cause of animal illness during the lockdown particularly among the stray dogs which used to feed on leftovers from restaurants, hotels and meat shops before the restrictions forced markets shut to prevent the spread of Covid-19.For more than two months now, these animal welfare activists in Kashmir have been roaming the deserted streets of Srinagar and its outskirts with bags of food to feed the canines.“After the restrictions were imposed, we increasingly got calls from people of ill dogs on roads and when we took them to hospitals, we came to know that they were hungry and thirsty. In fact we lost three dogs to hunger. It was then we decided to start a feeding drive for them,” said 23-year-old Nighat Lone who runs a voluntary rescue and rehabilitation organisation, Kashmir Animal Welfare (KAW).Lone, 23, said that the canines used to survive on leftovers from restaurants and from bins at shopping sites before the lockdown. “After the restrictions, there was nothing these animals could feed upon,” she said.Volunteers of Lone’s organisation, along with another animal welfare organisation called Healing Pat, have been particularly going to those areas which are commercial places or markets where the animals don’t have anything to eat.“In residential areas or colonies, animals do get something because people live there but at shopping sites and outside restaurants, the bins are empty,” Lone, who has done her BBA, said.Dawood Muhammad, who runs Healing Pat, said that they provide food to the animals once a day. “We don’t have any standard food but we are providing them one meal everyday to save their lives. We are all volunteers and working on our own with the money from our own pockets,” he said.The food is mostly biscuits, leftovers from chicken and meat shops, rice and even dog food. “On an average we feed around 1,000 dogs in the city and adjoining districts every day,” he said.Stray dogs have been a persistent health issue in Kashmir particularly in capital Srinagar where the conservative estimates put the dog population anywhere around 60,000.Between 2012-13 and 2018-19 around 37,700 dog bite cases were recorded at Srinagar’s Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital. “We are aware of the issues of the public. It is true that we have more dog population and a substantial number of dog bites but that is a universal problem. We are against poisoning and want their sterilizations, so that their population decreases with the passage of time,” Lone said.Animal birth control (ABC) or sterilisation measures by the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities to control the dog population have often been described as ‘sluggish’. Animal lovers are opposed to culling stray dogs.Lone said that the animal care gives her satisfaction. “Lives of both humans and animals are important and hunger is common. I feel inner satisfaction when I feed these animals and take care of them and I think God has chosen me for this,” she said.Dr Javaid Rather, Srinagar Municipal Corporation’s Veterinary Officer said that the corporation and the volunteers from animal welfare organisations were together in this endeavour.“It was a collaborative effort. We let the volunteers do the feeding and provided them the passes. An NGO Kashmir Animal Welfare donated us some dog feed and we also diverted some of our staff meant for animal birth control (ABC) to feed the animals because we knew that the animals would die near markets and commercial areas where people don’t live nearby,” Rather said.The officer said that the sterilization of animals suffered a pause during the pandemic. “For the past one year we have sterilized some 1,000 dogs and gave anti rabies vaccines to an 1,800 canines,” he said.“The dog bite cases have been showing a decline due to sterilizations as well as after we managed to minimise the availability of garbage in open in the city,” Rather said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-srinagar-dog-lovers-on-a-mission-to-save-strays-starved-by-lockdown/story-GRwp2lTLDW1zM4d7n6ZLiJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Drunk man inserts mobile charger cables in urinary tract, doctors remove them from his bladder||Doctors in Jharkhand’s Dumka removed two cables of mobile phone chargers from a 35-year-old man’s urinary bladder, the owner of a private hospital said on Sunday.The man, who is suffering from depression after his wife reportedly eloped, inserted the cables in his penile urethra after getting drunk around three months ago, doctors said.Amita Rakshit, the owner of the hospital in Dumka, said the man came to the hospital’s outpatient department (OPD) on Thursday with a complaint of severe abdomen pain.“The man did not mention anything regarding mobile phone charger cable to the doctors attending the OPD. He was crying and asking us to save his life. Then, the doctors sent him for X-ray and we were surprised to see two wires in the urinary bladder,” Rakshit said.The general surgeon of the hospital, Dr Sunil Kumar, performed the surgery, which took around one hour.“There were two mobile phone charger cables in the urinary bladder. Even though we did not measure the length of the chord, each chord will be around 1.5 feet,” Kumar said.The man told the doctors that he had inserted the chord through his penis after getting drunk.“Initially, I did not feel any problem during urination. After a month, I started feeling pain during urination, which turned unbearable later. But, I could not tell anybody about the reasons due to the social stigma attached to it,” the man told doctors.The man had gone to Jharkhand’s premier hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS), in Ranchi for treatment but he fled as he feared he would face social criticism.“The man might not have faced any problem initially, as there was still space to pass urine smoothly. Later, deposits started accumulating in the wire, which started causing blocking the urine path that caused pain. If it had remained in the body for a longer time, it could have damaged his kidneys and also caused cancer,” Kumar said.The doctors said there could be two reasons behind the act by the man.“The man might be a pervert suffering from depression as his wife reportedly eloped with another person. In a few rare cases, we have also seen that men do such an unusual act to have sexual pleasure. Under the acute influence of alcohol, he might have not understood the consequences,” Dr Kumar said.Doctors performed the surgery without charging the man, who paints houses for a living. A similar case was reported in Assam’s Guwahati earlier this week. A 30-year-old man was operated upon after similar complaints of stomach ache and a nearly two-feet-long cable was found in his urinary bladder. The doctor, who performed the surgery said, the man had inserted the cable through his penile urethra.He said the patient doesn’t have any mental disorder and indulged in the act only for sexual pleasure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drunk-man-inserts-mobile-charger-cables-in-urinary-tract-doctors-remove-them-from-his-bladder/story-2ls8ELFHzWRiLVGnze2EeL.html
07-06-2020||India||3 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s Shopian, operation underway||Three terrorists, including those from the Jaish-e-Mohammed and Hizbul Mujahideen, were killed by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday after a joint operation in the area, officials said.The terrorists were shot dead in Reban village of Shopian in south Kashmir, according to officials aware of the development. They said security forces launched the operation early in the morning after they received credible input about the presence of the terrorists. Personnel of the Indian Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Shopian Police are involved in the operation, which is still underway.Officials said the firing between security forces and the terrorists had stopped for some time and the teams were conducting the search. While the search was on, the hiding terrorists fired again.Police said more terrorists could be hiding in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-shopian-operation-underway/story-eVakCeDW57iDSVbVAvOigL.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Tripura rise to 750||The number of coronavirus cases in Tripura rose to 750 on Saturday after 55 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. Most of the new patients have a recent travel history to other states. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb in a tweet said, “Alert. 55 people found Covid-19 positive cases in Tripura today out of 1125 samples tested. Majority of the positive patients have travel history and others were in contact of Covid-19 patient. Stay Cautious & Safe.” Of the total 750 patients in the state, 173 have been cured. According to latest reports, 24,826 out of 37,761 persons put under surveillance have completed their 14 days observation period and been discharged.However, 542 people are still in different quarantine centres and 12,093 others home quarantined. The state has so far tested 33,276 people for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-tripura-rise-to-750/story-QwFLHiSZ8KGJHsP5DjF1sI.html
07-06-2020||India||Woman arrested in March for alleged links with ISIS tests Covid-19 positive in NIA custody||A suspected operative of terror group Islamic State - Hina Bashir Beigh - has tested positive for coronavirus while in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) following which she had been admitted at a Delhi hospital, people familiar with the development said.Beigh (39) and her husband Jahanzaib Sami, residents of Srinagar, were arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell from the national capital’s Jamia Nagar area in the first week of March for their alleged links with ISKP. The also allegedly instigated protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the police said.Since NIA is probing several cases pertaining to larger conspiracy involving Islamic State in India, it took custody of Beigh along with Sami and another ISIS operative - Mohammad Abdullah Basith - from Tihar jail on May 29. Basith is a Hyderabad-based Islamic State operative arrested in August 2018 for allegedly inspiring several persons to join the outfit and carry out major attacks in India.At the time of NIA taking the custody, Tihar jail authorities had conducted the test for Covid-19 on three accused in which they tested negative. They were brought to NIA headquarters and questioned at length about their affiliation with the terror outfit over the past nine days.Beigh, during the interrogation, developed symptoms following which she underwent Covid-19 test.The NIA informed the duty magistrate at Patiala House on Sunday that Beigh has been found “positive” for coronavirus.“I urged the court that Beigh should be immediately referred to a hospital and permission be granted for her to talk to me regularly, which was not allowed earlier,” said Beigh’s lawyer M S Khan.The court has referred her to Delhi’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital for treatment. Her husband Sami and Abdullah Basith have not shown any signs of the infection yet.It is not known yet whom she contracted the virus from within the agency since then whole team investigating the case has been asked to undergo Covid-19 test and follow quarantine. An official said that around 7-8 officials including a Superintendent of Police (SP) had questionned Beigh last week.NIA spokesperson didn’t respond to HT’s calls till filing of this report.The agency took their custody on May 29 claiming that it is necessary to unearth a larger criminal conspiracy as they were in touch with several unknown accused people in India and abroad.“Beigh, Sami and Basith were motivated by ISIS ideology and working for banned terror organization ISKP in India for which they had created a lot of email IDs and secured social media chat platform IDs to interact with the like-minded persons for sharing the contents propagating the ideology of ISKP and ISIS in general,” according to NIA remand paper accessed by HT.Delhi Police Special Cell DCP Pramod Kushwah, in March, had said, “They (Hina and Sami) are members of banned terrorist outfit ISIS and propagating its ideology of hatred against non-Muslims and, thereby, also inciting Muslims to kill non-Muslims. They are also inciting Muslims to take up violent struggle against the state. They are inciting Muslims against CAA too”.The cops had claimed that the couple created several anonymous IDs on social media platforms, such as Telegram, Facebook, Threema, Sure Spot, Instagram and Twitter, to propagate ISIS ideology.Sami’s sister Sehrish Sami had told HT in March, “We are shocked. They are being framed just because they are Kashmiri Muslims. They are career oriented people and have a very clean record. They had no interest in the Kashmir issue and the CAA is out of question. Why would they instigate other people?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-arrested-in-march-for-alleged-links-with-isis-tests-covid-19-positive-in-nia-custody/story-Rw0UvqVgKnq5EwpXLZ6ewO.html
07-06-2020||India||Separate Covid-19 quarantine centres for pregnant women in Chhattisgarh||For better nourishment and care, the Chhattisgarh government is developing separate quarantine centres for pregnant women in various districts. The first such Covid-19 quarantine centre has been made in Bilaspur district by the government.Chhattisgarh’s Health Secretary Niharika Barik Singh said that the department has instructed all districts to make separate arrangements for pregnant women.“The first separate quarantine centre for migrant pregnant women started at village Kesla in Bilaspur district. At this quarantine centre, migrant pregnant women are kept,” said a senior health official, adding that presently eight women are kept at this centre.Also read: Chhattisgarh IAS officer accused of rape suspended“We have made all necessary arrangements for pregnant women. Doctors have been deployed at this quarantine centre who are providing medical facilities with social distancing,” said the officer.The official further added that along with their health check-ups, samples have been taken for tests and nutritious food is being provided to them.“Pregnant women need better food and nutrition hence we have decided for a separate arrangement ... We have also instructed officials that in case any woman wants to stay with her family then let her. Besides, we have advised the district officials to keep an ambulance ready near these quarantine centres,” Singh said.Meanwhile, on Saturday, total 97 coronavirus patients were detected in Chhattisgarh. The number of coronavirus cases in the state is now 997 while the death toll has risen to four.There are 660 active cases of coronavirus as 259 people have been discharged on recovery.On Friday, a 19-year-old woman died while a 32-year-old man passed away on Saturday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur.The woman, a native of Bastar district, was suffering from leukaemia (a type of blood cancer). She was shifted to AIIMS on June 1 from a private hospital after she tested positive for coronavirus. The other patient who died was from Bilaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-covid-19-quarantine-centres-for-pregnant-women-in-chhattisgarh/story-JSX4L19RMTxtBRHhyuE1nK.html
07-06-2020||India||80-year-old MP man found tied to hospital bed over alleged non-payment of bill, CM Chouhan takes note||An 80-year-old man in Madhya Pradesh’s Shajapur was found tied to a bed at a hospital over alleged non-payment of hospital bill, prompting chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to assure justice. According to Virendra Singh Rawat, Shajapur district collector, a team has been sent to the hospital to investigate the matter and a police probe is underway. “The report is awaited. Action will be taken accordingly,” the official told news agency ANI. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday took note of the incident and said the culprits will not be spared, assuring strict action. शाजापुर के एक अस्पताल में वरिष्ठ नागरिक के साथ क्रूरतम व्यवहार का मामला संज्ञान में आया है। दोषियों को बख्शा नहीं जायेगा, सख्त से सख्त कार्रवाई की जायेगी।“A case of cruelty with a senior citizen in a hospital in Shajapur has come to notice. The culprits will not be spared, strict action will be taken,” Chouhan tweeted.Watch: MP hospital ties 80-year-old man to bed after family failed to pay dues Madhya Pradesh: An 80-yr-old man found tied to bed with rope at a hospital in Shajapur allegedly over non-payment of hospital bill. Dist Collector says,‘We’ve sent a team to hospital to investigate matter. Police probe on. Report awaited. Action will be taken accordingly.'(06.06) pic.twitter.com/fWaY4nIi5zTime and again, the Central government, has called for the need to show compassion amid such distressing times and treat people, especially those in the front-line of India’s Covid-19 fight, with respect and dignity. In many of his addresses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated that violence or ill behaviour against doctors, nurses, patients and personnel engaged in the Covid-19 care shall not be tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-year-old-mp-man-found-tied-to-hospital-bed-over-alleged-non-payment-of-bill-cm-chouhan-takes-note/story-XZ9lgRqtjCvRvIYLfrx45I.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: 7 cities account for half of all cases across the country||Seven cities in India account for nearly half of the nationwide Covid-19 tally which saw a record surge of almost 10,000 on Sunday, according to the data from Union health ministry.Mumbai is hit the hardest with 47,354 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Delhi comes next with 27,564 cases of the coronavirus disease. Tamil Nadu’s capital Chennai is third with 20,993 cases of Covid-19 and Kolkata has 2,684 cases. The numbers of these four cities add up to 98,595.Other major urban clusters affected by the deadly virus outbreak include Ahmebdabad in Gujarat, Pune in Maharashtra and Indore in Madhya Pradesh.There are 13,968 cases of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, 8,049 on Pune and 3,722 in Indore. When these numbers are added to the above tally, the overall number reaches 1,24,334 or 50 per cent of the nationwide Covid-19 infections.India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 287 deaths, another highest spike, were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.With a tally of 2,46,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers comes a day before several public places, such as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday.This is also the fourth straight day India has seen more than 9,000 cases in a row.There are 120,406 active Covid-19 cases and 6,929 people have been killed after contracting the highly infectious disease, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.With 119,292 patients were cured of Covid-19, India’s recovery rate has now gone up to 48.36 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-7-cities-account-for-half-of-all-cases-across-the-country/story-RaDthYFNmV55AwdA3W0dWO.html
07-06-2020||India||Eight-year-old boy sodomised in UP’s Muzaffarnagar||An eight-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by a man in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Sunday. The boy, who was found unconscious, was undergoing treatment at a local hospital, SHO HN Singh said. According to a complaint lodged by the boy’s family on Saturday, the minor had taken his goats for grazing in a forest when the accused, identified as Nitu Singh, took him away and allegedly sodomised him. A case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against the 23-year-old accused and a search was underway to nab him, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-year-old-boy-sodomised-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar/story-Ze7vytgzWsxHuWcbzmTrlM.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol, diesel prices go up by 60 paise per litre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up. Here’s what you will have to payState-run fuel retailers have raised the price of petrol and diesel by 60 paise a litre each, in the first such hike in the base price of auto fuels in 80 days. Read moreSource of foul smell remains unidentified: Mumbai Fire BrigadeThe Mumbai Fire Brigade is yet to identify the source of the foul smell, which was reported by residents in parts of the city’s eastern suburbs late on Saturday night, the department’s chief said on Sunday morning. Read moreCongress moves 21 Gujarat MLAs to a resort in RajasthanFollowing the resignation of three MLAs in Gujarat, the Congress ahead of Rajya Sabha elections moved 21 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan on Saturday evening. The Rajya Sabha elections are scheduled on June 19. Read moreBMC requisitioning SRA buildings for Covid-19 isolation facility ‘unjust, unfair’: Bombay High CourtBombay High Court has said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) decision to requisition buildings constructed under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme for setting up temporary isolation facilities for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients was “absolutely unjust and unfair”. Read moreThe Great Diamond Glut: Miners stuck with gems worth billionsIn one of the world’s biggest diamond vaults, hidden inside a nondescript office compound on the dusty outskirts of Botswana’s capital, the precious stones just keep piling up. Read more‘Knew my story could be different,’: Unmukt Chand on not attaining Virat Kohli-like successAt one time, Unmukt Chand was talked about as the Next Big Thing of Indian cricket. After leading India to their third Under-19 World Cup win in 2012, comparisons between Unmukt and Virat Kohli started doing the rounds, with people suggesting that the youngster is likely to climb the same ladder of success Kohli has since he led India to a U19 WC win in 2008. Read moreFacebook gives tips on handling Group comments, posts during social unrestWith the rising number of hate messages on social media and authorities taking action in real life regarding racism and protests happening everywhere in the US, it has become more than important how social media websites handle the related content, specially when it comes to groups and communities. Read moreCan you solve Bengaluru Police’s riddle tweet? It has an important messageGiving a twist to the popular fairy tale phrase “Mirror mirror on the wall” and using as their tweet’s caption, Bengaluru Police has now invited people to take part in a riddle whose answer reveals an important message. Read moreLockdown Life: Did you become a curfew cliché?Did you lie to a colleague about being busy, so you could sneak in a nap? Did you judge a celebrity by his kitchen, an academic by her bookshelf and a stand-up comic by the living room in the background of their posts and videos? Read moreWatch| ‘They acted as Corona carriers, action justified’: Yogi on Tablighi Jamaat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-fire-brigade-yet-to-identify-source-of-foul-smell-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cVXI1qVeN6HgLUS090zyJI.html
07-06-2020||India||Congress moves 21 Gujarat MLAs to a resort in Rajasthan||Following the resignation of three MLAs in Gujarat, the Congress ahead of Rajya Sabha elections moved 21 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan on Saturday evening. The Rajya Sabha elections are scheduled on June 19.The MLAs are from North Gujarat assembly constituencies and arrived in their personal vehicles. They are staying at Wildwinds resort on Abu Road near Ambaji temple in Rajasthan and are likely to stay for 3-4 days.Recently, three Congress MLAs resigned - Brijesh Merja, Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary - diminishing the chances of the Congress winning the second Rajya Sabha seat as its tally in the 182-member house now stands at 65.Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said, “Instead of working to help and save people from Corona crisis, the Gujarat government and its machinery is busy terrifying and trading public representatives. We have come here to discuss strategy ahead to ensure party candidates win.”On the party’s new strategy to keep MLAs separately in groups, he said the MLAs are kept near their respective areas ensuring they have availability to their family or any important issue. Gujarat MLA Gulab Singh Rajput said, “BJP needs to be ‘Atmanirbhar’, instead of using such means to get MLAs, they should have worked to get their party people elected. People will not forgive those who have left and joined BJP. It is under Congress banner the people voted them.”He alleged that BJPis trying to break Congress MLAs by frightening and luring them.Earlier, five Congress legislators — Somabhai Patel, Praveen Maru, JV Kakadia, Mangal Gavit and Pradyuman Singh Jadeja — had resigned in March.The total strength of the Gujarat assembly now stands at 172. The ruling BJP party has 103 legislators, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has two and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has one. There is one independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani.The Congress has fielded its senior leaders Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, while the ruling BJP has named Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin as its candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-moves-21-gujarat-mlas-to-a-resort-in-rajasthan/story-tqe2XmG5saDw8RbX307icO.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Delhi government hospitals reserved for residents only’: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that Delhi government hospitals will be available only to the residents of Delhi amid the coronavirus pandemic while Central government hospitals will remain open to all. Select private hospitals, except those where special surgeries like neurosurgery are performed, are also reserved for Delhi residents, the chief minister said. Kejriwal said that people coming to the national capital for specific surgeries will be treated at private hospitals. Earlier this week, the chief minister called for public suggestion on whether hospitals in Delhi should be reserved exclusively for the residents amid the coronavirus pandemic. The chief minister’s office (CMO), in a tweet, stated that the suggestions can be sent by June 5, 5 pm. Watch | ‘Delhi govt hospitals will only cater to residents of capital’: Arvind KejriwalAlso read: Delhi borders opening from tomorrow, hotels and banquet halls to remain closed#WATCH Delhi hospitals will be available for the people of Delhi only, while Central Govt hospitals will remain open for all. Private hospitals except those where special surgeries like neurosurgery are performed also reserved for Delhi residents: CM Arvind Kejriwal #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/D47nRhXaUZIn an address on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the national capital, Kejriwal on Sunday announced the opening of Delhi borders from Monday. All restaurants, malls and places of worship will also open in the national capital from tomorrow. However, hotels and banquet halls will remain closed. Kejriwal said that by the end of June, Delhi could need 15,000 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The chief minister also cautioned the elderly against the Covid-19 infection and urged them to stay protected. The Delhi government has also decided to withdraw the ‘special corona fee’ levied at 70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor. The order will come into effect from June 10.Coronavirus cases in the national capital rose to 27,654 on Sunday as per the figures updated by national capital. The city has seen over 10,000 people recover from Covid-19 while 761 patients have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hospitals-to-cater-to-covid-19-patients-from-city-for-now-kejriwal/story-XNdEs6HWOo4znRQzniSQCP.html
07-06-2020||India||Delhi govt to withdraw ‘special corona fee’ on liquor from June 10||The Delhi government has decided to withdraw the ‘special corona fee’ levied of 70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor. The withdrawal will come into effect from June 10, news agency ANI reported.The fee was approved by Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal last month and a notification was later issued by the Delhi government’s finance department.Senior government officials had said that the lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cost the Delhi government around Rs 645 crore in revenue from the sale of alcohol, when calculated on the basis of revised estimates in the 2019-20 state budget.The decision was taken to boost the government revenue but had resulted in a steep rise in the prices of retails liquor bottle.The special corona fees came into effect as the liquor shops opened in the national capital in accordance with the lockdown relaxations given by the Union home ministry.The liquor sale was allowed in Delhi from May 4. It was closed since the lockdown was imposed on March 25.On the first day of sale, when the special cess was not imposed, liquor worth over Rs five crore was sold, as per the Excise Department data. The Delhi government imposed a special fee from May 5. Four government corporations - Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation; Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation; Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited; and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store - control the sale of liquor in the city-state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-withdraw-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-from-june-10/story-bhKqOQGnvqyNexufd1uuCI.html
07-06-2020||India||Coronavirus has led to more thrust on agroecology, natural farming: Niti Aayog||With people looking for healthy food to boost their immunity in the situation created by Covid-19, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar has said that demand for “nutritious and chemical-free food” is going up exponentially in the world and agroecology is the only option to save the planet.Kumar said Niti Aayog recently organised an online high-level round table where international experts from countries like US, Australia, Germany, UK, Netherlands and officials from the United Nations acknowledged India’s pioneering leadership in agroecology, an integrated approach that simultaneously applies ecological and social concepts and principles to the design and management of food and agricultural systems.He said “agroecology is the only option to save the planet”, is in line with Indian traditions and it is not man versus nature but the man in nature or man with nature.“Humans need to realize their responsibility in protecting other species and nature. We need knowledge-intensive agriculture and the metrics need to be redefined where production is not the only criteria for good performance. It has to include the entire landscape and positive and negative externalities that are generated by alternate forms of agriculture practices,” Kumar told ANI.He said that in the international round table experts from 12 countries participated and they said that agriculture now “needs to be converted into climate-friendly agriculture which will make sure that your environment will improve and also the quality of your land which is becoming hugely affected by the extensive use of chemicals and pesticides.”The essential point is that we need to increase the organic carbon content in the soil and trigger the microbial activity in the soil which will make the soil healthy again.He said that the use of water can be reduced to a tenth of the current usage.“Ninety-two per cent of water today is used up in agriculture and we can reduce that and our country will no longer water-stressed. The best thing that we call Indian natural and traditional farming is what Subhash Palekar is doing from the last 20 years all over the country. The best thing about this is the productivity of the land does not decline. The yields remain the same as in the previous times but the cost of production goes down so the farmers’ income rises immediately,” Kumar said.The NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman said that close to 30 lakh farmers in India are already practising this very successfully and there is a need to scale it further.“In states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh this is being practised already quite widely. It has proven its benefit on the ground. Now is the time that we should scale it and make it reach 16 crore farmers from the existing 30 lakhs. The whole world is trying to move away from chemical farming. Now is the time to make Indian farmers aware of its potential,” Kumar said.According to FAO, agroecology seeks to optimize the interactions between plants, animals, humans and the environment while taking into consideration the social aspects that need to be addressed for a sustainable and fair food system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-has-led-to-more-thrust-on-agroecology-natural-farming-niti-aayog/story-yqw29rvGhCnQWQ8bpNBRtM.html
07-06-2020||India||RJD launches protest ahead of Amit Shah’s virtual rally in Bihar||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar launched a protest against the virtual rally on Union home minister Amit Shah. The party has named the protest “Garib Adhikar Diwas”.RJD leaders Rabri Devi, Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav clang utensils as part of the protest. The leaders stood in a circular marking and observed social distancing while observing the protestTejashvi had on Saturday called Shah’s rally during the coronavirus crisis “political vulturism” and alleged that the BJP was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives.“Electioneering at this juncture is nothing but political vulturism. Rather than helping the poor, needy and migrants, they want to win elections even at the cost of human lives,” he had told news agency PTI on Saturday.Shah will address the people of Bihar on Sunday, in his first virtual rally ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. The elections are due in the state later this year.Through this rally, Shah will sound the poll bugle and it will also be broadcast live on Facebook, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said. He also said that the party has set a target of roping in “at least one lakh people across the 243 assembly segments in the state” for the event.Days before the rally, the BJP rejected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan’s proposal of backing the saffron party even if it opts for a change of face in the assembly polls. The BJP reiterated that the elections will be contested only under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar only.Shah had declared in late 2019 that Nitish Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections.The BJP leader’s announcement comes at the backdrop of an interview given by the LJP president to a news agency in which he mooted the idea of backing the BJP, if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls scheduled later this year.Paswan had recently expressed his dissatisfaction with the Bihar chief minister’s handling of the migrant crisis.The BJP, the Janata Dal United or JD(U) and the LJP are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state and are likely to be challenged by the RJD-Congress combine besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls.In the 2015 assembly polls, the NDA had lost badly to the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress but Nitish Kumar broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered the saffron alliance again after a gap of over four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-launches-protest-ahead-of-amit-shah-s-virtual-rally-in-bihar/story-nvekbymAlYWTOYFBvaKoCP.html
07-06-2020||India||‘India, China agree early resolution would contribute to further development of relationship’: MEA||India and China will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve a weeks-old stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Sunday, indicating that a meeting of top army commanders had ended without a breakthrough.A delegation led Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, had held an hours-long meeting with a Chinese delegation led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday – the first meeting of top military officials of the two sides since the stand-off began in early May.The talks, slated to begin early on Saturday morning, were delayed by several hours. They began at about 11.30 am and continued till late on Saturday evening. People familiar with developments said they had ended inconclusively.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday morning said that, “the two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Also read: India China Ladakh standoff talks to continue at Brigadier-Colonel levelThe statement said Saturday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese army commanders “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere”. It added that both sides had agreed to work towards resolving the situation through peaceful means and in line with existing agreements for peace along the frontier.“Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” the statement said.“Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” the statement added.The statement further noted that, in recent weeks, India and China have “maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation” along the LAC.The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they expect the process to resolve the stand-off to be long-drawn.A day ahead of the crucial talks between the army commanders, India and China agreed on Friday on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry had held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference on Friday and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”. This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.The army commanders met almost a month after tensions between India and China flared along the disputed border and took bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and has accused Chinese forces of hindering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has also made it clear that it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-believe-early-resolution-would-contribute-to-further-development-of-relationship-mea/story-v5nLlonHbKiUsOm02WNu3N.html
07-06-2020||India||With nearly 83,000 cases, Maharashtra has more coronavirus patients than Belgium and Qatar: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in India crossed 240,000 on Sunday with the national tally jumping to 246,628 cases as per the data released by the Ministry of Health. While 119,292 people have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals, 6,929 patients have lost their lives to the deadly contagion across India. Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country with the state tally jumping close to China’s total of around 84,000 cases. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra alone are more than the national tally of countries like Egypt, Belgium and Qatar that have reported less than 80,000 Covid-19 cases till date. As per the Covid-19 tally by Johns Hopkins University, India has outnumbered Spain with respect to Covid-19 cases to become the fifth-worst affected country in the world. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Coviod-19 numbers.  Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat are the top four states affected by Covid-19 in India. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally zoomed to 82,968 on Sunday. As many as 2,969 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 37,390 have recovered.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 246,628, death toll at 6,929Tamil Nadu has seen 30,152 coronavirus cases till date. Two hundred and fifty-one people have died of Covid-19 in the state, more than 16,395 people have recovered. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rose to 27,654 on Sunday, 10,664 patients have recovered here while 761 died due to Covid-19. Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 19,592 on Sunday. The state has seen 13,316 people recover from coronavirus while 1,219 people have died.Rajasthan has reported over 10,000 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 10,331 have contracted the contagion in the state while 7,501 people have recovered. The death toll in the state stands at 231.Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses SpainStates with under 10,000 casesMadhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have less than 10,000 coronavirus cases. While the former has reported 9,228 Covid-19 patients, the number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped to 9,733 in Uttar Pradesh.   Situation in other statesIn West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 7,738 while 383 people have died from the deadly contagion, 3,119 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 4,915; the death toll in the state has jumped to 30. More than 2,400 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 4,510 Covid-19 cases till date. While 73 people have died in the state, 2,620 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported over 5,000 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir have over 3,400 coronavirus cases. While Haryana nears the 4,000-mark. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Assam, Tripura are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Coronavirus cases in Telangana crossed 3,200 on Saturday. Chandigarh, Manipur, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-83-000-cases-maharashtra-has-more-coronavirus-patients-than-belgium-qatar-covid-19-state-tally/story-90fMAX1nctt9B6Wc6bTK3O.html
07-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 246,628, death toll at 6,929||India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 287 deaths, another highest spike, were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.With a tally of 246,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers comes a day before several public places, such as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday.Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses SpainThis is also the fourth straight day India has seen more than 9,000 cases in a row.There are 120,406 active Covid-19 cases and 6,929 people have been killed after contracting the highly infectious disease, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.With 119,292 patients were cured of Covid-19, India’s recovery rate has now gone up to 48.36%.According to available data, the recovery rate has nearly doubled from 24.5% on April 29.A senior health ministry official has said the recovery rate indicates the country is managing the disease well and pointed out that the number of serious cases, requiring a ventilator, is also not very high.Also read| Unlock 1: Rising number of Covid-19 cases concerns Centre, revised guidelines likely, says reportTen states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar with the highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) account for 84% of the country’s tally and 95% of the fatalities, data shows.Maharashtra has 82,968 Covid-19 cases and 2,969 people from the state have succumbed to the disease. Tamil Nadu has more than 30,000 people who have contracted the coronavirus disease and 251 have died.The national capital of Delhi is the third worst-affected region with 27,654 patients and 761 fatalities. Gujarat is inching towards the 20,000-mark with 19,592 cases. It has reported the deaths of 1,219 people so far.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has ramped up testing capacity for Covid-19. The number of government testing labs has increased to 520, and the number of private labs testing for Covid-19 to 222 across the country from about 100 at the start of March.“We have a target of increasing our (daily) testing capacity to two lakh by the end of June, and we are well on the path to achieve this. The testing capacity has been ramped up in no time and many more labs have been identified and are in the process of being approved for Covid testing,” Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, a spokesperson for ICMR, said.The health ministry has released detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for public and semi-public premises where Covid-19 has a higher chance of spreading such as shopping malls, food courts, hotels and restaurants, places of worship and offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-246-628-death-toll-at-6-929/story-qucOFmXMVxWYGbxkOPKv6K.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Good signs’: India, China take small, sure steps to resolve Ladakh standoff||India and China are taking incremental steps to resolve the month-long troops standoff at four points in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times after the meeting between military commanders of the two armies at the Moldo-Chushul border meeting.Saturday’s 7-hour-long meeting was the first meeting at the level of lieutenant generals of the two armies locked in the border standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong lake on May 5. Over the next few days, three more standoff points emerged near Galwan River.Lt General Harinder Singh, the Leh-based 14 Corps Commander, led a 10-member Indian team. The Chinese delegation was led by South Xinjiang Military District Commander Major General Liu Lin.The discussion, said to have been held in a ‘cordial and positive atmosphere’, stretched well into the Saturday evening with both sides not only discussing the standoff points but also the friction caused by upgradation of border infrastructure on both sides.Also Read: Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tactics“The direction of the military commanders talks was positive and both sides showed the inclination to resolve…..so there were good signs,” said a senior official.But the two sides also expect the resolution to be a long-drawn process. They have, however, agreed that the militaries should not allow the situation along the Line of Actual Control to escalate.“It is going to be a deliberate process where the two sides negotiate and resolve the differences, step by step,” a person familiar with the development said, requesting anonymityAlso Read: Ahead of meet over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approachIt is understood that the two military commanders favoured continuing the talks at the brigade and battalion commander level to resolve all the outstanding issues, point by point, the person mentioned above said. This implies that the next round of discussions could be led by teams led by Brigadier and Colonel-rank officers.An external affairs ministry statement released on Sunday said: “Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquility in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations.”While the statement notes that “early resolution” of the stand-off would contribute to further development of bilateral relationship, senior officials say that the situation will be eventually resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both the sides.Also Read: India is sensitive to China but won’t allow change in any border sectorIndia and China have maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation in areas along the India-China border.Saturday’s discussion between the military commanders was preceded by a ground-setting video conference between diplomats of the two countries that resolved to not allow their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.The border row coincides with the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries that the two sides had planned to celebrate with 70 events. “Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” the MEA statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-ladakh-stand-off-talks-to-continue-at-military-formation-level/story-nnG8atahZxi716OXX0EyzL.html
07-06-2020||India||After complaints of foul smell, Mumbai fire department says no gas leakage||The Mumbai Fire Brigade has said no leakage of any gas was found in areas where residents complained about the foul smell to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Saturday, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.PS Rahangdale, Mumbai’s chief fire officer, however, said there was a smell in Andheri area, according to ANI. “No gas leakage was found at given locations. Further calls were received from Powai and leakage smell was felt in Andheri. Total 17 fire engines were deputed for the search of gas leakage and it was announced to not panic. Hazmat vehicles were ready for an emergency,” Rahangdale was quoted as saying by ANI.“HPCL (Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited), BPCL (Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited), MGL (Mahanagar Gas Ltd), RCF (Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers) and the police were informed,” he added.Rahangade said senior officers are conducting an investigation.Residents of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Powai and Vikhroli areas had complained of a suspected gas leak on Saturday night.The civic body had said earlier the situation was under control and that 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system after receiving complaints of suspected gas leak from residents from several parts of Mumbai.“Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for response if required (sic),” BMC tweeted.It had, in a series of tweets, urged people not to panic or create panic.“We’ve received a couple of complaints of suspected gas leak, from residents in Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai...Please don’t panic or create panic. 13 fire appliances to monitor situation have been activated as precaution (sic),” BMC tweeted.“All concerned agencies have been mobilised to check the source of the foul smell being complained of by several residents in the areas of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-complaints-of-foul-smell-mumbai-fire-department-says-no-gas-leakage/story-dcbqXZczAFnKLgHRKMirxI.html
07-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Rising number of Covid-19 cases concerns Centre, revised guidelines likely, says report||The Centre is concerned about the number of increasing number of Covid-19 cases since June 1, when the relaxations announced by the government came into effect.According to Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the Centre has got information from various state governments that social distancing norms and other protocols are not being followed since the day relaxations have been announced.It further reported that the Centre will issue an order to strictly follow all the necessary protocols.Though the fatality rate has improved, the situation in Delhi and Mumbai is still not under control, Hindustan reported quoting sources.Some states want the Centre to issue stringent guidelines so that the spread of the infection can be checked, Hindustan reported. These states are not able to enforce strict guidelines due to relaxations given by the Centre.India raced past Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic after a record spike in cases for four consecutive days pushed total infections to over 2,46,628.In less than 24 hours, India surpassed Italy and then Spain to reach the grim milestone. Now, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of it.According to the Union Health Ministry, India registered a record single-day spike of 9,971 cases and 287 deaths by Sunday 8 am. The death toll rose to 6,929.The country registered over 9,000 cases for the fourth day in a row.Of the total fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,969 deaths, followed by Gujarat (1,219), Delhi (761), Madhya Pradesh (399), West Bengal (383), Uttar Pradesh (257), Tamil Nadu (251), Rajasthan (231), Telangana (123), Andhra Pradesh (73), Karnataka (59) and Punjab (50).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-rising-number-of-covid-19-cases-concerns-centre-revised-guidelines-likely-says-report/story-TrZCUkBwqauz4msPXV5eoO.html
07-06-2020||India||‘Highly condemnable, demoralizing’: Delhi Medical Association on FIR against Ganga Ram Hospital||The Delhi Medical Association has condemned the FIR against national capital’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. The Association, in a press release, stated that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s warning to doctors and threatening hospitals for the admission and testing of Covid-19 patients is condemnable. “FIR on Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is highly condemnable and demoralizing for the whole medical fraternity,” the DMA stated in its release. The DMA also said that doctors who have been risking their lives amid the Covid-19 pandemic to save lives “feel insulted by the way they are being treated”.“Ganga Ram hospital and its doctors who have saved lakhs of lives in the last decades are being penalized and threatened,” the released noted.  Also read: India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses SpainDelhi Medical Association strongly condemns the way Delhi CM is warning the doctors & threatening hospitals about #COVID19 patients' admissions&tests. FIR on Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is highly condemnable and demoralizing for the whole medical fraternity: Delhi Medical Association pic.twitter.com/SsirANUdVCThe DMA demanded the formation of a coordination committee to after the proper management of coronavirus crisis in the national capital.  It also calls for the need to make more testing facilities available. “Every Covid care should have a dedicated testing lab facilities”.The medical association also made a demand for the smooth and timely transfer of severely sick patients to higher tertiary care centre and the appointment of a nodal officer for every region/area to facilitate overall functioning of Covid care.This comes after the Kejriwal government filed a first information report (FIR) against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajinder Nagar for not following protocols for testing patients with the coronavirus disease. The FIR was on the basis of a complaint by deputy secretary of Delhi’s department of health and family welfare, Amit Kumar Pamasi. On June 3, the hospital was asked to stop Covid-19 testing, citing violations of ICMR guidelines.“The order of Health and Family Welfare Department regarding guidelines for tracking and monitoring of every Covid-19 suspected cases tested in various accredited labs across Delhi wherein it was mandatory for the labs to collect sample only through the Delhi government’s RT-PCR App. Further CDMO (Chief District Medical Officer) cum mission director, Central, mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till today (03/06) which is a clear violation of direction issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulation 2020,” a copy of the FIR read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highly-condemnable-demoralizing-for-whole-medical-fraternity-delhi-medical-asociation-on-fir-against-ganga-ram-hospital/story-paVVhPsPLswVaalrFwQcgL.html
07-06-2020||India||Shopping malls, restaurants and hotels to reopen from June 8: List of dos and don’ts||Monday (June 8) will almost bring an end to the stringent restrictions imposed by the Centre to control the spread of the coronavirus disease. After the central government’s recent order, malls, restaurants and religious places will reopen after a gap of more than 70 days.The Centre had on May 30 said that ‘Unlock 1’ will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown that was clamped on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent. It had, however, said that strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country’s worst-hit areas or Covid-19 hotspots.However, various state governments have said that these places and activities will be allowed to resume only if precautionary measures laid down by the Centre against coronavirus are followed.Here is a list of what will open from Monday:Restaurants: The Centre has allowed opening of restaurants from June 8. But at the same time, it also released a list of the SOPs to be followed. Seating arrangement has to be made in such a way that adequate social distancing is maintained. In restaurants, not more than 50 per cent of seating capacity will be permitted. The restaurants have been advised to use disposable menus.Places of worship: These have been allowed to open but their administrators have been asked to strictly follow social distancing norms and other protocols to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. Also, touching of statues, idols and holy books is not allowed. No physical offering, prasad or holy water allowed; the devotees have to take off their shoes in their vehicles only. Physical contact should be avoided as much as possible.Shopping malls: Only asymptomatic customers or visitors will be allowed, and the number of customers inside a shop has to be kept minimum. The government has made mall management responsible for ensuring social distancing is followed. The mall administrations have been asked to deploy adequate manpower for this. The mall entrances should mandatorily have sanitiser dispenser and thermal screening provisions. Gaming arcade, children’s play area and cinema halls inside the mall will remain closed. There is also a bar on trial of clothing.Hotels: Though hotels have been allowed to reopen, they have to maintain a proper record of the travel history of all the guests and their medical condition. The guests will also have to fill the self-declaration form. The hotels have been ordered to ensure contact-less check-in and check-out and sanitise the luggage before sending it to the rooms.This is the first phase of relaxations (known as Unlock 1). International air travel, metro rail, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls will remain suspended for the time being. The Centre will decide on reopening of schools and colleges in the second phase in July.The fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown ended on May 31 and the Centre gave time till June 8 for the new relaxations to come into effect while extending the overarching lockdown to June 30.The Centre’s notification added that all activities will be permitted outside the containment zones which are now being decided individually by states and union territories based on the local factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopping-malls-restaurants-and-hotels-to-reopen-from-june-8-list-of-dos-and-don-ts/story-HrcsbdN6FmUR7zbsl48kQL.html
07-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After 70 days, malls, restaurants prepare to restart business in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Malls, restaurants draw up plans to restart businesses but with restrictionsAnticipating that the Delhi government will allow them to reopen businesses after June 8, restaurants and mall owners in the national capital are busy with preparations to open shop after a gap of over 70 days. Read moreDelhi: 6 days of June were coldest in 9 years with temperature below 40 degreesThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said the first six days of June have been the coldest in the last nine years in Delhi and there is no possibility of scorching heat till the 15th of the month. Read moreWHO changes stance, calls for 3-layer Covid-19 masks in publicIn a big shift from its earlier position, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued new guidelines that say everyone should wear a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreBlack Lives Matter protests mostly peaceful in AustraliaBlack Lives Matter protests across Australia proceeded mostly peacefully Saturday, as thousands of demonstrators in state capitals honored the memory of George Floyd and protested the deaths of indigenous Australians in custody. Read more‘Am I going to the heart of the pandemic...where it all began?’The pick-up vehicle arrived at his doorstep in Malad. His mind crowded with doubts, fear and anxiety, Gavin Ferreira set off for the airport. For the Air India cabin crew member, this was a journey into the unknown. Read moreHow to hide Google Meet shortcut in GmailGoogle made Meet free for everyone last month. It also introduced a Google Meet shortcut in Gmail so users can easily join a meeting or start a new one. Read moreTaapsee Pannu is most successful actress of last 12 months with films making Rs 352 cr: ‘Didn’t realise this happened’With five film releases in the last one year, Taapsee Pannu has emerged as the most successful actress at the box office. According to a Zoom TV report, Taapsee’s movies collectively made Rs 352 crore. Read moreWorld Food Safety Day 2020: Significance, dos and don’ts to practice food safety at homeAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), food safety refers to the absence or acceptable levels of hazardous microbiological, chemical, or physical components present in food that might cause harm to consumers. Read moreWatch| ‘India can still achieve $5 trillion target by 2024’: Yogi Adityanath||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-70-days-malls-restaurants-prepare-to-restart-business-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-SfikOmwHMdFEKQRGfSXJbI.html
07-06-2020||India||These 10 states have 84% of India’s Covid-19 cases||Ten states with the highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) account for 84% of the country’s tally and 95% of the fatalities. These states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHowever, a higher number of Covid-19 tests per million population by a state may not necessarily mean more confirmed cases detected or high fatality rates.For example, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Maharashtra have carried out the maximum Covid-19 tests per million population. But Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are among the top five states in terms of maximum confirmed cases per million.Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have recorded the highest number of deaths and account for 83% of the 6,600 fatalities across the country. However, Gujarat, West Bengal, MP, Maharashtra and Delhi stand out in terms of case-fatality rate or number of deaths per 100 cases.The 10 states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases together have reported more than two lakh cases of India’s tally of 2.36 lakh till June 6. Also, more than 6,300 deaths have been reported in these states out of the 6,642 fatalities across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-10-states-have-84-of-india-s-covid-19-cases/story-PXoMHSPGUzRcjunE9yi1jJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Encounter erupts in J-K’s Shopian, at least 3 terrorists trapped||A gun battle broke out in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Sunday morning after security forces launched a joint operation in the area, police said.The encounter has started in Reban village of Shopian in south Kashmir, according to officials. Two to three terrorists are believed to be trapped in the area, they added.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-erupts-in-j-k-s-shopian-at-least-3-terrorists-trapped/story-RcSIDSgGRBDVBxTbw5yNaP.html
07-06-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah to hold first virtual rally in Bihar today, will sound poll bugle says BJP||Union home minister Amit Shah will address the people of Bihar on Sunday, in his first virtual rally ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar. The elections are due in the state later this year.Through this rally, Shah will sound the poll bugle and it will also be broadcast live on Facebook, Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said. He also said that the party has set a target of roping in “at least one lakh people across the 243 assembly segments in the state” for the event.Days before the rally, the BJP rejected Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan’s proposal of backing the saffron party even if it opts for a change of face in the assembly polls. The BJP reiterated that the elections will be contested only under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar only.“Former national president and Union home minister Amit Shah had already made an announcement in this regard that Nitish Kumar will be the face of the NDA in Bihar. The BJP stands by it. Nitishji will be our face and forthcoming elections will be contested on the policies and achievements of both Centre and the state,” the BJP’s Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav said at a virtual meeting on Friday.Shah had declared in late 2019 that Nitish Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections.The BJP leader’s announcement comes at the backdrop of an interview given by the LJP president to a news agency in which he mooted the idea of backing the BJP, if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls scheduled later this year.Paswan had recently expressed his dissatisfaction with the Bihar chief minister’s handling of the migrant crisis.Meanwhile, the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) called Shah’s rally during the coronavirus crisis is “political vulturism” and alleged that the BJP was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives.“Electioneering at this juncture is nothing but political vulturism. Rather than helping the poor, needy and migrants, they want to win elections even at the cost of human lives,” RJD leader and Leader of the Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav told news agency PTI on Saturday.The RJD is set to observe “Garib Adhikar Diwas” to counter Shah’s rally.The BJP, the Janata Dal United or JD(U) and the LJP are part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state and are likely to be challenged by the RJD-Congress combine besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls.In the 2015 assembly polls, the NDA had lost badly to the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress but Nitish Kumar broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered the saffron alliance again after a gap of over four years.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-to-hold-first-virtual-rally-in-bihar-today-will-sound-poll-bugle-says-bjp/story-BelXFxC223Q5MjI6LN9qgM.html
07-06-2020||India||After being denied entry to quarantine centre, Odisha man spends 2 days in jungle||A migrant labourer spent two days in jungle after allegedly being denied entry to a quarantine centre and his village in Behrampur.According to a local from the village, no one helped the labourer. “He came from Chennai. He went to the police and block office but no one helped. Then, he went to the jungle.”Later, the police took him to the quarantine centre.As per the Union Health Ministry, there are 2,608 confirmed Covid-19 cases in the Odisha, including 996 active cases, 1,604 recovered/discharged/migrated and 8 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-being-denied-entry-to-quarantine-centre-odisha-man-spends-2-days-in-jungle/story-ytxazhukFJ1CbmITKpP90J.html
07-06-2020||India||India now fifth worst-affected by Covid-19, surpasses Spain||India is now among the five worst-affected countries by the coronavirus disease. It achieved the grim milestone on Saturday evening when the total tally of infections reached 2,45,670. Spain so far has recorded 2,41,310 cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.Just 24 hours ago, India had surpassed Italy in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases.However, India is still far behind in number of fatalities caused by the disease. While Italy has recorded 33,774 deaths due to Covid-19, Spain has seen 27,134 fatalities, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) data. In India, the Covid-19 death toll stands at 6,642.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere has been a spike in the daily Covid-19 count of the country. From around 6,500 cases a week ago, India is now recording close to 10,000 cases daily.According to the Union Health Ministry, India registered a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases and 294 deaths by Saturday 8 am, pushing the tally to 2,36,657. The country registered over 9,000 cases for the third day in a row.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 1,15,942. A total of 1,14,073 people have recovered with 4,611 Covid-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said.The ministry also said that cumulatively 45,24,317 samples have been tested so far with 1,37,938 samples tested in the last 24 hours.According to the ministry data on Saturday morning, the highest number of confirmed cases are from Maharashtra at 80,229, followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,694, Delhi at 26,334, Gujarat at 19,094, Rajasthan at 10,084, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 8,996.Also read: Delhi will need 42,000 Covid beds by mid-July, projects govt panelThe number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 7,303 in West Bengal, 4,835 in Karnataka, 4,596 in Bihar and 4,303 in Andhra Pradesh.It has risen to 3,597 in Haryana, 3,324 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,290 in Telangana and 2,608 in Odisha.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-now-fifth-worst-affected-by-covid-19-surpasses-spain/story-TXBrMENMt0tDJdypbZrnaK.html
07-06-2020||India||Did you become a curfew cliché?||Depending on where you are, you’re probably emerging from months indoors or hoping to. And you’ve probably been doing the same things as everyone else to cope. A global stereotype of lockdown life is slowly emerging. But how much of it fits you? Ten points for each statement that holds true:Your score:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-you-become-a-curfew-cliche/story-hqvbeu2sbKrNCdCy1iye0I.html
07-06-2020||India||Love, loneliness and violence||It’s early morning. Two women, on holiday in Puri, stand in the balcony of their hotel room after a passionate night together. They recall their heated lovemaking with laughter and pleasure.This is not a scene out of a contemporary film. As we enter Global Pride Month, when LGBTQ communities around the world assert their right to the freedom to love, it’s a good moment to recall an extraordinary short story, Prateeksha (Waiting), written in October 1962 by the late Hindi writer Rajendra Yadav.Most readers are probably familiar with Ismat Chughtai’s 1942 story, Lihaaf (The Quilt), with its erotic lesbian undercurrents. It caused such an uproar at the time that the feisty Urdu writer, often called ‘the female Manto’, faced trial for obscenity. But somehow Yadav’s complex, no-holds-barred lesbian love story fell through the cracks. Few people have heard of it; fewer still have read it, and yet it is a gem.Yadav, who died in 2013 aged 84, was the enfant terrible of Hindi literature — acerbic, mocking, uncaring of critics. Invariably seen with a pipe clamped between his teeth, jet-black hair combed severely back from a craggy face, the writer from Agra tore into the hypocrisies of middle- and lower-middle-class life, in his short stories and novels.Prateeksha weaves a tangled web of love, loneliness and violence. Gita is an unhappy middle-aged college teacher living a solitary life in Calcutta. Till the young, lovely Nanda, a typist at a private firm, moves into a room in her flat, on rent. Soon Gita’s life begins to revolve obsessively around Nanda, and the two women become intimate. But Nanda is young and restless, and gets drawn into a friendship with a smart Miss Raymond in her office.Gita’s jealousy spirals out of control, erupting one day in an orgy of violence against Nanda. Oddly enough, the two grow even closer after this and go to Puri on a romantic holiday. But there’s a bigger threat than Miss Raymond on the horizon — Harsh, a man Nanda has been in love with since college. Gita resents their relationship, but she also watches over them with a strange maternal benevolence.Rajendra Yadav was not a writer of queer short stories. Prateeksha seems to have been a one-off, though it was in keeping with his general disdain for convention. Even so, how was the story received in those socially conservative times? I spoke to the writer’s daughter Rachana to see if she had found anything in his papers that would provide some clue. But she had not. Perhaps the reactions were expressed privately.Historian and scholar Saleem Kidwai, who co-edited a book titled Same-Sex Love in India: A Literary History (which contains an English translation of Prateeksha by Ruth Vanita), didn’t know about reactions to it either, but offered some general pointers. He suggested that maybe people were too embarrassed to talk about it openly. And added that, though the theme would have certainly been shocking for the times, stories of lesbian love — especially when written by men — have always been considered more palatable than tales of male homosexual intimacy. There may even be an element of titillation for readers when it comes to the former. (In 1924, the Hindi journalist and writer Pandey Bechan Sharma ‘Ugra’ wrote a short story, Chocolate, about male homosexuality. The ensuing storm spurred Ugra, who delighted in the notoriety, to write even more stories on the subject. Chocolate was still selling 30 years later.)For me, though, Yadav’s Prateeksha, apart from being a remarkable story for its time, is also a comment on the oppressive Indian family (both Gita and Nanda face abuse in their homes before they escape to Calcutta). And it is about ‘waiting’, as the title suggests — Gita has grown old waiting for a suitor her father drove away to come back for her, even as she now waits for Harsh and Nanda, lost in each other’s company, to return to her empty flat.But in the end, Rajendra Yadav’s Prateeksha is really about the universal yearning for love and companionship||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-loneliness-and-violence/story-vLQ3bUPhu8xRfrDLZJBZzM.html
07-06-2020||India||Lessons from the field, lessons for life||I have watched The Test. I have binged on The Last Dance. Heck, I’ve even seen The Carter Effect. In this new world without sport, I now have nothing except nostalgia and memories to fall back on. None of us does.For the first time, we, the ones on this side of the sport-watching fence, are envying those on the other side who don’t have to rely on events thousands of miles away—events they have absolutely no control over—for their sanity.What is it about the absence of sport that is making this Covid-infected planet—a dangerous place where aerosols, surfaces, and physical contact could get you, but where you still have to worry about money, clothes, rules and courtesies, unlike, say, in The Walking Dead—so much harder to negotiate?The overlap of sport and life has, of course, been both studied by science and romanticised by literature. Reams of research papers and volumes of books have attempted to define what connects the playing and watching of sport with how people lead their lives, peppering their daily routines with sweating in the mornings, cheering in the evenings, or sometimes both.The starting point in the link, perhaps, is that sport is our first true teacher. It’s like a simulated sub-universe where we face disappointment, experience joy, learn to be graceful in victory, and hopeful in defeat. It offers lessons that prepare us for the few times in our lives when we truly experience such emotions—achieving a professional milestone, being in a debilitating accident, finding love, losing a loved one.I always joke, for example, that nothing can break me because I am a fan of the Arsenal football club—I get broken every second weekend.These emotions are addictive; they are what make us human. And sport allows us a weekly micro-dose of triumph and defeat, delight and despair. It’s harder to derive all the scales of the sensory octave from any other activity or distraction—music largely pleases and uplifts; films and books don’t offer a sense of loyalty and association. Two strangers, from different countries, sitting at opposite ends of a pub, can instantly know they experienced the same joys and sorrows at the exact same moments only when they see that they’re wearing t-shirts with the same team logo emblazoned on them.In July 2014, in Rio de Janeiro, I experienced the extreme highs and abysmal lows of sporting emotion over two unforgettable days. July 12, the night before the final: the largest, most amorphous party anywhere in the world that year as Argentinians drove across the border to Brazil, slept in their cars, and sang and danced and drank, taking over the city in infectious revelry. As an Argentina football fan, I sang every song, danced every jig, and drank everything. July 13, after Germany won in extra time: the life was sucked out of the city, the gloom audible in the silence, tangible in the faces of those who had driven across the border and slept in their cars. At one end of Copacabana, a stranger in the same blue jacket I was wearing caught my hand and started weeping. Though the loss meant much more to him than it did to me, I cried a little with him. We exchange greetings on Facebook to this day.Fandom is defined not by raucous victory marches, but by the sweet pain of defeat. It teaches us to accept when we’re beaten, be okay with not always winning, but have the resilience to keep fighting back. We, the people who watch, play, and sometimes travel for sport, are lost without that kick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-from-the-field-lessons-for-life/story-H3Cwl55LHPyDkmqfyhng3J.html
07-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Know which stage of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic we are in now.No, I am not going to get into a discussion on whether we are seeing community transmission in India, a subject on which the health ministry is strangely touchy.Nor am I going to resort to numbers other than to say what this column has said at least five or six times (this is the 76th instalment of this column; there will be things I repeat; actually, I’ve said this too — that I will repeat things — before): the only number that matters is the number of daily deaths. The number of cases is largely irrelevant because we are clearly not testing enough (positivity rates, the proportion of positive cases to tests done, continue to rise); ergo, we have no idea about the true prevalence of the Sars-CoV-2 virus here. As for the daily deaths, they are, unfortunately, increasing, and touched 300 on Friday. Even if they stay at this level, India will record 10,000 Covid-19 deaths in the next 33 days.But I digress; like I said at the beginning of this column, I know which stage of the Covid-19 pandemic we are in now.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWe are in a stage where many of us know people (people like us, may I add) who have been infected with the virus. The people behind the numbers we see in the papers are no longer nameless and anonymous. We know the names of some; we know their stories (and back stories); some of them are our friends and we know their dreams and aspirations; some of them are related to us.We know them.The good news is that not all of them are ill enough to require hospitalisation. Many show no symptoms. Others have mild infections and should recover in a few days.But suddenly, there seems to be a lot of people who have the coronavirus disease.Earlier this week, I met a colleague for the first time in two months. He told me that there were five cases of coronavirus in his gated enclave (in Delhi). Two days later, we met again — the number had gone up to 12, he said.My health editor tells me there is a case in the house opposite hers.A former colleague from Mumbai (and, for good measure, his wife) both had mild cases and went into home quarantine.Another former colleague from Mumbai tells me his apartment block is like an island (because it has no cases) and is surrounded on all sided by apartments where there are cases.The same is true of Chennai to some extent — despite living in Delhi for almost a quarter of a century, Chennai is home, and it is where my old parents live.Bengaluru would appear to be an exception, but part of my brain refuses to accept the fact that a city as connected to the outside world as Bengaluru has as few cases as it does.In addition to knowing people who have been infected, many of us are also seeing, on social media, horror stories of people who need to be hospitalised but can’t find any beds, or those who need to be tested (in some cases, because a member of their family died of Covid-19) but aren’t being tested.In short, the information is coming at us from all sides. It can be overwhelming.At such times, it’s important to remember what the good book said: Don’t Panic.Masks, gloves (when venturing out shopping), hand washing, and social distancing are all that are required — and perhaps now, more than ever.Remember the early days of the lockdown in India when you were oh-so-careful and tentative about venturing out unless absolutely necessary? It’s time to return to that mode and hunker down even while we ensure that life and work don’t suffer.It can, will, and should be a real janata curfew.Stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-PV5hhqm1Mkj3VCtv3qU6QP.html
07-06-2020||India||WHO changes stance, calls for 3-layer Covid-19 masks in public||In a big shift from its earlier position, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has issued new guidelines that say everyone should wear a three-layer fabric or non-medical mask in public to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).People aged above 60 years or with health issues should wear a medical mask in settings where social distancing is difficult, and all others should wear a three-layer fabric mask that acts as “a barrier for potentially infectious droplets,” according to the new guidelines released on Friday.“In light of evolving evidence, WHO advises that governments should encourage the general public to wear masks where there is widespread transmission and physical distancing is difficult, such as on public transport, in shops or in other confined or crowded environments... Based on this new research, WHO advises that fabric masks should consist of at least three layers of different material,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, director-general of WHO.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWearing masks in public is already compulsory or recommended for everyone in some countries, including India, Singapore, France, Spain, Germany and Argentina, among others. Those wearing a cloth mask should choose a three-layer fabric mask made of absorbent cotton closest to the face, followed by a polypropylene layer and then a synthetic layer that is fluid-resistant, WHO said.The advisory includes tips on how to don and doff, discard or reuse masks . “People can potentially infect themselves if they use contaminated hands to adjust a mask, or to repeatedly take it off and put it on, without cleaning hands in between. Masks can also create a false sense of security, leading people to neglect measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing,” said Dr Tedros.Previous WHO guidelines limited mask use to healthcare workers, healthy people taking care of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, and people coughing and sneezing. The health agency was against universal use because of fears that a scramble for masks would lead to shortages and deprive those who really need them of masks.The new guidance follows research commissioned by the global health agency that found that wearing masks and keeping a distance of two metres from others are the most effective ways of stopping the spread of Covid-19. But these interventions, even when properly used and combined, do not offer complete protection from infection when used alone, and must be used with other protective measures, such as hand hygiene, found a review of 172 studies from 16 countries published in The Lancet, on June 2. “Based on the available evidence on physical distancing, face masks, eye protection and handwashing, we cannot say which one is best at this point. They are all effective, but the combination of those interventions it likely better than any of the interventions alone,” said study co-lead Professor Holger Schünemann of the department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact at McMaster University in Canada, in an email.The study also found that respirators and multi-layer masks are more protective than single-layer masks. “This finding is vital to inform the proliferation of home-­made cloth mask designs, many of which are single­-layered. A well designed cloth mask should have water-­resistant fabric, multiple layers, and good facial fit… Universal face mask use might enable safe lifting of restrictions in communities seeking to resume normal activities and could protect people in crowded public settings and within households,” said Professor Raina MacIntyre from the Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales in Australia, in an accompanying comment. She was not involved in the study.With the pandemic yet to peak in India, protective behaviours are critical to stop the spread of the disease. “We need very strict wearing of masks, social distancing and frequent handwashing. I would say, we literally need policing of masks and other social distancing behaviours to enforce compliance whenever you’re out, whether it is in public transport, office, school or a market,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Current evidence suggests that Covid-19 is most commonly spread by respiratory droplets, especially when people cough and sneeze, entering through the eyes, nose, and mouth, either directly or by touching a contaminated surface, but there is increasing concern about spread through aerosols, which are tiny saliva and vapour droplets suspended in air that are produced when we speak or breathe.“I cannot say this clearly enough: masks alone will not protect you from Covid-19. Masks are not a replacement for physical distancing, hand hygiene and other public health measures. Masks are only of benefit as part of a comprehensive approach in the fight against Covid-19,” said Tedros.“The cornerstone of the response in every country must be to find, isolate, test and care for every case, and to trace and quarantine every contact. That is what we know works. That is every country’s best defence against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-changes-stance-calls-for-3-layer-masks-in-public/story-bXfjG9ISayWGEZW3HJLyzN.html
07-06-2020||India||Migrant crisis may hurt incomes in poorer states||What will be the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact on India? The Reserve Bank of India expects the Indian economy to contract this financial year. But given the recent release of gross domestic product (GDP) numbers for the quarter ended March , a big-picture analysis may be needed. In a three-part data journalism series, of which this is the second part, HT attempts to do exactly that. The first part, published on June 6, looked at the economic situation before the pandemic. The second part will look at the immediate effects of the crisis and their macroeconomic consequences. The third part will argue that the existing policy response may not go far enough.On March 11, the World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic. With effect from March 25, India announced a nationwide lockdown. This was among the most stringent in the world. A database compiled by Oxford University has ranked countries in a stringency index. The more severe the lockdown, the higher the stringency index score. Data shows that among the top five countries by GDP ( the US, China, Japan, Germany and India ), only India scored the maximum 100 for almost a month. To be sure, restrictions have been eased in the past month, and the country is now emerging out of the lockdown. (See Chart 1) As had been expected, economic activity has suffered heavily. The only high frequency indicators which are available for the period after the lockdown are the Purchasing Managers’ Indices (PMI). Both the manufacturing and services indices crashed to their lowest-ever values, 27.4 and 5.4, respectively in April. They have increased to 30.8 and 12.6 for May, but continue to signify massive contraction in economic activity. PMI indices signify expansion when they are above 50. The GDP data for the quarter ending June 2020 will only be available in August. Lockdown related restrictions are also likely to hinder data collection efforts. For example, the National Statistical Office (NSO) was unable to properly collect inflation data in April.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThese statistical difficulties notwithstanding, it is possible to lay down some general principles. Among the most visible economic impacts of the lockdown has been a massive reverse migration of workers to villages. The actual estimates of such migration by reputed scholars vary from 5 million by Nomman Majid of the International Labour Organisation to as much as 30 million by Chinmay Tumbe of the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad.Anecdotal evidence suggests that the number is likely to be far more than 5 million. For example, the Uttar Pradesh government alone was looking at expanding daily employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme by 3 million in March.The humanitarian aspect of the reverse migration has caught everybody’s imagination. But its economic impact is equally important. Migrants have an important role in India’s economy.An example from a unique multigenerational research project in an Indian village can help us understand this. Palanpur in Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh has been studied by many economists since 1974-75. In their 2018 book on the Palanpur surveys, as they are referred to by economists, Himanshu, Peter Lanjouw and Nicholas Stern give accounts of six such surveys between 1957-58 and 2015.In 1957-58 less than 40% of non-farm jobs were located outside the village. This number increased to 84% and 76% in 1974-75 and 1983-84. It subsequently dipped and was around the 60% mark in 2015. The share of non-cultivation incomes has continuously increased during this period. It was 22% in 1957-58 and increased to 60% in 2008-09, the latest period for which data is available. Of the non-farm jobs located outside the village, 60% were located at least 50 kilometers away in 2008-09.Reverse migration also entails loss of income for migrant workers. This can be very significant for poorer states. A 2018 World Bank paper by Gaurav Nayyar and Kyoung Yang Kim found that migrant remittances had a share of 35% in Bihar’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) and positively affected consumption at the household level. Any severe disruption of these remittances, which is what the lockdown must have inflicted, can result in a massive income shock in poor states.India’s workforce was already under distress even before the pandemic. The unemployment rate, according to the 2017-18 Periodic Labour Force Survey, was 6.1%, the highest in four decades. Real rural wages declined continuously between September 2019 and January 2020, the latest period for which data is available. (See Chart 2) The sudden exodus of migrants who have returned to their villages from the cities will push wages down even more. This will further squeeze earnings and subsequently demand. Weakness in demand may generate additional headwinds for revival of economic activity even in urban areas. According to the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES), rural areas have a bigger share of total consumption expenditure in India. Per capita consumption was almost double in urban areas, but with the much bigger population share, the share of rural areas in total consumption was greater. Rural India must have lost some of its population advantage between 2011-12 and 2020. However, it is unlikely that the rural share of consumption will be insignificant. Obviously, this is not the only economic disruption due to the pandemic. Economic activities that cannot ensure physical distancing will have to wait for revival. The resolution of this, however, will largely depend on medicinal advances vis-a-vis Covid-19. There is little scope for policy intervention on this count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-crisis-may-hurt-incomes-in-poorer-states/story-TF0HV99AhDKN53ecdrNWaJ.html
07-06-2020||India||MHA studies tools to monitor darknet||A Union home ministry think-tank is studying software solutions to help law enforcement agencies monitor the darknet, or a network of secret websites and encrypted networks, and track cybercriminals through digital footprints, people aware of the matter said. The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) is also looking into an interactive web portal that will provide information on cyber crimes, their modus operandi, investigation techniques as well as digital solutions for tracing sources of voice over internet protocol calls, cracking passwords, and decrypting protected files.Academia, start-ups/Incubation centres, and research and development (R&D) organisations are working on the project to find solutions for cybercrime investigation and digital forensic challenges.Around 11 problem statements based on consultations with state police and central agencies have been identified and sent to 120 institutions and R&D organisations across the country as part of the project.“It is a capacity-building measure for LEAs [law enforcement agencies] and an exercise to take cybercrime investigation tools to the cutting edge level,” said BPRD chief V S K Kaumudi.According to a BPRD document, seen by HT, a solution for the darknet will help get inside hidden networks, gather threat intelligence, conduct profiling, analyse specific links and provide alerts regarding suspicious activity. It says the interactive web portal will assist investigating officers with their queries regarding cybercrimes, fetch details of cybercrime investigations workflows, use artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques for on-time updates. It is planned to have an integrated online case management platform for financial fraud.Tracking fake news and fake profiles on social media is another key objective of BPRD’s plan to ensure cyber criminals or specific groups, individuals do not run political or religious propaganda on a large scale against individuals, organisations or the government and create unrest in the country, according to the document.The solution for fake profiles and fake news will involve assistance to investigators in tracing anonymous social media suspects. It will help them detect fake news, fake images, offensive videos as well as trace people posting them on social media.Officials said the risk of cyberattacks has increased manifolds with the heightened d ependency on digital infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted lockdowns globally. The Centre’s Computer Emergency Response Team has repeatedly warned over the last two months that cyberattackers may take advantage of the pandemic to target individuals and organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-studies-tools-to-monitor-darknet/story-ylWPaSJi3fwOwQUvxrzTvJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Manipur to launch mobile Covid 19 testing kit||Manipur government has decided to launch a mobile coronavirus testing kit at the earliest to reduce the effort and time taken to collect and test samples, said Manipur health & family welfare minister Langpoklakpam Jayantakumar on Saturday.Jayantakumar said the mobile testing facility will specially be helpful for testing in the remote hill areas. The minister was speaking at a gathering at Senapati district headquarters, 60 km north of Imphal, after a visit to different quarantine centres in the district on Saturday, said officials.He said since the state didn’t have adequate medical equipment and manpower required to fight the pandemic, the state cabinet approved the decision to recruit 300 doctors as soon as possible. He added that the pending recruitment of 106 staff nurses under the national health mission will be finalized at the earliest to bring down the shortfall.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The state’s capacity to test 1,000 samples daily is insufficient to cover the steady stream of residents returning to the state and efforts are on to raise it, the minister added.He also had a discussion with the civil society organisations in the Senapati district after a visit to the district hospital at Kangpokpi.The total number of Covid 19 positive cases has reached 157 in the state including 105 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-to-launch-mobile-covid-19-testing-kit/story-M7aiPWPYAajRxdVipFX5eI.html
07-06-2020||India||In Rajasthan, hotels, restaurants and malls to reopen from June 8||The Rajasthan government on Saturday issued orders allowing hotels, restaurants and malls to open from June 8, while adhering to Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks, social distancing and hygiene.An order by home secretary Rajeev Swarup said in continuation of theimplementation of lockdown 5.0 order dated May 31, hotels, restaurants and malls will be permitted to open from June 8.The order said hotels and other hospitality industry would be allowed to open on the condition that they follow the guidelines issued by the union ministry of health and family welfare in its order dated June 4, 2020 and put in place preventive measures in hotels and other hospitality units to contain spread of Covid-19.The order stated that restaurants too would be required to follow all the standard operating procedures given by the union health ministry on preventive measures in restaurants to contain the spread of the disease.As per the order, table seating arrangements will have to ensure a distance of at least 6 feet between them.Fast food restaurants with standing table arrangements will have to ensure a distance of at least 8 feet between tables and not more than two guests per table.Shopping malls too will be allowed to open but will have to adhere to all guidelines on preventive measures.The guidelines issued by the Centre include measures such as temperature checks of visitors and staff, masks, social distancing, hygiene and staggered entry of visitors. Cinema halls, children’s play areas and gaming zones in these establishments will remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-hotels-restaurants-and-malls-to-reopen-from-june-8/story-6wRer01ixlz1LLZjAxQGwO.html
07-06-2020||India||Karnataka BJP okays 2 names for 3 Rajya Sabha seats||The core committee of the Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit, which met in Bengaluru on Saturday, has decided to recommend the names of Prabhakar Kore, Ramesh Katti and Prakash Shetty for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections, according to people aware of the developments.Two of the three names are likely to be finalised by the central leadership of the party for the June 19 elections, they said. Of the four RS vacant seats in Karnataka, the BJP is expecting to win two and the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) are likely to battle it out for the remaining seats.Prabhakar Kore oversees about 250 educational institutions in Karnataka and Maharashtra under the Karnataka Lingayat Education (KLE) society and is a current Rajya Sabha member whose term will end on June 25. Ramesh Katti, who is eight-term MLA Umesh Katti’s brother, is a prominent BJP leader from northern Karnataka. Prakash Shetty is a hospitality and real estate entrepreneur who runs a chain of hotels. For a member to be elected to the RS from Karnataka, they would require 44 votes. “The high command will decide the names from the list recommended or decide to have its own names. Since Tuesday is the last day for nominations, we expect the names to be announced on Sunday. We have not decided what we would do with the additional votes,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.The Congress has already announced veteran party leader Mallikarjuna Kharge as its candidate, while the JDS, which has 34 MLAs and would require 10 additional votes to get its candidate elected, says party supremo Deve Gowda is yet to take a call on contesting. The elections are scheduled for June 19 and the last day of nominations is June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/k-taka-bjp-okays-2-names-for-3-rs-seats/story-RAgkGOH2WMjgHRNfZx0BBI.html
07-06-2020||India||BJP banks on a new team to counter TMC in Bengal polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that has been at loggerheads with the Trinamool Congress government over the latter’s response to the coronavirus pandemic has now picked a new team in West Bengal, with known Mamata Banerjee-baiters getting key positions.“It is a mix of the old and the new to take on the state government. For the 2021 assembly polls, these faces will lead the campaign against the Trinamool government’s 10 year-misrule,” said a senior functionary.On Monday, state unit president Dilip Ghosh announced the names of BJP’s new state leadership--12 vice-presidents, five general secretaries, and 10 secretaries—which is seen as a major rejig in the state unit ahead of the polls.Ghosh, a former pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), was given a second term in January, amid speculation that the he could be replaced.Members of the Lok Sabha, Arjun Singh, who represents Barrackpore, Locket Chatterjee who represents Hoogly, and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, who are known for their fiery speeches and often controversial stances are part of the new team. While Khan has been made in charge of the Yuva Morcha; Singh is now a vice president and Chatterjee is the party’s general secretary.“These young MPs are West Bengal’s voice in Parliament and now they will be the faces of the party on the streets. The state has suffered for years and the BJP will end the politics of appeasement,” said the functionary quoted above.A second leader said the party wanted a team that has “aggressive opening batsmen, the reliable mid order and the all-rounders” who can take forward the party’s forceful posturing in taking on the Mamata government.The new team also has on board a former confidant of the CM, the ex-West Midnapore police superintendent Bharati Ghosh; fashion designer Agnimitra Paul who has been given charge of the women’s wing.Even though the BJP began assiduously increasing its footprint in the state after winning three seats and 10% of the votes in 2016 assembly elections, it has had to accommodate rebels to help consolidate its position.In the new team too, the party has accommodated Khangen Murmu and Dulal Bor; who joined the BJP from the CPIM and Congress respectively. Khan, Singh and Sabyasachi Dutta, who is now a secretary, were part of the TMC before switching to the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“We have been chosen by the party to expose the dynastic rule of Mamata and her nephew. We will fight the good fight like loyal soldiers of the party,” Khan said.Even as the state has been engaged in fighting the pandemic and subsequently engaged in relief work following the cyclone Amphan, the BJP has kept up the pressure on the state government.“The state government’s response to the pandemic has been deplorable. Instead of taking help from the centre, the state government has taken an adversarial position. Even after the cyclone, the PM gave Rs 1000 crore for the relief and rehabilitation, but there has been no change in the TMC’s stance,” the first functionary said.Political commentator Kumar Rana however said the BJP’s attempts at drawing a parallel between the state and the Centre’s response to the pandemic will not cut ice. “In the BJP-ruled states and at the Centre too, the response has not been any different. States have no money, so TMC government cannot be singled out. The BJP is trying to create a stir,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-a-new-team-to-counter-tmc-in-bengal-polls/story-HLU8PGc3o7nRWAurwrLr1J.html
07-06-2020||India||Infighting in Gujarat Congress over Rajya Sabha polls||A tug of war has started in the Gujarat unit of the Congress over whom it will choose between two candidates for the lone Rajya Sabha seat it can win from the state after a raft of resignations by its legislators dashed its hopes of wining half the four seats up for grabs in the June 19 elections to the upper House.Eight Congress legislators have resigned from the assembly since March, and apart from two other vacancies due to court cases over poll-related disputes, the effective strength of the 182-member Gujarat assembly now stands at 172.The Congress, with 65 legislators, is now in a position to win just one seat while both Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil remain in the fray for election to the Rajya Sabha from the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. A candidate will need 35 votes to get elected to the House.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with 103 legislators, is comfortably placed to win three seats. It has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin.The Congress’s predicament has triggered a show of strength between supporters of Solanki and Gohil.A Gujarat Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity that 42 of the 65 legislators back Solanki and would vote for him.“Though the final decision rests with the party high command there is also a possibility that Gohil might announce his withdrawal from the contest if all other options dry up,” he said.Asked to elaborate on the options, the leader claimed that some “disgruntled” BJP legislators might cross-vote in favour of the Congress candidate.“Wait and watch,” he said.However, a Gujarat BJP functionary rubbished the claim. “The Congress is daydreaming. Unlike Congress, there are no disgruntled legislators in BJP,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity.The Congress is also banking on the support of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) which has two legislators, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) with one and independent legislator Jignesh Mevani.The Rajya Sabha elections to 55 seats were earlier scheduled to be held on March 26 but deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent imposition of the nationwide lockdown from March 25.While 37 candidates were later declared elected unopposed, polls were to be held for the remaining 18 seats – four each from Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, three each from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, two from Jharkhand and one each from Meghalaya and Manipur.The Election Commission later clubbed four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka and one each from Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram and the elections to all the 24 Rajya Sabha seats will now be held on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infighting-in-guj-cong-over-rs-polls/story-2S5Xsnm5mX6vJQSMKanZjL.html
07-06-2020||India||Ten new Covid-19 cases take Mumbai’s Dharavi’s coronavirus count to 1,899||Mumbai’s Dharavi recorded 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the city’s slums to 1,899.At least, 71 people have succumbed to the highly infectious disease in Asia’s largest slum dwelling till date.A day earlier, on Friday, 20 people had tested positive for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi, according to data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Maharashtra on Saturday reported 2,739 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally of people infected with the virus to 82,968, the state health department said.As Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-hit Covid-19 state in the country, it is inching closer towards overtaking China’s tally of over 83,000 cases.Maharashtra recorded 120 deaths on Saturday, with the total fatalities now at 2,969. According to the health department’s bulletin, 2,234 people were discharged on Saturday after recovering from the infectious disease.Currently, there are 42,600 active cases in the state.Mumbai’s Covid-19 case count reached 47,128 on Saturday after 1,274 new cases being detected in the last 24 hours.With 57 new deaths, total fatalities in the city stands at 1,575.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-new-covid-19-cases-take-mumbai-s-dharavi-s-coronavirus-count-to-1-899/story-68T4p8jvBSbyCHABimxhJI.html
07-06-2020||India||Coronavirus death toll hits 400,000 worldwide||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has claimed 400,000 lives globally since it surfaced in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year and went on to ravage countries across the world that are now attempting to revive economies battered by the lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the disease. It took nearly four months for the death toll from the respiratory illness to reach the grim milestone of 100,000 deaths. As the virus spread from China – where it first originated in December 2019 – to find a strong foothold in Europe, the number of fatalities doubled to 200,000 in another 15 days. The subsequent 100,000 deaths were added in 20 and 23 days, respectively, offering a glimmer of hope that many of the hot spots such as Spain, Italy, UK and France may have seen the worst. Although European countries have begun to reopen businesses and industries, Latin America, particularly Brazil, has emerged as the latest epicentre of the viral disease, according to the World Health Organization.In the United States– the hardest-hit country with 1.97 million cases and 111,658 deaths -- the numbers have continued to mount even as the rate of the infection appears to be slowing down. On Friday, US President Donald Trump said the economy was bouncing back and that the country was “largely through” this “horrible pandemic”. “I think we’re doing really well,” he added. Countries such as Mexico, Russia and India too are clocking thousands of daily new cases and hundreds more fatalities, driving part of the third wave of the pandemic after the first in China and the second in Europe and the US.Till Saturday, 400,012 fatalities had been recorded from 6,916,826 cases world over. It means the case fatality rate – defined as the proportion of deaths to total infections -- from Covid-19 stood at 5.8% on Saturday, according to data by worldometers.info.At 246,472 cases, India on Saturday overtook Italy to become the country with the sixth-highest number of Covid-19 infections. However, with a death toll of 6,873 from the disease and a fatality rate of 2.8% till Saturday, it is significantly lower than the case fatality rate of other hard-hit nations such as the US (5.6%), UK (14.2%) and Italy (14.4%). Experts say the number of deaths from the pandemic is a more accurate representation of the virus’ prevalence in a region instead of the number of infections, as a large percentage of Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic and are never officially reported. The fatality rate, they add, will eventually determine if the health infrastructure of a country will survive the public health crisis or be burdened by it. “We know that the absolute number of deaths will go up with the increasing number of cases, but has there been a change in the proportion or case fatality rate?... And, if the case fatality rate is indeed going up, then that is a cause of concern” Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, had told HT. At its early peak, the pandemic forced half of humanity into some form of lockdown and risked tipping economies into the deepest recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Governments from Africa to Europe to Asia are now focusing on reviving economies toward a post-pandemic normal.Seeking to revive the key tourism sectors in time for the summer season, the European Union said it could reopen borders to travellers from outside the region in early July, after some countries within the bloc reopened to European visitors. Still, bleak numbers streamed in from Latin America.Brazil’s death toll rose to more than 35,211 on Saturday, the third-highest number of virus-related deaths after Britain and the United States.“The curve is steepening -- the sky is the limit,” Julio Croda, an infectious disease specialist and former Brazilian health ministry official, said about the trajectory in his nation. “The current data show no signs of stabilisation.”Tolls are also rising sharply in Mexico, Peru and Ecuador. And in Chile, deaths have risen by more than 50% in the past week.Russia reported 8,855 cases on Saturday, bringing the total number to 458,689, according to data from the government’s virus response centre. The death toll increased by 197 to 5,725 people.Fresh concerns have arisen over another wave of infections as lockdown restrictions are eased across the world. In South Korea, considered a success story for its quick response to control the virus’ spread, 51 new cases were reported on Saturday, mostly in the densely populated capital region, as the authorities scrambled to stem transmissions among low-income workers who can’t afford to stay home.With no certain cure and a vaccine only in the development stage, scientists believe that lockdowns and social distancing measures are the only way to stop the virus. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-death-toll-hits-400-000-worldwide/story-vHmvROCYTKApc0Nlkqh0CP.html
07-06-2020||India||Optimism and caution as places of worship get ready to reopen||Several states are fine-tuning their plans to open places of worship on Monday in line with the central government’s guidelines while others are willing to wait and watch before taking a final call amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The states’ response on the issue has been layered. States such as Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have followed the central directive and decided to open religious sites on June 8 after two-and-a-half months, laying down stringent guidelines. Others such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Odisha have preferred to wait, though the authorities in the national capital say they will hold a review meeting before Monday. Uttar Pradesh has said it will follow the central guidelines, albeit with area-specific restrictions.Government officials and the managements of religious places HT spoke to across the country on Saturday sounded cautiously optimistic, while detailing the safety measures being planned and giving a glimpse of how experiences at places of worship will change in the aftermath of the pandemic.The Amarnath Yatra, an annual pilgrimage to the cave shrine of Lord Shiva in South Kashmir that generally takes place in July-August, might take the shorter Baltal route this year, according to officials aware of the development.As reported by HT, the pilgrimage to the shrine at an altitude of 3,880 metre is likely to begin on July 21 and continue till August 3 with the one-and-a-half month ritual cut short to a fortnight. According to the original schedule, it was to begin on June 23 and end on August 3.Authorities in Ganderbal — of which Baltal is a part — have already deployed men and machinery for clearing the tracks by removing snow and debris, while the Shri Amarnath Ji Shrine Board (SASB) — which manages the temple — will start sending teams beginning on Monday to clear the 16-km Baltal track.“Pilgrims will be screened for Covid-19 before they are allowed to undertake the yatra,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. In a first, the official said, the shrine board is trying to telecast live aartis.However, Bipul Pathak, the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor’s principal secretary and the chief executive officer (CEO) of the shrine board, said a final decision is awaited. “When it’s decided, media will come to know,” he said.In Uttarakhand, another Himalayan state, the government is preparing for the Char Dham Yatra after June 8, but a section of priests and traders is apprehensive of the move.Ravinath Raman, CEO of Chardham Devasthanam Management Board (a government body managing 51 shrines in the state), said preparations to maintain social distancing and limiting the number of pilgrims have started.The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites —Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri — are collectively called Char Dham. Traditionally, the pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, then proceeds to Gangotri and finally reaches Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, a record 2.9 million pilgrims visited Char Dham.The portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines opened on April 26. While the Kedarnath shrine opened on April 29, Badrinath opened on May 15. No devotees were allowed.“We have started preparing from our end as to how many pilgrims will be allowed for darshan at the shrines...,” Raman said, adding that pilgrims who want to visit the shrines will have to register themselves online first and may be given a time slot.But Deepak Semwal, the secretary of the Gangotri Dham Committee, said priests and traders’ bodies int Gangotri and Yamunotri are not in favour of the pilgrimage at this moment.“No preparations have been done...be it opening of hotels or shops; nothing is open here...we request the state government to postpone the Yatra till the Covid-19 situation normalises,” Semwal said.Vinod Prasad Shukla, the president of a Kedarnath priests’ body, pointed out in a letter to the state government that “the shrines are in hilly and remote regions of the state where health infrastructure is not strong”. “If (Covid-19) cases increase in the remote areas because of pilgrims, coming to these shrines then it will be difficult to control the outbreak...,” the letter said.Madan Kaushik, a cabinet minister and a government spokesperson, said authorities are analysing the Centre’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening of religious places. “When we will be assured that we are in a position to follow the SOP, we will gradually open religious places,” he said.In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said not more than five people will be allowed inside a religious site at one point of time.“We have issued specific instructions to all temples (management) not to allow crowding inside the temple. Devotees will be allowed to enter temple premises only in batches,” Neelkanth Tewari, state culture and religious affairs minister, said on Thursday.But late Saturday night, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said religious places, hotels and malls in the temple town will not open on Monday.Sharma said officials managing religious places, hotels and malls, which have completed the arrangements according to the state’s guidelines, should fill up a checklist and submit it to the police station in their area which will ensure all steps mentioned in the list are being are being implemented. In Goa, the government said though it has allowed religious places to open, groups and congregations are not allowed. “No functions can be held in religious places. We have said if temples, churches and mosques open, then groups of people coming and performing prayers or aarti is not allowed; it should be limited to routine pooja for individuals or individuals taking darshan,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said.This effectively means mass services at churches with large gatherings will not commence immediately. “We will not begin the celebration of mass with the people unless the Goa government gives us guidance and the SOPs, and until it is safe to do so. Safety is the key word,” Father Joaquim Loiola Pereira, Secretary to the Archbishop of Goa, said. In Rajasthan, a representative of the Ajmer Sharif Dargah said the shrine of revered Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti will not open to public from Monday. In West Bengal too, Muslim religious leaders favoured a wait-and-watch approach. Though the eastern state announced it will allow religious places to resume from June 1, authorities at Nakhoda Masjid — Kolkata’s biggest mosque where as many as 10,000 people can offer prayers — said they were not allowing religious gatherings.“We did not have gatherings even on Fridays although relaxation was allowed by the state from June 1. We will observe what happens in the rest of the country on June 8, and follow the advisory of the government and the health department,” Maulana Md Safi, the imam of Nakhoda Masjid, said on Saturday. Authorities at Hyderabad’s Mecca Masjid have taken steps to resume operations from Monday, but said they are awaiting a final word from the government. “We have made arrangements for following Covid-19 guidelines such as asking the devotees to use sanitizers, bring their own prayer mats, have ablutions at home, but we have no information from the government as to how many people we can allow into the mosque for prayers,” Mecca Masjid superintendent Abdul Khadeer Siddiqui said.Two prominent mosques in Kerala — Palayam Juma Masjid in Thiruvananthapuram and Palayam Muhiyuddin Mosque in Kozhikkode — too have decided to wait for now. “Our prime concern is safety of people,” said Palayam Masjid imam VP Suhaib. At places that are set to open, stringent restrictions have been put in place. The Guruvayur temple in Kerala’s Thrissur district has prohibited the entry of people above 65 and children below 10.“My grandson promised to take me (to the temple) in his car on the opening day (June 9), but that’s not going to happen...If God is willing, I can see Lord Krishna again,” said 74-year-old Viswanathan Nair, a retired central government employee.The Golden Temple in Amritsar is expecting a rush of devotees. “Since the lockdown started, only around 2,500 devotees on an average, most of them locals, have been visiting the shrine daily. Now that the government has allowed the religious places (to open) from June 8, we are expecting a huge increase in the footfalsl,” said Mukhitar Singh, manager of the shrine.“We are increasing the deployment of our employees from June 8, especially to maintain social distancing among the devotees,” he said.(With inputs from Ravi Krishan Khajuria in Jammu, Suparna Roy in Dehradun, Pawan Dixit in Lucknow, Sudhir Kumar in Varanasi, Gerard de Souza in Panaji, Urvashi Dev Rawal in Jaipur, Srinivasa Rao Apparasu in Hyderabad, Ramesh Babu in Thiruvananthapuram and Anil Sharma in Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/optimism-and-caution-as-places-of-worship-get-ready-to-reopen/story-CKkW9qTmd1RPsTGY4FnhBJ.html
07-06-2020||India||Case against Vinod Dua for ‘spreading fake news’||The Delhi Police on Thursday registered a case against journalist Vinod Dua for allegedly making statements incite trouble through his YouTube channel. Police said the first information report (FIR) was filed on the complaint of Naveen Kumar, the Bhartiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit (BJP) spokesperson.Kumar said Dua was “continuously spreading and publishing false and ill-motivated news for his ulterior motive.”Speaking to HT, Kumar said he first filed the complaint against Dua on April 13, after he came across instances of Dua trying to instigate the minority community.“He is trying to create a narrative that the government is against Muslims and was responsible for the riots in Delhi. He has tried to misuse the media,” he said.Dua said he is yet to receive a copy of the complaint and the police are yet to inform him. In his written complaint, Kumar alleged, that Dua who runs a show on YouTube channel called the “Vinod Dua show”, in an episode broadcast on March 11 presented news in a false context.  Kumar also alleged that Dua misreported the Delhi riots and stated that the central government did nothing to stop the violence and misquoted BJP leader Kapil Mishra. He claimed that Dua reported that Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) was solely responsible for the Delhi riots. The complaint further adds that Dua’s act is not only in violation of strict guidelines of the ministry of Information and Broadcasting and press council of India for which his accreditation is liable to be revoked but apart from this his act constitutes several offences punishable under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-vinod-dua-for-spreading-fake-news/story-ABO1ZgHtRvlZFuzETEjzzN.html
07-06-2020||India||Ahead of Bihar polls, Sushil Modi rejects talk of rift with JDU||As the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) begins preparations for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar, deputy chief minister and senior party leader Sushil Modi has dismissed speculation that BJP and the Janata Dal (United), or JDU, will not seek re-election as allies.Describing the alliance as “a reliable partnership,” Modi said the synergy between the Centre and the state government had created a successful model of governance in the state.“Schemes at the Centre and at the state level have ensured that Bihar has seen development that eluded it for years. Villages have been electrified, water is being provided under har ghar jal (water in every household), power is being provided for agricultural purposes at low cost,” he said in a phone interview.Signs of discord between the allies surfaced on the issue of brining back migrant Bihar workers stranded outside the state during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. As BJP leaders pushed for letting the workers travel back home, chief minister Nitish Kumar insisted on he Centre first framing guidelines for the return of migrant workers.There have also been murmurs within the party that the state government’s response to the migrant worker and it inability to offer jobs will have an adverse impact on the electoral fortunes of the allies and that the BJP should consider fighting the Bihar elections on its own.Modi said no dichotomy existed between the allies on the issue.“Our CM said there have to be proper guidelines for bringing back migrants. And once the Centre came up with those; 20 lakh workers were brought back on trains, their fare was reimbursed; we set up quarantine centres, transferred money to their accounts, we gave free ration up to 10 kg. So where is the question of workers not having been looked after,” he said.On Sunday former BJP president and Union home minister Amit Shah will address a virtual rally in the state, an indication that party has resumed political activity ahead of the elections to the 243-member assembly.The JDU and B JP two parties will continue the alliance because it offers them a better a chance of coping with anti- incumbency, said DM Diwakar, former director of the Patna-based A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies.“There have been failures on many fronts, development, law and order and governance. The corona pandemic has exposed the collapsed state of health infrastructure so it makes sense for the two parties to go together and cover up for these failures by offering doles and more work under MNREGA {Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act},” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-polls-sushil-modi-rejects-talk-of-rift-with-jdu/story-WxuA3yjQhtMSlDcUeoImhK.html
07-06-2020||India||SC to hear pleas challenging Aadhaar verdict on June 9||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court will hear on June 9 a batch of review petitions challenging the top court’s September 2018 verdict upholding the validity of Aadhaar, the unique identity number assigned to people resident in the country .The bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will decide the review petitions in chambers.In its judgment on September 26, 2018, the top court had by a 4-1 majority affirmed the constitutionality of the 12-digit unique identity scheme and the Aadhaar Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services Act, 2016 (Aadhaar Act). The court held that Aadhaar would be mandatory for accessing social welfare schemes, but it cannot be forced on people for opening bank accounts or for mobile and internet connection.The Aadhaar scheme was first challenged in the Supreme Court in 2012 on the grounds that it lacked statutory backing and invaded the right to privacy.Parliament later introduced the Aadhaar Act in 2016 to give it legal backing. The Aadhaar Act itself was then challenged before the apex court on the grounds that it was passed as a money bill, thereby circumventing the upper house of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha.A money bill, according to Article 110 of the Constitution, is a bill which contains only provisions relating to taxation, borrowing of money by the government, appropriation of money out of the Consolidated Fund of India and expenditure from or to the Consolidated Fund of India. A money bill originates in the Lok Sabha and once passed by the lower house by a simple majority, is sent to the Rajya Sabha for its recommendations. The recommendations made by the Rajya Sabha on money bills are not binding on the Lok Sabha. When the challenge to the Aadhaar Act was being heard, a constitutional question came up – whether or not right to privacy is a fundamental right under the Constitution?A 9-judge bench of Supreme Court heard this issue and gave a unanimous verdict in August 2017 declaring privacy a fundamental right, being a facet of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. More than a year later, a five-judge bench headed by then CJI Dipak Misra delivered its judgment, upholding the validity of Aadhaar saying it saying it involved “parting with minimal information” to fulfil the “larger public interest” of the marginalized and the poor, who can use it to obtain government benefits and subsidies, an argument which was strongly put forward by the central government in defence of the unique identity number.The sole dissenting judge, justice DY Chandrachud, said the Aadhaar Act could not have been passed as a money bill, calling it a “fraud on the Constitution”.This issue of whether certain laws including Aadhaar Act could have been passed as a money bill is to be heard by another seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court in a separate case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-challenging-aadhaar-verdict-on-june-9/story-F0fzhuen7DIhtbhIijNlzM.html
07-06-2020||India||Pregnant cow fed cracker-laden dough; 1 arrested||The Himachal Pradesh police on Saturday arrested a man for injuring a pregnant cow by feeding her wheat flour ball laced with firecrackers. The cow’s jaw was blown off-- reprising the tragic story of a pregnant elephant that lost its life after eating a pineapple stuffed with a firecracker in Kerala. While the incident took place on May 26 in Jhandutta area of Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur district, it came to light only on Saturday when the cow’s owner, Gurdayal Singh, uploaded a video of the injured animal on social media.The cow has given birth to a healthy calf since but Singh said the animal is still not able to eat because of an injured jaw and is being administered Glucose. The video went viral with people demanding strict action against the person who fed firecrackers to the animal. The practice of studding dough balls with firecrackers isn’t uncommon in Himachal, and farmers resort to this to keep wild animals, especially boards, off their fields. In the Kerala incident too, the explosive-filled-fruit was meant for wild boars. In many parts of the country, including Himachal, the method is also used to hunt for bush meat -- an illegal practice. Bilaspur superintendent of oolice (SP) Devakar Sharma confirmed the incident and said the cow was fed a highly explosive firecracker popularly called “aalu bomb”. Aalu is Hindi for potato. He said a case under Section 286 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered and the role of the neighbours named by Singh is being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-cow-fed-cracker-laden-dough-1-arrested/story-uMQX4qDk95ae2YukeZ9zmL.html
07-06-2020||India||200 urban forests to be developed in 5 years||The Centre has announced the implementation of a scheme to develop 200 urban forests across the country in the next five years, with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar saying there was a need to increase forest cover in such areas.Javadekar on Friday announced the implementation of the “Nagar Van” scheme to develop the urban forests. The environment ministry announced the scheme in 2016 but officials said it couldn’t be implemented on a large scale so far.The urban forests will be on any forest land inside a city or any other vacant land offered by local urban bodies. A document on the scheme released by Javadekar said that the urban forests will be developed by involving local communities; corporates; local bodies; NGOs, etc. Once established, they will be maintained by the state government and an entry fee can be charged from visitors for maintenance, it said.“These will be on public private partnership (PPP) mode where fencing will be done by the government but planting, public convenience infrastructure, walkways can be done by private companies as part of their corporate social responsibility,” said a senior official of the environment ministry (forestry division). Sanjay Kumar, director general of forests, said: “It’s a collaborative approach rather than a PPP. We are expecting local people, municipal corporations and even industries both small and big to contribute. The Centre will fund a part of it. Industries can give funds to the forest department to support the project. Planting of local species will be prioritised. Forests in urban areas are most stressed. Such projects can also prevent their encroachment,” he said.Legal researchers said there should be clarity on the policy and which areas will be earmarked for the development of urban forests. “Forests within cities are not empty spaces; they are used for multiple purposes by people. An example of this is the Aarey forest in Mumbai. What are vacant spaces? That needs to be clarified. Will it cover floodplains, district parks, wetlands for example? This runs the risk of enclosing open spaces where rights of admission may be reserved. We need more clarity,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-urban-forests-to-be-developed-in-5-years/story-C2IPui9QCHBFF1aayVaXZL.html
07-06-2020||India||India-China military talks on LAC row inconclusive||A critical meeting on Saturday between Indian and Chinese military officials, led by lieutenant generals from both armies, ended up “inconclusively” as both sides made attempts to resolve a weeks-long row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, officials said.This is in line with what Hindustan Times reported on Saturday that it may not be possible to achieve an immediate breakthrough to the Ladakh standoff.The general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, met his Chinese counterpart, Major General Liu Lin, who is the commander of South Xinjiang Military Region of Chinese PLA. This came almost a month after tensions between India and China began building up along the disputed border. The row has already taken bilateral ties to a new low.This was perhaps the first time that lieutenant general-equivalents from both sides met in a sensitive sector to defuse border tensions – the highest talks between India and China at the tactical level have so far usually involved major generals.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday announced that a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military officers will be held on June 6 to discuss the border situation.The Northern Army commander, Lt Gen YK Joshi, has been in Leh for a security review of the sensitive sector where Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, including three rounds of discussions between major generals, have failed to break the impasse that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong lake four weeks ago.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides clashed near Pangong lake on the night of May 5-6, and the scuffle left scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the immediate situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along LAC.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements and matched the neighbour’s military moves, as reported by Hindustan Times on May 26.Chinese state-run media has described the latest tensions as the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days. HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said, “What has happened is that face-offs used to take place first and then the build-up. Now, they got troops who were training and this led to a build-up and then face-offs. The intention has changed. Thus, this de-escalation will not take place so easily. There will be certain amount of withdrawals in due course, but they will not completely back up from the transgressed line without taking concessions….”This is not going to be solved anytime soon, Jaswal said, adding could be longer than the 73-day Doklam. “It will require military and diplomatic maneuvering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-talks-on-lac-row-inconclusive/story-JehubCI6LdXytq3hhU00dK.html
07-06-2020||India||FIR against medical superintendent of Ganga Ram for not following protocols||The Delhi government has filed a first information report (FIR) against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajinder Nagar for not following protocols for testing patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The FIR was filed in June on the basis of a complaint by deputy secretary of Delhi’s department of health and family welfare, Amit Kumar Pamasi.On June 3, the hospital was asked by the Delhi government in an order to stop Covid testing, citing violations of ICMR guidelines. Since then, the 66-year-old hospital has not been testing people, affecting, apart from those suffering chronic symptoms of the coronavirus disease, others who have been admitted in the hospital for surgeries because they need to undergo a Covid test before being operated on.The FIR has been filed under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code that allows a punishment of one month’s simple imprisonment and/or ₹200 fine or six months imprisonment and/ or ₹1,000 fine if the offence puts human life at risk. The section of the IPC can be invoked under the Epidemic Diseases Act that has been in force in Delhi since mid-March as the city battles the Covid-19 pandemic.Despite repeated calls and texts, joint commissioner of police (central range) Suvashis Choudhary, deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia and Delhi police spokesperson MS Randhawa did not respond for comment. “The order of Health and Family Welfare Department regarding guidelines for tracking and monitoring of every Covid-19 suspected cases tested in various accredited labs across Delhi wherein it was mandatory for the labs to collect sample only through the Delhi government’s RT-PCR App. Further CDMO (Chief District Medical Officer) cum mission director, Central, mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till today (03/06) which is a clear violation of direction issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulation 2020,” a copy of the FIR read.RT-PCR is short for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, a test for determining if a person has been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. “Gangaram Hospital has not been following the protocols,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital laboratory was among the seven labs in the city that were served show cause notices for allegedly flouting Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for Covid-19 testing. On Wednesday, the government ordered that the hospital use 508 or 80% of its bed capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“There are two apps on which we have to upload the data of the patients that are being tested – one is the ICMR app and another is Delhi government’s RT-PCR app, the information from which is used by the Delhi government for contact tracing. However, there was some problems in uploading the data. We did not have many clerical staff during the lockdown. We have already apologised to the government and will rectify any problems from our end. We have asked the government to grant us access to the app again,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman of the board of management at Sir Gangaram Hospital.The Delhi government has tightened its testing criteria to exclude any asymptomatic people (even those with direct contact with an infected person) without known co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cancer. People above the age of 60 who have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive case will be tested, according to the new guideline set by the Delhi government. The ICMR guidelines allow for the testing of asymptomatic direct contacts such as those living in the same household as an infected person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-medical-superintendent-of-ganga-ram-for-not-following-protocols/story-p8IYW9QAttMcI8T9HYabTK.html
07-06-2020||India||HCQ trial halted over doubts on benefits||A major trial of the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine was halted in the UK on Friday after scientists found it provided “no benefit” for patients hospitalised with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but with several trials still under way, the last word is still awaited on the drug’s effectiveness against the viral ailment, scientists said.The preliminary results of the UK’s Recovery trial were released a day after a flawed study that raised safety concerns about hydroxychloroquine was retracted from the highly cited British medical journal, The Lancet, following scientific scrutiny.Following The Lancet study, the World Health Organization (WHO) suspended the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine arm of its multi-country Solidarity Trail to validate four experimental Covid-19 treatments, but announced on Wednesday that the trials had been resumed. Researchers from the Recovery trial said they will share their data with the WHO.The Recovery trial is a randomised clinical trial, considered the gold standard for clinical investigation, that used data from 11,000 patients in 175 hospitals in the UK to study the benefits of several experimental treatments against Covid-19. For the malaria drugs study, 1,542 patients were randomly assigned to hydroxychloroquine, and compared with 3,132 patients on standard hospital care.Unlike previous trials that found increased risk of death, the Recovery trial found no significant difference in deaths between the two groups after 28 days. Treating patients with hydroxichloroquine did not shorten a patient’s hospital stay.“If you are admitted to hospital, don’t take hydroxychloroquine. It doesn’t work,” said Martin Landray, professor of medicine and epidemiology at the University of Oxford, and deputy chief investigator of the Recovery trial, which has stopped recruiting patients on hydroxychloroquine treatment with immediate effect.Another unrelated study from researchers in the US and Canada found hydroxychloroquine does not prevent disease when given within four days after high-risk or moderate-risk exposure to Covid-19. It was published in New England Journal of Medicine on June 3.Some 203 Covid-19 trials with hydroxychloroquine are under way, 60 of which were focused on prophylaxis (preventive care), registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, the world’s the largest clinical trials database.“We need to stop discussing hydroxychloroquine and wait for further study results. Unless there is clear evidence, it doesn’t help the public. Clinical trials must be completed, and that takes time,” Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at WHO, told HT.Hydroxychloroquine is a century-old malaria drug that is also approved for treating autoimmune conditions such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. It’s been in the spotlight as a possible treatment for Covid because of early studies in the laboratory that showed it reduces viral load, and for public endorsements from US President Donald Trump.“Small in-vitro studies from China and Italy initially provided proof of concept by showing hydroxychloroquine lowered viral load. Its strong immunomodulatory properties are effective against autoimmune conditions like lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, which gave the legitimacy for its use against Covid-19, which may drive an unregulated immune response or cytokine storm. Since then, large studies like the Veterans’ trial in the US and the Recovery trial in the UK have found no benefits from hospitalised patients. The authors of the Veterans’ trial reanalysed their data after The Lancet debacle and stand by it,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research.As several trials on hydroxycholoroquine are still ongoing, the last word has not been said on the drug’s effectiveness, but there is need for a cautious approach, expert said.“It’s a dynamic situation and should be reviewed periodically before a studied decision is taken at the national level. Till then, all treatment using hydroxychloroquine, whether as a prophylaxis or as treatment, must be done under strict clinical supervision and the highest quality of care,” said Dr Ganguly.India is the world’s biggest producer of hydroxychloroquine, which is approved for use as a prophylaxis and has been given to asymptomatic health workers and contacts of Covid-19 patients since March 23. This was expanded to include frontline workers from May 22.A study from India found that having four or more doses of hydroxychloroquine lowers the odds of getting infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease. The study, published in the Indian Journal of Respiratory Research earlier this week, said the malaria drug lowered the risk of infection by 80% if taken as recommended.“Indiscriminate use, however, will make this drug redundant for malaria, which is endemic in India, so no one should have it without prescription,” said Dr Ganguly.The Recovery trial will continue to study the evidence from other experimental treatments, which include a combination of antivirals drugs lopinavir and ritonavir used to treat HIV; low dose of the steroid dexamethasone used to reduce inflammation; the antibiotic azithromycin; and the anti-inflammatory drug tocilizumab, and convalescent plasma therapy that uses antibodies found in the blood of people who have recovered from Covid-19 to fight the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcq-trial-halted-over-doubts-on-benefits/story-QQNj7DfdseDBjsMf6rJrKO.html
07-06-2020||India||National rate of recovery rises to 48.2%, says govt||India’s recovery rate for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients has reached 48.20%, with a total of 4,611 positive cases having been cured in the past 24 hours, according to data released on Saturday by the Union health ministry. The recovery rate has nearly doubled from 24.5% on April 29.“Our recovery rate has been moving up steadily. The number of serious cases, requiring ventilator, is also not very high in the country; that itself speaks volumes about how well we are managing the disease,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.India has 115,942 active Covid-19 cases currently, and all are under active medical supervision.“This is a good sign that people are getting better and our mortality is low. Most positive cases do not require hospitalization, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant in the department of internal medicine at Max Healthcare. “Most people in hospitals have moderate disease with good chances of recovery. The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that is at high risk of developing severe illness.”The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has r ramped up the testing capacity for Covid-19. The number of government testing labs has increased to 520, and the number of private labs testing for Covid to 222 across the country from about 100 at the start of March.In the past 24 hours, 137,938 samples were tested for Covid-19, taking the total number of samples tested to 4,524,317 since January 22 when the first test was conducted at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.“We have a target of increasing our (daily) testing capacity to 2 lakh by end of June, and we are well on the path to achieve this. The testing capacity has been ramped up in no time and many more labs have been identified and are in the process of being approved for Covid testing,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, a spokesperson for ICMR.Covid-related health infrastructure has also been strengthened with the availability of 957 dedicated Covid hospitals with 166,460 isolation beds, 21,473 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 72,497 beds with oxygen support.India has 2,362 dedicated Covid-19 health centres with 132,593 isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 oxygen-supported beds. There are 11,210 quarantine centres and 7,529 Covid care centres with 703,786 beds in the country. So far, the Centre has also provided 12.84 million N95 masks and 10.47 million personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the states and central institutions.As India eases lockdown restrictions, the health ministry has also released detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for public and semi-public premises where Covid-19 has a higher chance of spreading such as shopping malls, food courts, hotels and restaurants, places of worship and offices.“The new guidelines aim to instil Covid appropriate behaviour to contain the chain of transmission while allowing social and economic activity to resume,” the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-rate-of-recovery-rises-to-48-2-says-govt/story-aVnYfFhEeCCfDGr94eQ0KM.html
07-06-2020||India||Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tactics||Psychological operations against the adversary is the key ingredient in the Chinese War Zone Concept (WZC) doctrine. Although Psy Ops, as it is called, is an age-old concept since the times of Chanakya and Sun Tzu, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has refined it by influencing the influencers among the adversaries, on and off social media, to lower the morale of enemy troops and the political decision makers.Under this strategy, its version of ground position maps and videos are leaked among the influencers to create political friction within the enemy country and seed doubt in the mind of the adversary on his capability to fight. Exaggerated information about deployed weapons systems against the enemy is circulated through official media even if the theatre weapons are untested or unproven in the field.The basic idea is to overwhelm the enemy into panic so that his capacity to negotiate is weakened.Just like the 73-day Doklam stand-off, the Chinese PLA is up to its old tactics to weaken the Indian resolve in the on-going stand-off at Pangong Tso and Galwan River in Eastern Ladakh. With the battle theatre totally transparent to the engagers through technology, the Chinese misinformation campaign has shrilled the pitch to seed the minds of the public with mistrust towards their government through tailored images and conjured up huge deployments to convey the threat of an imminent conflict.Also Watch | Explained: Trump’s G7 offer to India, how it may help amid China standoff Also Read: ‘India, China engaged to address current situation’: Indian Army on Ladakh standoff talksLike the recent Chinese propaganda over a reconnaissance helicopter drone. Never mind that in a contested airspace, a slow-moving drone can be shot out of the sky in one go.The propaganda about deploying latest motorised cannons and missiles in eastern Ladakh by Chinese too fails to mention that India too has the same systems in its armoury, if not better.The PLA may be a step better in indigenous development of drones but India has already blunted that edge through imports from Israel. The air force of the two countries are evenly matched with both using Russian Sukhoi-30 as their front-line fighters. The Indian Air Force calls it Mark India (MKI) and PLA Air Force, Mark China (MKC). Despite China tom-toming about its two aircraft carriers, the Indian carrier-based naval aviation is miles ahead of anyone in the region barring a select few.Also Read: Ahead of today’s meet over Ladakh standoff, India signals a realistic approachThe other critical aspect of Psy-Ops is first, to create hope of resolution through dialogue and then lead it to disillusionment among the public, which is always looking for instant noodles. It is quite evident that the resolution of the current stand-off in eastern Ladakh will require a series of engagements with small incremental steps each time, if at all. Given the heavy deployment on both sides, each side would look for concessions from the other before the status quo ante is restored.It will also be very difficult for either the diplomats or generals on both sides to reconcile due to historical memories constantly refreshed by Chinese attempts to dominate the 3,488 kilometre long Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Read: As the LAC heats up, reading China’s playbook, writes Shyam SaranAlthough China marched way ahead of upgrading border infrastructure in comparison to India at the turn of the millennium, New Delhi after initial lag, is fast catching up by building strategic roads right up to patrolling posts in eastern, middle and western sector of the Line of Actual Control.Faced with a daunting Himayalan terrain in comparison to the flat Tibetean plateau, India is surely nullifying the Chinese military advantage. The standoff in eastern Ladakh and the belligerence of the PLA should be understood in this context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/psy-ops-in-ladakh-standoff-with-india-china-s-pla-replays-doklam-tactics/story-jdayDZNxROU1MOzeZ6Q7wM.html
07-06-2020||Editorials||Delhi must get its act together | HT Editorial||Delhi is witnessing a surge of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). For close to 10 days, it has witnessed over 1,000 positive cases every day. It is the third most severely affected state in the country, after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, but on a per capita basis, in terms of population, Delhi will rank as the most affected region in the country. It has the among the highest positivity rates in the country (this measures the number of people who are positive per 100 tests). And its own expert panel believes that the Capital needs to be prepared for 100,000 cases by the end of the month. Even as the data presents an alarming picture, anecdotal evidence suggests that people are struggling to get tested, and get admitted to hospitals. There has also been a range of government directives, against private hospitals and private labs, which presents an image of a rather incoherent policy landscape.The Delhi government needs to get its act together, and follow a three-pronged approach. The first is science. To its credit, it allowed science to determine its approach in the initial weeks. But this needs to be reinforced. Science dictates widespread testing, a rigorous process of contact tracing, home isolation for asymptomatic cases and those with mild symptoms, hospitalisation for all other cases, and oxygen and, if needed, ventilator support for severe cases. The second is transparency. Delhi needs to be more transparent with data. It took pride in a low fatality rate, until a review process has now thrown up a higher death count than initially assumed. It needs to provide a district-wise break-up of testing and hospital data. All governments, across the world, are overwhelmed due to the health challenge. Instead of blaming others and getting defensive, Chief Minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal needs to be honest about the scale of the crisis.And finally, it needs to deliver. There appears to be a major gap in the government’s claims of the number of beds available and the ability of patients to get those beds. For a patient not to get medical support at this time almost amounts to criminal negligence. Blaming private hospitals — which must contribute in meeting the challenge honestly, with price caps on treatment — comes across as evasion of responsibility. The Aam Aadmi Party government has been known for its delivery. And if it requires Mr Kejriwal and his Cabinet to get on to the street, visit hospitals, and get the system in place, do it. The CM asked for Delhi to open up, and claimed the city’s health infrastructure was ready for a surge. It is time to translate that promise into reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-must-get-its-act-together-ht-editorial/story-uDB0fRwjLWRsyopLn89mVL.html
07-06-2020||Editorials||The first move on the India-China chessboard | HT Editorial||The first round of any talks with China regarding territory is akin to the pawn move that opens a chess game. Indeed, it would have been a surprise if meetings between mid-level diplomats and military officers from India and China, last week, had resulted in anything concrete. Initial engagements are about establishing motives, determining redlines and establishing credibility. Many more such rounds can be expected. Arguably, New Delhi’s initial interest will be to find out what exactly has led Beijing to block access to the disputed middle portion of Pangong Tso. It is still not clear if there is some geopolitical motive behind China’s sudden move to raise the border temperature, going beyond concerns about new highways and bunkers. If so, the stakes will be much higher and require the deployment of a wide range of pressure points to persuade China to withdraw.India expects a long period of negotiation and confrontation. The Doklam standoff took over two months to resolve and the earlier Sumdorong Chu altercation took almost eight years. Today, with an even more assertive and confident China, and the rest of the world distracted by the coronavirus disease, India’s task will be all that much harder. Beijing tends to see democracies as weak-willed. The government will have to communicate by deeds and words, both domestically and internationally, that it is impossible to accept China’s unilateral and coercive actions. The Indian government will also need to communicate with its people and media on the need for patience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-first-move-on-the-india-china-chessboard-ht-editorial/story-5KdpsWaJHrAVs8N2pue0FO.html
