08-06-2020||News||How India can come out of the recession stronger | Opinion||By the end of this fiscal year, India may need to recover by approximately a 10% negative swing in its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. No current policymaker or leader has faced such a crisis. India will need to craft a suitable solution to deal with this. Crises provide seasoned politicians the space to overcome resistance from vested interest groups. What measures can India consider to lift the long-run productivity of the economy? I can suggest a few.The virus has underscored that the most important market failure in the future is likely to be in respect to access and use of digital technology and data. During the lockdown, those who had smartphones were advantaged; those who didn’t suffer. A smart phone permitted access to health care, goods and services, digital payments, re-skilling, and education. The government must help India overcome digital apartheid by introducing a new paradigm where every Indian has a smartphone with easy access to data. So we should immediately phase out the sale of feature phones and subsidise smartphones (encouraged to be made in India) and data packages for Indians. It should also train a woman in every village to teach others how to access the full functionality of a smartphone. As we have proved time and time again, when given the right environment, Indians are quick to learn and prosper. The virus forced schools and colleges to learn to impart education digitally. Digital learning across primary, secondary, and higher education has the ability to increase flexibility, engage learners, and expand access to more students. Governments should examine best practices for delivering high-quality instruction remotely, supported by trained teachers, holistic student services, and robust online platforms. Substantial investment in digital education will make societies more resilient to any future emergencies that may require a transition to remote learning. It will also help reinvent and modernise education. Digital education will be a powerful lever in reducing educational inequality in the medium-term. Virtual care had its breakout moment with many providers making strides in weeks for what had previously took years or decades. Denmark rolled out virtual consultation software for specialists in two weeks, Kaiser Permanente moved from 15% of oncology care in virtual settings to 95% in one week, and Queensland Health expanded their virtual care capacity from 90 to 1,600 users. Hence, governments should be bold in what they aim to do. Furthermore, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has presented a unique opportunity for countries to reflect on the most essential features of their system to improve health outcomes at the same or lower costs. India needs to rethink its health systems and think of innovative ways to implement new care delivery models, data and analytics, policy-setting, payments, and other important topics in health.Both industry and government have had to get acquainted with modern ways of working. Now, governments need to ensure that they not only retain this momentum but also accelerate their methods. A simple start would be if paper was removed from all bureaucratic offices. Couldn’t all files be moved digitally and digital initials on email become a substitute? Just think of the speed and transparency it would engender.Globally, digital transformation has seen rapid progress with governments focusing on building data control towers that aggregate different public and private data sources to aid decision-making and support scenario analysis. They have established digital platforms that help facilitate market operations in sectors where value chains have been severely disrupted. A lot can be done but let us just begin with paper.The pandemic has triggered long-lasting structural changes that will affect up to 1.5 billion jobs within the next decade. A lot of workers have already lost their jobs and companies may be wanting to actually do away with some of the lost jobs even as the economy gets back to work. The government needs to focus on re-skilling workers in a mission mode. Vast swathes of workers out of employment should be supported by governments to obtain new skills, to improve productivity in core sectors in partnership with industry. It should identify the areas of need, areas capable of creating the maximum jobs — construction, health, textiles, logistics, schools, retail, and anything and everything that is low skilled and where our productivity is low. We should consider how we may use technology and training to re-skill and up-skill our workers. Even though agriculture only contributes 17% to the GDP, it supports a bulk of the population. The government’s actions with respect to improving agricultural productivity should be celebrated and built upon. Cropping patterns should be reviewed and pricing of produce aligned. Water and power tariffs should be introduced. Improved productivity will release labour from agriculture and opportunities should be provided for them in rural areas. Food processing industries and contract farming should be stimulated. Finally, the climate crisis should be part of a green economy agenda, post-Covid-19. There is an opportunity to make a push for a fossil-free, renewable electricity system. We need an urgent resolution of the mess that is in our power distribution. But more broadly, I agree with numerous commentators on the need for India to consider its version of the New Deal or a Marshall Plan by accelerating the investments earmarked in the national investment plan. Front-loading spending to build sorely-needed infrastructure (roads, rail, renewable energy, affordable housing, and provision of water) under a new deal would be the right antidote for the economy. Spending on infrastructure even by printing money will reduce transaction costs and raise productivity. As Benjamin Franklin said, “You may delay but time will not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-can-come-out-of-the-recession-stronger/story-rntll4e4joniBQb6ps5r2K.html
08-06-2020||News||To counter China, look for options beyond LAC | Opinion||India and China are currently engaged in an opaque military stand-off across the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the eastern Ladakh region. The meeting between the two general officers from both nations on June 6 ended inconclusively. This was predictable and part of a familiar pattern. This amounts to no breakthrough or breakdown and a bland official statement on what is essentially “stasis in glacial progress” — as it has been since November 1962.Towards the end of May, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi met with his core security team to review the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) incursion, while Chinese President Xi Jinping called upon his military to “think about worst-case scenarios” and “to scale up battle preparedness”. As part of this resolve, Beijing announced a $178 billion defence budget for 2020, and asserted that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic would not adversely impact military preparedness. The outcome of the latest talks is that while neither side wants military escalation leading to the exchange of ordnance, the “perception” of LAC in eastern Ladakh may have been altered in China’s tactical favour, pending the final resolution of the seemingly intractable territorial dispute between the Asian giants.Reviewing the current LAC impasse against the larger historical context and examining some structural trends may allow for a better understanding of India’s options and the more viable way ahead to manage the China challenge. The contested LAC is symbolic of the decades-old territorial dispute, and from the Indian perspective, the October 1962 border war remains a stark reminder of the “humiliation” heaped on former PM Jawaharlal Nehru. However, at a deeper level, the discord between the two nations has its roots in their pedigree and self-image, that of ancient civilisations recast by the vicissitudes of history as modern nation-states now seeking to realise a glorious past.The paths chosen were different and the contrast is striking. While Delhi opted for the yet unpaved road of democracy, diversity and Gandhian pacifism, the Chinese path to independence was through Mao’s long march and a communist template. Thus, India will remain the eternal “other” in the Chinese calculus where the success of democracy and memories of Tiananmen 1989 remain the core concern for the ruling elite in Beijing. Thus, Taiwan and Hong Kong are high-octane issues that need to be resolved by President Xi lest the “democracy” virus, symbolically, reaches Tiananmen again.Thus, while LAC and the surge in PLA presence in some areas of eastern Ladakh are causes for concern, the more relevant strand for India to be cognisant of is the unwavering Chinese focus on acquiring comprehensive military power, particularly the trans-border dimension of this military capability.China pits itself against the United States (US) in its quest for great power status and this tape is to be breasted before 2049 — when Beijing will celebrate its centenary. The extended US-China tussle lies in the oceanic global commons, where Beijing perceives a vulnerability: The Malacca dilemma. This refers to China’s marked dependence on the sea lines of communication for its vast trade and energy imports. The Indian Ocean is the critical maritime domain and China is aware of its constraints as a Pacific Ocean power — geographical, political and naval, and the inherent US advantage in this spectrum.It is instructive that China has maintained a steady uptick in its annual defence budget and the current allocation of $178 billion is an increase of almost seven per cent over the last year’s allocation. Within this , PLA navy budget is 30% or $54 billion. The contrast with India is more than stark. The $46 billion Indian allocation for defence was disaggregated to less than 14% for the navy, with the army and air force receiving major part of the defence budget. Thus, with the maritime domain presenting a range of opportunities and challenges for India, the annual naval budget is under $7 billion — and due to the pandemic, this is likely to shrink even further.Steady fiscal support has allowed China to embark on a blistering pace of platform acquisition over the last few years. The PLA navy has been launching as many as 25 new vessels a year and hopes to be a 550-ship navy by 2030. As for the Indian navy, even a 175-ship figure is considered “optimistic”. The PM outlined his maritime vision in 2015 in his first term when he referred to security and growth for all in the region (SAGAR) in the Indian Ocean region. Unfortunately, this remains a vision and the fact that he did not have a full-time defence minister at that time was a major institutional constraint. Now, India has a revamped higher defence structure and one hopes that the engagement with China will be reviewed holistically and options beyond LAC considered . Investing in the long-term acquisition of trans-border military capabilities that subsume emerging technologies is the key to managing the relationship with China. Modi has outlined the SAGAR objective. It needs a capable team that can implement this without resorting to quixotic statements. Sea blindness should not remain a permanent characteristic for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-counter-china-look-for-options-beyond-lac/story-43Vqy8EoH5imAclr4h3OmO.html
08-06-2020||News||Supreme Court has not lived up to its own principles in Jammu and Kashmir, writes Gautam Bhatia||In January, the Supreme Court (SC) handed down an important — but incomplete — judgment in Anuradha Bhasin vs Union of India, a case concerning the restoration of Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). It held that the right to access information through the Internet was a fundamental right protected by the Constitution, that orders banning Internet services must be made public, that they must be proportionate (i.e., restricting the Internet must be the “least restrictive alternative” available to the government), that they must be temporary, and reviewed on a regular basis. However, the Court did not actually examine the Kashmir Internet ban on the basis of these principles. Instead, it left that determination up to the government. Nonetheless, and perhaps nudged by the principles set out in SC’s judgment, the government took some steps towards partial restoration. By March 2020, 2G Internet was made available. At that point, however, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic reached Indian shores, and a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the virus. The effects of the lockdown highlighted even more starkly how indispensable a functioning Internet is to modern life. For example, two of the most crucial spheres for dignified human existence — education and health — now had to be accessed through digital means. In response to this, the Foundation for Media Professionals (FMP) filed a fresh petition in SC, arguing that in view of the situation created by Covid-19, 4G Internet had to be restored in J&K. The government contested the petition, stating that restrictions on 4G Internet were required to prevent the spread of inflammatory videos and photos from across the border. FMP responded by pointing out, first, that there was no evidence that showed a connection between restricting the Internet and quelling the spread of propaganda. Indeed, available evidence demonstrated the opposite: Effective Internet allowed the government to counter propaganda with as much speed and efficiency. Second, there were a host of other, less-restrictive alternatives open to the government such as blocking specific websites, or temporarily restricting the Internet in specific areas where there are credible threats of an attack — they were not resorted to. Most important, it was pointed out that restricting Internet in all of J&K— where millions of people lived — during a pandemic effectively involved punishing an entire population in response to the possibility of cross-border propaganda. SC then handed down its judgment in the 4G Internet case. Like in Anuradha Bhasin’s case, it laid down some important principles: It reiterated that the Internet restrictions — even when necessary — had to be localised and temporary. It said that the principle of proportionality — with its focus on less-restrictive alternatives — had to be adhered to. Unfortunately, however, even after saying all of this, SC once again refused to assess the restrictions on the touchstone of constitutional standards. Instead, it constituted yet another committee to review the restrictions. But this committee was set up under the aegis of the ministry of home affairs (MHA), which was the body responsible for imposing the restrictions in the first place. SC justified this decision by observing that in “ordinary times” the arguments of the petitioners would have had to be given serious consideration, but that because of the threat of terrorism in Kashmir, special considerations had to apply. This reasoning, however, is problematic. What it effectively means — even though SC did not spell it out — is that at any given time, the people of J&K are not entitled to the same rights and freedoms that the Constitution grants to Indian citizens elsewhere. In other words, it is cross-border terrorism and Pakistan’s actions that determine the rights of the people of J&K, and not the Constitution — even though only recently, and with great fanfare, the Constitution had been “extended” to J&K after the effective abrogation of Article 370. And most disappointing, SC continued to refuse to engage with the basic arguments that the Internet is an essential condition of human life that cannot be cut off by states at will, and that in any event, restricting the Internet has no tangible impact on terrorism (Kashmir’s history — and events after the effective abrogation of Article 370 — will attest to this fact). As raised by several people elsewhere, the continued treatment of Kashmir as a “special case” where a lower threshold of rights is justified, undermines the constitutional vision of equal protection and equal treatment. It is now to be hoped that when MHA committee considers the issue, the principles laid out by SC in both its judgments will be taken seriously, and 4G Internet restored promptly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/sc-has-not-lived-up-to-its-own-principles-in-j-k/story-Ff71vyXZdI9kLcVFewi6YM.html
08-06-2020||Noida||Noida records its ninth Covid-19 death, total count crosses 650-mark||The sample reports from National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), on Monday, confirmed that a 73-year-old male patient, who died at Sharda Hospital on June 5, was Covid-19 positive. With this, the total count of deaths due to coronavirus has reached nine in Gautam Budh Nagar district, health officials said.The deceased was also reported to be suffering from chronic kidney and coronary artery diseases, the officials said. The immediate cause of the death of the patient, a resident of Salarpur, however, has been given cardio respiratory failure by the health officials. With 21 new positive cases on Monday, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases has now gone up to 653 in the district. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that of 653 positive cases till Monday evening, 423 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, while nine patients have so far lost their lives. “Apart from it, 48 others have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 221 active cases,” he said.The CMO further said 10 patients were discharged after being cured on Monday from Sharda Hospital. “Besides, 20 patients, who were tested ‘false’ positive by private laboratories and later admitted to Kailash hospital, were also released,” he said.Ohri also said that the NIB laboratory reports of a 70-year-old male patient from Jewar and 25-year-old female patient from Muradnagar, who also died on June 5 at Sharda Hospital, confirmed that both of them were Covid-19 negative.He said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Monday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 654 patients were screened today and 13 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of 48 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said that while 15 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also been found cross-notified in the GB Nagar district. “While six patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 24 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-records-its-ninth-covid-19-death-total-count-crosses-650-mark/story-NK40uJoBWfZHqPnU0qJfLJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 3 lives in Amritsar as Punjab records 65 fresh cases||Amritsar/Jalandhar/Ludhiana Three Covid-19 patients died and 65 fresh cases were reported from across Punjab on Monday. With this, the pandemic has claimed 56 lives in the state and the patient tally has gone up to 2,736. An eight-month-old boy and two senior citizens died of the virus at Amritsar’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday. “The infant was admitted to the pediatric ward of GMCH with fever and cough. He was tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The child suffered cardiac arrest and died at 5pm on Monday,” Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.Among the 17 fresh cases in Ludhiana is a Khanna-based doctor couple and two men aged 28 and 25, who had returned from Kuwait.Fifteen fresh cases, including a prisoner, surfaced in Jalandhar district on Monday.Three new patients surfaced in Pathankot and one in Gurdaspur.A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan posted tested positive for novel coronavirus in Fazilka district on Monday. Two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that the 20-year-old son and 23-year-old daughter of a Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector, who was tested positive on June 3, were also found infected. A woman who had returned from Kuwait also tested positive for Covid-19 in Moga. Three contacts of a Covid-19 patient were tested positive in Sangrur district on Monday, while a 23-year-old man was found infected in Rupnagar.A 35-year-old man and his one-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana on Monday.FOUR COPS QUARANTINED AFTER GAMBLER TESTS POSITIVE Four cops — two assistant sub-inspectors and two constables — were quarantined in Jalandhar on Monday after a man who was arrested recently for gambling tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday. The police had arrested 11 men for gambling on Friday and seized Rs 19.8 lakh, four weapons and five cars from a house in New Amardass Colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-3-lives-in-amritsar-as-punjab-records-65-fresh-cases/story-0ScMToSpfNpwU9VLv8JspI.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Aaditya requests for flights to Australia, Singapore, UAE to bring back stranded Indians||State minister Aaditya Thackeray has asked Air India to start flights to countries like Australia, Singapore and UAE to bring back stranded Indians from these places.In a letter to Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal, Thackeray requested that mission Vande Bharat 3 be extended to Australia, Singapore and UAE for repatriation of Indian citizens. He said that Mission Vande Bharat 3 had still not featured Maharashtra in its list. He said such a move will give respite to lots of stranded Indians in these countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aaditya-requests-for-flights-to-australia-singapore-uae-to-bring-back-stranded-indians/story-fr8o2h0xHsRbQuc2Lb3x7J.html
08-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad may rope in two private hospitals for paid Covid treatment||Officials of the district health department on Monday said that they have almost finalised modalities for setting up two paid private Covid hospitals, one each in the localities of Vasundhara and Vaishali. The officials said that the two hospitals will provide 160 Covid beds together and will serve the purpose of L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals.“We have almost finalised the modalities for these two hospitals. One private hospital in Vasundhara will have 60 Covid beds, while the other facility in Vaishali will have 100 beds for Covid patients. The two hospitals have ventilator facilities and will provide treatment for L1, L2 and L3 category patients, on a paid basis,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).“They will also cater to a large population from trans-Hindon region where we have seen a number of cases emerging from localities of Vaishali, Khoda, Indirapuram and Vasundhara,” he added.The need for more Covid beds is envisaged after Ghaziabad witnessed a spike in cases in the first week of June. Till June 7, 169 fresh cases were reported in first seven days of the month taking the total number of Covid-19 positive patients to 474.At present, Ghaziabad district has no private hospitals offering paid Covid treatment and the health department is running one hospital each of L1, L2 and L3 categories to deal with the Covid cases.The L1, L2 and L3 category healthcare structure is designed by the UP government. The L1 category hospitals are basic hospitals which deal with normal Covid-19 positive patients while the L2 category hospitals deal with patients having moderate symptoms. The L3 hospitals are identified to deal with patients requiring critical care.When asked about the row over Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s statement that Delhi hospitals are only for local residents, the CMO said, “If any patient from Delhi arrives and shows L1 symptoms, we will ask them to remain in home isolation, as the national capital has allowed home isolation of asymptomatic patients. If they require treatment in L2 or L3 category, we admit them as getting treatment is patient’s right.”On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that beds in hospitals functioning under Delhi government and private hospitals – with exception of those providing specialised surgeries in certain fields – will be reserved for people of Delhi till the Covid-19 crisis subsides.On Monday, Delhi Lieutenant Governer Anil Baijal overruled the decision and said that no patient should be denied treatment for not being a resident of Delhi. Baijal impressed upon the state government that the Supreme Court has held in several judgments that right to health is an integral part of right to life.Kejriwal’s decision had drawn strong criticism from residents in Ghaziabad, from where hundreds of patients avail treatment in different hospitals of Delhi government.“It is unfortunate that Delhi CM started his career from Ghaziabad but he chose to ignore the needs of treatment for the local residents here. We are now happy that the L-G of Delhi has overturned his decision,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments RWA.In the meantime, Anil Agrawal, Rajya Sabha MP from UP and also a resident of Ghaziabad, has written to UP chief minister to dedicate some of the floors of Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan, being developed in Indirapuram, for setting up a healthcare facility.“I have written to the UP CM to dedicate upper portion of the building for pilgrims while the lower storeys of the building can be converted to a hospital. This will serve purpose for residents of trans-Hindon as we do not have any government hospital there. This will also be helpful for pilgrims as they will be able to get medical treatment there,” he added.In Ghaziabad, ESIC Hospital in Sahibabad is an L1 category facility where all the 76 beds are fully occupied, while the district hospital at Sanjay Nagar is a L2 category hospital with 100 beds. Another L1 category hospital at Muradnagar has 30 beds, but the facility is currently not operational, health officials said.Another 400 bedded L3 hospital has also started functioning but according to officials only 18 beds there have ventilator facility.The district officials have now contacted private hospitals and asked them for proposals for functioning as L1 hospitals.“Presently we have government facilities for Covid treatment. But we require more beds to deal with the rising number of cases. We have already planned for 4,000 Covid beds, which have been identified and will be reserved for asymptomatic patients. So we have asked for proposal from private hospitals to function as L1 category hospitals. They can also be considered under L2 category if they have proper facilities,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-may-rope-in-two-private-hospitals-for-paid-covid-treatment/story-quYGVjptbFOfioldcHJvdK.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fatehgarh Sahib university organises national webinar on virtual learning||Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, organised a national webinar on Monday to deliberate the creation of virtual learning environment. Vice-chancellor Prit Pal Singh presided over the event. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to innovate and take learning and education outside the boundaries of classrooms. “There is a need to think locally and devise e-content according to needs of the students,” he added. The webinar was moderated by Harneet Kaur from department of education. As many as 1,100 teachers, scholars and academicians from across India participated in the webinar. It was attended by Tejinder Pal Singh, associate professor, University Business School, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Jasvir Kaur Chahal, former dean faculty of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-university-organises-national-webinar-on-virtual-learning/story-RUqtbj4Zl27uuJEHJK685O.html
08-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 93-year-old Urdu poet Dehlavi beats Covid-19 in seven days||The winning instinct doesn’t seem to have ended for 93-year-old Urdu poet Pandit Anand Mohan Zutshi Gulzar Dehlavi, who beat Covid-19 in just seven days. The veteran poet was found positive for coronavirus on June 1 and was discharged from a private hospital in Greater Noida on June 7 after his report came negative. After being released from Sharda Hospital on Sunday evening, the nonagenarian poet said on Monday that it was the selfless services of the doctors that he has been able to see his family and friends again. Though feeling weak, the veteran poet narrated his war against the deadly virus in his typical romantic style over phone from his residence in Sector 26: “Wo kehte hain ye ghatak teer hai jaan le ke nikalega, main kahta hoon ye meri jaan hai mushkil se nikalegi (They say that the arrow of deadly disease will kill me, I say it’s my life which will not end so easily).”Expressing his gratitude for the round-the-clock care by the doctors of the hospital, Dehlavi said that they have given him a new lease of life. “Once I get completely fit, I’ll certainly invite every staff of the hospital for a dinner,” he said.Dehlavi’s son Anoop Zutshi said that his father is keeping well now. “He is feeling very weak and has some other old-age ailments also. But he is always a fighter as he had also undergone his open heart and brain surgeries a few years ago,” Anoop said, adding that once his father gets fine, he will take him to Pune. Anoop is based at Pune.The spokesperson of Sharda Hospital said that Dehlavi was on 10-litre oxygen at the time of being admitted to the hospital. “Since his position was very critical that time, as per the instructions given by our director, a special team headed by Dr Abhishek Deswal looked after him. Four doctors, in a shift of six hours, were also deputed to monitor his condition all the time in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the isolation ward,” he said.Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent of Sharda Hospital, said that symptomatic treatment of Dehlavi was immediately started. “For three days after the admission, he was kept on life support system and only fluid diets were given to him. But after that, he was shifted to general ward. He was tested negative on Saturday. And, since he was asymptomatic, we discharged him on Sunday. Our staff saw him off with flowers,” said Niranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-93-year-old-urdu-poet-dehlavi-beats-covid-19-in-seven-days/story-cLM50yYki8iE3qOWmf9ctK.html
08-06-2020||City||Officials alarmed as Covid-19 cases emerge in new localities of Ghaziabad||Amid the resumption of many commercial activities in the past few weeks, several Covid-19 cases have emerged in some new localities of Ghaziabad. Since June 1, the district has added 197 new Covid-19 cases to its tally, which stood at 502 till Monday. Officials of the district health department said that the virus has spread to some new areas as offices, industrial units, and markets have opened up.According to the officials, in March, the Covid-19 cases were mainly limited to areas of Raj Nagar Extension, Masuri, Pasonda, Bhopra and Loni. But, in April more areas like Indirapuram, Khoda, Vaishali, and Vasundhara, among others, emerged. In May, the majority of cases emerged from Khoda, Indirapuram, Loni, Jhandapur, Shalimar Garden and Sahibabad.However, Covid-19 cases now have started to emerge in localities like Crossings Republik, Naveen Park, Lajpat Nagar, Dundahera, Sain Vihar, Rampuri, Shastri Nagar, Raj Nagar and Maliwara, the officials said, adding that the cases in these localities have come in during the end of May and first week of June.“We now have cases which are also emerging from other smaller localities. This is due to opening up of industrial and commercial activities, such as markets, shops, and offices. We expect that positive cases will rise in June and July as more and more people come in contact due to opening of activities. The number of cases went up sharply in first week of June,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).On Monday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad reached 502 with addition of 28 more cases. The figure of 502 includes 307 patients discharged so far and 11 deaths. Now, the district has 184 active cases, the officials said.“Two deaths have been included in the list today and total deaths now stand at 11 till June 8. One is related to a 28 year-old-man who died today while other is of a patient who was referred to Meerut Medical College and tested positive there. He had died on June 4 and had complaints of breathlessness. He was from Daulatpura locality,” said Gupta.According to the list of 28 patients on June 8, six are from Khoda, four from Indirapuram, three from Loni and one from Vaishali, besides other cases from different localities in the district. At present, the district has a total of 105 containment zones. “We already have 85 category 1 containment zones and the rest are category 2 containment zones where two or more cases have emerged. Cases have continued from Khoda, Loni, Indirapurm, Vasundhara, etc, and new containment zones will be created as a result of new areas added to the list of positive patients. We have also changed strategy to deal with the new situation and a pilot project has been initiated,” the CMO said.Gupta said that every locality of the city areas is covered under the jurisdiction of 50 different dispensaries and teams comprising about 650 urban social health activists (USHA) and accredited social health activists (ASHA) have been asked to initiate contact tracing and surveillance in their respective areas.“Now, USHA and ASHA workers will go in localities under their jurisdiction areas. They will do house-to-house survey of elderly persons and monitor their blood pressure, sugar levels and oxygen saturation levels. Further, they will also ensure contact tracing of positive patients and distribute hydroxychloroquine tablets,” the CMO added.These workers will also take up sampling of those having flu-like symptoms or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), the officials said.Meanwhile, Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health) on Monday said that it is vital to follow preventive measures in urban areas.“There are more cases in western UP areas falling under the Meerut division as activities have opened up and also because of the high population density. So, social distancing and frequent hand wash becomes essential part of daily life. The ‘mohalla nigrani samitis’ should also work actively in urban areas,” Prasad said.The mohalla nigrani samitis were formed in urban areas while the gram nigrani samitis were formed in rural areas to keep track of people under home quarantine and also for information of suspected cases to the government authorities.The Ghaziabad CMO further said, “About 80% of active cases in the district are asymptomatic, but have been identified after contact tracing. So, people in every locality must take all precautions as many of them may not have symptoms. We had two patients in our L3 hospital who were put on ventilator but they could not survive. There are 14 others who are presently on oxygen support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/officials-alarmed-as-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-new-localities-of-ghaziabad/story-QT5UuTDMW3LVgUe7bhGC0M.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks modification in order allowing schools to collect 70% fee||The Punjab government on Monday sought modification in high court order which had allowed Punjab schools to collect 70% of school fee.It was on May 22 that high court, acting on the plea of Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, with 78-member schools in Punjab and Chandigarh, had allowed schools to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-21. The court had also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two instalments in six months and further directed that teachers in these schools would have to be paid 70% of their salaries. Subsequently, 3,000 odd other schools too approached the court and were also granted similar relief. The decision resulted in widespread protests by parents in several parts of the state.Acting on the Punjab’s application high court bench of justice Ritu Bahri has sought schools’ response by June 12.State’s advocate General, Atul Nanda told court that most affected party in the case, parents were not before the court. Further, court asked schools to pay 70% salaries to the teachers, which affects teachers’ right to get full salary, he said. “They should also have been impleaded as party. The order goes against the Centre’s advisory on full salary to employees, which has not been challenged by schools,” Nanda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-seeks-modification-in-order-allowing-schools-to-collect-70-fee/story-G7wyhKEhFiLfz7zgRLv8eI.html
08-06-2020||City||Gurugram records five Covid deaths in a day, number of cases breaches 2K mark||GurugramThe district on Monday recorded five deaths — the highest single day spike in fatalities due to the virus so far — taking Gurugram’s Covid-19 toll to nine. Health officials said that in all the fresh deaths that were reported age and co-morbid conditions acted as a contributing factor.Gurugram on Monday also recorded 243 new cases of the virus, taking the total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus past the 2,000 mark .According to the state health bulletin, 2,165 cases have been so far reported in the city — 1,577 of who are hospitalized and 579 are discharged. As of Monday,, Gurugram’s contribution to Haryana’s Covid-19 burden was nearly 50%. More than 1,100 cases have been reported in the last seven days alone, making it one of the 38 districts in the country with the highest surge in Covid-19 cases.The sudden spike in the cases has also led to reshuffling in the district health department. A senior government official in Chandigarh confirmed that the district’s chief medical officer Jaswant Singh Punia has been transferred. “Orders for his transfer have been issued,” said the official who asked not to be named.Contacted, Punia however said that he was not aware of the development.On Monday, the district’s rapid response team confirmed two elderly patients, aged 85 and 80, had succumbed to Covid-19 in Medeor Hospital. A 56-year-old patient admitted in Park Hospital died due to multiple organ failure, and a 72-year-old succumbed in the same hospital with chronic pancreatitis. A 65-year-old admitted in Max Hospital also was reported to have succumbed to the virus. “In all the= cases, age and co-morbidity has been a contributing factor. This is the highest number of deaths reported in a day,” said Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. Currently, at least 10 critical patients have been put on ventilator support in three hospitals of the city. It includes four in Medanta and three, each in Fortis and Medeor Hospital, he said. Data shows that in the last one week the infection has rapidly spread in the city. Gurugram had only 903 cases till June 1. However, in the next eight days at least 300 more people contracted the virus. Officials said that the growth rate in the infection has been almost 13% in just the last one week. The growing number of cases also indicates that the percentage of test positivity (the number of cases in ratio to the number of samples tested) in the city has exponentially increased from 3% on May 1 to almost 57% on June 7.The surge in number of cases started from May 28 onwards when 68 cases were reported, taking the total count to 405. The positivity rate was 24% at that time. It drastically increased to 53% on May 29 with 115 new cases. It was also then that for the first time new cases were reported in three-digit figures. Later, it fluctuated between 29% to 47%. With 230 cases reported on Sunday, the test positivity rate reached 57%, highlighting the rapid pace at which the virus is spreading.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday held a meeting with the officials of 38 districts in ten states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Haryana, Rajastha, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh —witnessing a surge in cases. “We are again starting house-to-house survey for timely detection of cases and also the number of teams will be increased,” said the senior state official.“We are prioritizing high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. In the meeting, it was discussed how vulnerable population like elderly or those with co-morbidities have to be focused upon to prevent fatality. Active surveillance will continue, testing will be increased and it will be ensured that patient gets the tertiary care as the symptoms escalates,” said a health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-records-five-covid-deaths-in-a-day-number-of-cases-breaches-2k-mark/story-2FJubaJg8UbJMhoYfDSqbK.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Power tariffs not to change in Haryana till 2021||Electricity tariff in Haryana will continue to remain unchanged for the 2020-21 financial year. As per Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (HERC) order on the power tariff for 2020-21 for the distribution and retail supply, the tariff for domestic consumers consuming up to 100 units per month has also been decreased from Rs 2.70 per unit to Rs 2 per unit if the monthly consumption is up to 50 units and from Rs 4.50 per unit to Rs 2.50 if the monthly consumption is up to 100 units.However, since energy charges in case of domestic consumers are telescopic in nature up to the consumption of 800 units per month, no slab benefit shall be admissible and tariff applicable will be 710 paisa unit for total consumption in case of consumption more than 800 units per month.The two power distribution companies (discoms) – UHBVN and DHBVN submitted that the power sales to industrial and commercial consumers is likely to be affected severely due to the lock down and possible delay in the resumption of full-scale economic activity. These categories have a lower distribution loss as compared to the other categories.As a result of the alteration in the consumption mix, the discoms are expected to incur a higher level of distribution loss as compared to the actual of the previous year instead of the loss reduction as proposed in the original filing. Further, due to COVID-19 lockdown, the vigilance activities and loss reduction activities will also be affected.The revised losses have been projected on the basis of estimated consumption of various major consumer categories.The power regulator in its order said that it has examined the true up for the 2018-19 financial year and the fuel surcharge adjustment (FSA) filings for the 2019-20 of the discoms. FSA is an amount the power distribution companies levy on consumers based on varying price of fuel or coal.“The FSA calculations by the discoms are at times not in accordance with the multi year tariff regulations. The the method and amount of FSA being recovered is not comprehended by the electricity consumers. This may lead to under or over recovery of FSA. Accordingly, the Commission directs the licensees to calculate FSA strictly in accordance with the multi year tariff regulations,’’ th HERC said.The Commission observed that the aggregate technical and commercial loss (AT&C) target of 18.91% and 15.03% for 2020-21 proposed by UHBVN and DHBVN respectively was on the lower side. “Under UDAY scheme Haryana DISCOMs were required to reduce AT&C losses to 15% up to 2018-19 to utilize the central grant but only DHBVN could achieve the target.The HERC directed the distribution companies to reduce AT&C losses of all urban feeders below 25% and rural feeders below 50% in 2020-21. The discoms have been asked to submit detailed action plan to achieve the target within two months of issuance of orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-tariffs-not-to-change-in-haryana-till-2021/story-iblgBE8ez1AxI75VLCFuMM.html
08-06-2020||Gurugram||Faced with acute labour shortage, industry owners woo migrants with better wages, sops||Industries in Gurugram and Manesar, which are struggling due to a shortage of labourers, are trying hard to reach out to migrant workers to facilitate their early return. At least 60-70% of the workers have returned to their home towns due to the fear of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Their absence is forcing some garment exporters to pay higher daily wages to skilled craftsmen, while some others are making calls to their contractors in the villages, promising them better wages and free travel, among other concessions. The real estate developers, who are stuck with ongoing projects, are even ready to pay money in advance, rail tickets, but are still finding it hard to reverse the flow. The market rate for agricultural wages has also gone up due to a shortage of workers, say landowners. The automobile sector, however, is in a comparatively better situation, say vendors. This is because the demand for production is less and the sector has seen relatively fewer migrants return to their home towns. Around 6 to 7 lakh migrant workers in Gurugram, who worked in different sectors, have left the district since the start of the year when the coronavirus pandemic started to make an impact, say local trade union leaders. Due to the large scale migration, the factories in Udyog Vihar, which have resumed operations, are finding it difficult to resume full-scale production. They are being forced to hire labour locally at higher wages or contacting those who have gone home to return as early as possible.The paucity of labour is such that in most of the 1,900 industrial units that have resumed operations are functioning at 40 to 50% of their full capacity, said the Gurugram district administration officials on Monday. “The units which have more than 1,000 workers are mostly operational but the major impact is on export-oriented units where 100 to 200 workers are employed. As of now, only 50% of these units have become operational,” said the labour department officials. As on Monday, only 1.10 lakh labourers have returned to work in the automobile, garment manufacturing and exports, and other industries across the state, they added.Garment industrySatyender Singh, general manager, East-West Exports, a garment export unit based in Udyog Vihar, says that the majority of units are working with 30% of the staff as workers are not available. “Large companies, which have the financial muscle, are now hiring workers on a daily basis and paying them higher than the normal wages. In normal times, ₹360 to ₹400 was paid to a tailor. Now the market rate is ₹400 to ₹450 and money is being paid daily,” he said, adding that in such a scenario, workers are leaving smaller firms and opting to work as daily wagers for larger firms as the money is paid daily in the evening.As per the garment exporters, a large number of companies have either prior orders or have received new orders from Europe that have to be fulfilled on a priority basis. The season in Europe is around August and September and if we don’t work now these orders will get wasted. We are, therefore, contacting our workers to return to work as early as possible. The industry owners are ready to pay for tickets, advance cash and provide for other facilities,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association.Across the National Capital Region(NCR), the labour situation is precarious says Dr Manipadma Datta, vice-chancellor, TERI School of Advanced Studies and the head of the department of business sustainability. “The NCR is staring at a major manpower crisis, which will impact the business in the long run. All stakeholders need to win back the confidence of workers, who need empathy, support and help. They will not return soon and it would be difficult to fill the shop floors,” he said.Real estateThe situation in the real estate sector, which is one of the largest employers and revenue generators in Gurugram, is equally dire as only 21,000 workers, out of an average of 2.5 to 3 lakh workers, are reported to have returned to work on 96 active construction sites, the district administration said.Real estate developers say that at any given time 2.5 to 3 lakh workers are engaged in construction activities and migration has had a major dampening impact on the trade. “We are trying to contact workers through labour contractors, calling them directly and have offered them various concessions. However, only a few of them have responded positively,” said Praveen Jain, vice chairman, National Real Estate Development Council(Nardeco), Haryana, adding that extension of project deadlines by six months needs to be further pushed back by six months. Another developer, who wished not to be named, said that they have approached labour contractors with offers of free rail tickets, air tickets and higher wages but the contractors say that the workers re reluctant to return. “There is fear among the workers as the situation is still fluid and there is no clarity as to how long will the pandemic continue,” he said.Rajender Saroha, joint secretary, Bhawan Nirman Kamgaar Union, who has been actively engaged with workers, says that workforce in the construction sector is feeling abandoned as not many real estate developers took care of them during the lockdown. “Workers are economically and emotionally hurt and will not return soon,” he said.AutomobileAs compared to garment and realty sectors, the automobile sector is faring relatively better, says Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar. “The auto companies are larger in size and more organised so these were able to retain workers and the demand for labour in this sector is also less as production targets are lower,” he said.In the automobile segment, the labour department said that around 40% labour has returned to work and the situation is likely to improve in the coming days as demand for cars, motorcycles and other such products improves.A vendor, who works for a carmaker, said that they expect the production process to be ramped up in the coming months and likewise the demand for workers will rise. “Right now the auto vendors are comfortable with the present strength as a fewer number of cars and bikes are being produced,” he said, preferring anonymity.AgricultureThe migration of agricultural workers to their home states has made the work of paddy transplantation and sowing of vegetables difficult for the coming season. Deen Mohammed, district horticulture officer, Nuh (an area known for its vegetable production), said that cost of labour has doubled as workers have left. This will impact farm operations in a big way. “Many farmers are leaving their fields fallow. Some are choosing to plant mustard instead of vegetables. This will reduce production and increase the price of vegetables in the coming months,” he said.Satish Yadav, a progressive farmer from village Mankdola, echoed his views and said that almost all farmworkers have left barring those who are permanently employed. “The sowing of paddy crop is going to take a hit across the state and other farm operations will also get affected. The cost of labour has also risen and this will impact farming,” he said.The farmers are now waiting for the situation to return to normalcy as they neither have any agency nor the reach to call back the seasonal farm labourers. “Some of the farmers have tried to reach out to the labourers but nothing concrete has come out of it,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faced-with-acute-labour-shortage-industry-owners-woo-migrants-with-better-wages-sops/story-Of80ZxC8lgbFgksIC5bjXJ.html
08-06-2020||Gurugram||Majority of parents not in favour of reopening of schools: Report||The district education department on Sunday said that there was a need to review the ever-changing Covid-19 situation and hold further consultations to decide on a time frame to reopen schools instead of on July 1, as decided earlier. The department said that most parents were not in favour of schools reopening at a time when coronavirus cases in the city are on the rise.In a report submitted to the directorate of education, the department also wrote that most stakeholders were in favour of continuing distance/online learning in view of the current situation. The report was prepared by the department based on a discussion with 62 parents, students, teachers and schools representatives that took place on Saturday.During the discussion, most members agreed that the situation could be reviewed again after every 15 days. Some members also suggested that the government could share with schools the standard operating procedure (SOP) so that they can make plans in line with the instructions. They also recommended the reopening of schools in a phased manner.Prior to the meeting, an internal survey was also conducted by the department to take into the views of the participants on the issue of reopening of schools. Around 80% of the participants said that they were not in favour of schools reopening, while 13% opted in favour of partial reopening. Around 65.4% members suggested that schools should be reopened later as per the situation, while 14.8% members opted for August as the month of reopening. Around 12.3% members suggested that schools should open in July.Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said she had been receiving emails from parents who were worried about an immediate reopening of schools. “Parents want the situation to stabilise before they can send children to schools. They have said that they won’t be sending children to school if they were to reopen in July. The number of coronavirus cases is increasing due to which parents are worried. They will be ready to send children to school only after number of Covid-19 cases come down,” said Erry.During the meeting, most participants from government schools said that maintaining physical distancing in government schools was not feasible with the available infrastructure and facilities in place. Some government school participants said that senior students could be called to school in a staggered manner. Members of private school organisations said that schools in other countries had reopened when the Covid-19 curve started going down, whereas in India, the curve was going up. While members said that online classes could be continued, participants from government schools raised their concerns regarding online classes. Members said that most government schools were struggling with online classes since many students were not equipped with necessary devices and high-speed internet facilities.District education officer Indu Boken said that most schools and parents were not prepared for the reopening of schools. “Members said that they were not ready to send children to school until the Covid-19 graph started flattening. Some students also said that even if the schools were to reopen, parents wouldn’t send them to schools,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/majority-of-parents-not-in-favour-of-reopening-of-schools-report/story-gE7jf0xkBH5IsG3R85A3BL.html
08-06-2020||Gurugram||With domestic help away, residents queue up to purchase dishwashers||Once a rarity in Indian homes, the dishwasher has acquired newfound importance in city households as well as in other urban centres in India. Recently, following the announcement of the lockdown, there has been an exponential rise in its demand, according to those dealing in electronic appliances. In fact, at least four city-based distributors said that there is a shortage of stock in the market, with people signing up on waitlists to purchase a dishwasher and prospective buyers numbering into hundreds in Gurugram.With manual chores becoming a more integral part of the everyday life, residents also that said they were happy to spend money on products to ease cumbersome household tasks, particularly as many are no longer employing household help, either by personal choice or due to neighbourhood or RWA restrictions. “We have all realised that washing dishes can be extremely tedious. Naturally, people will be looking for a more convenient way to get the job done,” said Jugesh Nanda, owner and manager of an electronic goods showroom on Golf Course Road in DLF Phase-1.“Since May 3, we have sold close to 30 dishwashers in the city, and have placed an order for another 30 units. Earlier, I used to sell not more than 25 to 30 dishwashers in a year,” Nanda added. Spokespersons for leading dishwasher brands in India have also publicly spoken of the rise in demand, which stands at between 400 to 500%, as per industry estimates. According to an employee of a leading home appliances company, “Yearly targets on the sale of dishwashers are being met in months, if not weeks. There will be a more concerted marketing push in India for sure.”Vishnu Kumar, 29, who lives by himself in an apartment complex in DLF Phase-2, and who recently purchased a dishwasher, said, “My RWA is not yet allowing domestic help inside. I was paying my help ₹5,000 a month earlier, whereas a dishwasher will end up costing me only ₹3,000 per month on my credit card. It definitely saves a lot of time.” Kumar said, adding that he has been getting by without any domestic help since March 25.Yashasvika Behlani, a resident of a condominium in Sector 30, said, “Our apartment came with a built-in space for a dishwasher, but we never considered it until now. Once the lockdown was eased on May 3, we bought one and it really optimises our time. My partner and I work forIong days, so we tend to rely on gadgets for cooking and cleaning.” Behlani added that her domestic help had chosen to return home to Rajasthan in the days immediately after lockdown. “Out of caution, we are taking care of the housework ourselves for a bit,” she added.Distributors also said there has been a marked shift in the profile of consumers purchasing dishwashers, which usually cost between ₹30,000 to ₹55,000. “Dishwashers have never been an active segment in Indian electronics,” said Ajay Sharma, a licenced distributor for Bosch-Siemens, whose combined share in the Indian dishwasher market stands at close to 50%.“Dishwashers were sold mainly to customers who returned to India, having lived abroad. There is also some demand among expats in Gurugram, but the common perception was that they are not suited to Indian vessels and cooking,” Sharma added. After the lockdown, he said, people who have never used or purchased a dishwasher before are doing so, while several others are considering it.“We get a lot of inquiries these days, particularly from homes where both parents are working,” Sharma said, adding that he has sold close to 60 units in the last month alone, and has at least a 100 people on the waitlist to purchase one. At least three other distributors HT spoke to said they have between 50 to 100 people on similar waitlists.“But there is a shortage due to a disruption in the global supply chain. Most major companies have liquidated whatever stock they had in godowns, and newer imports are uncertain. Unlike washing machines, dishwashers are not manufactured in India,” said Shlok Bansal, an employee of an LG distributor.Multiple distributors HT spoke to also confirmed that there has been an uptick in demand for other electronic goods, such as vacuum cleaners, microwaves, oven-toaster-grills, and hair trimmers. “Most kitchen appliances will also sell well for the next few months. So would juicers, sandwich grills and food processors,” said Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-domestic-help-away-residents-queue-up-to-purchase-dishwashers/story-6zqmbhkMlfhTbMLJ83XX0O.html
08-06-2020||Gurugram||Cops monitor CCTV footage to crack down on people not wearing masks||People walking on Gurugram roads without a face mask are likely to be intercepted by a police patrol squad within minutes, as the police have started monitoring live feed of CCTV cameras to identify violators.The police said the decision to monitor the footage of more than 2,000 close-circuit television (CCTV) cameras was taken in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city and after receiving several complaints about people not wearing face masks in public spaces. At present, the number of Covid-19 cases in the Gururgam has surged to 2175. Muhammad Akil, the police commissioner, said that despite regular patrolling and announcements to the public, many are not wearing masks due to which they started this drive to arrest them. “This is an offence where bail is granted at the spot. The offender is penalised by the court,” Akil said. According to the police, 1,278 people have so far been booked under sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act, 1897 and the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 for not wearing masks while stepping out of their residences.“Station house officers (SHOs) have been assigned the task to monitor all the CCTV cameras in their area every day and to check how many residents are stepping out without masks,” Akil said.On Monday, the police started monitoring live footage from 350 CCTV cameras at the Integrated Control And Command Centre (I-CCC), which is being used as a designated war room for Covid-19 surveillance. Akil said they are also monitoring CCTV cameras installed in residential complexes to monitor the movement of people and violations, if any.The police will monitor footage from the 2,000-odd cameras installed in residential societies, commercial hubs and in open spaces from 6am to 8pm. Upon spotting a person not wearing a mask, the staff monitoring the footage will send an alert and a screen shot of the footage to the police control room (PCR) vehicles. The crime units will also assist in tracking the unidentified violators.“Two policeman will be stationed in areas, such as condominiums, markets and commercial towers, facing the main road and monitoring live feed of the CCTV cameras. We have identified nearly 1,300 spots while 700 are pending,” said Akil.The police said they have distributed more than 500,000 face masks during the lockdown period and have asked people to collect one from the PCR vans or police stations, if they cannot afford one. “ We have got masks stitched as well, as wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-monitor-cctv-footage-to-crack-down-on-people-not-wearing-masks/story-IwYLmINZ5O8u6cwO17hrvL.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||MGNREGA workers hold protest against sarpanch in Ludhiana||Labourers, engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), staged a protest on the National Highway near the block development and panchayat office (BDPO) at the Malerkotla Chowk in Khanna on Monday alleging that the sarpanch of Lalheri village is not fair in engaging workers. They also accused the sarpanch of misbehaving with labourers.The protesters shouted slogans against the sarpanch and blocked traffic on the highway for at least 30 minutes, before the police reached the spot and pacified them.Ram Partap, a protester, accused sarpanch Didar Singh of abusing labourers and thrashing them for no reason.Another protester, Nirmala Rani, said when she went to the sarpanch demanding employment under the MGNREGA, the accused refused to give her work and also abused her.Sarpanch Didar Singh refuted the allegations and said that his rivals are provoking labourers against him over political rivalry. He added he had paid Rs 1.9 lakh to labourers during lockdown under MGNREGA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mgnrega-workers-hold-protest-against-sarpanch-in-ludhiana/story-1usY7m5zyk5soF4TT9167H.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jhajjar sellers slam odd-even formula, dump veggies on road||A group of vegetable sellers on Monday protested against administration’s decision to adopt ‘odd-even formula’ to open shops by dumping their items on the road outside the Jhajjar vegetable market. Surender Singh, president of the vegetable market, said they were suffering huge losses since the government clamped the nationwide lockdown to tackle the spread of Covid-19.“The Jhajjar administration is imposing new rules on us every day and it is very difficult for us to survive by opening shops on alternate days. We are suffering losses and the administration should allow us to open shops every day so that we can earn our livelihood. We are even wearing protective gear and maintaining social distance, but the administration is not paying heeds to our demands,” he added. Jhajjar SDM Sikha said she has heard the grievances of the vegetable sellers and assured them of giving an alternative solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jhajjar-sellers-slam-odd-even-formula-dump-veggies-on-road/story-sQDjBUHfvfaSERztrkphEK.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man shot at in Ambala, alleges Rs 20 lakh extortion bid||Ambala: A man was shot at an injured in Ambala on Monday early morning allegedly not paying Rs 20 lakh to an extortionist, even as police investigate a rivalry angle over gambling. The victim Sumit Kumar from Khatik Mandi and his friend, retired Army man Sunil Dutt, were on a two-wheeler when a car drove up alongside and six men attempted to kidnap Kumar, the latter said in his complaint to the police.As Kumar and Dutt resisted, one man “fired from a pistol, hitting Sumit on the side. The shooter shouted out his name and said Kumar owed him Rs 20 lakh, “another man robbed my licensed revolver and fled in the car,” said Dutt.The complainant also alleged that Kumar had told him that he had seen the car outside the house of a criminal who was out of prison on parole and that the man who had mentioned Rs 20 lakh had come to Kumar’s shop asking for the same amount as ransom money.Kumar was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh from the Ambala Cantt Civil Hospital. An FIR was registered under various sections of the IPC and Arms Act against the three men mentioned in the complaint at the Ambala Cantt police station.“We understand that there is some old rivalry between these men over gambling money and we are investigating the complainant’s claim too,” said superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-shot-at-in-ambala-alleges-rs-20-lakh-extortion-bid/story-LN6UuN7xo6DDFLhzCFrGnJ.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Working from office is better than from home, say Mumbai officegoers||Barring the travel hurdles, most Mumbaiites, who returned to work on Monday after almost three months of lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, said working from office was easier than from home.“Not everyone has a personal computer at their place, and as exports come under essential services, it is easier to work from office. We have been asked to come in as and when there is work,” said Ameya Shirsat, who works for a shipping company. He said they have been asked to wear masks and gloves and carry sanitisers. Also, the three employees who reported to work on Monday, were asked to sit at a distance from each other.In most offices, those with private vehicles or staying close to their workplace could reach, while the others were given an option of working from home. Sandesh Gudekar, who works in the loan department of a bank, said there are guidelines for everyone reporting to work, wherein body temperatures of all employees is checked and they are asked to download Aarogya Setu mobile application. “Anyone who has close contact with a patient or any symptom is asked not to report to work. Although travelling takes time and is a concern, I think coming to office is better,” said Gudekar.Mehul Ramaiya, an investment banker, waited at the bus stop on Monday morning for almost an hour, only to return home. His office is at Fort and on a normal day, he would take a train from his home at Ghatkopar. “Only two people from our office reached today, one who stays close by and my boss in his own vehicle. If the government wants to open up the economy, the onus of ensuring transport facility must be on the employer,” said Ramaiya. “Buses were plying at a frequency of six-eight minutes. But they were full by the time they reached my stop,” said Ramaiya.Some organisations also decided to start a rotational working system with employees reporting to work only on specific days of the week.Some were happy as only a limited number of people could step out. “It usually takes me around 25 minutes to reach my workplace in Chembur. But today it took half the time. Also, just three of us reported to work. This is much more convenient, as offices are asked to shut early. So one will be back home on time and by early evening,” said Nirav Mehta, marketing consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/working-from-office-is-better-than-from-home-say-mumbai-officegoers/story-2x1p97JlGVFzaMex4LhnyJ.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Opposition welcomes L-G’s order, slams Kejriwal for diverting attention from his govt’s failures||The opposition parties on Monday welcomed lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal’s decision to overrule the state government’s order reserving hospital beds in the national capital exclusively for Delhi residents and stopping the testing of asymptomatic contacts of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.Both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress said the government’s order was “legally untenable”. They said it was just a diversionary tactic by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to shift focus from his government’s alleged failure to augment healthcare infrastructure. The Aam Aadmi Party hit back, accusing the BJP of playing dirty politics and putting pressure on the L-G to pass such an order.Welcoming the L-G’s decision, BJP MP from New Delhi Meenakshi Lekhi said, “India is a union of states. The Delhi government’s order was legally untenable, as it was in violation of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. How can any state deny a person from another state access to medical care?”Addressing a press conference earlier in the day, Lekhi said the decision had been taken by “someone who was born in Haryana, lived most parts of his life in Kaushambi (in Ghaziabad) and became the chief minister of Delhi”, in a veiled reference to Kejriwal’s antecedents. The Congress, which ran the city government for 15 years before AAP wrested power from it in 2014, said the government reserved the beds knowing fully well that the decision had no firm legal footing. Former Delhi MP Ajay Maken said, “The Delhi high court in 2018 had ruled against the government’s decision to reserve a certain number of beds in GTB hospital for Delhi residents only. Kejriwal can’t be oblivious to it. This was just an attempt to divert people’s attention from his government’s failure to augment the medical facility.” East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir took to Twitter to welcome the L-G’s decision. He tweeted, “Excellent step by LG to overrule Delhi Govt’s idiotic order of not treating patients from other states! India is ONE and we have to fight this pandemic together! #IndiaFightsCorona (sic).”Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the decision to stop testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients was against the Centre’s guidelines. “Testing is crucial right now to prevent the spread of the disease. But this government is arbitrarily taking decisions and putting people’s lives at risk,” he said. Kejriwal on Monday placed himself in home quarantine after he felt unwell. Lekhi came down heavily on AAP on the issue of discrepancy in data about hospital beds, according to the Delhi Corona app, launched by the Delhi government itself. She said the five Ts (testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork and tracking) that Kejriwal said were essential for fighting Covid-19 are missing today.“Is this the time to mislead people? You are playing with the lives of people. These are human lives; they are not some lab rats or insects on which you can conduct experiments. This is the time to deliver,” the national BJP spokesperson said.The Congress accused both the BJP and AAP of misleading people. “During such a crisis, the state and the Centre should ensure better coordination. But here, both are working in silos and are just misleading people,” Anil Chaudhary, Delhi Congress chief said.Maken said, “Of the 16,500 plus beds in Central government and municipal hospitals only 1,500-odd are reserved for Covid-19. Similarly, the Delhi government is using just 13% of its bed capacity for Covid treatment. Why can’t the two use their own infrastructure optimally?”The Delhi government had recently ordered that 20% of the total bed strength in private hospitals be reserved for Covid-19 patients. The BJP questioned why beds in other government hospitals are not reserved in a similar manner.AAP reactsThe AAP accused the BJP of playing dirty politics by putting pressure on the L-G to pass an “unconstitutional order”.Deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted, “The BJP-ruled state governments are busy in PPE kit and ventilator scams. The Delhi government is trying to manage this disaster by making honest efforts and careful planning. But BJP is not liking it and has done dirty politics by putting pressure on the LG. (sic)”AAP MLA and party’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha tweeted, “BJP sponsored order issued by LG is draconian, unconstitutional & against spirit of democracy. How can LG,by merely writing a few paragraphs on his letter head,overrule the decision of a democratically elected govt’s cabinet. Moreover, this is an affront to the health of Delhiites. (sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/opposition-welcomes-l-g-s-order-slams-kejriwal-for-diverting-attention-from-his-govt-s-failures/story-kwvYztU7i9BPpXI6vDtZLM.html
08-06-2020||City||Dedicated Covid centre for cops becomes operational in Palghar||A 50-bed Covid-19 facility for Palghar police personnel and their family members has become operational in Posheri, Wada taluka. While the hospital has 100 beds, half of the beds have been reserved for police personnel, confirmed Dattatray Shinde, superintendent of police (SP), Palghar. This is the second Covid hospital for police personnel in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) after the 1,000-bed hospital in Kalina, Mumbai was opened in May, said Shinde. “We had made a demand for a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) to Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde, and the requirement was sent to Dr Kanchan Vanare, civil surgeon, who agreed to open the 100-bed hospital in Posheri,” said Shinde. He added that a few police personnel have already been admitted in the DCHC as a precautionary measure. The hospital will be equipped with all facilities to combat the virus and if needed, more beds will be added in phases in the next few weeks, Shinde said. The DCHC has three divisions for better treatment of patients, particularly police personnel in Palghar.Shinde added that Covid warriors such as healthcare, government and other staff can also seek treatment at the centre.So far, there have been 40 deaths, including a few policemen, reported in Palghar district and 1,236 patients have tested positive in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicated-covid-centre-for-cops-becomes-operational-in-palghar/story-SDbXflQuBgwvayKekGFyMM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Not on their BEST behaviour, many crowd to board buses||Several instances of violation of social distancing norms were witnessed in Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, as they began ferrying commuters on Monday as part of the state’s Mission Begin Again. As the state started to lift the lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic in phases, BEST became the first public transport system to start operations. BEST is the second largest public transport system in Mumbai after the suburban train network. BEST authorities announced that only 30 passengers, including five standing, would be allowed and social distancing would be strictly followed. BEST operated 2,132 buses on 81 routes in the city. However, the administration received several complaints of passengers not adhering to social distancing, sitting next to each other and more than five passengers standing in the buses. “We request passengers to maintain social distancing. It could take time and passengers might have to wait, but we are operating extra buses to clear the rush,” said Surendrakumar Bagde, general manager, BEST.Passengers also complained of many BEST buses being cancelled. “People were standing in queue only to find the buses were cancelled. I wanted to go to Sakinaka and had to let 30 buses pass. Two buses were cancelled,” said Aarti Singh, a Vikhroli resident.Transport experts said increasing the number of buses could be a solution. “Operation of buses is a true test for the possible operation of trains. Social distancing will be easily possible if more buses are added and operated from multiple locations. School buses are lying idle with the management, which could be put to use,” said transport expert Ashok Datar. Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT), too, resumed operations on Monday, with 215 buses making 858 rounds. NMMT was being used only for essential services since March 25, amid the lockdown restrictions. It had then been running 112 buses with 398 services on various routes within and outside city.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “The bus will be filled to a maximum 50% capacity and only 5 or 3 passengers, depending on the size of the bus, will be allowed to stand.”Inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-on-their-best-behaviour-many-crowd-to-board-buses/story-CbR8SiQ6onFtyVP931zFMO.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Private labs must give Covid test results within 24 hours: BMC Commissioner||Private laboratories in Mumbai will not be allowed to function if they do not give Covid-19 test results within 24 hours, said Mumbai municipal commissioner, IS Chahal, on Tuesday. In an interview to a leading electronic media house, Chahal said, “Some Covid-19 testing labs have committed a serious crime by delaying test reports by 18 days. They deserve to be punished.” Chahal said, “When I joined, I found that April 4 swab results had come on April 22. We could not wait for 18 days to track high risk contacts. I told them unless you give me swab reports in 24 hours, you cannot function in Mumbai. Don’t chew more than you can digest.” Regarding altering testing guidelines in Mumbai, Chahal said, “We have gone beyond ICMR guidelines. We have said that for high-risk contacts of positive cases who are home-quarantined, their swabs can be collected at home, where as ICMR had said no to home collecting of swabs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/private-labs-must-give-covid-test-results-within-24-hours-bmc-commissioner/story-SnrYc7Gf1NuJk3Ok4AG42N.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||No Covid sample collection at several private labs on Monday||Several private laboratories did not collect Covid-19 samples for the second day on Monday. Out of ten private laboratories that HT called on Monday, four didn’t answer, five said they were not providing the service temporarily and one had a token system in place—patients had to come in early in the morning to give their samples on a first-come-first-served basis.The labs that have temporarily stopped collecting samples include City X-Ray and Scan Clinic in Tilak Nagar, and Lifeline Laboratory in Green Park (which is at capacity and cannot test any more samples until it clears its backlog). Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute said they could collect samples only if the Oncquest laboratory was ready to test as they had outsourced Covid-19 testing to them.The government banned eight labs from testing samples after pulling them up on June 5 for not following protocols, and, according to the health minister, taking too long to report results. These include Dr Lal Pathlabs, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Prognosis laboratory, SRL reference laboratory, Fortis Hospital, Star Imaging Path laboratory, Pathkind labs and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) now recognises 23 private laboratories for Covid-19 testing.HT had reported on Sunday that most private laboratories in Delhi had either capped the number of people they test in a day or were not collecting samples for some time, making it very difficult to patients to get tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the capital.Delhi’s testing protocol is tighter than that of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Tests are restricted to symptomatic individuals. Even direct contacts of infected people can be tested only if they are senior citizens or have co-morbid conditions. Due to private laboratories not functioning, most patients will have to go to a hospital flu or fever clinic directly to get tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-covid-sample-collection-at-several-private-labs-on-monday/story-qvpUuPjTDKwEaq8FFGk0WL.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai unlocks offices, makes a wary slow start||After three months of lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the city on Monday inched towards its return to normalcy, as private offices began working with 10% staff and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses began plying, under the last leg of Maharashtra government’s three-phased ‘Mission Begin Again’ to kickstart the country’s financial capital. Sporting masks and carrying sanitisers, Mumbaiites were seen scrambling to board buses, to catch a bus or a taxi to office, with social distancing compromised in several cases, videos of which surfaced on social media.The third phase of the unlockdown began on Monday, with the traffic control room recording a moderate or dense traffic flow in many parts of Mumbai. Major arterial roads namely Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in south and central Mumbai, LBS Road in the eastern suburbs, SV Road in the western suburbs, and freeways such as the Western Express Highway and the Eastern Expressway saw considerable traffic. The entry points to Mumbai – Navi Mumbai toll plaza, checkpoints between Thane and Mumbai, and Panvel and Mumbai – reported slow vehicular movement. Private offices picked only those who have four-wheeler vehicles to come to work, as part of their 10% allowed staff, which added to the traffic on the road. BEST operated 2,132 buses on 81 routes, with only 30 passengers, 25 sitting and five standing. However, long queues were seen at the bus stops, and crowds, including those of essential workers, rushing to board, with blatant disregard to social distancing. HT too recorded a video of such an incident outside BMC headquarters. “The response from passengers has been welcoming. There were instances where passengers had to wait for some time, but the number of buses was increased. Extra buses were also operated,” said Surendrakumar Bagde, general manager, BEST. BEST also clarified that, “BEST bus conductors have been asked to ensure social distancing is maintained and only five passengers are standing.”While shops in the city were allowed to open from Friday, many couldn’t, owing to lack of staff, who could not report to work in the absence of transport. Such shops managed to finally open on Monday.Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association, said, “Many shops were either closed since Friday, or were not working at full capacity. Business started on Monday.”A few passengers also complained about buses being cancelled and delayed. “I waited for 40 minutes to get a bus from Ghatkopar towards Mulund. The buses were delayed and the ones that were arriving were full. I work as a security guard and today is my first day at work after lockdown,” said Akhlakh Khan, a Ghatkopar resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-unlocks-offices-makes-a-wary-slow-start/story-GFvZqupHVGukkbn1uWMYlN.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||SC refuses to interfere with Haryana law making Hindi as official language of lower courts||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with the decision of Haryana government to enforce Hindi as official language in all subordinate courts and tribunals across the state. Some lawyers have moved the top court challenging the Haryana Official language (Amendment) Act of 2020, which makes Hindi as official language in courts and tribunals of the state. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy questioned the petitioners as to what was wrong with the law as around 80% of the litigants do not understand English. “There is nothing wrong in Hindi as the official language of subordinate courts in some states. Even, during the British Rule, the recording of evidence was done in vernacular language,” the bench said, observing that it is fair for the state to bring such law. Petitioner in-person Sameer Jain said he was not against conducting of court’s proceedings in Hindi or any other vernacular language but since he was from Delhi-NCR region, it would be difficult for lawyers to argue in Hindi in Haryana courts. He said it would be difficult for multinational companies to argue their cases in Hindi. To this, the bench said that the law under question does not exclude English language and it can be used with the permission of court. The top court, which was initially inclined to issue notice and seek reply from the state government, was told by additional advocate general Arun Bhardwaj that the state enacted the law under the powers vested in the state under section 272 of CrPC and section 137 (2) of CPC. He said the state was empowered to enact such a law to bring transparency and to enable the litigants understand what transpires in the court proceedings. The top court said that there is nothing wrong in section 3A of the said amendment as no fundamental rights is violated.The Chief Justice said that proceedings are done in Hindi/vernacular language in many states including Madhya Pradesh. Petitioners then sought to withdraw the petition with liberty to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Five lawyers, including Sameer Jain, moved the top court challenging the state law which says that in all civil and criminal courts, in all revenue courts and rent tribunals of the state and any other tribunal or court constituted by the state government, work shall be done in Hindi language. They contended that Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act of 2020 has unconstitutionally and arbitrarily imposed Hindi as official language to be used in lower courts across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-haryana-law-making-hindi-as-official-language-of-lower-courts/story-Gh5lxuBxD85ljCTGLNPtlM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Unlock 1: BMC employees with disabilities seek clarity from BMC on being exempted from coming to work||Employees with disabilities working with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have sought clarity on whether they would be exempted from coming to work after restrictions were relaxed from Monday onwards. There are 5,000 people physically challenged people, including around 400 visually impaired, working in the BMC.Visually-impaired BMC control room operator from G-North municipal ward Dilip Zanwar, 40, resident of Vangani in the outskirts of the city said, “Based on a circular issued on May 26 making 75% employee strength was made mandatory at BMC offices, it was told to us that paid leaves (for the entire year) would be deducted for the number of days if we did not report to work. Since the local trains are not functioning, there are fluctuating bus timings, and no transport facilities (carpool) being provided for us to reach our respective offices, it will be a huge risk trying it on our own.” Another physically challenged BMC employee said, “I am on the only bread earner in my family. If something happens during travelling, my family will not be able to manage under the present circumstances.” On June 4, the National Federation of the Blind (NFOB), Maharashtra chapter wrote to municipal commissioner chief I S Chahal seeking clarity on the matter. “We are insisting that a separate circular be issued for visually challenged and handicapped employees exempting from their services till local trains begin functioning again, and till such time their earned leaves not be deducted,” said DP Jadhav, general secretary, NFOB. BMC general administrative department clarified that employees with disabilities were exempted from travelling to work until further notice. “Based on the circular issued on April 21 by the state’s general administration department, a clause clearly mentioned special consideration given to employees with disabilities that need not report for duty. That concession continues in subsequent circulars issued by us. We have only followed the state’s dictate and no changes have been made. Any further alterations from the state administration will be replicated by us,” said Milin Sawant, deputy municipal commissioner (general administration) BMC. However, it was not clear what disabled employees were supposed to do if specific departments of the BMC issued separate directives. “If there is shortage of staff for health or solid waste management department, it is their prerogative to check the feasibility of employees with disabilities being called to work,” said another BMC official adding, “As far as leaves are concerned, BMC will implement what the state government finally decides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unlock-1-bmc-employees-with-disabilities-seek-clarity-from-bmc-on-being-exempted-from-coming-to-work/story-9aGlgSfCS9dC2leMRAurZK.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai officegoers are back on roads, so are traffic snarls||As offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reopened after almost three months on Monday, under the Maharashtra government’s third phase of ‘Mission Begin Again’ campaign amid the Covid-19 lockdown, all main roads saw traffic during morning and evening peak hours.Suburban train services – Mumbai’s public transport lifeline – are yet to resume operations, which forced office-goers, traders and shopkeepers to use private vehicles to reach their workplaces.With the increased traffic movement on the Western Express Highway (WEH), a major north-south arterial road connecting suburban Dahisar to Bandra, many motorists took to Twitter to appeal for opening of flyovers on the busy stretch. “Kherwadi Bandra flyover needs to be opened, a hell lot of traffic at the junction towards Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) and south Mumbai,” a commuter tweeted.A commuter travelling on WEH tweeted, tagging the Mumbai Police: “Guys entire Western Express Highway’s northbound is free-flowing, but for the bridge at Vile Parle Domestic Airport shut ... For no reason! Jam created !!! Mumbai Traffic Police please look into our inconvenience!” Another commuter tweeted: “As Mumbaikars hit the roads again, it’s time to wish us luck for a new start to this new world. But, unfortunately, our traffic remains the same.”Traffic snarls were also reported along certain stretches of the Eastern Express Highway (EEH), a north-south artery of Mumbai that connects its eastern suburbs and Thane; Sion-Panvel highway, Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) Road and Swami Vivekanand (SV) Road.By evening, the traffic on the Sion-Panvel highway was badly hit after a collision between a dumper truck and BEST bus. The bus was plying from Navi Mumbai to Wadala, when the accident took place around 5.15pm. The front portion of the left side of the bus was stuck to the dumper. A passenger was severely injured in the incident. Toll plazas at Mulund, Vashi, and Dahisar reported major traffic congestion even though the government has been encouraging the use of FASTag, an electronic and automated toll collection mechanism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-officegoers-are-back-on-roads-so-are-traffic-snarls/story-YGpGlQuey6LiRzBMWMSXbP.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education dept planning to call teachers to school from June 15||In a bid to streamline online education in Chandigarh’s government schools, the UT education department is making plans to call teachers to schools from June 15, director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar confirmed.Earlier, while making online classes mandatory for students of Classes 6 to 8, the education department had decided that instead of teaching three subjects per day, only one online class will be taken. “As we are facing strategic and technical issues with respect to implementation of online classes, we are planning to call teachers to schools so they can create online content from here,” an official privy to developments said.Brar also said that teachers will create a database of students who have access to online education and also take note of those who don’t. “Right now, we don’t have clear data on how many students can access classes online. It varies from day- to-day and subject to subject,” he added.“After teachers come to school, they will track the data and also prepare plans for phase-wise reopening of the schools,” Brar said.However, he added that the final decision will be taken by senior officials and depend on government of India’s notification on reopening of schools.As per sources, not more than 25 % of teachers will be called to school and principal of each school will be authorised to prepare a roster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-dept-planning-to-call-teachers-to-school-from-june-15/story-ft9WhvCaVoC34hTK8mLYdK.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab water supply dept orders probe into Balongi gas leak||Mohali : A day after chlorine gas leakage from the waterworks facility at Balongi in Kharar led to the hospitalisation of 30 persons, the principal secretary, department of water supply and sanitation, Punjab, Jaspreet Talwar ordered an inquiry into the incident. In a report submitted by superintendent engineer, RP Gupta, on Monday said an old cylinder with 5 kg chlorine gas kept at the waterworks for several years had leaked as its insides had rusted.This raises questions about the authorities being unaware of the presence of hazardous material at waterworks and other sites which pose a risk to the life of people living nearby. “We got to know that most of unused cylinders are lying at various waterworks since 2010 and have asked the officials concerned to remove them immediately. Since the past several years, the department is not using gaseous chlorine and we use liquid sodium hypochlorite for the purpose of chlorination at all waterworks. The problem was all these gas filled cylinders have been kept at the waterworks since years and no one even cared to remove them. Now, I have ordered an inquiry and a senior officer will conduct it and the report will be submitted within a week,” Talwar said.The leakage caused panic after people living near the waterworks experienced nausea and eye irritation and 30 of them had to be rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase-6. The department officials then instructed the officials concerned to remove all such cylinders at the waterworks since 2010.Giving details of the incident, Sahil Sharma, executive engineer, water supply department, Mohali said after the gas leakage the waterworks operator rushed to the spot, following which fire brigade was called. The cylinder was buried in open ground. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh had said on Sunday that the people affected by the leak had been stabilised at the hospital.All of them have now been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-water-supply-dept-orders-probe-into-balongi-gas-leak/story-9uUzcldRiK1zVdbud8BMeM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Only 2% restaurants provide home delivery, claim not viable option: Association||Despite the state government allowing restaurants and hotels to provide takeaway and delivery of food items, only 2% of such establishments in the city have started such services. The rest have remained closed and expressed reluctance to start operations citing a viability issue.The reason – lack of labour, reluctance of patrons to eat outside food, and various restrictions imposed by housing societies on the entry of delivery staff.According to the Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association (AHAR), of the total 15,000 hotels and restaurants in the city, hardly 300 have started their operations in providing parcels and home delivery.According to Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR, it is not viable to run the delivery business. “There is no labour currently available in the market as these migrants have all returned to their hometowns,” said Shetty. Similar is the view of Kamlesh Barot, director, Vie Hospitality Private Limited which runs hotels like Revival in Chowpatty. He opined that it did not make business sense to start partial operations. “There are so many overheads incurred if the hotels start their operations. Parcels make up just 10% of any hotel business and it makes no sense to open for this only,” said Barot. “Currently, people are reluctant to eat outside food and this has badly hit our business. Many societies have also stopped home delivery of eatables and it is allowed just up to the society gates. This move has dissuaded many customers from ordering as they don’t want to step out of their houses,” he added.Though the state government has allowed shops to open on alternate days, this does not apply to hotels and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-2-restaurants-provide-home-delivery-claim-not-viable-option-association/story-u2NN8njXG7dRUCvf3qstUO.html
08-06-2020||City||North civic body school teachers strike to protest non-payment of salaries||News Delhi: Teachers associated with a body of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation run schools went on a strike on Monday, protesting non-payment of salaries for the past three months. Kuldeep Khatri, president of the Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam, said teachers have not been given their salaries for the months of March, April and May. “We distribute ration and food to the destitute but due to non-payment of salaries our own survival has become tough. Today (Monday), dry ration was not distributed at any of the centres while cooked food was distributed at designated centres,” Khatri said. MCD teachers have been engaged in the work of dry ration and food distribution at municipal schools across north Delhi amid Covid-19 pandemic.However, Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of the MCD Teachers Association—an umbrella body of all teachers’ associations— said that it was a “symbolic strike”which was staged to protest against non-payment of salaries. “We have given the government and the civic body time till July 14 to resolve the issue. Afterwards, we will go on indefinite strike for the fulfilment of our demands,” Solanki said. He also added that food and ration was distributed at some centres.A senior north civic body official said that the file regarding disbursing salaries of employees is being processed. “We are hopeful that salaries will be released within this month,” the official said.Avtar Singh, mayor north corporation, said that teachers’ problem is genuine but strike is not the way to push for their demands. “We are trying hard to give them salaries. We have asked for the funds from the Delhi government for the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-civic-body-school-teachers-strike-to-protest-non-payment-of-salaries/story-Aenw72IlqwjX4Rvllz2bNI.html
08-06-2020||City||Labourer found hanging in Ludhiana village, police suspect foul play||The police on Monday found the body of a labourer hanging from a ceiling fan in a room at Sunet village where they had gone to investigate an LPG cylinder blast in a shop.The deceased has been identified as Shyam Dubey, 34, of Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.Upon investigation, the police found that the victim had gotten into a spat with the owner of the shop on Sunday; the matter had reached the police on Saturday.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Sameer Verma said it is suspected that the man hanged himself after setting the shop on fire. The police are also investigating the angle that the shop owner may have murdered the man, made it look like a suicide and set the shop on fire to distract the police.Residents of the village told the police that they woke up at 4am on Monday after hearing three back-to-back explosions at the tea stall of one Rajni Verma of the same village. The impact of the explosions was such, the roof of the shop collapsed. The fire brigade doused the flames in 15 minutes.Tea stall owner Rajni Verma named the deceased, Shyam Dubey, as a suspect, alleging that Dubey had used abusive language for her after which she had lodged a complaint. However, when the police reached the rented accommodation of Dubey, they found him hanging.The woman further told the police that Dubey had threatened to implicate her for having abetted to his suicide. The police, however, did not find any suicide note on the body.The ACP said things would be clearer after postmortem of the victim. The deceased was a labourer and living alone. The police have informed his family in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-found-hanging-in-ludhiana-village-police-suspect-foul-play/story-4G73v8iMtiyV0mKIsAxcQP.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Municipal school teachers get trained in new teaching tools||Even as most private schools have switched to the online mode of teaching in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, municipal schools in the city are facing a series of challenges as nearly 50% students do not have access to smartphones or the internet.On Monday, nearly 7,000 teachers from various municipal schools across the city were trained to tackle challenges that await them in the days to come. They were trained in new teaching tools online to ensure that students who have no access to computers or the internet get guidance on their phones.“In a 3-day-long training, we are helping teachers foresee the challenges that have arisen from the crisis, considering that the students who come to civic schools are from poor socio-economic backgrounds with low means. They have been trained to use the online mode of instruction along with offline exercises that can be assigned to students who do not have smartphones and the internet. The goal is to ensure not a single child is left behind,” said Mahesh Palkar, education officer at BMC.As per the data available with the civic body, nearly 50% students do not have access to smartphones or the internet which makes it a challenge for teachers to reach them during the current situation. “We have decided to send textbooks and other learning material to such student’s homes by the second week of June. Teachers would then stay in touch with them and their parents through the phone and would make sure that their learning does not stop,” added Palkar. The civic body would begin online classes for the academic year 2020-21 from June 15.Sainath Durge, member of BMC’s education committee said that while the penetration of smartphones and the internet is a real challenge, schools have to start some learning to ensure that confidence is instilled in the minds of students and their parents. “In many households, parents go out to work, and with this, children might find it difficult to cope without schools. Hence, if learning starts, they would be occupied and their parents would also not have to worry,” he added.Nearly three lakh students’ study in about 1,100 schools under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). After the exodus of migrant workers and their families from the city, nearly 71,000 students enrolled in these schools have migrated, as per the civic body officials. This has also resulted in poor enrolments for the upcoming academic year, which makes things worse for the civic body as it already struggled to get students to BMC schools with enrolments having fallen by 50% in the last decade, as per the data shared by Praja Foundation.Principals said that they are trying their best to reach out to students. “We are calling to check on them and ensuring that the parents get all the instructions from time to time. Many calls, however, are going unattended as students are not in town or have no network in their hometown,” said the principal of a BMC school in Goregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/municipal-school-teachers-get-trained-in-new-teaching-tools/story-SmiASItMIXlcwkEdlVFngM.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Two Karol Bagh showrooms burgled: Phones worth ₹10 lakh stolen||Burglars targeted two mobile phone showrooms in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh early Sunday and made off with at least 60 brand new phones worth around ₹10 lakh, the police said. Senior officers said they have formed multiple teams to track the burglars who had arrived at the spot in a Hyundai Creta SUV. There were no arrests until Monday evening. According to the police, the burglary took place around 1.30am on Sunday, when the two showrooms at Padam Singh Road in Karol Bagh were closed. A senior police officer said local residents and shop owners called the police on Sunday morning to report that the shutters of two showrooms on the main road were broken and items stolen.“A police team that reached the spot found that he thieves had stolen 10 brand new mobile phones from one showroom and at least 50 from the other shop. We estimate that the stolen items are worth around ₹10 lakh,” the officer said.The officer said when the police checked the CCTV camera footage from nearby areas, they found that three men had arrived at the showrooms around 1am in a Hyundai Creta SUV. “The footage shows them breaking the locks of the shutters of the two showrooms. They then enter the shops and flee with the phones,” he said.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said he has formed multiple teams to crack the heist. “The showroom owners reported a total loss of 60 mobile phones. Both the shops are multi-brand showrooms. Raids are on to nab the suspects. We have possible leads and will arrest the perpetrators soon. We are also tracing the car they used,” the DCP said.Several passersby also recorded the videos of the broken shutters of the two showrooms, which were widely shared on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-karol-bagh-showrooms-burgled-phones-worth-10-lakh-stolen/story-AsiIK0TIuCvnSQKg9pifXJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three of family die in Hisar road mishap||Three members of a family, including a mother-son duo, died when a car hit the motorcycle they were riding near Franci village in Hisar, police said on Monday.The deceased are Choti Devi, her son Ajay and niece Pooja of Mater Sham village. A spokesman of Hisar police said the accident took place when they were going to Gorakhpur village in Hisar on Monday afternoon. “The woman and her niece were killed on the spot, while her son died on the way to hospital,” he added.The victims’ bodies were handed over to their family members after autopsy.The police have registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the car driver, who is yet to be unidentified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-of-family-die-in-hisar-road-mishap/story-E0hmUvg1EsfGFcEZ1thu3L.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 held for assaulting, robbing electrician in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Two persons who assaulted an electrician and fled with his wallet, mobile phone and trousers on May 29 at Mauli Jagran were arrested on Monday.Identified as Banty, 24, and Aman, 18, the two lived in Hallomajra and were unemployed. They were sent to judicial custody and the mobile phone and Aadhaar card belonging to electrician Santosh Sharma, aged 32 years, were recovered from their possession, police said. Sharma, who lives in Mauli Jagran,was on his way back home from Zirakpur where he had been working when he intervened to stop some men engaged in an altercation. It was then that Aman and Banty, who were a part of the group, assaulted him and fled with his belongings.Even though he sustained head injuries, Sharma managed to walk home, from where his family members took him to Government Medical College & Hospital, Sector 32.A case under sections 356, 379A of IPC was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-held-for-assaulting-robbing-electrician-in-chandigarh/story-94D848Yk861QaJDnx12VGO.html
08-06-2020||City||Woman robbed of earrings at Dakha village in Ludhiana||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants robbed a woman of her gold earrings at Dakha village here on Monday afternoon and fled from the spot. The miscreants have been captured in CCTV cameras installed in the area.Victim Rani, 48, of Dakha village, said she, along with her mother-in-law, had gone to fields to bring fodder for cattle. When they were returning home, two motorcycle-borne miscreants turned up there and snatched her gold earrings and fled from the spot.The woman added the miscreants had already removed number plates from their vehicle.ASI Hardeep Singh, investigating the case, said two miscreants with their faces covered with a piece of cloth were captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. The police are trying to identify the accused, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-robbed-of-earrings-at-dakha-village-in-ludhiana/story-XNZJYp7HmVzo5jThl9GH2H.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hotels in Ludhiana draw a blank on Day 1||The hotels, which opened after over two-and-a-half months of lockdown on Monday in the city, wore a deserted look as the staff kept on waiting for customers.While luxury hotels, including Park Plaza, Hyatt Regency, Radisson Blu, etc kept their doors closed, the mid-segment hoteliers, that decided to open, rued that not a single customer stepped in till Monday evening.Relieved over the relaxation given by the government to open the hotels, hoteliers rued that the fear of infection among the people and the restrictions imposed on the inter-state movement were taking a toll on their business.Owner of Hotel Green on the Railway Station Road Amarjit Singh said, “Restrictions on the inter-state movement are affecting their business as the visitors, who come from Chandigarh and other districts, go back to their homes the same day. The customers, who visit the city for business from Delhi and other states, book rooms in hotels, but very few people are visiting the industrial town due to the pandemic.”With the government allowing the hotels to open, owners were expecting they would be allowed to organise events with a gathering of 50 people in banquet halls, but their hopes were not fulfilled. The hoteliers are also saving on fixed expenses by opening only a few floors,”Owner of Nagpal Regency on the Ferozepur Road Manjeet Singh said, “Even after hotels have been allowed to open, the scenario is similar to that of a lockdown. The administration has not allowed holding of events in the banquet halls even with a gathering of 50 people. However, customers are approaching us for organising events. We have taken up the matter with the administration, but no relief has yet been provided.” President of the Hotel and Restaurants Association Amarvir Singh said, “The situation will not become normal till the time trains run and the inter-state movement is allowed. All the 125 hotels, that opened in Ludhiana on Monday, received nil response till evening. However, we have taken all the precautionary measures.”The hotels have provided hand sanitisers at the entry points of all the hotels. A few of them have decided to allow entry to only a limited number of persons inside the hotel. At a few hotels, the security staff have also been provided with handy machines to sanitise the shoe soles of the visitors. The hotels have also decided to keep a record of telephone numbers of customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hotels-in-ludhiana-draw-a-blank-on-day-1/story-dOofThNPkCpHtFsCiJwOPL.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC to celebrate completion of 100 years on November 15||The executive committee of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday announced to celebrate its centenary on November 15 this year.Chairing a meeting of the top decision making body, gurdwara body president Gobind Singh Longowal said the functions to mark the centenary will be organised at the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, and Manji Sahib in Darbar Sahib, Amritsar.The SGPC was constituted on November 15, 1920, and was notified through a Sikh Gurdwara Act in 1925 by the then British government.Longowal told the media that SGPC would present its glorious history through movies, documentaries and books. He added that seminars and talks would be organised in colleges and universities across the state.The executive committee also decided that 100 years of Nankana Sahib Shaheedi Saka, would be observed in February 2021.The SGPC president said gurpurab to mark the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur would also be celebrated across the country and in foreign nations.ALLOW SERVING OF LANGAR AND PARSAD: LONGOWALAnswering a query, Longowal said he has asked the Centre to review its guidelines regarding langar, terming the practice an inseparable part of the Sikh religion. “We have urged the Union government to allow offering of prasad and langar to the devotees as they are part of the Sikh rehat maryada,” said Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sgpc-to-celebrate-completion-of-100-years-on-november-15/story-MrqQlsNtbZ44pOgFEI6c2H.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Son held for Panipat cloth merchant’s murder||Two days after a 60-year-old cloth merchant was stabbed to death at his house in Jawahar Nagar area of Panipat city, the police on Monday arrested his son for the murder. The accused, Inderjit Singh, allegedly killed his father over a property dispute.It is pertinent to mention here that Gagandeep Singh, elder son of the victim, in the police complaint had accused a local Congress leader, his son and three others for the murder of his father as the victim had an old enmity with the Congress leader. Panipat City police station in-charge Rajbir Singh said the victim and his son had a dispute over property as the latter was demanding his share. He said the accused will be produced in a court and his remand would be sought for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/son-held-for-panipat-cloth-merchant-s-murder/story-wkWkRnaUlD4wwyemOMi0VL.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s ordinances to be disastrous for farmers: Jakhar||Punjab Congress unit president Sunil Jakhar on Monday flayed the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, that were recently approved by the central government.“These ordinances are not reform but a conspiracy to make farmers dependent on corporate houses,” said Jakhar. He added that these “so-called reforms are in line with the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee report prepared by a former BJP CM to dismantle MSP and FCI.”“Union minister for agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar, food processing industries minister Harsimrat Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh had termed the three new ordinances as beneficial for farmers, especially those in Punjab. They said MSP will continue, but their statement hid more than it revealed,” he said.Jakhar said that the continuation of MSP is no guarantee that the existing system of open-ended procurement will continue. “Instead of replicating Punjab’s successful model of agriculture mandis, the Centre has allowed marketplaces without regulation, where 15 crore farmers will sell their produce,” he added, claiming that implications of these “tragic announcements” will be disastrous in Punjab.He said the state will lose around Rs 5,000 crore revenue and will not be able to carry out rural development works without mandi fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-s-ordinances-to-be-disastrous-for-farmers-jakhar/story-62U2MkomQFkNl54jwLVjsJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC begins field inspections to develop biodiversity parks||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation (MC) has begun field inspections to identify sites for establishing biodiversity parks in the city on National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions. The MC, which will develop three parks in the city, has located the site for one at Buddha nullah at Tajpur road. Locations for the others are yet to be worked out. MC Commissioner Kanwalpret Kaur Brar also visited a few sites on Monday. The NGT monitoring committee had in December last year directed the civic body to develop parks in association with the forest department. At a meeting scheduled for Tuesday, the MC finance and contracts committee (F and CC) will be finalising a panel to take other decisions related to the project.Around 12 acres of land will be required to develop the parks, MC officials said after consultations with the forest department .“MC Commissioner Brar has inspected a few sites on Monday and three sites will be finalised in the coming days. Brar also inspected the ongoing work of desilting Buddha nullah,” MC secretary Neeraj Jain said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-begins-field-inspections-to-develop-biodiversity-parks/story-flXV5R3CKuKpxnZYW1a2aN.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Despite government order, labs refuse to test high-risk contacts of patients||Despite an order from the health ministry and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) directing asymptomatic, high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients should tested for the infection, municipal and private diagnostic laboratories are refusing to do so. In some cases, laboratories also refused to test people with comorbidity. Meanwhile, BMC has decided to restart home collection of samples from high-risk contacts.In Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s revised testing protocol from May 18, it says, “Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming into contact.” This was reiterated by BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal in end-May. On Monday, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We will start home collection of samples of only high-risk contacts, so that they don’t infect others by going outside to give their samples.”Over June 6 and 7, HT called up BMC’s helpline (1916) and private laboratories, claiming to be a high-risk contact. All of them refused to conduct the test for Covid-19.The helpline directed HT to private laboratories. “Until we get the circular or direct instruction, we can’t do the test,” said an assistant on the helpline. Following this, HT called seven private labs, all of whom refused to do the test. Some claimed private labs aren’t “allowed” to test asymptomatic and asked HT to approach BMC. One lab asked for a prescription for the test even though this is not required.On June 1, a 49-year-old man from Borivli succumbed to Covid-19 at civic-run Bhagwati Hospital. He is survived by his 46-year-old wife, who is a cancer survivor, and their 22-year-old son. While she has been shifted to a Covid care centre (CCC-1), their son says BMC has refused to test her for Covid-19 even though she was exposed to the virus for six days. Her son says she’s complained of tiredness, but has not shown any symptoms so far. Cancer survivors are more vulnerable to infection due to their weakened immune system. “If she has the virus, they can start the treatment earlier, but the health officers are refusing [to do a swab test],” said Aniketh Salve, the son. In another case, the family of a 72-year-old man from Ghatkopar, who died of Covid-19 on June 3 at Rajawadi hospital, has been to get his 65-year old, diabetic wife tested for the virus. “When BMC refused, we called private laboratories which asked for a prescription. Now doctors are refusing to prescribe a test to an asymptomatic patient as it is against the rule and they can lose their license,” said a relative. On the issue of prescriptions to test for Covid-19, Kakani said, “A circular has been issued on this matter. With the submission of declaration forms, any high-risk contact of an asymptomatic patient can undergo the test. There is no need for a doctor’s prescription.”However, private labs have pointed out that it is not possible for them to verify someone’s claims of being a high-risk contact. “We don’t have the mechanism to cross-check if the person falls into the category of high-risk. And if mistakenly, we test anyone on such misinformation, BMC holds us responsible,” said a senior officer from a private lab.Last month, show-cause notices were issued to private labs Thyrocare and Metropolis for allegedly testing asymptomatic patients who were not high-risk contacts. BMC has since allowed the labs to resume testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-government-order-labs-refuse-to-test-high-risk-contacts-of-patients/story-NsDx2HvnrjhYGllGU4hKJO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab malls reopen to low footfall||Shopping malls in Punjab reopened on Monday after over two months to a low footfall of visitors, with nearly half of the shops located inside the complexes remaining closed.Also, the cinemas and gaming points stayed shut while eateries opened only for takeaways as dine-ins have not been allowed by the government. Security staff was deputed at the entry points of the malls for screening the visitors. Passes were issued at some places for restricting the gatherings inside. The visitors were not allowed to enter the malls unless they downloaded the COVA app in their mobile phones.At Pavilion Mall, Ludhiana, the security staff issued 97 passes by the afternoon. Also, passes were also being issued at the entrance of MBD Mall to keep a check on the number of visitors at a given time. Staff members of some stores said they were hopeful that the situation will come back to normal in the coming days.Three major malls in Amritsar — The Mall of Amritsar, Trillium and Celebration — also recorded a low footfall. Extra staff was deployed to ensure social distancing there.At VR Punjab Mall in Kharar, Mohali, 50% of the shops were closed on Monday. However, people were seen visiting grocery shops in the malls. Around 2,500 people visited the mall.Bestech Mall, Sector 66, in Mohali received around 100 visitors only.HOTELS DRAW A BLANK ON DAY 1Hotels across the state wore a deserted look on Monday as the staff kept on waiting for customers throughout the day.In Ludhiana, luxury hotels like Park Plaza, Hyatt Regency, Radisson Blu stayed shut. Many of the mid-segment hotels that opened did not receive a single customer till evening. Amarjit Singh, owner of Hotel Green, said, “The restriction on inter-state movement is affecting our business.”Amarvir Singh, president, Ludhiana Hotel and Restaurants Association, said, “The situation will not become normal till trains start running and inter-state movement is allowed. All 125 hotels that opened in Ludhiana did not receive any customer till evening.”In Amritsar, major hotels and restaurants remained closed. Surinder Singh of the Amritsar Hotels Association said they decided not to open their outlets as Covid-19 cases in the city are on the rise. In Mohali too, most of the hotels that reopened did not receive any customer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-malls-reopen-to-low-footfall/story-YpoPkUX7uJaaiNAuQevWBP.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-41 man among 6 fresh cases in Chandigarh take total count to 320||A resident of Sector 41 who recently returned from Delhi and wives of two men who tested positive on Sunday are among six fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Monday, taking Chandigarh’s total count to 320.The remaining three cases — women, aged 25, 36 and 65 — have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony, which with 238 infections so far accounts for 75% cases of the city. Meanwhile, 11 residents of Bapu Dham Colony have been discharged from the Covid care centre, taking the total number of recoveries to 285. The recovery rate stands at 89% as compared to the national average of 48%. With five deaths so far, the number of active cases stands at 30.In the first case to be reported in Sector 41, a 25-year-old man, who works in Delhi, was found infected after he returned home on June 2. He has been admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. His three family contacts, who were found to be asymptomatic, have been quarantined.In the past two weeks, there have been two more cases of infection found in people returning from other states or abroad — a 40-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher who had travelled to Delhi and a 27-year-old woman of Sector 9 who returned from Canada. A 25-year-old man from Uttarakhand was also tested positive while visiting his mother in Chandigarh, but his case was not added to the local tally.A senior epidemiologist at the PGIMER, who did not wish to be named, said while symptomatic cases are being detected, there is a need to test asymptomatic returnees as well, as they can act as silent carriers of the virus.Meanwhile, in a case reported from Daria village, the 29-year-old wife of an infected Central Industrial Police Force (CISF) constable has also tested positive. The 33-year-old was posted at the Punjab Civil Secretariat. His three workplace contacts have been sampled. One tested negative while two reports are awaited.The wife of a Manimajra businessman who tested positive on Sunday has also contracted the infection. Their son, however, tested negative. Even as the wife’s case has been added to Chandigarh’s tally, the UT administration is insisting on counting the man’s case in Panchkula’s tally as he was diagnosed with Covid-19 at the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-41-man-among-6-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-take-total-count-to-320/story-se4CtaMYFQisITMf3BLqIJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali police issues strict warning against overcrowding||Under Mission Fateh, the Mohali district police has issued strict warning against people not maintaining proper social distancing, not wearing proper masks and spitting in public places.Police took strict notice when a lot of people gathered at the Saanjh Kendar in the district administrative complex, leading to overcrowding. But taking a corrective view of the incident instead of the punitive one since it was the first time after Unlock 1.0, police calmly appealed to the people to comply with social distancing norms and also decided to deploy extra personnel to ensure norms are followed.From May 20 till date, the district police has issued 2,021 challans including 1,977 for not wearing proper masks, 43 for spitting at public places and one for not maintaining social distancing. A total of ₹5.78 lakh has been collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-police-issues-strict-warning-against-overcrowding/story-JSpCI67uYbZFHVfnmv4PUP.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two Haryana residents held with 18 stolen SUVs||The Chandigarh Police on Monday recovered 18 stolen SUVs, approximately worth Rs 3.5 crore, following the arrest of two Rohtak residents.The recovered vehicles include seven Fortuners, three Innovas, five Hyundai Creta and two Brezza. As per the police, these vehicles had been stolen by a gang in Meerut, who after changing the chassis and engine numbers, handed over the vehicles to the accused for preparing fake documents. The accused have been identified as Ramesh, 39, and Amit Kumar alias Sabhu, 37, both farmers, who took to crime for easy money. HOW THE DUO WAS NABBEDRamesh was arrested from the road dividing Industrial Area, Phase 2, and Sector 31, where a naka was set up following a tip-off. He was going towards Tribune Chowk from Kalibari Light Point in a Hyundai Creta car at the time.Police found that the chassis number embossed on the vehicle was fake and the car had been stolen from Delhi. During questioning, Ramesh led the cops to his accomplice Amit Kumar alias Sabhu.A case under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will) , 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record, 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal) , 474 (having possession of forged document), 489 (tampering with property mark), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) has been registered against the duo.Amit is a history-sheeter with a cheating case registered against him in Chandigarh in December 2011 and two extortion cases in Delhi and Fatehabad. BOXMODUS OPERANDIAs per the police, the duo, along with their other accomplices, used to steal SUV vehicles from Punjab, Delhi and other places and change the engine and chassis numbers. They would then prepare fake documents and get it registered from different registration authorities in Haryana before selling the vehicles in Punjab, Haryana, UP and Rajasthan. Cops are trying to establish if any registration authority employee was hand-in-glove with the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-haryana-residents-held-with-18-stolen-suvs/story-VGkClbkm2VkAaSc23VLm4O.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seed scam: SAD asks CM to sack cabinet minister Randhawa||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to sack cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and sought registration of a case against him for being party to the ₹4,000 crore inter-state seed scam.SAD also demanded the CM to order a girdwari to ascertain the loss incurred by farmers by sowing spurious varieties of PR-128 and PR-129 paddy seeds and compensate them.Addressing the media, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said a case under Section 120 (b) should be registered against cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa for showing a fake bill during a press conference in the state secretariat to cover up the crimes of his close associate and spurious seed producer Lucky Dhillon.He said that blatant defence of Lucky, who is the proprietor of Karnal Agri Seeds, delayed his arrest and gave him time to disperse the spurious seed stock in his possession. “As per information, 12 trailers of spurious seeds were taken out of Karnal Seed’s unit in Dera Baba Nanak,” he said.Telling the chief minister that his cabinet colleague had decided to stand with the spurious seed producer rather than the farmers, Majithia said Randhawa had lost all moral right to remain in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seed-scam-sad-asks-cm-to-sack-cabinet-minister-randhawa/story-aGA4q8lUnBRwUSNaYzuBRI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stop misleading people over prasad distribution: Capt to Akalis||Stating that the SAD leadership’s was misleading the people on a sensitive religious issue, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday held that the decision to bar distribution of prasad at religious places was of the Centre’s, of which the SAD was an integral part.“My government had never believed in interfering with the customs and practices of any religion, but was constrained by the guidelines of the Union home ministry,” said Amarinder, flaying SAD leaders for trying to incite minds against the state government through deceptive statements.How could the state government be held responsible for prohibiting prasad distribution at gurdwaras or other places of worship when the Union health ministry had issued the SOPs to be followed at religious places, the CM asked. It was the MHA that had taken the decision, under the National Disaster Act, to allow opening of religious and some other places from June 8, and had subsequently asked various central ministries to issue the necessary guidelines for the same, he pointed out.As a Union minister, SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal and her party must surely have been consulted before the issuance of the SOPs on the reopening of religious places with effect from June 8, quipped Amarinder.Harsimrat should have put her foot down then, and insisted on allowing distribution of prasad, instead of protesting later and wrongly putting the blame on the state government, he added.“Infact, I had already directed the state’s additional chief secretary (home) to issue instructions for distribution of langar at the gurdwaras in conformity with the Centre’s guidelines. I would be writing to the Prime Minister to allow distribution of Prasad at religious places,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stop-misleading-people-over-prasad-distribution-capt-to-akalis/story-w9Ef4H0RP5RsZHrFrmYEmO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Residents in Ludhiana may face shortage of milk as milkmen announce strike from June 11||City residents could face shortage of milk in coming days, as the Milk Consumers Association has announced an indefinite strike from June 11 against dairy owners’ decision to hike the price of milk. Members of the Milk Consumers Association collect milk from dairy owners and supply it to the people at their homes.The decision to go on strike was taken at a meeting of the association held here on Monday. According to the association, dairy owners have conveyed them that they are raising the price of milk from June 11.The milk could cost Rs 54 to Rs 56 per kg to residents after the price hike. However, the price of packed milk, supplied from milk plants, would not be affected.The dairy owners said as ‘pashu melas’ were not organised all over the state during the past two- and-a-half months, they were not able to buy new cattle, which has affected production of milk. They added the rising temperature has also affected the production of milk.Narinder Kumar Sharma, president of the Milk Consumers Association, said dairy owners have conveyed them that they are raising the price of milk from June 11.“After paying the commission of middlemen, the milk would cost Rs 54 to 55 per kg to people,” said Sharma.“A group of five politically influential people are controlling the rates, as they own their own dairies. People are already facing problems due to lockdown and the price hike would add to woes of the people,” he added.The association will hand over a memorandum to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday.Paramjit Singh Bobby, chairman, Haibowal Dairy Complex, said as the production of milk has decreased, they had no option, but to increase the price.DS Oberoi, president of the Tajpur Road Dairy Association said that rising temperature has also affected the production of milk. He added that the hike has also been necessitate as production has dropped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-in-ludhiana-may-face-shortage-of-milk-as-milkmen-announce-strike-from-june-11/story-nj2i73PkqKo7qQBUTeGT5M.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police destroy 1.3 lakh litres of illicit liquor in Ludhiana||The anti-smuggling wing of the police commissionerate destroyed 1.3 lakh litres of country-made illicit liquor, which was recovered from banks of the Sutlej near Razapur village on Sunday. The police also seized eight drums and utensils used to prepare liquor from the spot.Inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of the cell, said police conducted a raid following a tip-off that bootleggers were brewing illicit liquor on the banks of Sutlej, following which they conducted a raid.He added the bootleggers, however, managed to escape, but the police recovered the liquor.He added on Saturday also, the police destroyed 25,000 litres of illicit liquor at Razapur village. The police have destroyed 1.66 lakh litres of illicit liquor during the past three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-destroy-1-3-lakh-litres-of-illicit-liquor-in-ludhiana/story-HFnyrou5bPyEAPrI4XgtZI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Everyone entering P’kula from red zones to be tested after surge in Covid-19 cases||Two more Covid-19 cases on Monday pushed up the district’s count to 36 even as the administration, concerned with the surge in infections – 10 cases reported from June 3 to 8 – decided to test everyone returning from the four red zone areas of Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.Of the two fresh cases reported to be contacts of positive patients, one is the 27-year-old wife of a Sector 20 resident who was found infected on Sunday. The other is a 46-year-old man from Sector 12A, who is the contact of a positive patient from Dhakauli.Of the 36 cases, 10 remain active.Panchkula’s first positive case was reported on March 21 when a 38-year-old salon worker living in Kharak Mangoli village came in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient. She was discharged from hospital on April 11 after recovery.From March 21 to May 21, the district recorded 26 cases after which it had zero cases till June 3, when a resident of Sector 12A tested positive following a Delhi visit. A day later, his 19-year-old son who had accompanied him on the trip was also found infected.From June 3 to June 8, 10 new cases were reported in the district.All patients with travel history “We have seen a sudden surge in Corona positive cases in the district. But all of these patients have a travel history. Someone returned from Delhi, some from Maharastra, Kolkata or other states,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.On June 6, five new cases were reported, of which four had returned from Maharashtra and one from Kolkata. A day after, on June 7, a Sector 20 resident working in the local district courts tested positive. According to health officials, he went to Delhi on May 15 and returned on May 31, after which he was examined at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6.“Most of the cases were identified during screening of people returning from other states, but some themselves reported at the hospital,” Kaur said.Only aggressive sampling was the way out. “Earlier we were not taking samples of people returning from the four states, but from now each person coming in from Delhi, Maharashtra , Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, will be sampled,” Kaur added.Containment zones Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, has declared certain areas as containment zones. It includes street number 1120/4 to 1185/3 of Friends Colony in Kalka; house number 525 and 786 to 513/1 of Ice Factory Street in Abdulpur, Pinjore ; and Group Housing Society, Block E – 13 to 79 of Sector 20 in Panchkula .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/everyone-entering-p-kula-from-red-zones-to-be-tested-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-WDyNKU62asSDgcI40rCW2N.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||6,795 Indians arrives in Mumbai under Vande Bharat Mission||As many as 6,795 Indians have been brought in Maharashtra, under Vande Bharat Mission, started to bring back stranded Indian nationals from May 7. All have been kept under institutional quarantine facility developed by the state government for 14 days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said more people are expected to arrive as 48 more flights have been planned till July 1 to bring back stranded Indians from different countries.Of them, 2107 are from Mumbai, 2483 are from other parts of the state and the rest 2205 are from other states of the country. With the help of 47 flights, these Indians have been brought from 26 different countries of the world. The stranded Indians have been brought from Britain, Singapore, Philippines, United States, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Kuwait, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Oman, South Africa, Indonesia, Netherlands, Japan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Tanzania, Spain, Ireland, Qatar, Hong Kong, Kazakhstan, Mauritius, Brazil, Thailand, and Kenya.Thackeray said all those who are from Mumbai have been kept in institutional quarantine facilities developed at various hotels in the city while who are from other parts of the state have been sent to the respective districts. “We have also kept all those in Mumbai at quarantine facility who are not from Maharashtra and have yet to get entry passes from their respective states,” said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-795-indians-arrives-in-mumbai-under-vande-bharat-mission/story-T3J2c7Lyezbq7iARdwIV4K.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Clear stance on jathedar’s remark on Khalistan: Mann to Badals, BJP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Punjab unit president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP must clear their stance on Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh’s statement on Khalistan as a separate state for Sikhs on the 36th anniversary of the Operation Bluestar. Interacting with mediapersons in Sangrur, Mann said the Badals’ have been directly or indirectly appointing the Akal Takht jathedars and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) heads for years but the issue of Khalistan is usually raised when the Akali Dal is out of power in Punjab.“It seems that SAD is exerting pressure on the BJP through such statements. When the Badals ruled Punjab for 10 years, no Akal Takht jathedar ever raised the issue of Khalistan. We need to discuss the issues of our farmers, the youth and water. The state has already faced dark days due to political disturbance,” Mann said. “The BJP should also tell the people whether it will continue its alliance with the SAD over this issue or not,” the Sangrur MP added.“AAP is a secular party and we oppose demands like Khalistan. How will the Centre, which has already damaged the country’s federal structure, offer Khalistan?”PUNJAB GOVT HIDING INFO ON COVID PATIENTSSlamming the ‘Mission Fateh’ against the coronavirus, Mann alleged that the state government is hiding information on Covid-19 cases in a bid to project Punjab as virus-free.“There is no proper Covid testing in Punjab. The states like Delhi and Maharashtra are recording more coronavirus patients since they are testing more. The opposition parties and the media are not being provided proper information on positive patients. The AAP will form local teams to check patients in villages and cities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clear-stance-on-jathedar-s-remark-on-khalistan-mann-to-badals-bjp/story-41ypgpvqCWQjRzZWqgNUzM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lockdown: Capt directs state govt depts to rationalise expenses||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday directed all state government departments to rationalise their expenses so that there is no shortage of funds in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The CM said capital expenditure in essential sectors such as health, education and infrastructure will be retained at ₹5,000 crore, notwithstanding the economic crisis facing the state, which was expecting a shortfall of nearly 30% in the total revenue receipts in the financial year 2020-21 due to the lockdown.Reviewing the economic situation in the state, the CM said the focus of his government was on ensuring that salaries and pensions continue to be paid on time, along with power subsidy to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). “No compromise will be made when it comes to funding for all frontline departments, such as health, police and the local bodies,” he added. To help the state tide over the economic slowdown, he underlined the need for fast-paced industries’ revival at Rajpura, Bathinda, Ludhiana, and Fatehgarh Sahib, etc. “The focus should be on attracting more investments, particularly from industries and businesses seeking to shift out of China in the wake of the pandemic,” he added.“Power subsidy to the farmers would continue. There is no question of the state government accepting the condition to replace it with direct cash transfer for availing the additional borrowing limit allowed by the Centre. This so-called power reform is in violation of the country’s federal structure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-lockdown-capt-directs-state-govt-depts-to-rationalise-expenses/story-MR3nUfyLpGtRqKv6ldu8FN.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against fee collection outside two schools in Chandigarh||Parents from two private schools in Chandigarh, St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, and Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22, on Monday staged protests outside the respective schools against collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Similar protests have been witnessed outside multiple city schools in the last month.In the last 15 days, over 11 such protests have been held by parents.The parents said their economic condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown and they can’t afford to pay the fees due to loss of jobs. They added that schools were charging for facilities like air-conditioners and electricity which are not being used as classes are suspended.Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents’ Association said, “There was an argument at Shishu Niketan, Sector 22, where about 15 parents wanted to submit a representation to the school principal. Since no official was available, they pasted it on the school gate.”“As many as 250 parents from St Joseph’s-44 have also signed a complaint which was submitted to the fee regulatory committee,” he added.“Over 100 complaints have been submitted by parents individually, however, some parents feared victimisation of their children by the schools. So we are now going to file joint complaints by parents. Today was the first against St. Joseph’s School. More complaints are going to be submitted in the coming days,” Goyal said.Principals of both schools did not comment on the issue despite calls and text messages||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-fee-collection-outside-two-schools-in-chandigarh/story-DL59F4mLetmNiEc79CxfWI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt govt to blame for problems faced by private schools, students: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday held the Amarinder Singh government squarely responsible for the problems faced by the students, managements, members of the staff of private schools in the state which were fighting financial constraints triggered by the lockdown.In a joint statement, AAP’s state core committee chairman Budhram, chief spokesperson Baljinder Kaur, deputy leader of legislature party Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Baldev Singh (all MLAs) said people wanted to know from the chief minister what the state government had done to mitigate the sufferings of millions of private school students, their parents, managements, teachers and other members of the staff in this distressing period.The AAP leaders asked the chief minister to make public where Rs 650 crore ‘reserve fund’ collected from private schools toward security, fees, etc. had been squandered away, since the state government had failed to provide financial assistance to private schools during the lockdown period. “What to speak of extending any financial or other aid to the parents of lakhs of students studying in private schools in the state during these two-and-half months of the extended lockdown, the government did not spare even five minutes to share the trauma they were subjected to undergo,” he said.The AAP leaders also questioned school education minister Vijay Inder Singla if he had convened even a single departmental meeting to work out modalities on state-level policy to address the problems faced by the parents of private school students in paying the fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-govt-to-blame-for-problems-faced-by-private-schools-students-aap/story-SbJSqSjFupdl7eABvKfv1M.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||State eyes prime property in Bathinda to generate funds||The cash-strapped state authorities are exploring options to dispose of public properties, including residential accommodation meant for senior officials in Bathinda district, to generate funds.As part of this plan, district administration officials will hold a meeting on Tuesday to assess the feasibility to shift residences of government officers to the Thermal Colony of the now-defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Power Plant (GNDTP), Bathinda. The GNDPT has been defunct since January 1, 2018. Government buildings around the district administrative complex are spread over 40-acre of prime land. Sources said authorities are exploring options on converting this area, comprising over 50 buildings, including the Circuit House, residences of DC, SSP and women police station into a commercial city centre. The idea was first mooted in January this year. “These residences are quite old and prone to acute water-logging. It may be a viable option to dispose of the zone for commercial activities after strengthening infrastructure. The Police Lines complex, located on a very prime location, may also be shifted. A commercial city centre could be developed,” says the source.Spread over 400-acre, the Thermal Colony has emerged as a preferred option, as it has 155 independent houses and over 1,000 flats, but many are in a dilapidated condition. A sizeable part of these independent houses is allocated to the employees of Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant at Lehra Mohabbat, with another section allotted to district officials.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the administration was working to make a proposal in this regard, but there was no finality on the project yet. The move, however, has raised a question mark on the state government’s plan to revive the GNDTP. The closure of the 1,700-acre plant that was started in 1974 continues to evoke strong resentment from workers. Last year, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had approved a plan to start two biomass (predominantly based on paddy straw) units with a capacity to generate 60 MW each. Another recommendation to start a 100 MW solar energy plant has been sent for government approval. The government, however, has taken no decision to restart GNDPT yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-eyes-prime-property-in-bathinda-to-generate-funds/story-yKObthiUd6nLk0mLTb4zWI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD condemns Kejriwal for limiting treatment to Delhites in Capital||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday condemned Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for his government’s decision that only Delhi residents will be treated in national capital’s government hospitals, and demanded that the decision be withdrawn.Addressing newsmen here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said it was for the first time in the history of the country that a chief minister was discriminating against fellow countrymen. “I would like to ask the Punjab AAP leadership that if a person from Punjab falls ill during a visit to Delhi, will they bring the patient back to Punjab and admit him in a hospital here?” Cheema said.Stating that the decision was anti-people, Cheema said this was not the first time that Kejriwal had taken such a draconian decision. He said earlier the Delhi chief minister had “forced lakhs of migrants to flee Delhi after denying them ration”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-condemns-kejriwal-for-limiting-treatment-to-delhites-in-capital/story-osiXvGMY7siraO9ErU2uhL.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana keeps power tariff unchanged for FY 20-21||Electricity tariff in Haryana will continue to remain unchanged for the 2020-21 financial year.As per Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (HERC) order on distribution and retail supply, the tariff for domestic users consuming up to 100 units per month has also been decreased from ₹2.70 per unit to ₹2 per unit if the monthly usage is up to 50 units and from ₹4.50 per unit to ₹2.50 if 100 units are used up in the same period.However, since energy charges in case of domestic consumers are telescopic in nature up to the consumption of 800 units per month, no slab benefit shall be admissible. If the usage exceeds 800 units in a month, ₹7.10 unit tariff will be applicable for total consumption.The two power distribution companies (discoms) – UHBVN and DHBVN – submitted that the power sales to industrial and commercial consumers is likely to be affected severely due to the lockdown and possible delay in the resumption of full-scale economic activity. These categories have a lower distribution loss as compared to the other categories.As a result of the alteration in the consumption mix, the discoms are expected to incur a higher level of distribution loss as compared to the previous year instead of the loss reduction proposed in the original filing. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, the vigilance and loss reduction activities will also be affected.The revised losses have been projected on the basis of estimated consumption of various major consumer categories.The power regulator in its order said that it has examined the true up for the 2018-19 financial year and the fuel surcharge adjustment (FSA) filings for the 2019-20 of the discoms. FSA is an amount the power distribution companies levy on consumers based on varying price of fuel or coal.“The FSA calculations by the discoms are at times not in accordance with the multi-year tariff regulations. The method and amount of FSA being recovered is not comprehended by the electricity consumers. This may lead to under or over recovery of FSA. Accordingly, the regulator directs the licensees to calculate FSA strictly in accordance with the multi-year tariff regulations,” the HERC said.The regulatory commission observed that the aggregate technical and commercial loss (AT&C) target of 18.91% and 15.03% for 2020-21 proposed by UHBVN and DHBVN respectively was on the lower side. “Under the UDAY scheme, Haryana discoms were required to reduce AT&C losses to 15% up to 2018-19 to utilise the central grant, but only DHBVN could achieve the target.The HERC directed the distribution companies to reduce AT&C losses of all urban feeders below 25% and rural feeders below 50% in 2020-21. The discoms have been asked to submit detailed action plan to achieve the target within two months of issuance of orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-keeps-power-tariff-unchanged-for-fy-20-21/story-w968naO5lsOzg19ws6MSCL.html
08-06-2020||City||198 fresh Covid-19 infections take J&K tally to 4,285||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 198 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 4,285, officials said.Of the new cases, 33 were reported from Jammu division and 165 from Kashmir, a government spokesperson said. Among these, 38 have a travel history.The highest jump in Kashmir division was in Budgam with 40 new cases followed by Baramulla at 33 and Shopian at 31. In the Jammu division, 12 people tested positive in Jammu district followed by Kathua at 11.On Sunday, Jammu and Kashmir had reported the biggest single-day spike of 620 cases, crossing the 4,000 mark in 91 days. 4 more die in UT, death toll 45Four more people have died due to the virus in the UT, taking the death toll to 45, officials said. Officials said three locals, including a 55-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Pampore, a 65-year-old man from north Kashmir’s Handwara and a 35-year-old road accident victim from Srinagar, died on Sunday evening. A CRPF personnel from Uttar Pradesh, posted in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, is the fourth person who died in the evening due to cardiopulmonary arrest.Meanwhile, 108 more patients were discharged on Monday—12 in Jammu division and 96 in Kashmir, the government spokesperson said. So far, 1,324 people have recovered in the UT—1,112 in Kashmir and 212 in Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 2,211 and 705 are in Jammu.Till date, 2.14 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 42,381 in home quarantine, 51 in hospital quarantine and 55,577 under home surveillance. Besides these, 113,625 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/198-fresh-covid-19-infections-take-j-k-tally-to-4-285/story-UVnXGknHuqz4McHjLzz5IP.html
08-06-2020||City||No water on Thursday||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced the closure of water supply for the whole city on Thursday, June 11, as it has planned electric-related works at the water treatment plants.The PMC water department issued the press statement informing of the same and adding that on Friday, June 12, water supply will be with low pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-water-on-thursday/story-eAO3N2ispKX5YzWvpkfDZI.html
08-06-2020||City||20-year old killed in Sangvi, 6 detained||Pune: Six people were detained by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for the murder of a 20-year old in Sangvi.The deceased has been identified as Viraj Jagtap, 20, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad.The six accused detained for murder include two father and son duo, according to Sangvi police station.“One of the arrested is the father of a girl with whom the deceased was involved. The man suspected their relationship and was against it. I cannot reveal their names as the arrest procedure is underway,” said police inspector Ajay Bhosale of Sangvi police station.The attack took place in Pimple Saudagar area on Monday afternoon. The 20-year-old was attacked with rods and stones and is suspected to have been bludgeoned to death.The victim’s body was taken for post mortem while the police detained the suspects.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-killed-in-sangvi-6-detained/story-C6YaVyS8wxgBJ5t9cl4VhN.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||After remaining closed for 77 days, doors of religious places open amid precautions in Ludhiana||After remaining closed due to lockdown for 77 days, doors of various religious places were opened to devotees on Monday with social distancing.In place of ‘parsad’ and charanamrit, priests at temples were armed with sanitisers and infrared thermometers and were seen blessing devotees from a distance.At majority of the places, main sanctum sanctorum was locked to prevent the people from touching idols or sacred books. Circles were drawn at Jama Masjid in Field Gunj to ensure social distancing among people. Shahi Imam Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi, after offering the afternoon namaz, said, “We have to maintain distancing today, so that we can embrace each other tomorrow.”However, ‘karah parsad’ continued to be served in gurdwaras across the city.The government guidelines do not allow serving ‘kadah parsad’ and langar at religious places, but gurdwara authorities, including president of Dukh Niwaran Gurdwara near Jagraon Bridge in Field Gunj Pritpal Singh Pali, stated that serving ‘kadah parsad’ is part of rehat maryada (code of conduct) of the Sikh faith. Pali said all necessary safety measures were,however, being taken.“We are following government guidelines while maintaining the rehat maryada of the Sikh faith. There is minimal human contact involved in preparing ‘karah parsad’. Besides, those involved in the distribution of ‘parsad’ are also wearing mask and gloves and using a ladle to serve ‘pardas’,” said Pali.At Sant Bhuri Wala Mandir near Bharat Nagar Chowk, the sanctum sanctorum of the temple was locked.“We have not opened the sanctum sanctorum to prevent people from touching the idol of the saint. Besides, we have deployed security guards to check temperature of the devotees visiting the temple,” said a sewadar at the temple.ENTRY WITH TOKENS AT DURGA MATA MANDIRThe management of Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon Bridge has introduced a novel way to maintain social distancing by initiating a token system so that a limited number of people could enter the temple at a given time.Sanjay Mahindru, general secretary of Shri Durga Mata Mandir Trust, said they were allowing only 20 devotees inside the temple premises.At least, 250 devotees visited the temple on Monday, while normally, the number of visitors goes up to 5,000, and 15,000 on Tuesdays.Most of the devotees bowed their heads on main gates of temples instead of going inside. Pouring of water or milk on ‘Shivlings’ was prohibited.Shri Nav Durga Mandir, Sarabha Nagar, received a footfall of only seven devotees from 6 am to 8 am. The devotees were not allowed to bring ‘parsad’, flowers, milk from outside and asked to enter the premises empty- handed.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division number 8 police station, said the police had already passed on the instructions to managements of religious places. The police kept a tab outside these places to maintain social distancing among the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-remaining-closed-for-77-days-doors-of-religious-places-open-amid-precautions-in-ludhiana/story-tC8g6gnwdhekWFQn3B3ZiJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Chandigarh admin on schools uploading balance sheets||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration was issued a notice by the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday to respond to a plea filed by private schools in the city challenging its order to upload balance sheets on their websites.The high court bench of justice RK Jain and justice Ashok Kumar Verma has sought the administration’s response by June 16. The petition was filed by the Independent Schools’ Association, a body of 78 private schools in the city after 51 schools on May 22 were issued show cause notices for not uploading their balance sheets for the last financial year, which the administration said in violation of laws.. The schools have also challenged the constitution of a fee regulatory authority under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act extended to Chandigarh administration. The law was adopted by the administration in 2018.The schools have argued that asking them to upload their balance sheets online violate their rights. It has also been argued that the fee regulatory body, constituted under the law, does not provide representation to private schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-chandigarh-admin-on-schools-uploading-balance-sheets/story-G9JWjx0f3DHYLaHdWyNTvK.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong sweeping ₹5,600-crore liquor scam under carpet: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday took serious note of the manner in which the Congress government has “swept the ₹5,600-crore liquor scam under the carpet” and failed to act against distillery owners and Congressmen indulged in smuggling, illegal production and bottling of liquor.Addressing the media here, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the government after going completely silent on the liquor scam was now trying to cover up two serious cases involving smuggling of liquor from a distillery owned by the family of chief minister’s religious advisor as well as illegal production and bottling of liquor by the front men of Congress legislators Madan Lal Jalalpur and Hardyal Singh Kamboj.Cheema said the police department was yet to register a case against anyone in the seizure of truckloads of liquor of Chaddha distillery from its adjoining sugar mill. He said the police and excise department were passing the buck to each other in order to dilute the case and allow the distillery management to go scot free.Similarly, he said, in the case of illegal distillery found in Rajpura, the state police and excise department were yet to summon the Congress legislators Jalalpur and Kamboj for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-sweeping-5-600-crore-liquor-scam-under-carpet-sad/story-Ulrb3ZGvs9NGdF3dbWY4kI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt primary school heads lauded for increased enrolment||Ludhiana School heads and staff of 158 government primary schools (GPSs) in the district were in for a pleasant surprise on Monday when they received appreciation letters via WhatsApp from education secretary, Punjab, Krishan Kumar for increasing enrolments during the academic session 2020-2021.The letters, sent on WhatsApp groups, state that the work done by the school head and staff is an inspiration for others in the state’s government schools.“The department acknowledges and appreciates the extraordinary efforts put in for enhancing the enrolment... As a result of their efforts, the department has been able to enhance the enrolment for session 2020-21 in the campaign: Each one bring one, ” reads the letter.According to the school heads, the acknowledgement of the work put in by them will motivate them to do better.Shivani Sood, who heads GPS, Haibowal Kalan, and is a recipient of the letter, said, “I will make efforts in the future too to enrol new students in our school. Over 327 new students have enrolled in the new academic session and a lot of efforts have been made by the staff to get more to join. It (the letter) will lift our morale.”Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary, said: “One school a day is being commended for getting more students. Online classes through television is attracting many parents who want their children to enrol in government schools,” she said.The number of new students enrolled at various government primary schools include over 728 at Giaspura ; 338 at Haibowal Khurd; 323 at Lohara ; 254 at Kanganwal; 243 at Jawaddi, 218 at Sherpur Kalan and 185 at Manakwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-primary-school-heads-lauded-for-increased-enrolment/story-hYekTOZip63gAE6mlo2gbN.html
08-06-2020||City||Amritsar gets first containment zone as infections breach 500-mark||The administration on Monday announced its first containment zone in Amritsar after the red-zone district crossed 500-mark of Covid-19 cases.Besides this, the health department has also identified 19 hotspots in the district where community transmission cases have shown a sudden spike.Till now, the district has reported 502 cases, of which 363 have recovered. Also, 11 people in the district have died due to the disease. Amritsar is the only district in the state to have over 500 cases. It is worth mentioning that the district has reported 110 infections in the past week alone.“The first containment zone of the district includes six areas which have been sealed by the administration to no movement has been allowed. These are Katra Moti Ram, Ganj Di Mori, Katra Parja, Bombay Wala Khoo, Gali Kandha Wali and Katra Moti of Ram Bagh. At present, 19 patients of this zone are active patients and are undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here,” said Amritsar additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal.Besides this, the health department has also identified 19 hotspot areas in the district — Katra Dullo, Rani Ka Bagh, Vijay Nagar, Palm Garden (Majitha Road), Labour Colony and SUS Colony, UPHC Sakhatri Bagh, Fateh Singh Colony (Bhagta Wala), Mandir and Devi Wali Gali (Bhagta Wala), Pulla Wala Chowk (Fathpur), Gopal Nagar, Ranjit Pura, Ganda Singh Colony, Village Mallian, Chanan Ke, Rose Avenue, Katra Baggia, Mehta Chowk, Faizpura and Housing Board Colony.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “We are testing more people in the hotspot areas to find out what percentage of the community has been infected. People are recommended to stay indoors to avoid getting infected and should strictly follow social distancing norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-gets-first-containment-zone-as-infections-breach-500-mark/story-wjrX3phCNRfGIdY2qbA57O.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator releases comic by Panjab University, PGIMER to unlock potential of children||A comic aimed towards unlocking the potential of children during the Covid-19 lockdown, made by faculty members of Panjab University and PGIMER, was released by Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday.The comic, Heroes of Lockdown, part three of the information education and communication (IEC) comic series Kids, Vaayu and Corona, has been jointly prepared by Suman Mor of PU’s department of environment studies and Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, additional professor of environment health at PGIMER.While releasing the comic, Bandore said that in the current scenario, concerns of children should be addressed on time to avoid any panic among them.Mandeep Singh Brar, deputy commissioner of Chandigarh said, “Providing information to children in the form of comics is a good step.”Key topics covered in comics include proper hand washing steps, use of homemade cloth masks, teaching social distancing, motivation for kids, procedures for online study and useful links including eVIDYA of MHRD.“This comic also educates kids about government apps. Children are also educated to take care of the elderly at home or away from home. This comic also educates on the PM-CARES fund and use of Aarogaya Setu app,” Khaiwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-releases-comic-by-panjab-university-pgimer-to-unlock-potential-of-children/story-JOr2RKvSVg4Z2XXcqEigxN.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Senior bureaucrats get posting after waiting for months||Two Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and one Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers get postings after waiting for months. Nand Kumar (1989-batch IAS) has been posted as principal secretary, EGS, soil and water conservation department, while Atul Patne (1999-batch IAS) has been appointed as fisheries commissioner. Kumar was waiting for the posting since February 14, while Patne was without posting since January 22. Darade (1997 batch IRS) has been posted as project director, Maharashtra State AIDS Control Society. She was waiting for more than three months after she replaced as Food and Drug Administration commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-bureaucrats-get-posting-after-waiting-for-months/story-qmG1gNiNwIRgMx5fqGcHZI.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||One more IAS officer tests positive||One more IAS officer who was associated with the team constituted to handle coronavirus pandemic has been tested positive. The officer has no symptoms for the virus and has been advised to be home quarantined. The officer was given the responsibility of coordinating with the private hospitals and the donations under CSR from corporate houses. Two more IAS officers were tested positive last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-more-ias-officer-tests-positive/story-IHVCTSt8MWBzMrsjSYk4OK.html
08-06-2020||City||Five fresh cases of Covid-19 take Mohali district count to 136||Two days after a 20-year-old constable posted with the quick response team at the Kharar courts complex in Mohali was tested positive for Covid-19, his 42-year-old mother and 39-year-old uncle, both residents of Kurali, and two friends, aged 25 and 28, of Neolka village in Kharar were also found infected on Monday.Meanwhile, a 34-year-old man, who resides in a housing society in Sector 66, also tested positive, taking the district’s total count to 136.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the Sector-66 man had recently hosted some friends from Mumbai. His contacts are being traced.“All patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and are in stable condition,” he said.Meanwhile, two woman — one from Sector 71 and other from Sector 77 — were discharged from hospital, taking the number of recoveries to 110. With three deaths so far, the number of active cases are 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-take-mohali-district-count-to-136/story-iVY5qB6GHnqqunqy9STpkN.html
08-06-2020||City||People in quarantine centre at Kashmir Islamic University ‘steal’ ID cards, clothes other things||As the hostels of the Islamic University of Science and Technology, Kashmir were being used as a quarantine facility by the administration, many students of the university have alleged that their belongings including electronic items, clothes, ID cards, documents, pen drives among other things have gone missing from their cupboards.Not only this, but the girl students also alleged that their phone numbers mentioned in their ID cards kept in their hostel drawers, were leaked and they have been getting calls from strangers since then.The hostels were converted into a quarantine facility around two months ago. Since then, many suspected Covid-19 patients had stayed in the hostels.“When I went to my hostel accommodation, I found my drawer was broken and my ID card was missing. I used to get calls from many people who were in quarantine which forced me to change my phone number,” said a student of the university.“Even my headphones and pen drives containing my pictures were stolen. The person who had stolen it could even misuse my pictures,” she added.The students accused the university administration of mismanagement while handing over the two hostels –H1 and H2 –of the varsity to district administration of Pulwama for administrative quarantine purposes. The two hostels have around 100 rooms.A student of the Jammu division studying at IUST said that the university did not inform them before handing over the hostel rooms for quarantine purposes.“When we came to know that the hostels were being used as quarantine centres, we called the authorities who assured us that our belongings would remain safe,” she said.The students were given two days to collect their belongings from the hostels.IUST controller examinations and in-charge of hostels, Mohammad Amin agreed that people in quarantine had stolen the belongings of the students and also leaked their phone numbers. “We took up the matter with the district administration and the police,” he said.Awantipora tehsildar, Zubair Ahmad said that the police have registered an FIR after a written complaint was given by a student who had been getting phone calls from strangers.“Regarding the missing belongings of students, we have reported the issue to the police after lockers of some rooms were broken,” said Ahmad.Pulwama deputy commissioner Raghav Langer did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/people-in-quarantine-centre-at-kashmir-islamic-university-steal-id-cards-clothes-other-things/story-UfIv5nPJOE0ffVHegxldKP.html
08-06-2020||City||J&K chief secy directs departments to identify measures to check corruption||J&K chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam on Monday directed the secretaries of various administration departments to rein in corruption in the Union territory and show zero tolerance towards violation of rules.Subrahmanayam’s directions at a meeting here come close on the heels of widespread allegations of corruption rampant in various departments amid Covid-19 pandemic.All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference and block development council chairperson Shafiq Mir had appealed L-G GC Murmu to check corruption a few days ago.Mir had also said that funds being spent for Covid-19 mitigation efforts needed a detailed audit. He had termed it a big scam.Chairing a meeting here to review the measures to check malpractice, the chief secretary, while naming a few departments figuring as highly vulnerable to corruption, urged the secretaries to promote transparency and accountability, follow model practices and carry out systemic reforms in the governance system.He asked the secretaries to suggest measures to check corruption in their departments within a week.Reiterating the resolve of zero tolerance towards non-adherence to rules, the chief secretary asked the officers to additionally address the procedural side of corruption which surfaces due to lack of codification of rules, and scarce technological interventions at field offices paired with dearth of human resource development programmes for capacity building of government employees.In the past, Jammu and Kashmir had been rated one of the most corrupt states in India in a survey by an NGO ‘Transparency International’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-chief-secy-directs-departments-to-identify-measures-to-check-corruption/story-4nR8YfCG3130RcPHd9SpTN.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Find alternative to hostels being used as isolation facilities, Panjab University tells Chandigarh administration||Panjab University has asked the Chandigarh administration to find an alternative to the varsity’s hostels that are currently being used as Covid care centres.PU is planning to conduct its semester examinations in July and has written to the UT administration as they may need the hostels in the near future.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We have written to UT administration and told them that we may need our hostels in July as the university may call the students back. So, they should look for an alternative.”PU had handed over four of its the hostels to Chandigarh administration which have over 1,000 residents. Many student bodies had expressed apprehensions over the administration using the hostels as isolation facilities. Many of them also opposed the university’s plan to conduct examinations and raised the issue of hostels being under the administration’s control.President of the Panjab University Campus Students’ Council (PUCSC), Chetan Chaudhary said, “Students raised concerns over hostels being turned into isolation facilities and the university has done the right thing by paying heed to our demands.”Earlier, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) had asked PU vice- chancellor Raj Kumar to get hostels vacated and alleged mismanagement on the administration’s part.PU senator Rajat Sandhir said, “To become fully functional for teaching and research, hostel facilities need to be restored with proper SOPs. Vacating hostels is the first step towards conducting the examinations safely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/find-alternative-to-hostels-being-used-as-isolation-facilities-panjab-university-tells-chandigarh-administration/story-t8TpsufHek3F6cctIdJ2RJ.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Only one pocket of Bapu Dham Colony remains containment zone in Chandigarh||With two areas being denotified on Monday, only Pocket No. 15 of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, with around 2,500 population, remains a containment zone in Chandigarh.The UT administration order, which came into force with immediate effect, removed the tag of containment zone from Pocket No. 8 in Bapu Dham Colony and Kacchi Colony in Dhanas on Monday besides ending buffer zone restrictions in five other pockets of the congested colony in Sector 26. With 238 confirmed infections so far, the colony with 60,000 population accounts for 75% Covid-19 cases of Chandigarh.First, its Pocket No. 15 was notified as a containment zone on April 25. Maximum number of cases have been reported from here. Pocket No. 8 was also designated a containment zone on April 29, and a number of houses were quarantined. No case has been reported from this pocket so far. Now, besides a containment zone, the colony with 20 pockets is left with just seven buffer zones (No. 4, 5, 7, 13, 14, 16 and 20) with around 12,000 population, where perimeter control will remain in force. While buffer zone restrictions were removed from Pockets No. 1, 6, 10, 11 and 12, which are not having any active Covid-19 cases, on Monday, restrictions were relaxed in Pockets No. 2, 3, 9, 17, 18 and 19 last week.The administration’s decision came at a time when residents of the colony were up in arms over even “clean” areas (pockets from where no case has been reported) being under strict restrictions. They even threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike.On Monday, the area affected committee comprising senior officials decided that there was no need to continue the restrictions. On the basis of its report submitted to the administration, the decision to remove perimeter restrictions was taken in the daily review meeting.Even as earlier restrictions imposed on entry and exit stand relaxed now, UT administrator VPS Badnore appealed to the residents to take proper care like social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing of mask in public places to avoid risk of infection.The administrator also appealed to others not to stigmatise the colony residents and give them full opportunities for integrating into the society. He directed the labour department to take up the matter with private employers, so that their pending wages could be paid and job opportunities increased.“The matter regarding exemption of water and electricity charges of areas, which were kept under containment zone is being examined. All symptomatic patients in Bapu Dham Colony have been medically treated. There should be no hesitation among the employees in accepting them back in their jobs,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parts-of-bapu-dham-colony-dhanas-lose-containment-tag-in-chandigarh/story-WnmMfPos8rPnWuQ4DpSX7N.html
08-06-2020||City||J&K health experts warn of alarming Covid-19 spread if people violate protocol||The Jammu and Kashmir administration stepped up efforts to battle the fast-spreading coronavirus, amid warnings from health experts that the cases could increase if people violated the safety protocol. Commissioner secretary (health) Atul Duloo said that the administration has increased the bed strength of its Covid-19 hospitals in the UT. On Sunday, the Union territory reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases at 620, with most cases from Kashmir’s Baramulla and Kulgam district. A day before, 143 positive cases were reported and on Thursday and Friday, 182 and 285 cases respectively were reported from different parts of J&K.However, a surge in the cases has been from the Kashmir province with many healthcare workers and pregnant women testing positive. The surge in Covid-19 cases has led to a shortage of beds in some hospitals and so the administration is creating extra spaces to accommodate more patients. “The administration needs to change its strategy as the patient load is increasing. A special emphasis should be laid on home quarantine and asymptomatic patients should be quarantined in their homes which will reduce the burden on the system,’’ said a senior doctor posted at Government Medical College Srinagar.SKIMS medical superintendent, Dr Farooq Jan said that 60 beds have been dedicated for Covid-19 patients. “If the need arises, then more beds will be allotted to such patients.”Dr Salim Khan posted at Government Medical College who is also the nodal officer for Covid said that for asymptomatic cases, the government has Covid care centres which are either primary health centres or community health centres. ‘’Now such persons shall be shifted to these centres while main hospitals shall be kept for moderate to severe patients,” he said. Meanwhile, the administration has now eased restrictions in Kashmir districts which had been declared as red zone. Other than two districts Ganderbal and Bandipore all the districts in Kashmir are red zone areas and now shops will also be opened on alternate days. “This is now a reality, the virus will stay but people will have to use masks, practice social distancing. These precautions could make a big difference,’’ said Dr Javid Iqbal posted at GMC Baramulla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-health-experts-warn-of-alarming-covid-19-spread-if-people-violate-protocol/story-k74CrmSztAqC8nQM5O55WK.html
08-06-2020||City||Relaxation in curbs amid mounting Covid-19 cases worries frontliners in Haryana||Relaxation in the lockdown amid spike in Covid-19 cases has heightened the worries of frontline workers who are fighting tirelessly to contain the pandemic in the state.Post-relaxation of lockdown norms since June 1, there has been a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in almost all the districts of Haryana as the number of infected persons doubled to 4,448 from 2,202 in the past one week.The government’s decision to ease the lockdown norms and opening of religious places and restaurants has created more problems for the district administrations, doctors, paramedic staff and government officials deputed to contain the pandemic as they believe that increased movement of people has caused the infection to spread fast.As per the state health department figures, in the past one week almost all the districts of NCR have reported a sudden surge in cases as number of infected persons has jumped to 1,922 from 828 in Gurugram, 676 from 373 in Faridabad, 423 from 212 in Sonepat , 109 from 97 in Jhajjar and 106 from 49 in Karnal.Moreover, the districts which reported very few cases earlier were now witnessing a rise. The tally of infected persons in Panipat increased to 83 from 62, in Kurukshetra to 52 from 31 and in Kaithal to 44 from 18 since June 1.Even the recovery rate has declined to 33.14% from 47.73% a week ago, creating more problems for doctors and paramedic staff.“No doubt the prevailing situation is worrisome, especially for doctors and other medical staff. But giving relaxations in the lockdown at this time has increased our apprehension,” said a senior staff nurse from Kurukshetra.Another nurse from Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College said, “There is a strong possibility that the cases may increase further. Let’s see how many months it will take to defeat this invisible enemy.”The ground-level employees also bearing the brunt of the contagion surge as their work has increased. “We don’t know why the lockdown was eased when the cases have crossed 2.5 lakh. We have been working day and night for the past one week,” said Asha worker Sudesh Rani from Karnal.Doctors are of the view that the cases may rise further in the next one month. “There is a possibility that cases will reach a peak in the coming days. But we are ready to deal with any situation that could arise,” said Dr Shailender Mamgain, medical superintendent of LNJP Government Hospital, Kurukshetra.Dealing with higher number of cases, the district administrations have appealed the citizens not to hide their travel history and come to get them examined.Reacting over the spike in the past week, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “We are asking people to not hide their travel history and come forward for Covid-19 testing. It is the best way to contain the spread.”“We are well-prepared for any situation and testing around 250 people daily with focus on street vendors and sanitation workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relaxation-in-curbs-amid-mounting-covid-19-cases-worries-frontliners-in-haryana/story-Kasn0B7P4Ri0Xr8ry18P3K.html
08-06-2020||City||Kullu man arrested for spreading rumours about Covid-19 cases on social media||Police on Monday arrested a man for spreading rumours about Covid-19 positive cases on his Facebook page, in Kullu district.Police said the accused Maheshwar Singh,30, a resident of Beaser village in the district had posted on his Facebook page that six new cases of coronavirus have been reported in Kullu district. Later, he deleted the post.A case under Section 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) and 188 (disobedience to orders) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 54 (punishment for false warning) of Disaster Management Act has been registered.Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said all verified information is being provided on social media sites and through press briefs. He has advised people to only post information on their social media accounts after verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kullu-man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours-about-covid-19-cases-on-social-media/story-YV88hXhfzO5ptXF5NludyN.html
08-06-2020||City||HP Cong chief slams BJP for conducting virtual rallies amid lockdown||State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on Monday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for conducting virtual rallies amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and said that it is very unfortunate that even at a time when the whole country is battling the crisis, the BJP leaders are concerned about forming their government in Bihar.While addressing the media Rathore said that right now people need employment and the industries need to be revitalized.He also hit out at home minister Amit Shah and said that he was nowhere to be seen during the lockdown period but now he has suddenly shown up and is now engaged in conducting virtual rallies in Bihar.Rathore said that coronavirus cases are increasing very fast and India is now fifth-worst coronavirus affected country which is a matter of concern.He said that the Union government has completely failed in controlling coronavirus.He has demanded Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) to immediately pay outstanding amounts of apple purchases made by them last year to orchardists so that they can purchase cartons, apple trays, and other materials on time. Rathore also appreciated chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s statement of bringing labourers from Nepal to Himachal Pradesh for the upcoming apple season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cong-chief-slams-bjp-for-conducting-virtual-rallies-amid-lockdown/story-gTdmxP0QAQkdM9zfbOgibP.html
08-06-2020||City||Himachal CM launches green belt development scheme for rural senior citizens||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday launched ‘Panchvati Yojna’ under which parks and gardens would be developed for senior citizens of rural areas in the state.The scheme is being implemented by the rural development department.The CM said the main objective of the scheme is to provide opportunity to the elderly to spend their leisure time strolling in parks and gardens.He said such green belts would be developed on minimum of one bigha land with convergence of MGNREGA, Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) and 14th finance commission to enhance the life expectancy keeping in view the health requirements of senior citizens.Ayurvedic and medicinal plants would be grown in these parks and gardens besides providing recreational equipment, walking tracks and other basic amenities for aged people.“Close to 100 such parks would be developed in different parts of the state during the current financial year,” Jai Ram said.In the first phase, these parks will come up in development block Gohar of Mandi district, Bangana in Una, Banjar and Naggar in Kullu, Kaza in Lahaul-Spiti, Nagrota Bagwan and Sullah in Kangra, Paonta Sahib and Pachhad in Sirmaur, Tissa and Bhatiyat in Chamba, Kalpa in Kinnaur, Kandaghat in Solan, Rohru in Shimla, and Nadaun in Hamirpur district.“State Government was striving is trying to provide best facilities to the people of the State and this scheme was one step forward in this direction,” he said.Thakur said the Covid-19 pandemic has forced policy makers to rethink and reformulate programmes with special focus on rural development.Rural development minister Virender Kanwar expressed gratitude to the CM for showing keen interest in rural development.STATE OFFICIALS TOLD TO EFFECTIVELY DISSEMINATE POLICIES, PROGRAMMESThe chief minister has also directed officials for effective dissemination of state government’s policies and programmes using social media.Presiding over a meeting of information and public relations department officers, Jai Ram said PR professionals should think out of the box for effective broadcasting of state’s policies and programmes.He said latest technologies must be used for publicising the various developmental schemes and success stories, and developmental features should be brought out and provided to both print and electronic media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-launches-green-belt-development-scheme-for-rural-senior-citizens/story-esQFfF0kjpOmR6vZyfe4zJ.html
08-06-2020||City||Himachal RERA invokes force majeure in wake of Covid-19 outbreak||The housing and urban affairs ministry has issued an advisory regarding extension of registration of real estate projects and concurrently extending timelines of all statutory compliances due to ‘force majeure’ under the provisions of Real Estate Regulations and Development Act, 2016, said a spokesperson of Himachal Pradesh RERA on Monday.He said keeping in view the central government advisories and in exercise of powers vested under sections 37 and 34, a force majeure period of six months, from March 25 to September 24, 2020, has been invoked.The spokesperson informed that for further extension beyond the aforesaid six months, for adversely affected projects concerned, promoters will have to apply in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the Act.RERA may at its discretion waive off the fee for such extension under rule 6 (2) of HP Real Estate (Registration and Development) Rules, 2017, if it is due to force majeure. The time limits for compliances under Section 11, which become due anytime during force majeure period, stand automatically extended for a period till the expiry of the latter, he added.The force majeure duration would be treated as a moratorium period for the purpose of calculating interest under sections 12, 18 19(4) and 19 (7) of the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-rera-invokes-force-majeure-in-wake-of-covid-19-outbreak/story-WMMo2V8Jops5IR67Lnb98M.html
08-06-2020||City||Private bus operators discontinue service in HP, demand hike in bus fare||Private bus operators have decided not to ply private buses throughout the state from June 8 and have demanded the state government to hike bus fare.The decision was taken on Sunday by members of the state private bus operators union through a video conference. Private bus operators have demanded to make ₹10 as minimum bus fare. Apart from this, operators have demanded that bus fare from up to 5km should be ₹10, from 5-10km bus fare should be ₹20 and from 10-15km, bus fare should be ₹30. Operators have also demanded the state government to hike normal fare by 50%. Leader of state private bus operators union Rajesh Prashar said that they are not getting enough passengers because of lockdown imposed to thwart the spread of coronavirus and because of this they are suffering losses. “We are hoping for a positive response from the government and till are demands are not fulfilled we will not be operating private buses in the state,” he said.The state government had granted permission for the public as well as private buses to operate with a maximum of 60% capacity. There are around 3,100 private buses throughout the state.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the government will resolve all issues of private bus operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-bus-operators-discontinue-service-in-hp-demand-hike-in-bus-fare/story-qg7HRUUCmQqUNMloimWObK.html
08-06-2020||City||Dedicate Indus Hospital in Shimla for Covid-19 treatment, demands CPI (M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded the state government to set up a task force to battle coronavirus and dedicate Indus Hospital for coronavirus disease treatment.Apart from this, CPI (M) has asked the state government to provide essential equipment to doctors, nurses, paramedical and other staff in all Covid-19 hospitals in the state as per the criteria of World Health Organisation (WHO).The party has alleged that Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital lack ventilators, monitors, labs, ECG, oxygen pipeline and other essential equipment of the prescribed standards.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said Covid-19 patients are being treated in both these hospitals while those suffering from other diseases are not receiving any treatment, which is a complete violation of WHO guidelines.Chauhan said the state government’s poor arrangements to prevent the contagion have being exposed as the number of infected patients is increasing by the day. The situation could worsen if necessary steps are not taken, he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicate-indus-hospital-in-shimla-for-covid-19-treatment-demands-cpi-m/story-yaujtojV8jwCcya6W53f1N.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Shrines cautiously open doors for devotees, Nizamuddin dargah to stay shut||Following the relaxation in lockdown norms, the faithful are looking forward to revive their spiritual connect, with a visit to their favourite shrine. And the authorities managing temples, gurdwaras, churches and mosques are leaving no stone unturned to ensure the health and safety of devotees.However, with Covid-19 too omnipresent, a visit to the Capital’s places of worship is going to be a very different experience from what it was before the lockdown.At South Delhi’s Kalkaji Temple, sanitisation tunnels have been installed to ensure that pilgrims thronging the temple stay safe. Pt Mahant Surendranath Avdhoot says, “We resolve to follow government guidelines completely. We have pasted stickers on the floor to ensure social distancing, and the temple premises will be sanitised from time to time”.He also appeals to people with co-morbidities to not to visit temples at this time. “We also want to request devotes to avoid bringing elderly citizens, children and pregnant ladies to the temple for the time being, as their safety is paramount. We also urge all to use face masks and not to offer or exchange any prasad,” Pt Avdhoot adds.The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) is also gearing up with measures to ensure smooth and safe ‘darshan’ for all devotees, as the management believes that a visit to these sacred places will infuse the citizens with much positivity at this time of pandemic. “We are putting measures in place to make sure that the maximum number of people can take blessings in the shortest possible time. We don’t want people to wait in queues, as that often leads to flouting of social distancing norms. Hence, we are making more entry and exit points, besides installing sanitiser dispensers at multiple spots. For now, we won’t allow people to sit inside the gurdwara premises, they can come, have darshan and leave,” shares Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, DSGMC.He, however, is not convinced with the rule disallowing distribution of ‘prasad’, which he feels is an integral part of belief. “How will we convince people that they can purchase sweets from shops, liquor from vendors, but can’t take ‘prasad’ from a place of their faith? We will raise the issue with the concerned authorities to find a solution,” he says, while adding that people derive their strength from such religious places and hence it is their duty to ensure that no one is deprived from seeking divine blessings in these troubled times.Sirsa also requests all non-Sikh devotees to carry their own head covers as they would be no longer provided at gurdwaras, owing to hygiene issues.Mosques in the capital are also taking necessary steps to follow social distancing during community prayers. Maulana Mohd Furqan Qasmi of Old Delhi’s Shahi Sunehri Masjid says, “Mosques have always been high on cleanliness and hygiene and these aspects will be in greater focus. Even as we allow people to offer namaz within our premises, no one will be permitted to stay any longer and proper social distancing will be ensured. Following the health advisory and guidelines of the government remains our top priority.”Meanwhile, the dargah of the revered 13th century Sufi saint, Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, is yet to take a call on reopening for devotees. “Chances are that we won’t be reopening it anytime soon. The Nizamuddin dargah premises houses monuments which are hundreds of years old, so apart from maintaining social distancing and the safety of devotees, we have the added challenge of ensuring the safety of these historical sites. We consulted experts and they told us that excessive use of hard chemicals can be counterproductive for such heritage structures,” says Sufi Ajmal Nizami, custodian of the dargah.He also reveals that the urs (death anniversary) of Amir Khusro, an acclaimed poet and disciple of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, usually attended by thousands of devotees from across the world, will be a closed affair this year. “It will be observed from June 9-13, but the general public will not be allowed. A few select patrons will go through the rituals,” Nizami adds.Devotees on the other hand are divided over the prospect of finally getting to pray at shrines.“I usually visit Kalkaji temple in Delhi at least once a month. The sacred energy that one gets is amazing. It has been a long gap and I am really looking forward to praying there as soon as it reopens,” says Noida resident Pragya Sharma, agreeing it is going to be a very different experience now. “We have avoided venturing out for over two months. But this visit is long overdue and I will take all precautions while visiting the temple,” she adds.However, Janakpuri resident Ashok Singh, is sceptical about any such visit under the circumstances. “Paying obeisance at my neighbourhood temple has been part of my daily schedule for years. But since the lockdown, it changed as the temple was closed for outsiders. Now that it is going to reopen, I will desist from visiting it for the time being as it is better to avoid all unnecessary outings. God is omnipresent and I am happy praying at home.”Guidelines for those planning a spiritual outing in the Capital:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shrines-cautiously-open-doors-for-devotees-nizamuddin-dargah-to-stay-shut/story-7bVkA4OReHOuUsLLezvxyJ.html
08-06-2020||Lucknow||India Post helped 30 lakh people with doorstep cash withdrawal||During the corona-induced lockdown I in April, Santosh Bansal, a marginal farmer of Sitapur wanted to withdraw Rs 5000 urgently for medical treatment of his wife. It was impossible to go to his bank located 15 kilometres away, so he called the postman in his village for help.In a few hours the village postman arrived at Bansal’s door on his cycle. He had a mobile phone in which he punched Bansal’s bank and Aadhar card details and handed him Rs 5,000.This service, called Aadhar-enabled Payment System(AePS) to dispense cash to those who cannot reach the nearest ATM or bank branch, is provided by India Post Payment Bank run by the Indian Postal Services. Anyone with an Aadhar-linked bank account in any bank across India can withdraw a maximum of Rs 10,000 in a day using AePS.The service is a blessing for people living in rural areas where a postman or post office is easier to access than the traditional banking facilities.Chief Postmaster General of Uttar Pradesh Kaushalendra Sinha said that his department made it a point to reach out to as many people as possible to provide this service during the lockdown.“Having money in hand makes things easier, specially corona times where people are told to remain at home,” said Krishna Kumar Yadav, director, Postal Services, Lucknow Headquarters region.With the help of 20,000 representatives, the postal service provided cash to people across the state during lockdown. The postman handed cash to a fisherman in his boat in the middle of Saryu river in Ayodhya, to a general store owner deep inside the forest in Bahraich and to farmers working in their field in east UP.“During the lockdown period we disbursed over Rs 496 crore to around 30 lakh people across Uttar Pradesh. Majority of these beneficiaries is farmers, daily wage earners and labourers,” said Sinha.Through the service, the department also disbursed cash benefits provided by the government under various schemes. “We disbursed old age pension, handicap pension and various schemes under DBT(Direct Benefit Transfer), directly to the beneficiary,” the officer said. “This not only made things easier for them but also protected them against going out and taking the risk of getting infected,” he added.Considering the ease of operation, several camps were held in over 20 districts across the state with help from the local administration. The camps were held in remote places. Villagers were able to withdraw money from their account via AEPS at these camps.The department has also trained the postmen to follow all precautions suggested by the government to prevent Covid-19 infection.Besides delivering cash to people, the postal department also ferried over 23 tonnes of medicines across UP. The department is also delivering essential items including, PPE kits, ventilators and Covid-19 testing kits to hospitals in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/india-post-helped-30-lakh-people-with-doorstep-cash-withdrawal/story-3dbDY4f6ce2KEmG2q5mIfM.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Private offices resume with 10% staff in Pune||The phase-wise upliftment of the lockdown will see private offices in Pune and PMR region operate with maximum 10 per cent staff from Monday. The rest of the staff will work from home, according to guidelines.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “Social distancing and wearing mask is mandatory for all. The employer must ensure that adequate distance is maintained in the seating arrangement of the employees. The office space must mandatorily display the list of PMC-run hospitals where Covid-19 treatment is available.”Ikram Khan, proprietor, Sohos Group, that is into hospitality said, “We will be taking all the necessary precautions. However, lesser number of staff is likely to report as there is still imminent fear of contracting the virus amongst the workforce. However, reopening the office is a positive step which can restart the defunct economy of the city.” Khan’s office is located in Kalyaninagar and has 100 employees.Shantilal Kataria, vice-president, Credai national said, “We welcome this decision of reopening offices, though the decision is delayed. Precautions will be followed, however, we request the authorities to allow 33% staff instead of 10%.”Sandeep Barmecha, owner of an IT consultancy company in Baner, that houses 30 employees said, “Currently social distancing and following the restrictions of the administration is our top priority, however, getting our manpower back to work is also a major challenge. It will take a few more months to get back our staff ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-offices-resume-with-10-staff-in-pune/story-KQPzxYCHEHy2JtQOR3KiTM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two senior citizens die of Covid-19 in Amritsar, taking district corona toll to 10||Amritsar: Two residents of Amritsar died of Covid-19 at the local Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday, health officials said.“A 60-year old resident of Katra Sher Singh was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive and referred from a private hospital on June 4. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He was in a critical condition and put on ventilator support. The patient suffered a cardiac arrest at 11.15am on Monday,” civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.He said another patient, a 78-year-old resident of Sharma Colony, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to the government hospital. He was also a patient of diabetes and was put on high flow oxygen and treatment was initiated according to protocol. However, his condition deteriorated and he suffered a cardiac arrest at 10.15am on Monday.With this, the total toll due to Covid-19 reached 10 in Amritsar. The district has reported 483 coronavirus cases so far of which 346 people have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-senior-citizens-die-of-covid-19-in-amritsar-taking-district-corona-toll-to-10/story-8KeoXCFtG8REFwz8wYedvO.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||2.1 magnitude earthquake occurs near Delhi, 16th in 2 months||A 2.1 magnitude earthquake, too mild to be felt by most people, occurred near Delhi on Monday afternoon, according to the National Center for Seismology. The earthquake had its epicentre 13 km from Haryana’s Gurugram, the center said. This is the sixth earthquake to have its epicentre around Gurugram-Rohtak over the last 10 days. And the 16th quake to be reported in Delhi’s neighbourhood since April this year.Most of these, however, were very mild and only recorded by seismographs.The string of earthquakes or tremors have sparked concerns that a bigger quake could strike the national capital region. Seismologists say the increased frequency does not necessarily imply that a major one is coming but stress that monitoring them is key to being prepared. Unlike many other natural disasters, earthquakes cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.The 2.1 magnitude earthquake on Monday occurred at a depth of 18 km, also one reason why it wasn’t felt by most people. Shallow earthquakes that occurred at a depth of a few kilometres often lead to greater damage than more powerful deep ones.AP Pandey, a seismologist at the NCS, last week told Hindustan Times that there had been numerous small earthquakes in Delhi and Haryana over the last three years.“The Himalayan plate is moving in the north-northeast direction and subducting beneath the Eurasian plate. So, there is a lot of energy along weak zones which are sometimes released through fissures and lineaments,” he said.A fissure is a crack or a fracture; a lineament is a linear feature corresponding to a fault -- such as a valley or a mountain range. There are several faults in and around Delhi: Mathura fault, Moradabad fault, Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Delhi-Sargodha fault, Mahendergarh and Dehradun fault.The NCS says most of the small earthquakes recorded around Delhi since April this year were along lineaments. “It is good that energy or stress is being released through these lineaments. Otherwise, there can be a big release which can cause widespread damage,” Pandey said last week.Delhi falls under the fourth-highest zone in India, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But there haven’t been too many earthquakes which have its epicentre in the national capital. Delhi mostly experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-1-magnitude-earthquake-occurs-near-delhi-16th-in-2-months/story-DHlkleLpM4IvLLXoE3TesM.html
08-06-2020||Business||Wipro, IBM announce collaboration to develop hybrid cloud offerings||Wipro Limited on Monday announced a collaboration with IBM through which the Bengaluru- headquartered company would develop hybrid cloud offerings to help businesses migrate, manage and transform mission-critical workloads and applications, with security across public or private cloud and on-premises IT environments. Wipro IBM Novus Lounge, located at Wipros Kodathi campus in Bengaluru, is a dedicated innovation centre, according to a Wipro statement.It will offer a comprehensive suite of solutions leveraging Cloud, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Internet of Things capabilities to foster innovation for enterprises, developers and start-ups, the statement said.“Customers will have remote access to IBM and Red Hat solutions, designed to help them scale their technology investments for improved experience and business agility with connected insights”, it said. Additionally, Wipro would leverage IBM Cloud offerings and technologies alongside in-house services to develop industry solutions for clients in Banking and Financial Services, Energy and Utilities, Retail, Manufacturing and Healthcare space, it was stated. P||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/wipro-ibm-announce-collaboration-to-develop-hybrid-cloud-offerings/story-L9Waq4oCAjhEH6oxxZCtdO.html
08-06-2020||Bangalore||Unlock 1: Religious places, hotels and restaurants open for public in Bengaluru||After about two-and-half months, places of worship, hotels and restaurants opened for the public on Monday in Bengaluru and several parts of Karnataka, with easing of Covid-19 restrictions as per unlock 1.0 norms of the Centre. As temples opened up with some strict guidelines in place, the number of devotees remained scarce. Checking of body temperature at the entrance with infrared thermometers, use of hand sanitisers, wearing of masks by devotees and staff and also maintaining social distancing were common sights at temples. No ‘teertha’ (holy water) and ‘prasad’ are being distributed to devotees for now, a temple official said.The Government has asked people above 65, below 10 years and pregnant women to cooperate by staying at home until further orders, and has banned entry of those who are ill. Only “darshan” is being allowed, while all kinds of temple fairs and “sevas” have been temporarily barred until further orders. Several temples have also deferred opening for the public. Though the temples are conducting daily poojas and rituals, they were not open to the public till now, with Covid-19 induced lockdown restrictions in place. Mosques too have opened, with restrictions. Namaz (prayer) mats and water for ablution are not being provided at the premises.Several mosque authorities have requested devotees to offer prayers at their homes. The Archdiocese of Bangalore has already deferred the opening of churches till June 13 to educate the visitors about the new norms to contain coronavirus.Though hotels and restaurants opened for dining, the number of customers remained scarce in parts of the city on Monday morning.Only takeaways were allowed at hotels and restaurants all these days. All measures have been taken to maintain social distancing and to follow government guidelines, a restaurant manager said, adding menu cards will not be placed on tables and more digital transactions would be encouraged. Maintaining hygiene and regular sanitisation will be given importance, he said, adding “we are doing our best.” Though malls have also been given permission to open, few of them have decided to defer it for a few days.Those opening themsaid all measures would be followed and visitors should have downloaded the Arogya Setu app on their mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/unlock-1-religious-places-hotels-and-restaurants-open-for-public-in-bengaluru/story-xs0K8JSvOfCrCDywdgi6yJ.html
08-06-2020||Lucknow||Delhi hospitals being reserved only for Delhiites is‘unfortunate’: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Monday termed as “unfortunate” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement that hospitals run by the Delhi government and private entities will only treat Delhiites during the novel coronavirus crisis.The BSP leader also demanded that the Centre intervene in the matter. Kejriwal on Sunday, while making the announcement, had also said that hospitals run by the Centre will have no such restriction, and if people from other states come to the national capital for specific surgeries, they can get medical treatment at private hospitals. The announcement came after a five-member panel constituted by the AAP government on Saturday suggested that the health infrastructure of the city should be used only for treating Delhiites in view of the raging Covid-19 crisis.In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “Delhi is the capital of the country. People from all over the country come here for work. If anyone falls ill and is being denied treatment because the person does not belong to Delhi and the Delhi government does not provide treatment, then it is very unfortunate.” In another tweet, Mayawati asked people to follow government norms for ‘Unlock-1’.  “In Unlock-1 people should follow government norms while visiting places and markets which have been allowed to open. They should avoid visiting these places unless very necessary. This is the BSP’s advice in people’s interest,” she said. ‘Unlock-1’ was initiated in the country from Monday under which the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/delhi-hospitals-being-reserved-only-for-delhiites-is-unfortunate-mayawati/story-1KiyIjtUQboyCcQ0mf1hyI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.1 hits Delhi: Report||A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.1 has hit Delhi, news agency PTI reported on Monday, quoting the National Centre for Seismology (NCS). The epicentre of the earthquake was at the Delhi-Gurgaon border and it occurred at 1 pm at a depth of 18 kilometre, the NCS said.Since April, Delhi-NCR has recorded more than 14 quakes of low and medium intensity, PTI reported.Twin earthquakes within an hour shook Haryana late last month. The tremors were felt in Delhi too.The first one, a 4-5 magnitude quake, was reported in Rohtak at 9 pm and the second one struck at 10 pm on May 29. Both the earthquakes were shallow.A 2.5 magnitude earthquake with its epicentre in Faridabad district was recorded by the National Centre for Seismology at 4.24 pm a day before evening.There was another mild quake on May 15 of 2.2 magnitude with its epicentre at 9 km from central Delhi.On May 10, people in Delhi and nearby areas felt tremors when a 3.4 magnitude earthquake occurred with its epicentre in Sonia Vihar.Two earthquakes were also reported on two consecutive days in Delhi in April.Delhi falls under the fourth-highest zone in India, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But there haven’t been too many earthquakes which have its epicentre in the national capital. Delhi mostly experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.Seismologists, however, say that it is not unusual for the epicentre of these relatively small earthquakes to be in Delhi and neighbouring Haryana, seismologists said.They also say that a larger proportion of people have been feeling the earthquake because most people are at home and there is far less noise associated with traffic movement due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/low-intensity-earthquake-of-magnitude-2-1-hits-delhi-report/story-1UDwCq0FVXTdBXF8VtR2XO.html
08-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru: Places of worship, hotels and restaurants open for public||After about two-and-half months, places of worship, hotels and restaurants opened for the public on Monday in Bengaluru and several parts of Karnataka, with easing of Covid-19 restrictions as per unlock 1.0 norms of the Centre. As temples opened up with some strict guidelines in place, the number of devotees remained scarce.Checking of body temperature at the entrance with infrared thermometers, use of hand sanitisers, wearing of masks by devotees and staff and also maintaining social distancing were common sights at temples.No ‘teertha’ (holy water) and ‘prasad’ are being distributed to devotees for now, a temple official said.The Government has asked people above 65, below 10 years and pregnant women to cooperate by staying at home until further orders, and has banned entry of those who are ill.Only “darshan” is being allowed, while all kinds of temple fairs and “sevas” have been temporarily barred until further orders.Several temples have also deferred opening for the public.Though the temples are conducting daily poojas and rituals, they were not open to the public till now, with Covid-19 induced lockdown restrictions in place.Mosques too have opened, with restrictions.Namaz (prayer) mats and water for ablution are not being provided at the premises.Several mosque authorities have requested devotees to offer prayers at their homes.The Archdiocese of Bangalore has already deferred the opening of churches till June 13 to educate the visitors about the new norms to contain coronavirus.Though hotels and restaurants opened for dining, the number of customers remained scarce in parts of the city on Monday morning.Only takeaways were allowed at hotels and restaurants all these days.All measures have been taken to maintain social distancing and to follow government guidelines, a restaurant manager said, adding menu cards will not be placed on tables and more digital transactions would be encouraged.Maintaining hygiene and regular sanitisation will be given importance, he said, adding “we are doing our best.” Though malls have also been given permission to open, few of them have decided to defer it for a few days.Those opening themsaid all measures would be followed and visitors should have downloaded the Arogya Setu app on their mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-places-of-worship-hotels-and-restaurants-open-for-public/story-uM2IowWBUgCl3KFiQTFygO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||10 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally rises to 421||Ten more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 421, officials said.Seven cases were reported from Una, two cases from Solan and one from Sirmaur.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said among the new patients is family of three, including a mother and two sons. Hailing from Amb sub-division, they returned from Delhi and were under home quarantine.One person from Bhadera village has also tested positive. He had returned from Delhi and was under home-quarantine. His daughter-in-law had tested positive a day ago.An ex-serviceman from Bangana sub-division is also among the positive cases. Besides, a 36-year-old Agra returnee and a 50-year-old man who returned from Gurugram was also found positive for the virus.Solan chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said one of the patients, a 46-year-old resident of Nalagarh had returned from Howrah in West Bengal while the second patient, a 24-year-old man, a resident of Haridwar, worked at a cement factory in Himachal.Both patients had travelled in the same train from Delhi to Himachal and were put under institutional quarantine at Barotiwala.A person from Sirmaur, who had returned from Delhi and was under institutional quarantine at Kala Amb, has also tested positive.189 ACTIVE CASESActive cases in the state are now 189 as four people have recovered. So far, Himachal has recorded 421 cases of which 223 have recovered while five have succumbed to the disease and four have migrated to other states. The state’s recovery rate is above 50%The second wave of Covid-19 cases hit Himachal on May 4. Since then, a total of 381 people have tested positive for the virus.So far, eleven of the total twelve districts in the state are affected by Covid-19. The tribal district of Lahaul & Spiti is the only Covid-free district.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 123 cases followed by Kangra with 109 cases. A total of 49 cases have been reported in Una, 34 in Solan, 32 in Chamba, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Mandi, 13 in Shimla, 12 in Sirmaur, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-test-positive-in-solan-himachal-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-413/story-j1smiN0yUdTxP4PFX15TXJ.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||‘Situation would’ve been better if Centre..’: Delhi’s health minister defends reserving hospital beds for city residents||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that the situation due to coronavirus cases in the national capital could have been better if the Centre had stopped international flights in time.He also said that given that the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Delhi, the residents of the city need to be treated on priority. “Delhi and Mumbai are the two big metros with international flights coming in. If the Centre had stopped these (international) flights before the coronavirus outbreak spread in India, the situation could have been better and the disease would not have spread as much. Given that the number of cases are increasing rapidly, so we need hospitals to treat city residents,” Jain told news agency ANI. Watch | ‘If Centre would’ve stopped..’: Satyendar Jain on Delhi’s rising Covid tally He also said treatment of patients from other states in Delhi hospitals wasn’t an issue as the neighbouring states are saying that they have less number of cases. #WATCH ...If Centre would've stopped (intn'l) flights in time, situation could've been better.Given the cases, hospitals are needed for Delhites.Neighboring states say they have less cases so it shouldn't be issue: Delhi Health Min on criticism of reserving hospital for residents pic.twitter.com/VIZ94sORBQJain’s remarks came a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that beds in hospitals under the Delhi government and private hospitals except those where special surgeries like neurosurgery are performed will be reserved for the city’s residents till the Covid-19 crisis eases. The chief minister justified his decision citing the feedback from a survey on the issue that the government had done a few days ago. He said that around 750,000 people had responded, of whom more than 90% said that hospitals in Delhi should cater only to the residents of the city till the pandemic subsides. The Delhi government has clarified that the directive was not applicable to central government-run hospitals.People from other states can still be treated in the national capital’s hospitals that come under the central government. These include the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.Even as the number of coronavirus infections continue to rise in the national capital, Delhi opened its borders with neighbouring states on Monday. Delhi reported 28,936 Covid-19 cases and 812 fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/situation-would-ve-been-better-if-centre-delhi-s-health-minister-defends-reserving-hospital-beds-for-city-residents/story-deSuI4FQMshuSIsP539dNM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three, including Kuwait returnee, test positive for Covid-19 in Moga, Faridkot||A woman, who had returned from Kuwait in May and had been lodged at a quarantine facility in Moga tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Monday, while the two children of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) tested positive in Faridkot on Saturday, taking the district count to 74. Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said the woman was a resident of Green Field Colony in Moga and had been admitted to an isolation facility at DM College: “Now, there are three active cases in the district,” he said.Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the 20-year-old son and 23-year-old daughter of a Punjab Police ASI, who had tested positive on June 3, had tested positive for coronavirus disease. They are residents of Kotkapura town. The two of them were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot. With this, there are 12 active cases in the district.5 OF ASI’S CONTACTS HAVE TEST ED POSITIVE “We suspect a chain has started in the district. Five among 55 contacts of the ASI have already tested positive, while many reports are awaited,” he said. The ASI and two other people, who also tested positive, had visited Chandigarh last week to bring the dead body of a relative, who had died of cardiac arrest. We suspect they contracted virus there as they all tested positive,” said a health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-including-kuwait-returnee-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga-faridkot/story-dKGzdRFCzrfs4UGgTG4QVM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||683 quarantine centres set up across Himachal||As many as 683 quarantine centres have been setup across Himachal with a bedding-capacity of 32,361, an official spokesperson said on Monday. A total of 253 doctors and 287 paramedics have been posted at the quarantine centres.Around 5,000 people have been registered at these quarantine centres, said the spokesperson. Most people who had applied to return to Himachal from other states have been brought back and have been asked to complete institutional quarantine before finally going home, he said. As many as 1.5 lakh people have returned to the state and state government has started a new programme ‘nigaha’ to sensitise families returning from outside the state, the spokesperson said. Strict quarantine norms have helped prevent community spread of coronavirus,” he said, adding that state officials, representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions and Urban Local Bodies were ensuring that people returning from other parts of the state were following quarantine norms.The spokesperson said an application had been developed to check quarantine violations.The Coronamukt Himachal Mobile App (http://covid19.gov.in) is being used to ensure that people don’t jump quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/683-quarantine-centres-setup-across-himachal/story-had7JTR58dZcaxIwXg0jRM.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: List of documents needed to get treated at Delhi hospitals||Shortly after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that hospitals in the national capital will cater to Covid-19 patients from the city, the state government issued a list of documents needed for the purpose.Kejriwal had announced on Sunday that the hospitals run by his government as well as private entities will only treat residents of the city during the coronavirus crisis. And the list of documents was out by evening.Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said hospitals run by the Centre will have no such restriction, and if people from other states come to the national capital for specific surgeries, they can get medical treatment at private hospitals.There is a vast list of documents needed to avail treatment at hospitals in Delhi. The list includes:• Voter ID• Bank or post office passbook• Ration card• Passport• Drivers’ license• Income tax return• Latest water, telephone or electricity bill issued to the patient or close relative such as parents or spouse• Proof of postal department’s posts received with the patient’s name in the given address• Aadhaar card issued prior to June 7• Any such document issued in the name of any of the parents if the patient is a minorAccording to records of the city government’s planning department, the city currently has a population of around 19.1 million, of which, records of the election commission suggests, 14.6 million are eligible voters. The gap, senior officials said, are either minors or residents of the city who vote in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-list-of-documents-you-need-to-get-treated-at-delhi-hospitals/story-RAOEbvi9RiR85cjfjzsAeK.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Religious places open in Delhi after more than two months||Religious places in Delhi opened after two-and-a-half months on Monday with devotees trickling in to offer prayers following the social distancing and sanitisation measures put in place by the management committees of the temples and shrines.The religious places were closed in Delhi on March 23, two days ahead of the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe famous Chhatarpur temple complex opened around 8.45 am with nearly 300 devotees visiting in the first hour, the temple authorities said.“We have set up a sanitisation tunnel at the temple entrance and are using a thermal gun to screen people. No prasad and flower is allowed,” Kishor Chawla, CEO, Chhatarpur temple management committee, said.Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid Syed Ahmed Bukhari said the mosque was not opened for the first namaz of the day due to the corona curfew till 5 am.“We are expecting good numbers for the second namaz around 1 pm. Social distancing and sanitisation measures have been put in place to prevent the spread of the virus during congregational prayers,” he said.Sikh devotees were seen at prominent gurdwaras such as Bangla Sahib, Sis Ganj and Rakabganj. They paid obeisance to Guru Granth Sahib following social distancing and sanitisation norms.Sanitisation tunnels have been set up at major gurdwaras and social distancing is being enforced by ensuring that people do not stay longer inside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrines, said Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chairman Manjinder Singh Sirsa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/religious-places-open-in-delhi-after-more-than-two-months/story-4PDV17GnUnSmEMIeZnu8DM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Unprecedented efforts on to develop Covid-19 vaccine, parallel investments being made, too’||Chandigarh: The race against time for developing a Covid-19 vaccine and expediting its availability despite disrupting the routine immunisation services and increasing economic disparities are only some of the challenges the pandemic has thrown up. Deputy chief executive officer (CEO) of Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi), a Geneva-based international organisation, Anuradha Gupta, also a former Haryana bureaucrat who served in the Union health ministry, shared this while speaking on the Covid situation in India, the strategy to speed up availability of the vaccine and measures to prevent disruption of essential health services.How do you see the Covid situation in India?Given India’s large population, the situation could have been much worse had the government not acted in time. With relaxation of lockdown measures, the disease trajectory will need careful monitoring as a sharp spike can overwhelm health systems.Do you think we are prepared if there is widespread community transmission after the lockdown exit?Widespread community transmission of Covid-19 in India will be extremely challenging. Safe and effective Covid vaccines are the best bet to interrupt, and eventually stop, community transmission of the contagion.What’s the status of Covid vaccine development?Efforts going into Covid vaccine development are unprecedented. There are more than 100 vaccine candidates with eight technology platforms. A few are entering human trials. For the first time, parallel investments are happening in manufacturing scale-up so as not to lose time once safety, efficacy and appropriateness of a vaccine is established.How is Gavi contributing towards the Covid-19 situation?We have played a key role in establishing a Covid Vaccine Global Access Facility (Covax Facility). On June 4, Gavi launched an advance market commitment (AMC) for Covid-19 vaccines, an innovative financing instrument which provides volume guarantees with an aim to provide equitable access to low and middle income countries. AstraZeneca, which is developing a Covid-19 vaccine in collaboration with the University of Oxford, became the first vaccine manufacturer to sign up to the AMC with a guarantee to provide 300 million doses of vaccine upon licensure.How are you addressing the immunisation equity issue vis-a-vis children from the marginalised sections?We are supporting countries in preventing the disruption of routine immunisation services, restoring them as early as possible and catching up on children who might have missed their vaccinations because of Covid-19.How is Covid -19 affecting lives and livelihoods?To flatten the disease curve, countries resorted to lockdowns. The poor were the worst hit and many lost their livelihoods. Women, many of who work in the informal sector, are disproportionately affected and are at an increased risk of domestic violence. With economic slowdown, governments in lower income countries struggled to maintain public financing and provision of essential services, further exacerbating inequities. Disruption of essential health services such as immunisation could bring a real risk of losing hard-won gains, leading to resurgence of diseases.How has India fared in controlling the pandemic?Investment in primary health care and strengthening public health systems under the National Rural Health Mission has equipped the country with community-based structures and capacities, an invaluable asset in a pandemic. More than 10 lakh ASHAs and six lakh village health, sanitation and nutrition committees combined with over three lakh ANMs, and anganwadi workers, have enabled the country to do house to house outreach and mobilise community on a large scale.Do you see a collateral damage in the spread of the pandemic in India?Already we are seeing disruption of immunisation services which means 2.5 crore children born every year in India would be at risk of not receiving on-time vaccination against diseases such as polio, measles, diphtheria, pneumonia, diarrhoea. India successfully eliminated polio in 2011. We don’t want it to strike back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unprecedented-efforts-on-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-parallel-investments-being-made-too/story-CFigFCqzgDiDhq50OAG8mL.html
08-06-2020||City||Murder accused hacked to death inside government hospital in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai||A man accused of murder was killed by at least four unidentified people inside a government hospital, where he was undergoing treatment, in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai early on Monday, reports said.According to news agency ANI, four unidentified men entered Rajaji Government Hospital in Madurai with weapons and killed the man. Reports said the man was identified as 40-year-old V Murugan and that he is an accused in the murder of Patta Rajasekar in 2019. ANI said that a case registered has been registered and an investigation by the police is underway. Rajaji Government Hospital is one of the busiest hospitals in southern Tamil Nadu with more than 2,500 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-accused-hacked-to-death-inside-government-hospital-in-tamil-nadu-s-madurai/story-a6Gmag0tSKWX1HsvDe0gTO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||GNDU to plan architecture of Sultanpur Lodhi’s Pind Babe Nanak Da heritage village||The Punjab government has asked Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, to draw architectural plans for Pind Babe Nanak Da heritage village in Sultanpur Lodhi, Kapurthala. Pind Babe Nanak Da will be the replica of Rai-Bhoi-Di-Talwandi, the village where Guru Nanak was born, which is now in Pakistan.Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema had raised the matter during a video conference with Punjab chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh. The CM was told that Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh had held a meeting regarding the project with the stakeholders. Initially, the chief secretary was planning to loop in an international architect. However, the CM asked him to hire local architects: “An international architect will not know as much about Guru Nanak as our people,” the CM had said.“I think that they (GNDU architects) are the best,” the CM said. The state government’s group of ministers, which include Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi and OP Soni, have selected 70 acres of land behind Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, as the site for the heritage village. Most of the land falls in Machi Zowa and Taraf Hazi villages. Officials said the land acquisition process was yet to begin.MUDDY EXTERIOR, HIGH-TECH INTERIORA seven-member committee finalised the concept for Pind Babe Nanak Da heritage village. The exterior of the village will be built of mud in a simulacra of a 400-year-old village. The interior, however, will be studded with modern technology, depicting Guru Nanak’s life between 1469 and 1539.Punjabi University head of Sri Guru Granth Sahib studies professor Sarbjinder Singh, who was a member of the committee, said, “The new village will have 13 ‘pattiyan’ (mohallas) like Rai-Bhoi-Di-Talwandi village had 13 pattiyan. Named after figures of Sikh history, they will meet at the sath (centre or commonplace), where Guru Nanak used to hold dialogue.”Former MP Tarlochan Singh, a member of the concept committee, said the four phases of Guru Nanak’s life will be showcased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gndu-to-plan-architecture-of-sultanpur-lodhi-s-pind-babe-nanak-da-heritage-village/story-HTQdOB14c2aEUxNj1hma4J.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||10-month-old crushed by Mercedes in West Delhi, dies||A ten-month-old girl allegedly lost her life in an accident in West Delhi’s Tilak Nagar area, the police said on Sunday.“The incident took place when the baby was in the compound of the parking area at the ground floor of her residence and the driver of Mercedes Benz was reversing the car,” a police official said.The deceased was identified as Radhika, whose father Rakesh used to work as the security guard in the said residence.The unfortunate incident occurred at around 3.30 pm in the afternoon following which the baby was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital where she was declared dead.The owner of the said Mercedes Benz SUV is identified as Jasbir Singh who is into elevator business. At the time of the incident, his driver Akhilesh was driving the said vehicle.“The offending vehicle has also been taken into possession and the FSL team is being summoned for inspection. Investigation in this matter is underway,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) West Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-month-old-crushed-by-mercedes-in-west-delhi-dies/story-IluTpGd4OA3EXOxwxZCL4J.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||86-year old Delhi resident shines a ray of hope in these grim times by defeating Covid 19||“Jo dawaai dene vala hai, theek karne vala hai, voh paramatma hai. Janm aur maran uske haath mein hai, insaan ke haath mein nahi hai (The supreme power is the one who gives birth and takes life. This is something that we mere mortals don’t have any control over),” says Vishnu Bhagwan Chopra. At 86 years of age, Chopra has not only battled Covid-19, but inspired the world by defeating the virus with his sheer willpower.Towards the end of April, Chopra started having complications with his breathing, so his family decided to get him tested for coronavirus. The test results came positive on April 30 and he was admitted to RML hospital for a little over a fortnight. At first, he was in disbelief. “Main hairaan ho gaya kyuki main baahar gaya hi nahi tha. I was admitted in the ICU of RML hospital. It was clean and my treatment began. They gave me nutritious meals on time, and the quantity was more than enough for me,” he says. But despite the treatment, his results continued testing positive. He was shifted to MD City (Maha Durga Charitable Trust) Hospital in Model Town, which had been turned into a Corona-specific hospital. “I was put in an isolated ward and was very well taken care of. I don’t have any complaints with the way the doctors, nurses and my family have taken care of me,” says the octogenarian. Finally, on May 24, after almost a month, his test came negative. He is at home now and recovering well. “I am on my last leg, and I believe in chanting the lord’s name. Prabhu ka naam bahut bada hai; vohi ek dawaai hai (The lord’s name is very powerful; it’s a medicine). I don’t know if I have willpower. It is He who gives willpower. It is my children and my family who give me strength. They help me move my muscles and massage me, give me my medicines on time and keep telling me to eat,” he says. Dr Nikhil Makhija, Radiologist at MD City Hospital, says, “Coronavirus is a new disease for everyone, so whenever there is a positive case, a state of panic is bound to form. The most important facet is the patient’s willpower. It is important to put the patient at ease. When the patient is calm, 50% of the battle is won. In his case, despite his advanced age, he was very cooperative. That helped in his recovery. The efficacy of the medicines increases if the patient has the will. In addition to medical care, we have to give them emotional and mental care,” he says. When Chopra was discharged, the staff gave him a cheerful farewell, applauding as he was being wheeled out. “One thing that often gets sidelined is the staff. They get into this knowing full well that they are exposing themselves to the virus. It is important to keep them motivated and boost their morale. These are small instances and events that we do to keep the spirits up,” shares Dr Makhija.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/86-year-old-delhi-resident-shines-a-ray-of-hope-in-these-grim-times-by-defeating-covid-19/story-Srw0WxNbL9EFVCrZg05UtI.html
08-06-2020||City||Teenager commits suicide in Rajasthan’s Kota after playing Pubg game||A teenaged boy from Kota who was a student of class ninth allegedly committed suicide on Sunday after playing a video game on his mobile phone.“A boy studying in class ninth and a resident of Gandhi Colony committed suicide today,” Hansraj Meena, CI, Railway Colony Police Station said.“His family members have informed that he had downloaded Pubg game two days back on his mobile phone. His body has been placed in the mortuary. We are waiting for his father, who works in the army, to come back after which the post-mortem examination would be conducted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teenager-commits-suicide-in-rajasthan-s-kota-after-playing-pubg-game/story-o90Cwqp7ptMxV0WeB72nvM.html
08-06-2020||City||Tejashwi Yadav asks Bihar CM to stop doing ‘headline management’ and focus on ‘corona management’||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over coronavirus management in the state and asked him to stop doing “headline management”.“Why is Chief Minister silent on improving/expanding healthcare infrastructure? We asked many times to inform about the status of ventilators, ICU beds and expansion of testing centres but you did not answer. Is this not your failure? Stop doing headline management and do corona management,” tweeted Yadav (translated from Hindi).RJD on Sunday observed ‘Garib Adhikaar Diwas’ in protest against Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally.Yadav had said that the double engine government has tortured poor people and the state government is only focused towards satisfying its hunger for power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tejashwi-yadav-asks-bihar-cm-to-stop-doing-headline-management-and-focus-on-corona-management/story-usod2UhdvAcXkZYICJM5nK.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Entry into Delhi allowed from Gurugram, commuters claim chaos at UP border||Delhi borders opened on Monday as part of the relaxations announced under Unlock 1 by the Kejriwal government. The announcement about opening of Delhi’s borders was made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday.The order came as a relief to thousands of commuters from the National Capital Region (NCR) who have to go to Delhi either to attend the office or for other purposes.Images tweeted by news agency ANI showed smooth traffic at Delhi’s border with Haryana on Monday morning. People’s were seen crossing into Delhi easily from Gurugram.But many residents in Uttar Pradesh reported chaos at the Delhi border. They claimed that the policemen manning the border have not been told about opening of borders from higher authorities. They tagged Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and district magistrates of Noida and Ghaziabad to help them.Also read | Covid-19: List of documents needed to get treated at Delhi hospitals“Dear Sir, At Border of noida delhi police demanding pass when govt has allow to enter border without pass and barricade also not remove. Lots of people facing this kind of problem they couldn’t go to work,” said a Twitter user Rajesh Kumar. @dmgbnagar @aajtak Dear SirAt Border of noida delhi police demanding pass when govt has allow to enter border without pass and barricade also not remove. Lots of people facing this kind of problem they couldn't go to work.“Traffic situation is worst at Delhi Noida Border. people Are getting restless now. Kindly see,” said a user who goes by the name Meadows Camp on Twitter. Traffic situation is worst at Delhi Noida Border. people Are getting restless now Kindly see @ArvindKejriwal @myogiadityanath @dmgbnagar @PMOIndiaAnother user Prabhakar Gupta tweeted: “UP State Govt and D M Gautam budhnagar please take Action Regarding opening Noida Delhi Border. Most of offices and Industries are open in Noida , GNIDA Many Employees come from Delhi. Because of this restrictions there is no smooth operation.” UP State Govt and D M Gautam budhnagar please take Action Regarding opening Noida Delhi Border. Most of offices and Industries are open in Noida , GNIDA Many Employees come from Delhi. Because of this restrictions there is no smooth operation . @myogiadityanath @dmgbnagarThe users trying to enter Delhi from Ghaziabad also said the same thing about the situation at the border. “sir, if everything is open then why you are creating traffic jam on dnd and ghaziabad border .. just bcs of pass checking people are facing problem,” tweeted a user Rohit, tagging Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. @myogiadityanath @dmgbnagar sir, if everything is open then why you are creating traffic jam on dnd and ghaziabad border .. just bcs of pass checking people are facing problemThe Ghaziabad district administration had already announced on Sunday said that their borders will continue to remain sealed till further direction.“There are no directions issued by the district magistrate for opening of Ghaziabad’s border with Delhi. The previous directions will continue to be in force,” said Manish Mishra, Superintendent of Police (city).The Ghaziabad district magistrate on April 22 had imposed restrictions on inter-border movement of people, citing rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district. Additional restrictions were put in place on May 27. Later, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 1 had announced the closure of border for a week.The UP-Gate border is a major transit point for people from Ghaziabad to go to east Delhi. The border witnessed movement of at least 80,000 passenger cars daily on an average, as per estimates of the NHAI, before the lockdown.Traffic at present, however, has reduced to one-fourth due to restricted movement during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-borders-open-entry-allowed-from-gurugram-commuters-claim-chaos-at-up-border/story-RcIkqMQ0oUnvPbU9J5EKyK.html
08-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 41 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 600-mark||Forty-one more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Sunday, pushing the number of cases in the district to 632, officials said.So far, the district has reported eight deaths due to Covid-19, they said.“On Sunday, 41 people tested positive for Covid-19. The total number of positive cases till date stands at 632,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.He said 31 more patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment, taking the number of those cured of the disease to 413 till date. “There are 211 active cases now,” he said.The officer said a Covid-positive patient, who was a resident of adjoining Ghaziabad, was “brought dead” to the district hospital here.“The district surveillance officer of Ghaziabad has been informed,” he added.According to a statement, the fresh cases included three minors, one of them aged 12 and two others 14. Four elderly people -- aged 67, 68, 71 and 72 -- were also found infected with the virus, it said. Among those discharged, 16 were under treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), 10 at Sharda Hospital and five at Kailash Hospital, all three in Greater Noida.The recovery rate of patients on Sunday improved to 65.34 per cent from 64.63 per cent the previous day, according to official statistics.So far, 48 patients have been cross-notified from Gautam Buddh Nagar. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases found in the district, including the cross-notified patients, is 680, Dohare said.Among the cross-notified cases, 15 belong to Delhi, seven each to Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr, two to Hapur and one each to Agra, Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, he said in the statement.There is duplication and repetition in remaining 13 cases, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-41-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-600-mark/story-ioXwi5M1GKS3lqsEBPmL5I.html
08-06-2020||Noida||94-year-old Noida man beats Covid-19||A 94-year-old man has managed to defeated Covid-19 in Noida even as 31 patients were discharged from hospitals on Sunday. Gautam Buddha Nagar District Magistrate Suhas LY tweeted the man’s photo and wrote “This 94-year-old resident turned Covid negative and was discharged today. He is an inspiration to many like me. Sir, you motivate us to work even harder, we all residents wish you a very long and healthy life.” This 94 year resident turned covid negative and was discharged today. He is an inspiration to many like me. Sir, you motivate us to work even harder, we all residents wish you a very long and healthy life 🙏 pic.twitter.com/WpaKITKDjoThe DM further said in the tweet on Unlock 1.0 “For all those activities permitted by state govt, due to start from June 8, no separate permission is required. They can start with all the prescribed precautions. Today we held meeting with Hotel and Mall representatives regarding suggested measures by the govt.”In Gautam Buddha Nagar district 41 new patients have been detected across 20 sectors and some in rural areas of the district as 31 others have also been discharged from hospitals.The patients have been found in sectors including 63, 73 , 62 and upscale Cherry County and Panchsheel Greens in Greater Noida, and in rural areas of Mamura and other villages.In Noida till date, 413 patients have been cured and 211 are active cases while 8 people have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/94-year-old-noida-man-beats-covid-19/story-y2aeFpTbQwkYxkbq0WkxAP.html
08-06-2020||Noida||4 killed as speeding car falls into drain in Greater Noida||Four people died allegedly after they lost control over their car and it fell into a drain in Greater Noida on Sunday, police said.There were five people in the car and one of them survived the accident in Bisrakh area, they said.“Three of them died at the spot and two were rushed to a nearby hospital where one more succumbed while the fifth person is undergoing treatment,” a police statement said.“They all were in a Maruti WagonR, which has a registration number of Delhi,” it stated.Those dead have been identified as S Balakrishnan, N Ram Subramnyam, Jagdeeshan and Ronal Meeka, police said, adding V Hariharan is hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/4-killed-as-speeding-car-falls-into-drain-in-greater-noida/story-a2CPjoRSvsDO6qsVvTUHaP.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||From Haryana to UP, people enter Delhi as borders open after curbs relaxed under Unlock 1||A day after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced opening of Delhi’s border, vehicles were seen easily crossing into the national capital.From Haryana to Uttar Pradesh, there was relief for commuters who have to go to the national capital for work or other purposes. Till now, government officials and those with passes were only allowed to enter the national capital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe border was closed after lockdown was imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. The curbs were relaxed for a few days during the lockdown, but the Delhi government again sealed the border once the number of cases started increasing. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments had also imposed border curbs to stop the spike in cases.The announcement of opening the border was made by Kejriwal at a press conference on Sunday. Kejriwal, however, clarified that hotels and banquet halls will not open for now because such facilities could be used to treat Covid-19 patients with a rise in infections.Announcing relaxations as part of “Unlock 1”, Kejriwal had said that malls, restaurants and religious places in Delhi would open from Monday after more than two months since the coronavirus lockdown was imposed, but banquets and hotels would remain closed.After Kejriwal’s announcement, authorities at several malls appeared undecided about the reopening date. Restaurants in popular marketplaces such as Connaught Place and Khan Market said they will need some time to put in place all arrangements, such as change in seating plans.A spokesperson of a prominent mall in South Delhi said the shopping centre has drafted its own standard operating procedures (SOPs) in addition to the ones issued by the Union health ministry. “We will need at least two-three days to put all measures in places. A final date will be decided by tomorrow (Monday),” the spokesperson said on the condition of anonymity.Delhi, which imposed a shutdown on March 23 (two days before the national lockdown), has already allowed the opening of offices - both government and private - and marketplaces, except malls.A section of city residents expressed concerns over the government’s move. BS Vohra, president of Federation of East Delhi resident welfare associations, said, “The government should reconsider opening all markets and malls... the number of cases has increased manifold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/from-gurugram-to-ghaziabad-people-enter-delhi-as-borders-open-after-curbs-relaxed-under-unlock-1/story-d2iE0fqzjXQm4JkecHf8SN.html
08-06-2020||Kolkata||Ex-school principal, mother found dead in Salt Lake home||A 56-year-old former school principal and her 79-year-old mother died under mysterious circumstances at their home in Salt Lake in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata apparently between Saturday and Sunday morning. The bodies of Sharmistha Dey and her mother, Papiya Dey, were sent for post mortem examination and police said as of now foul play is being suspected.Police broke into the house after locals informed the Bidhannagar North police station on Sunday that nobody in the house at BE Block was responding to their calls. Officers from the police station said the women were found lying in a bed and were declared dead on arrival at a local hospital. Since residents told the police that both women were ailing, their swab samples were collected for Covid-19 test. Papiya Dey was admitted at a local nursing home recently, police came to know.Sharmistha Dey was earlier married to Surajit Kar Purakayastha, the former director general of West Bengal Police. The couple got divorced a few years ago.Dey had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2014 but its leaders said on Sunday that she did not keep any contact in the last four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/ex-school-principal-mother-found-dead-in-salt-lake-home/story-WUeNZrKDmBczLQLqLZhwFP.html
08-06-2020||Kolkata||Unlock 1: Bengal’s love for food awaits test as restaurants prepare to open today||Known for their love for food and kept away from eateries and restaurants for more than two months of lockdown because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Bengalis will have the option of eating out from Monday. But as some of Kolkata’s famous restaurants prepared to adapt to the new normal, unanswered questions loomed large over the business because of social distancing norms and people’s concern for safety.At Park Street, the Mecca for foodies in the state capital of West Bengal, Sunday was the busiest day in two months at restaurants, some of which date back to the British era, though tables were empty. “We are cleaning our kitchen and the premises. All Covid-19 related safety guidelines will be adhered to. We will operate with half the staff since only 50% tables will be used to ensure social distancing,” Romeo Hansel Bergeon, manager at Peter Cat, one of the oldest continental restaurants in Kolkata, said.Click here for Covid-19 coverage“We are not reducing our menu but a lot depends on the supply of raw materials. We may not be able to serve a dish or two. The big problem, however, is that most customers will ask for alcohol. The government has not allowed bars to operate,” added Bergeon.With around a dozen sit-in and takeaway outlets and famous for serving authentic Bengali cuisine for more than two decades, Bhajahari Manna will remain closed for at least a week because the management feels that the safety guidelines are too broad-based.“We are not talking about selling stationary here. We will serve food and people are going to eat it right there. I will never know if a customer walks in with the coronavirus or walks out with it,” said Siddhartha Bose, one of the managing directors of Bhajahari Manna.“We will watch how the industry operates and then take a decision. We may have to cut down our business by 50% given the loss we suffered,” Bose added.Peerless Inn on Jawaharlal Nehru Street will open only its multi-cuisine restaurant on Monday. “We will offer disposable crockery if customers ask for it,” said Asim Chakraborty, the manager. Known for its biryani and other Mughlai dishes, Aminia will use 50% of its seating capacity. “If customers do not want waiters around we will leave the serving bowls on the table,” said one of the managers. “In these two months I ordered food a few times from restaurants but I need time to gather enough courage to walk into one,” said Abhisek Dutta, a businessman. Shopping malls too will be opening on Monday and sanitization operations were on at full scale the day before.“We are opening our property in Howrah on Monday but will take a week or 10 days to put in place some safety mechanisms at our mall on Elgin Road. This is a new learning experience for us,” Rahul Saraf, the managing director of The Forum Group, said.“One of the aims is to keep the merchandise protected. Trial rooms will be closed but if a garment does not fit the buyer can always exchange it. The outlets will offer a credit note if the right size is not available,” Saraf said.State government offices, which now operate with 50% workforce, will have 70% of people from Monday. Private offices, too, can operate from June 8 with managements deciding the size of manpower, said a notification issued by the state government last week.“However, work from home should be encouraged,” it added.The lockdown has been extended till June 15 in containment zones but the West Bengal government allowed tea and jute industries, along with medium, small and micro industries and construction activities to start production from June 1 with 100% manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/unlock-1-bengal-s-love-for-food-awaits-test-as-restaurants-prepare-to-open-today/story-D3DVYY9n4HDS3igo5qlMmI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Harsh Vardhan, AAP at odds over Delhi strategy||Delhi’s action against laboratories and hospitals over the past few days, stopping some from conducting tests, amid a spike in the number of cases and a spate of anecdotal reports about the difficulties of getting tested or finding a hospital bed, came in from sharp attack from the Union health minister who said the state is diluting the Centre’s guidelines and hiding numbers.His comments, made in an interview to HT, evoked an equally sharp response from the state’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government which termed it a “wrong assessment”.“Testing, contact tracing and isolating and treating should be the strategy but Delhi seems to be going reverse on the strategy. All states, including Maharashtra and Telangana, are religiously following guidelines to manage Covid except for Delhi, which seems to be diluting the issue,” Harsh Vardhan said.“The labs are being threatened. There is no need to hide numbers as the need is to actively look for people who are infected. Whether you place them under home quarantine, in Covid care centres or health centres depends on their condition; but you definitely cannot leave them undiagnosed and untreated as they will then be roaming around freely, then get sick and report to hospital late. Not to mention how many others they would have infected,” he added.His reference is to the Delhi government’s move to act against hospitals for not following testing guidelines, preventing some of them from conducting tests; and also to its new guidelines that say asymptomatic people who may be direct contacts of infected will not be tested unless they are senior citizens or have co-morbidities.“These people need to be far more serious and sincere and meticulous in their approach in dealing with the pandemic. They seem to be utterly confused in their approach — look at the way they are forcing private hospitals to treat both Covid and non-Covid patients. It runs the risk of cross-infection among patients and health care workers. What do they want to do; turn Delhi into Italy?,” Harsh Vardhan asked. Italy was one of the worst affected countries by the coronavirus disease, with a death toll of 33,899 from 234,998 cases.Delhi’s case load has increased by 5,560 in the past week (Monday to Sunday), with the state adding an average of 794 cases a day. And while, at 2018, the state has tested the most per million population among all Indian states, anecdotally, at least, it has become more difficult to get tested.The health minister added that Delhi is clearly mismanaging the situation, and claimed that he pointed this out to Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain and LG Anil Baijal during his review of the Covid situation last week.According to people present in the review meeting that took place through video conference on June 4, a war of words broke out between the union health minister and Delhi health minister on the issue of Covid management in general, and, specifically, allegations by Delhi government against Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital , including claims that its sample testing was full of errors.“All Central government hospitals in Delhi, including RML, are hospitals of repute and people there are working hard around the clock to handle Covid rush and then to allege they were fudging test results is abhorrent. Test results can change within days but it does not mean there was an error in testing. All our hospitals are trying to accommodate as many patients as possible to ensure there’s no inconvenience. We have created such advanced facilities in Delhi but they (the state government) seem to find fault with everything,” said Harsh Vardhan.The AAP refuted all of the allegations.“That’s a wrong assessment. Perhaps they don’t have complete data. We have acted against only 6 labs out of 42. Do they support wrongdoings by labs? Do they want Delhi government to turn a blind eye to wrongdoings? Or is central government trying to protect shoddy work done by RML lab where negative patients were declared positive?” AAP said in a statement issued in response to HT’s queries.“The Delhi government is committed to protecting the lives and health of its people and will actively take all necessary action if anyone plays with the lives of the people. The CM had mentioned in his press conference that some if these private labs and hospitals are powerful and have connections in all political parties. Therefore, we are not surprised at Union Health Minister’s statement,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/harsh-vardhan-aap-at-odds-over-delhi-strategy/story-WKpP5NsgQAQ6z4sBbAdPHI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi nears 29,000-mark, death toll mounts to 812||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital rose to 28,936 with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812, according to the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Sunday.The bulletin stated that there are 17,125 active cases, while 10,999 people have either been cured or discharged or have migrated to other states.Delhi had recorded its highest single-day spike in fresh cases—1,513—on June 3. The five-member committee formed by the Delhi government to augment healthcare infrastructure and strengthen the city’s overall preparedness of hospitals to battle Covid-19 has projected that Delhi is likely to see at least one lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of June. According to Dr Mahesh Verma, the chairman of the committee, “We have submitted our report to the government recommending they make an additional facility of 15,000 beds.”He added that Delhi would need about 42,000 beds by July 15.The Delhi government on Sunday issued an order appointing round-the-clock officers in all private hospitals with more than 50 beds in the city to ensure that each of them reserves 20% of their beds for Covid-19 patients and none of them admits patients with mild or no symptoms, who can be quarantined at home.“The undersigned (Delhi’s health secretary Padmini Singla) directs that all allopathic hospitals owned by the Delhi government or run under autonomous mode shall appoint one nursing officer in each private hospital round the clock (24x7)… The concerned private hospital management shall provide a separate room for the officer (sic),” read the order, which HT has seen.The order states that the decision was taken on two grounds – first, the rule reserving 20% beds for Covid-19 patients is adhered to, and, second, to ensure that patients with mild or no symptoms are not admitted without a doctor’s advice.The decision comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned private hospitals in the city against doing so and red-flagged alleged malpractices in the garb of artificial bed crisis.Sunday’s order assigns 68 officers in the 10 fully Covid-19 dedicated private hospitals in the city as well as those that have so far notified the reservation of 20% beds under the government order. Earlier, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had warned that private hospitals failing to follow the order would be converted into full-fledged Covid-19 hospitals.The government on Sunday issued another order setting up helpdesks in all government and private hospitals for the hassle-free admission of Delhi residents, in adherence to the chief minister’s announcement earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-nears-29-000-mark-death-toll-mounts-to-812/story-iOAFgU7OWgEkCPR9rDIFtL.html
08-06-2020||City||Delhiwale: This week of Amir Khusro||Places of worship are allowed to open from today—after being closed due to the lockdown caused by the pandemic. But the “mahamari” is showing no sign of weakening and the Sufi shrine of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya in central Delhi will keep its doors closed to the public until at least June 30, informs Peerzada Altamash Nizami, a dargah gaddinashin, an ancestral descendent of Hazrat Nizamuddin. The youthful, soft-spoken gentleman is among a select group of men responsible for the daily prayers in the shrine even in these days of lockdown. Consequently, he says, there will be no qawwalis to celebrate the 716th Urs, or the death anniversary, of Hazrat Amir Khusro that starts tomorrow—his grave lies in Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah. (The death anniversary of a Sufi saint’s death is not mourned but celebrated. Urs means “wedding” in Arabic, and it symbolises the union of the lover with the beloved, who is God.) On such a signification occasion, the fact that Hazrat Nizamuddin shrine will remain silent and empty is something that has never happened before in its centuries-old life—confirms Mr Nizami. He is talking over WhatsApp video this evening from the dargah’s empty courtyard, with a yellow mask hanging down on his crisp white kurta.Even so, one can still commemorate a figure of history who is not only important in the story of Sufism in India, but is also one of the most celebrated Delhiwallas of all time.At 72, the maker of Hindustani classical music lost interest in the world. Poet Amir Khusro, the 14th-century courtier to seven kings, was in mourning after the death of his spiritual mentor, Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya.Khusro gave away his wealth, retired to Hazrat Nizamuddin’s tomb, died six months later in 1325, and was buried in the shrine’s courtyard.Perhaps it is a legend. How could one person is said to have simultaneously invented the tabla and sitar, produce the first raga and create the Sufi music of qawwali? The most likely is that Hindustani classical music came out of a civilisation, but Khusro’s poetic genius certainly gave that civilisation its Hindustani characteristic.Folksy and immediate, Khusro’s language – a mix of the courtly Persian and the colloquial Brij Bhasha – merged the ruling-class sophistication to the earthy sensibilities of the masses. His love poems for God shaped the possibility of the idea that Hindus and Muslims could not only co-exist but also celebrate each other’s cultures. Today, the soul of the subcontinent’s Sufi shrines lie in Khusro’s qawwalis. His verses steer many to spirituality, love and, occasionally, ecstasy.Over the years, Khusro’s appeal has seamlessly merged with popular culture. The film song, Zihal-e-miskin mukun baranjish (lyricist Gulzar, 1985 film Ghulami), was inspired from Khusro’s poem, which had alternate lines in Persian and Brij.Zihaal-e-miskeen mukon taghaful (Persian)doraaye nainaan banaye batyaan (Brij)[Do not overlook my misery by blandishing your eyes,and weaving tales; My patience has over-brimmed.]*Another famous Khusro song, Chhap tilak, is completely in Brij.This playful duality defined Khusro. Devoted to a Sufi who disliked emperors, he himself made his living by serving in their courts. It was a shrewd balance of sense and sensibility: day job in the court, evening spirituality in the shrine.Born in Patiali, a village in the present day Etah of Uttar Pradesh, Khusro’s Turkish father died when he was eight. His mother was Indian. He grew up in Delhi with his maternal grandfather who took him regularly to literary soirees. As a court poet, Khusro went on to produce works such as Mathnawi Miftah ul Futuh, Ghurrat ul Kamal, Khaza in ul Futuh, Ashiqa, Baqiya Naqiya and Khamsa. The voluminous Ijaz e Khusrawi is vivid with details of everyday life in 14th-century Delhi. Khusro also compiled a Hindi-Persian dictionary and composed several pahelis, the wordplay riddles.The modern-day tradition for devotees at Hazrat Nizamuddin dargah is to first pray at Khusro’s tomb, though he did not officially inherit Nizamuddin’s spiritual mantle in the Chishti order of Sufism, which went to Hazrat Naseeruddin Chiragh Dilli. Indeed, the poet’s special status in Sufism is linked to his creation of an extraordinary idiom, which devotees have used to articulate their passion for the divine. Above all, he was loved by Hazrat Nizamuddin, who occasionally wrote letters calling him Turkullah, God’s Turk. Those were said to have been buried with Khusro. Khusro’s Urs will be observed from June 9 to 13. In these exceptional times, it will be marked only with quiet prayers conducted across the five days by a small group of dargah’s khadims, or hereditary caretakers. The shrine will be closed to the public. During the ceremony, discloses Mr Nizami, “we’ll also pray for the health of all.”*Translation taken from a book on “languaging” by Ramanjaney K Upadhyay||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiwale-this-week-of-amir-khusro/story-gftZb1UWLjr5iJqpTLje2O.html
08-06-2020||City||‘Covid-19 has certainly been a rejuvenating balm for planet’||Nobody told us there’d be days like these…strange days indeed!” Once the lockdown is lifted I look forward to going to concerts, embracing my friends, and not wearing a mask. Simple things, normal things. We all just want to get back to life as it was. Human beings weren’t meant to live in a socially distanced world, it’s simply not natural. But the way of living that we want so desperately to return to wasn’t so natural either. If you listen to the rivers, trees and birds today, they’re all saying the same thing: “We’re all much happier now, thank you!” The human pandemic has been good for them. The plants and animals can breathe again, and so can we, and soon enough without a mask.“Get the economy up and running!” “Let’s get back to business as usual!” That’s the vapid message of the world’s great nations. This seems like a tragic waste of a remarkable opportunity. In some ways Corona is a gift; it’s certainly been a rejuvenating balm for the planet. As we emerge from all of this, my biggest fear is that we will forget the good habits that developed during the lockdown: less fossil fuel consumption, more cooking at home, less long-distance travel, more family time, etcetera. It doesn’t seem natural to eat a mango in winter, but that is what plenty of people do thanks to agrotechnology and global trade. It doesn’t feel natural to get into a large metal cylinder and zoom into the stratosphere, but that is what so many of us do every day. And now we’re zooming around the world from the comfort of our homes! What are we doing? Where are we going? Are we rushing back to a dysfunctional way of living that ultimately led us to our present condition?Corona is a fated opportunity. Fated in the sense that it was inevitable: we abused Mother Earth so much that she was forced to strike back in her own way. Perhaps our species deserves this, perhaps our planet needs it. If we imagine our humanity and the entire planet as a single being, we begin to see that the earth has long suffered from the disease of our relentless, near-sighted avarice. Indeed, humanity is an invasive, fast-spreading and destructive virus upon the earth. And after taking this abuse for centuries, the earth has been forced to purge herself of deadly toxins. Corona is a fated opportunity. Opportunity in the sense that we can do things differently now. This is an unprecedented global moment: a time for all of humanity to pause, take a breath and take stock. And if we are to be honest, then the writing is on the wall, and it’s been there for a long time. Scientific studies aren’t needed for any conscientious citizen to plainly see that we’re destroying the planet, abusing precious resources and marginalizing millions of fellow human beings in the process. Change is always slow and difficult, but Corona has given us a chance to take a break and reassess our priorities, and, hopefully, to chart a new course for our collective future as a species on this tiny blue marble.I’m excited about living a more wholesome life in tune with nature. I’m so grateful that the lockdown has afforded me time and space to delve into more holistic ways of living. During this time, I learned how to bake yummy home-made baguettes, I started a garden and made a DYI compost for food scraps, and I spent hours observing and identifying local birds. These kind of things seem like supremely important forms of knowledge for anyone to learn. Fortunately, due to the awesome potential of the internet, I have also been able to continue teaching in universities around the world. It’s not ideal of course, but it shows us that we can live fully even while living with less. When the lockdown is lifted I’d like to have a sitar concert by the river. I want to see beautiful people sprawled out on the green grass in the warm sunshine, laughing, enjoying music and embracing each other. I know I’ll be happy, and I think the birds will be too. In the words of John Lennon whose lyrics started this piece: “There are two basic motivating forces: fear and love. When we are afraid, we pull back from life. When we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance.” In this extraordinary moment for all of humanity, let us choose love. Love for self, love for other, love for the planet.Srinivas Reddy is a scholar, musician, poet and the author of RAYA: Krishnadevaraya of Vijayanagara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-has-certainly-been-a-rejuvenating-balm-for-planet/story-O2FDoIMKlDs6ghZol6gc5K.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Visit Mansa Devi Shrine from June 9||Devotees will be able to pay obeisance at the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine from June 9, but only with prior online appointment.Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board on Sunday started registrations on its website – www.mansadevi.org.in – for generation of the 15-minute darshan e-ticket.To begin with, only 6,000 people will be registered daily to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing. The temple will permit darshans between 6am and 8.15pm.Devotees need to show booking confirmation message on their mobile phone and a valid ID proof to gain entry.Primary devotee, along with family/group, needs to report at the entry point five minutes prior to the allotted time slot.Devotees will not be allowed to offer prasad. Besides, bhandaras, dharamshalas and mundan ghat will remain closed.Every devotee needs to wear a face mask and stand on earmarked spots. Entry will be allowed only after proper sanitisation of hand and feet and thermal screening.People aged above 65 years and below 10 years, those with comorbidities and pregnant women have been advised not to visit the temple.Constructed during the early 19th century by Maharaja Gopal Singh, it is one of the most renowned Shakti temples in North India.However, its doors have remained closed for devotees since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/visit-mansa-devi-shrine-from-june-9/story-ntdgd8erNkd95HmRMYAOCP.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Religious places in Chandigarh ready to welcome devotees with safeguards in tow||Eleven weeks after they were closed following the Covid-19 lockdown, religious places are all set to reopen on Monday while adhering to the guidelines issued by the UT administration to prevent the spread of the virus. Apart from ensuring social distancing and provision of hand sanitisers and infrared thermometers, as mandated in standard operating procedures (SOP), the various religious institutions are going the extra mile to make the devotees’ visit safe.IDOLS TO REMAIN OFF LIMITS AT TEMPLESPresident of the Sector 40 temple and chief of the Hindu Parv Mahasabha in the city, BP Arora said, “Idols will be kept off limits using barricades and ropes. People will also not be allowed inside the Shiv Mandir at any temple. They can pray outside only. Besides, we will not distribute prasad or langar for the time being.”Meanwhile, the ISKCON temple in Sector 36 will not be opening on Monday. City head Nand Maharaj said, “It will take us about a week to abide by the rules before we can open. We are short on volunteers to ensure social distancing within the temple.” POLYCARBONATE SHEETS FOR KNEELING AT GURDWARASAt the Sector 19 gurdwara, the management has placed polycarbonate sheets to facilitate people kneeling before the Guru Granth Sahib.“Unlike carpets, the sheet can be regularly cleaned with sanitiser. Also, we will continue to use disposable meal boxes for the langar service as we have been doing for a month,” said Tejinder Pal Singh, president of the Sector 19 gurdwara committee.The Sector 8 gurdwara has decided to do away with langar and prasad for now. “We will also stop water supply to taps so that people don’t touch them. Shoe room will remain closed, but racks will be placed outside the gurdwara to place shoes in,” said Ravinder Singh, president of the gurdwara committee.ONE PERSON PER BENCH AT CHURCHESFather Premanand, president of the Tricity Churches Association, said there will be a limit on the people allowed inside a church at a time. “Also, only one person will be allowed to sit per bench and children below 10 years and seniors over 65 years won’t be allowed entry,” he said, adding that the congregation will receive the Holy Communion while maintaining social distancing.INDIVIDUAL MATS AT MOSQUES Mosques, which stayed closed through the holy month of Ramadan, will also open up on Monday. Here, devotees will have to bring their own prayer mats, as the SOP discourages the use of common mats. Maulana Ajmal Khan, head of Jama Masjid in Sector 20, said, “We will ensure all directions in the SOP are followed. Devotees must wear face masks. Alcohol-based hand sanitisers will be provided at the entrance, but not kept inside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/religious-places-in-chandigarh-ready-to-welcome-devotees-with-safeguards-in-tow/story-1CeDmh6ur3kaiLrXHGu6iO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Tender ‘tweak’ muddies the water for Buddha Nullah revival plan||The ambitious Rs 650-crore Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, cleared by the state cabinet in January this year, has run into controversy, with an IAS officer accusing his superior and additional chief secretary (local bodies) of manipulating tender in violation of central vigilance commission norms to favour a particular firm.Ajoy Sharma, chief executive officer of Punjab municipal infrastructure development company (PMIDC), has put in writing his reservation to a file noting in March. In his objection, Sharma stated that the tender was restrictive and favoured a particular firm, with ACS Sanjay Kumar not recording the pre-bid facts properly. HT has accessed the file noting. The CEO’s observation has forced the chief minister’s office and chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh to intervene in the matter. It is reliably learnt that the CMO will monitor the tendering process of the project as a senior officer of the finance department has also flagged the same issue.As per documents, Sharma, while referring to a note in file, said it does not objectively captures the proceedings of the February 24 meeting wherein it was clearly told to the ACS that due to the certain pre-conditions in the tender, it had become restrictive. Due to restrictive conditions, most reputed companies --- Tata, Larsen and Turbo, Ramky, WABAG, Triveni and others --- will not be able to participate in bids”.As per the pre-condition, fixed by the local bodies department, the bidder has to secure a particular technology for which only one vendor was available in India. This made all the bidders dependent upon a particular vendor of having that technology. It is mandatory to tie up with the technology provider before filing the tender, reads the document. All major bidders raised objections to it and asked for using proven technology available within India and even worldwide to increase competition. However, the ACS remained firm on the technology provider pre-condition, said sources. When asked, Sharma admitted that he had reservations but refused to divulge details by saying, “I won’t give any comment to the media on this issue”.Sanjay Kumar was appointed as ACS, local bodies, on recommendations of local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra. Sources said the chief secretary had called both Ajoy Sharma and Sanjay Kumar and told the latter to address the objections raised in file. When asked, Kumar said: “The objections (raised by Ajoy Sharma and bidders) have been addressed, and fresh terms and conditions for bidding have been sent to the finance department for approval. Once approved, it would be uploaded on the department website to call technical and financial bids.”On tender condition of a tie-up with “technology partner”, Sanjay said: “The request for proposal (RFP) was made before I joined the department, so how can they blame me for that. Earlier, I was not aware that this condition would limit the competition. However, when the matter was taken up with me, I dropped the pre-condition. I have no intention to favour anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tender-tweak-muddies-the-water-for-buddha-nullah-revival-plan/story-alNrhz21jnIiBTe45x1h4M.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh restaurants give thumbs down to 8pm deadline, most to remain shut||Allowed to resume business on Monday, most city restaurants have decided to remain shut, citing problems with UT’s SOP and rent demand for the lockdown period, besides anticipation of low footfall.UT’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) mandate that all restaurants close by 8pm and limit seating capacity to 50%, which restaurateurs say is not conducive for profits.“The fact that we have to take the last order by 7.30pm is bad for business. A large share of our earnings comes during the dinner service, especially in summer. Besides, we can’t seat more than 50% of our capacity. This is sure to translate into losses,” said Ankit Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association.With SOPs also banning serving of liquor, several restaurants in city’s major eating hubs — Sectors 7 and 26 — will keep their doors closed.“Liquor service is part of the ambience offered by restaurants. Absence of liquor sale will certainly affect their earnings,” said Gupta.Manager of Great Bear, Sector 26, Debdip Chaterjee said he will be opening shop only after the sale of alcohol was allowed. Ovenfresh in Sector 7 will be closed for two weeks, as it was being renovated, said Rohit Kumar, its proprietor.However, Social in the same sector and Swagath Restaurant and Bar in Sector 26 will reopen, offering food and non-alcoholic beverages, said Manish Goel, one of the directors of both outlets.In Sector 35, a hub of hotels and fast food joints, most eateries will continue only home delivery and takeaway services. Nikhil Mittal, director of Nik Bakers, Sector 35, said they will offer items on their menu through takeaway only. “We are looking at how the administration enforces the SOP before resuming dine-in services,” he said.The two outlets of Indian Coffee House in Sector 17 and 36 will follow suit, said manager Ramesh Dutt. “We will wait for a few days for clarity before we open up completely,” he said.Some fast food chains are also unlikely to offer dine-in services for now. A senior official from one of the leading fast-food brands in the city, requesting anonymity, said, “All states are going to have different SOP for dine-in restaurants. The management will go over all these before taking a decision on starting dine-ins.”However, chief marketing officer of KFC India, Moksh Chopra said they will be returning with a limited menu. “We have modified our restaurant design to ensure social distancing. A limited menu will allow us to work with a smaller team. We aim to provide contactless dining experience to our patrons,” he said. At Elante Mall, due to impasse over rent between the tenants and the mall owners, the restaurant owners have decided to stay shut on Monday. Sunveer Sondhi, proprietor of Pyramid and head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), Chandigarh, said, “It is incredibly difficult for restaurant owners to pay the rent for April and May when the mall was closed. We are instead asking for a revenue share model based on footfall.” He said a meeting between the tenants and the mall authorities was scheduled on Monday.Some hotels will resume business on Monday, while others will return after ensuring adherence of the SOP.“The hotels reopening on Monday will follow the SOP and rent out only 50% rooms to maintain social distancing,” said president of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association, Arvinder Pal Singh, who is also the proprietor of Hotel Metro in Sectors 35 and 43. General manager of JW Marriott, Sector 35, Ramandeep Marwah said they were ready to serve patrons. “Hotel rooms are available for booking and the dining area of restaurants will also be thrown open to public while adhering to the SOP for hotels and restaurants.”General manager of Hotel Lalit at IT Park, Imit Arora confirmed they won’t be reopening yet. “We first need to train our staff to follow the SOP released by the administration, and will return after that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-restaurants-give-thumbs-down-to-8pm-deadline-most-to-remain-shut/story-d4tUrFuhPTtYe4dSFpU2RI.html
08-06-2020||City||67 tree fall incidents reported in Mumbai within 24 hours||Mumbai witnessed 67 instances of tree falls and 18 instances of branches of trees falling on the road or footpaths between Saturday 8am and Sunday 8am. No casualties were reported in the incidents. Thirty-one tree fall incidents were reported from the western suburbs, 26 in eastern suburbs and 10 in island city.Nine branch fall incidents were reported from western suburbs, while five and four incidents were reported from eastern suburbs and south Mumbai, respectively. The Brihnmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a press note on Sunday afternoon said, “All the complaints were received by the disaster management department, the respective wards were alerted. Pre-monsoon tree trimming work is ongoing across the city.”Mumbai did not record any rainfall during this period. Saturday’s wind velocity recorded at the Colaba weather station was between 5 km-hr and 7 km-hr, and at the Santacruz weather station was between 3 km-hr and 15 km-hr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-tree-falls-reported-in-mumbai-within-24-hours/story-tO0gxDPKgxS3a9FZP3hN8J.html
08-06-2020||Gurugram||FIR against Medanta in land allotment case||The Gurugram Police has registered a case against Medanta Hospital, its chairman Dr Naresh Trehan and others for allegedly violating conditions of land allotment in 2004, officials said on Sunday.Following the direction of the Gurugram civil court, the police on Saturday registered the FIR over corruption and money-laundering charges against Dr Trehan, some of his associates and two senior officials of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). The Medanta Hospital denied the allegations as “false, baseless and motivated”.The case pertains to the allotment of land to the hospital in 2004. The Haryana government, through HSVP, allotted 53 acre of land in Sector 38 along the Delhi-Jaipur road (NH-48) for the development of The Medicity.On official statement by Medanta Hospital said: “This complaint has been filed by a person who claims to be an RTI activist. However, it has been reported in the press that he has had an FIR for extortion registered against him. All the allegations in this complaint are completely false, baseless and motivated.”The FIR was registered after the complainant, Raman Sharma, a resident of Malibu Town, approached the district court. On June 5, the directed the police to lodge an FIR within 24 hours of the receipt of the complaint. It observed that without proper investigation, justice could not be ensured in the case.The complainant alleged that the accused, in connivance with government officials, obtained pecuniary advantage as “land meant for institutional purposes was used for pure commercial, speculative and self servient purposes” and several acres of land were allotted at undervalued rates. Sharma also alleged that the accused obtained occupational certificates based on misrepresentation, as there was no area on the premises that was allocated for medical and paramedical education, as advertised.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sadar, said: “As per the directions of the court, a case has been registered and we have initiated a probe. A total of 16 respondents including individuals and several companies have been named in the FIR.” Two senior officials of HSVP have also been named in the FIR.The case was registered under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 463 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections 11, 13 (1)d and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Sections 3 and 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act were also part of the FIR filed at the Sadar police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fir-against-medanta-in-land-allotment-case/story-OkKWkLQjAO95BlKV34NwLM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai teen collects ₹2.1 lakh, distributes 1,200 masks to hearing impaired||While several groups and individuals have come forward in the past three months to do their bit in the fight against Covid-19 outbreak, 16-year-old Arnav Shah, a student of The Cathedral And John Connon School in Fort has been working to ensure the safety of those with hearing impairment. A month ago, Arnav invited funds for his initiative ‘Naqab’, through which masks designed for the hearing impaired are being distributed. Unlike other masks, these special masks have a layer of plastic around mouth, so that those with hearing impairment can lip read.Until Saturday, Arnav had distributed around 1,200 masks among non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and associations who work with those with hearing impairment.“I made an Instagram page and shared it with my friends on WhatsApp, and asked them to inform their family and friends about the initiative and support as as much as they can. Until Saturday, we have collected around ₹2.11 lakh,” Arnav said. Bandra-based Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Speech and Hearing Disabilities is one of the institutes has received 500 masks through Arnav’s initiative.“Many recipients who will receive the masks belong to the financially weaker sections of the society. While the government is providing us with funds for sanitisation, they will not provide us with masks. So when we resume operations, we can provide these masks to those who visit the institute,” said institute director Suni Mathew, adding that while such masks have been in circulation at Dehradun and in some places abroad, this is for the first time that they have been made for the hearing impaired in Mumbai.The teenager came up with the idea when he saw his parents – both dentists – wear personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and masks to work.“As my mother is a paediatric dentist, I realised that children would be scared to see her in PPE kits and masks. But if they could at least see her smile, then they wouldn’t fear her,” he said. Arnav then approached Meemansa, a clothing manufacturing company, and requested them to make masks that are see-through. While each mask costs ₹25, Arnav has been providing them for free to the NGOs, and also intends to send some funds he has collected through crowd funding for rehabilitation of those affected by the cyclone.“While most of our workers had left for their hometowns, 120 of them had been stuck in the city. We had managed to provide them with food for some time, but after a point we had to work to be able to pay them. Manufacturing of these special masks had required a lot of research because we needed the right kind of plastic to make them. In the end, we were able to manage,” said Priyanka Bapna, owner of Meemansa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-teen-collects-2-1-lakh-distributes-1-200-masks-to-hearing-impaired/story-fbGyCsShXWJWZ8EG0IXgOO.html
08-06-2020||City||Centre’s Covid-19 team visits Thane’s containment zones||A three-member team of the central government on Sunday visited Thane to inspect the containment zones in the city, in the wake of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The team inquired about the reasons behind the spike and the steps taken to flatten the curve. “The officials visited containment zones in Mumbra as well as the new hospital which is being set up at Kausa stadium. They also visited the containment zones and fever clinics in Lokmanyanagar area, where a high number of cases have been reported. The officials had also been to the Covid Care Centre in New Horizon School at Ghodbunder Road. They have taken a note of all the preventive steps and plan of action we have taken to deal with the increasing number of cases,” deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said.The officials have asked the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to ensure that all safety norms are strictly followed in the city, after they found that some of the workers deployed to set up a 1,000-bed hospital in Kausa had not taken proper measures and were without masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. An officer from health department said, “The team pointed out that some of the workers had not been wearing PPE kits and masks and asked us to ensure that everyone, especially medical staffers are provided with adequate protective gears. The three-member team had also asked us to carry out rapid testing in areas where the number of cases is more and to ensure that the high-risk contacts of positive patients are quarantined strictly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-covid-19-team-visits-thane-s-containment-zones/story-XPOG1WquHMOCGv8z2bWRNP.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||9 ham radio operators come to the aid of district officials during Cyclone Nisarga||As all modes of communication collapsed in less than half-an-hour after severe cyclone Nisarga made landfall over Raigad district last Wednesday, a group of nine independent ham radio operators using wireless communication became the eyes and ears for the district administration. Their centres? A station without a roof in Shrivardhan, the district headquarters in Alibag and vehicles in Mahabaleshwar. The entire exercise from the afternoon of June 2 to June 5 evening (when mobile network availability returned in some areas) saw continuous relay of information about deaths, injuries, evacuations, scale of damage (trees loss, falling power lines, and network towers), relief and rehabilitation requirements, across low-lying areas in Shrivardhan, Mhasala, Dighi, Murud, Revdanda, Nagaon, Revas, and Alibag areas in Raigad from the police, local authorities and citizens to radio operators and in turn to the authorities across different parts.The 130-year-old ham or amateur radios is usually used to establish an emergency communication network during natural calamities. The technology developed in the early 1890s in Italy, and was extensively used for the first time before and during World War I (1914-1918).Pre-empting a collapse in communication lines due to the cyclone, the Raigad disaster management officials on June 1 reached out to Nitin Ainapure, a ham radio operator for the past 30 years. “When we were alerted about an impending cyclone, our biggest worry was what if we are cut off from all network connectivity? Ham radio came as an answer to this. We requested ham radio operators and they were more than willing to activate their network of volunteers. Their sets were set up in my office and all coastal tehsils. When the Nisarga hit Raigad, the telecom network was off in Shrivardhan, Murud, Mhasla and Tala. Ham radio volunteers played a pivotal role in ensuring constant information flow from the affected tehsils,” said Nidhi Choudhari, Raigad collector and district magistrate.Based out of Kolhapur, Ainapure was directed to assemble a team to keep wireless systems going before and after the storm. Ainapure was part of communications network during the Kolhapur-Sangli floods last year, 2005 floods in Mumbai, and during cyclone Phyan in November 2009.“Though cyclone Phyan was more intense, its movement was more over the sea before reaching Gujarat. However, it did not cause as much devastation as Nisarga,” said Ainapure.By June 2, teams were in place and trial runs began. The first team at Shrivardhan city included Amol Deshpande, Sunil Unde, Yogesh Sadare, and Chandu Chavan, the second from Wilson Point in Mahabaleshwar led by Ainapure and Bhau Chaugule, and the third from the collector’s office as headquarters in Alibag led by visually impaired ham radio operator Dilip Bapat, Amit Gurav and Mandar Gupte. “While Bapat only has 10% vision since 2015, his hearing ability is best among all of us. He can deduce codes, muffled messages, and relay them immediately to authorities concerned,” said Chaugule.On June 3 (day of landfall), the Alibag team used the police’s wireless system while other teams used antennae kept at a height of 10m for smooth signal transmission atop a hill in Mahabaleshwar and a building in Shrivardhan. The team at Mahabaleshwar and Shrivardhan were charging their systems using their vehicle engines as there was no electricity. “When the cyclone made landfall, one of the antennae in Mahabaleshwar broke, and the signal transmission to Raigad collapsed. A similar incident happened in Shrivardhan,” said Ainapurne, adding that amid the storm both groups ensured antennae were fixed. “Anything could have happened. We were lucky to have made it through,” said Deshpande, adding that the Shirvardhan station sustained severe damages with no rooftop and a partially dilapidated building due to the cyclone.Sagar Pathak, disaster management officer, Raigad said, “Using information given to us, we were able to direct the National Disaster Response Force to the spots, provide immediate restoration measures, and ensure major roads were functional again. As there was a blackout in communications post the cyclone, this information allowed us to prepare preliminary damage assessments.”Experts have mixed views about the technology. “Ham radios are not necessarily the only mode of communication during calamities. Satellite phones, very high and ultra-high frequency networks are all available modes. Ham radios are the last resort when everything else fails,” said Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, disaster management cell, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.G Padmanabhan, former emergency analyst, United Nations Development Programme, said, “Using ham radio is part of the standard operating procedure during any calamity. This is a robust system that does not easily get disconnected or disrupted during disasters. Where satellite phones and other equipment have their limitations, this remains a reliable and effective tool for communication frequently being used across Odisha, Kerala, and Maharashtra.” HOW THE TEAM WORKSEach team member is identified with a unique code. For example, Ainapure is VU2CAN while Deshpande is VU2YZO. “This helps us identify each other and the location faster. At the same time, rather than using long words that may or may not be comprehended, we use codes to ensure the message is received. When we say ‘QSL’ it means ‘did you read me?’, and if we get a response saying ‘QSL’, it means the message has been received. QTH means where do you live. One sided battery outage is reduced through this,” said Ainapure. Deshpande said the three-hour landfall completion over Shrivardhan to Murud was the ‘golden period’ when only the ham radio network was functioning and nothing else. “The cyclone had moved Shrivardhan first by splitting from the sea, and then again moving back into the sea, and finally making landfall over Diveagar. During this time, our antenna survived a massive wind speed of 120 kmph, while we were taking shelter in our vehicles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-ham-radio-operators-come-to-the-aid-of-district-officials-during-cyclone-nisarga/story-WUM4gMzAjaLJoSxcJ7URZJ.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Mahrashtra Governor-CM tussle over exams: Colleges, students worried||A week after the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that all final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams have been called off and that students will be promoted based on aggregate scores in earlier semester exams, state Governor and chancellor of all state universities Bhagat Singh Koshiyari questioned the move. Koshyari said the cancellation of exams would jeopardise the students’ future and that exams should be held in order to promote students.Stuck in between the “political stand-off”, colleges and universities are looking at a mammoth task ahead. Conducting exams for close to 9 lakh students across the state, including 2.3 lakh students affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU), can prove problematic, especially since exams will need to be held ensuring appropriate social distancing and taking into account lockdown regulations that could still be in force at the time.“We are talking about colleges spread across the state, and to ensure social distancing during exams, universities will need to add more education institutes as exam centres to accommodate all. What if students refuse to appear for exams still?” asked a former MU official, who currently holds a senior role at a management institute. He added that even if the universities and affiliated colleges ensure exams are held maintaining social distancing, conducting exams so late in the year will have adverse effects on the next academic year as well.Teachers too have raised concerns over how the assessment will take place and how much time the process could take. “For MU alone, teachers will end up assessing over 13 lakh answer sheets that need to be scanned and uploaded on the software, after which they reach teachers for assessment. It will be impossible to ensure that all exams and results will be announced within a month,” said a senior professor at a suburban college. The Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) has already written to the state government as well as the MU about their concerns of how the delay in conducting exams and the wait for eventual results will affect students’ prospects.“The university is an autonomous body with its own set of statutes to follow in any type of emergency, and the university has the power to decide how they want to conduct examinations. Since the current scenario is grave in nature, he university has the authority to seek help from Maharashtra government to help with their decision. The governor, on the other hand, is a nominal entity and shoudl not dictate the working of a university,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay president MFUCTO. She added that a university takes two-three months to prepare for examination and since university as well as colleges have been shut for almost three months now, it’ll be impossible for the university to conduct examinations next month. “We stand by the CM’s decision,” she added.Engineering institutes too have expressed concern about holding examinations and in the bargain, further delaying the start of the next academic year. “All final-year Bachelor of Engineering (BE) students who were offered jobs earlier this year are now worried because the employers are expecting students to join their workforce. Without a passing certificate or a temporary replacement for the document, this process will be difficult for all. We urge the government to clarify its stand soon,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.Several student organisations have asked that the health and sanity of students be prioritised. “A degree certificate is awarded to students based on their performance throughout three years and not holding one final exam will not change much. This insistence on final exams during a global health crisis needs to be reconsidered by the government, especially keeping the lives of students in mind,” said Salman Ahmed, president of Student Islamic Organisation (SIO), South Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahrashtra-governor-cm-tussle-over-exams-colleges-students-worried/story-4xOGWvoCHMCfR0uhcofDDJ.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak:Sister pleads on a video to get breathless Mumbai Police constable admitted||Amid the rising cases of Covid among cops, a 50-year-old policeman’s sister in Ghatkopar made an emotional appeal in a video on Sunday morning to get her ill brother admitted to a hospital, alleging their attempts to hospitalise him, as he faced breathing problems, failed. While the video went viral, Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner, administration, Mumbai Police, who is also the nodal officer designated by the state for providing aid to police personnel in the city, said the family did not contact the helpline.At the time of going to press on Sunday, the constable was being admitted to Kasturba hospital and an ambulance was sent to his residence. The policeman, a resident of Ghatkopar police quarters who is attached to Matunga police station, developed fever four days ago and started to face breathing problems on Saturday morning. “My brother has been discharging his duties for the past two months. Our family doctor advised a blood test. My brother had typhoid, but then he developed breathing issues,” the woman said in the video in which her ailing brother is seen sleeping on the floor. HT did not independently verify the authenticity of the video.The woman said they decided not to waste any time and went to private hospitals in Ghatkopar. “We decided to get him tested for Covid 19 from a private lab, reports of which will be available on Monday,” she said. BJP leader Ram Kadam who tweeted the video said the admission was delayed as authorities want the Covid-19 test report. “The COVID helpline is following up. He did not contact the helpline. We are doing the needful. The Mumbai Police started a 24x7 Covid-19 helpline number — 9137777100 – on April 26 after two deaths were reported in Mumbai Police due to Covid-19. The helpline has been made operational to help police personnel with updated information on where beds are available and to answer their Covid-related queries,” said Naval Bajaj. “We have received 1,700 phone calls since the helpline was started. A majority of queries are for seeking a hospital bed or details on testing centre. We have our own ambulances which we use to take our personnel to hospital,” said an assistant police inspector (API) working at the Covid-19 helpline facility.COVID-RELATED CYBERCRIMESA total of 461 cyber-crimes related to Covid-19 such as fake news, hate speech, rumours and other cybercrimes have been registered and 250 people have been arrested till Saturday, according to the Maharashtra Cyber Department. The team has sent 160 notices under CrPC section 149 to individuals in their inboxes for posting offensive, abusive, defamatory and malicious posts on social media. “Fearing further action, over 50 per cent of these individuals removed the objectionable and offensive posts. It was an effective measure,” said special IG (cyber) Yashasvi Yadav, of Maharashtra Cyber Department.Another cyber police officer from the department said, “More than 50% of the 461 cases are of hate speech and speeches where religious colour has been given to Covid-19.” In 192 cases, a messaging application was used to spread rumours, fake news and hate speech. Of the total, 46 cases are from Beed, 38 from Pune rural, 33 from Jalgaon and 28 from Mumbai.14,846 people booked in MumbaiFrom March 20 till Saturday night, a total of 7,245 FIRs have been registered in the city against 14,846 people and a total of 9,037 people have been arrested. Of these, 20 were booked and 17 arrested on Saturday. A majority of the cases (4,418), 61%, are for gathering in public. It is followed by 2,268 cases for not wearing masks and 1,193 cases for use of vehicles for non-essential services. The remaining are against hotels, pan shops and other shops for operating despite being counted as non-essential service. Apart from them 141 FIRs are unspecified violations and 53 FIRs for violating quarantine orders. STATE REVIEWMeanwhile, across the state, 1,23,424 FIRs have been registered for lockdown violations and 23,866 people have been arrested. This includes 718 cases against those who violated the quarantine order and 1,330 FIRs are against illegal transport as movement for only essential services is allowed. As many as 80,197 vehicles have been seized and a fine of ₹6.62 crore collected. A total of 841 people have been arrested for manhandling and obstructing on-duty policemen. Also, the state police control rooms have received more than one lakh calls. A total of 86 policemen and 45 health professionals have been injured while discharging their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-sister-pleads-on-a-video-to-get-breathless-mumbai-police-constable-admitted/story-CoLON90QHls6RoOvuXspvI.html
08-06-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand unlock guidelines: Hotels can reopen but guests can’t visit tourist places||The Uttarakhand government on Sunday evening issued unlock guidelines for hotels, homestays, religious places and shopping malls to reopen in the state from June 8. The guidelines issued by state chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh allowed the hotels and homestays to open but prohibited them from taking bookings from visitors hailing from 75 high-load Covid-19 cities across the country. It also bars hotels and homestays in the containment zones and in the jurisdiction of Dehradun municipal corporation (DMC) from reopening. According to the guidelines, the cleared hospitality establishments will not be allowed to take bookings from customers of high-load Covid-19 cities such as Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, Jaipur, Lucknow and others. The guests from non high-load Covid-19 cities will, however, have to stay for a minimum period of seven days. They will not be allowed to visit public places and tourism spots outside their hotel. The homestays and hotel managements have been directed to take undertaking from their guests to that effect. The violators would be booked by police, the guideline says. The state also allowed the religious places to open from 7 am to 7 pm with necessary precautions. Places of worship in containment zones and those falling under DMC will not be allowed to reopen.The pilgrims from outside the state will not be allowed to visit these religious places of worship till further orders. Any decision on restarting the much revered Char Dham Yatra will take the views of Char Dham Devasthanam Board and the respective district administrations into account. According to the guidelines, restaurants and shopping malls, with the exception of those in containment zones and under DMC, will be allowed to open from 7 am to 7 pm with necessary precautions.The restaurant management has been asked strictly to maintain a record of all the customers and waiters serving the tables with proper date and time. In the case of shopping malls, the mall management needs to submit an undertaking of adherence to the SOPs to the administration before reopening. They will also have to ensure that only 50% of shops in malls open on any given day. Apart from this, the concerned district administrations along with the mall managements have been tasked to regulate the number of visitors. Uttarakhand has so far reported 1,355 Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-unlock-guidelines-hotels-can-reopen-but-guests-can-t-visit-tourist-places/story-SUzxZRWby5s5RsTBRtzmcJ.html
08-06-2020||City||‘Beware of scamsters posing as Covid lab personnel’||Vighnesh Sudhir Worlikar, 27, a resident of Roadpali in Navi Mumbai escaped becoming the victim of fraud by sheer due diligence. Worlikar, an engineer with a shipping company, was made to take a mandatory Covid-19 test before resuming work but was later contacted by a fraud posing as a lab personnel, who claimed he had tested positive for the virus and would need to allow access to his home for disinfection. “I had to join my shipping company from Monday and before joining the office, a mandatory Covid test was to be done through a lab in Andheri. I got my test done on Friday and was waiting for the reports which were expected to be released on Saturday,” said Worlikar. On Saturday, he received a call from an unknown caller who claimed he worked with the testing lab. The person asked for Worlikar’s entire travel history of the past few months and then told him that according to test reports, he had Covid-19.The caller claimed that since the 27-year-old did not reflect any symptoms and was asymptomatic, he would only require an injection and for his entire house to be disinfected.“Unknowingly, I shared my address, details of whom I was staying with, etc. I told the caller that before they come to my house I need to inform the office that I will not be able to join as I had tested positive. I immediately called my boss who laughed at what I said and told me that he had copies of the reports and that I had tested negative,” said Worlikar.He then called the person posing as a lab employee to inform him that his reports were negative and question why he had claimed that they were positive. The unknown caller later switched off his phone for the rest of the day.Though Worlikar did not file any complaint with the police, he did inform them of the incident. Police officers are now appealing to people to be aware and not fall into such traps.Satish Gaikwad, senior inspector, Kalamboli police station, said, “Though there has been no formal complaint, there has been a discussion about the same. The antisocial elements are making this pandemic an opportunity to try and cheat people. The only valid agency to make a call in such cases is the civic body or police. People should ensure that they cross-verify such callers and inform about such calls to the nearest police station immediately,” said Gaikwad.The officer went on to explain more preventive steps that can be taken in such instances. “Don’t let unknown people enter your home or society. Till now, there has been no injection for treating Covid infection. To get authentic information about the Covid infection, line of treatment and hospitals, call the helpline numbers given by the civic body and police,” he said.People have been advised to ask for a valid identity card if somebody walks in for disinfecting the society or home. Society committee members should always be kept in the loop and call the police immediately if they suspect fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beware-of-scamsters-posing-as-covid-lab-personnel/story-WGvD3E4DGj512DXt3HfdXO.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Thackeray announces ₹75-crore relief for Ratnagiri, ₹25 crore for Sindhudurg||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced immediate relief packages of ₹75 crore and ₹25 crore for Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, respectively, in the aftermath of Cyclone Nisarga. In a review meeting held through video conferencing, Thackeray further said Thane and Palghar have faced less damages compared to other districts and relief packages for them will be declared after assessing damages. On Friday, the chief minister announced a relief package of ₹100 crore for Raigad during his visit to the district. Thackeray has also directed for a change in the norms to assess damages to provide relief to the people as they are old and asked the officials to propose new norms so that a decision can be taken.In the review meeting on Sunday, it was mentioned that Ratnagiri was severely affected by the cyclone with huge damages to houses and farm lands. The CM has assured to visit both Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg soon.Anil Parab, guardian minister for Ratnagiri who was in the district to assess the situation, informed Thackeray that many villages have been devastated. He added that people do not have places to stay as their cement roof sheets were blown away, food grains stock that was supposed to be distributed through public distribution system got soaked and need to be replaced with fresh stock, said a senior official present in the meeting. According to primary estimates, the damage in the district is estimated at over ₹100 crore, the official said.Uday Samant, guardian minister of Sindhudurg, said roads and electricity connectivity has been damaged and repair works need to be taken up on priority basis. Eknath Shinde, guardian minister of Raigad, said transformers and electric poles have been damaged in the district. Thackeray said they need to consider making power cables underground in Konkan region. “We also have to look for alternatives of cement roof sheets and building cyclone-proof houses along the coast,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thackeray-announces-75-crore-relief-for-ratnagiri-25-crore-for-sindhudurg/story-86Ja4GvhzQWM5hETb8DkEL.html
08-06-2020||City||KDMC issues guidelines for housing societies||Residents of Kalyan-Dombivli can now refer to housing guidelines published by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) regarding allowing domestic help to resume work during the Covid-19 pandemic along with other safety measures. KDMC published the guidelines on its website and social media. The guidelines comprise of measures to be followed at the main gate of housing complexes, how to use the elevator, how to check common places, directives for domestic help, how to deal with persons returning from other states or cities. “Recently a family returned from Madhya Pradesh and we were clueless about whether to allow them inside the society without any checking. We called up the civic body and one doctor arrived and checked them and allowed them inside the society,” said Mangesh Borade, 47, a resident of a housing society in Rambaug, Kalyan (West).KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has appealed to housing societies to keep a thermal gun and pulse oximeter at the entrance and check every person returning to the society from outside.“Those coming from outside the state or from other cities can be allowed inside the housing society once they get screened at the gate,” said Suryavanshi.Residents have also been unsure about the quarantine period for those returning from outside the city.“There is no need for quarantine if the person doesn’t have symptoms. Also, when people are travelling from other states they are already tested for any symptoms at state checkpoints. In case of any symptoms, they should approach KDMC without delay or visit the nearest primary health care center for a test,” said KDMC epidemic officer Pratibha Panpatil.Some of the other guidelines by KDMC for housing societies include setting up banners and hoardings on wearing masks and using sanitisers inside the complexes. Societies have been instructed to display emergency helpline numbers for residents, set up handwash stations, and designate a common delivery room near the gate.Yogesh Singh, 33, a resident of Guru Atman Residency, Gauripada, Kalyan (West), said, “Residents had pointed out that infection could spread from the housekeeping staff, so we fixed the staff for our wings and they are screened regularly. We have fixed the entry and exit points at the main gate as well.”House-help have also been asked to clean their hands and legs before entering the house, use a dedicated tray for their belongings, wear a mask while working, and in case the house-help has symptoms, they should remain home for 14 days.Plumbers, electricians, and mechanics visiting housing societies should also wear masks while working, clean their hands and legs, avoid unnecessarily touching any objects in the complex, and opt for e-payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-issues-guidelines-for-housing-societies/story-8L4VQqZluObGhR6tL8nAcM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Air India subsidiary to provide jobs for relatives of staff who succumbed to Covid-19||Air India’s ground handling subsidiary, Air India Airport Services Ltd (AIASL), will provide jobs to a family member of employees who succumb to the coronavirus, said a notice issued by the company on Saturday.The notice comes after a 58-year-old Air India (AI) pilot, who retired in April this year, died on June 5 due to suspected Covid-19. Though the retired employee’s family is not eligible for a job, unions had raised the demand. The notice signed by the general manager (personnel) read, “In view of this national crisis, it has been decided by the competent authority of AIASL that the company, on humanitarian and compassionate grounds, will render support the family of the deceased employees [due to Covid-19)] from AIASL, Air India or its subsidiaries, by giving suitable employment to a family member.”The letter stated that during the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, AIASL staff have handled around 1,895 flights from March 25 to June 4, and have been supporting cargo operations under the Central government’s regional connectivity scheme — Udey Desh Ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN). The staffers have also handled flights under the Vande Bharat mission.AIASL, headed by ex-Air India executive director Ashvini Sharma, also announced that the employment provided will be as per the terms of engagement in the company and at the airports which are served by the company.AIASL offers ground handling services to 81 airports in the country. JB Kadian, general secretary of Air India’s largest employee union — Air Corporation Employees Union (ACEU) — had written to the airline’s chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal on May 30, urging AI to include staff members attached to its subsidiaries in the medical insurance cover for Covid-19 frontline warriors.“Air India and its subsidiary staff do not find any mention in the scheme announced by the government and equally surprising is the fact that they do not find any mention in the welfare insurance schemes of the airline. We would request you to be kind enough to include these staff of Air India and ensure implementation of the insurance scheme in line with and in the same manner as is announced by the government for Covid-19 frontline warriors,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-subsidiary-to-provide-jobs-for-relatives-of-staff-who-succumbed-to-covid-19/story-m25oEkUgT6r79VbiyukaTL.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Another blow after the storm: No water to drink in cyclone-hit areas||Four days after severe cyclonic storm Nisarga made landfall in Raigad, residents of semi-urban and rural areas in the affected talukas are still facing drinking water crisis.Shrivardhan, Murud and Mangaon areas, which are close to the cyclone landfall site, are facing a shortage of safe drinking water, said district officials. “There is a serious shortage of drinking water supply to most areas, mostly because of electricity being badly affected,” said Nidhi Choudhari, district collector and magistrate, Raigad. “Based on discussions with the state electricity board, we expect power resumption in another four to five days in majority of the eight affected talukas.”While pipelines carrying water to homes across major towns have been damaged during the cyclone, pumping water from borewells is also no more an option since there is no power.Saurabh Kudekar, a resident of Tala town in Mangaon, said for the last three days he and his 68-year-old father Rajendra had to walk for two hours to get water from an uncontaminated well in the outskirts of the town. “We have now decided to rent a generator which costs ₹1,000 for two hours with an additional cost of diesel. With already having to pay for house repairs, machinery for cutting and removing fallen trees as well as the fear of Covid-19 pandemic, this is a disastrous period for us,” said Kudekar. “Some people in our town have also bought power generators for drinking water supply,” he added.However, for residents of isolated villages closer to Murud and Shrivardhan, power generators were not an option, said residents. “The local administration had told each household in our village to stock up on drinking water for at least two to three days after the cyclone. We had done that but now we are running out, and so far not one person from the district administration or local tehsildar level has come to our aid yet,” said Dattatreya Karanje, a resident of Aravi village, Shrivardhan.Sadanand Wagre from Rajapuri in Murud taluka said several power generators, which are used during television and film shooting, are available. “Authorities can use them for the time being to supply electricity in affected areas for drinking water. Also, dysfunctional tubewells in villages far from the coast need to be fixed as they are not even aware of how long electricity or mobile networks will not be available to them,” Wagare said.The district collector said the provision of providing generators across affected locations had begun from Sunday under the regional rural water supply schemes. “The process to supply generators is underway for remaining areas as well. We are also sending tankers to fill the village wells. Water quality checking of these wells is being done by gram panchayats before advising anyone to use them as drinking water source,” said Choudhari.The two National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officers, who were injured during tree removal operations on Saturday, are both out of danger, said officials.“On Sunday, we carried out a massive exercise of clearing all village roads in Shrivardhan. We have already established a minimal mobile phone network there, and hundreds of generators have been sent under the water supply schemes. By Monday, we expect to finally assess final property damages, loss of trees and electric lines,” said Choudhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-blow-after-the-storm-no-water-to-drink-in-clone-hit-areas/story-gMDlXcz03v3vkDZHEWjygP.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut criticises ‘Mahatma’ Sonu Sood, BJP hits back||Actor Sonu Sood, who has been widely appreciated for his role in getting migrants to their home states, is now the focus of the latest tussle between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra.The tussle started with Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut criticising the Bollywood actor in his Sunday column, Rokhtok in the Sena mouthpiece, Saamna. Raut claimed Sood was a BJP stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party.In his piece titled ‘Ekta Sonu Sood Khara’ (Only Sonu Sood Is Real), Raut indicated that it was the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was helping the actor from behind the scenes to make him a “Mahatma”.“What machinery did he [Sood] have to send thousands of workers to their home [states]? The one who was behind this is Shankar Pawar. He is the chief of the Rashtriya Banjara Seva Sangh but he is merely a face,” Raut wrote in his weekly ‘Rokhtok’ column.BJP has slammed Raut for his comments. Party leader Ram Kadam said Shiv Sena’s statement on Sood is “condemnable” and “unfortunate”.“The MVA government led by the Shiv Sena has failed in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. And when it [the work] is being done by an actor like Sonu Sood, who is on the roads and helping people with his own money, you will make false charges against him,” Kadam said.The Congress party also criticised Raut for his remarks. National party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, in a tweet, said that citizens who help should be welcomed and encouragedThe Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) did not comment on Raut’s column but commended Sood for his work. “We will appreciate whoever takes such good initiatives, be it Sood or anyone else,” said state home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh.On Sunday evening Sood met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his Bandra residence ‘Matoshree’. He was accompanied by Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city.“They all are very supportive. It was not about any political party. We have to support all the people. There was no misunderstanding. Everyone wants to do good for the country and we are here for them,” the actor said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-criticises-mahatma-sonu-sood-bjp-hits-back/story-WVaF5jEyERjCUbjiovpLZM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: 62 more FIRs registered against travel agents in Haryana||Police have registered 62 more FIRs against travel agents for duping Haryana residents and sending them abroad illegally. Last month, 73 cases were registered under similar charges on the complaint of 76 people deported by the US. On June 2, another flight with 66 people from Haryana had landed in India. While 22 FIRs have been registered in Karnal, 12 were filed in Kaithal, 11 in Ambala, nine in Kurukshetra and four in Panipat. Karnal IGP Bharti Arora, who is heading the seven-member special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe these cases, said, “Sixty-two more FIRs have been registered against travel agents on the complaint of people sent back from the US in the second flight.” “Six such agents have so far been put behind bars and as the investigation progresses, more arrests are likely,” she added. The IGP said most of the complaints were received from Karnal, Kaithal, Ambala and Kurukshetra districts. “The SIT is also collecting details of all pending cases of illegal immigration in the state as per the directions and the travel agents involved in illegal activities will face action,” she added. On the violation of the Emigration Act by the deportees, the IGP said the police will not take any action against them as most of them had lost everything and even sold their land to pay the travel agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-62-more-firs-registered-against-travel-agents-in-haryana/story-1uslfyvPPbNpuAJh0jFaZK.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Prescription not needed for tests for contacts of Covid patients: BMC||All direct and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients, including asymptomatic ones, will no longer be required to submit a prescription from a doctor to get tested for Covid-19 at a private lab between five and 10 days of coming in contact with the positive person, according to the new order issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday.The person can just submit a self-declaration to the private laboratory that his close contact has tested positive. Prior to this, the civic body permitted testing only for contacts who developed symptoms and could produce a doctor’s prescription.On Sunday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said, “Any person who thinks he was in close contact with a patient who tested positive and is a high-risk contact, irrespective of the age, can get tested between 5 and 10 days without a prescription.”“During their recent visit to Mumbai, I asked the Central team for rapid testing kits to form a panel of companies which the states can coordinate with for testings,” the BMC chief said.The city recorded 61 deaths on Sunday, the highest single-day jump so far, taking the toll to 1,636. Mumbai reported a total of 1,421 new cases on Sunday, taking the case count to 48,549. As per BMC data, 1, 218 people were discharged on Sunday, as the total number of people who have been discharged touched 21,196. The total number of active cases in the city as of Saturday stood at 25,717. With just 13 cases reported on Sunday, Dharavi saw fewer than 20 cases for the third consecutive day. The total number of cases in Dharavi is 1, 912. The G-North ward that covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim has the highest number of cases in the city with 2,957 cases reported so far.As part of the last leg of ‘Mission Begin Again’, BEST buses will start from Monday, along with private offices functioning at 10% capacity. Initially, the administration had stated that nearly 2,000 buses will be introduced and later approximately 300 buses will be added every week after checking the increase in number of passengers. It had shut services after the lockdown was announced, although a few buses were ferrying staffers in essential services.A photo of a huge crowd of people wearing masks while taking a stroll on Marine Drive on June 6 went viral on the social media as many criticised people for not adhering to social distancing norms. Chahal said, “It is sad to see people in such large numbers stepping out of their homes without following any social distancing norms. We are trying our best to control the spread of virus, but we cannot do it without people’s participation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prescription-not-needed-for-tests-for-contacts-of-covid-patients-bmc/story-w7PbGHFCGNEnPstBDESjbM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Outstation students in a tizzy over examinations at Panjab University, affiliated colleges||As chaos and confusion persists amid surging cases of Covid-19, the outstation students studying at Panjab University and its affiliated colleges in Chandigarh say that they are worried about how and when examinations will be conducted.In Chandigarh, sizeable number of student belongs to Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir. In the city’s 11 colleges, around 25,000 students are outstation candidates whereas in PU, the number stands around 9,000, as per the recent National Institutional Ranking Framework data.Rishabh Kumar, a second year student from Himachal Pradesh said, “Right now we are confused over when the exams will be conducted. I don’t know when I have to start going to college.”Simran Kaur from Punjab said “My friends and I decided to vacate our paying guest accommodations as they were empty for months. Now if they declare that they are holding the examination, we will have to find a place to live immediately.”“My parents are worried as Covid-19 cases are increasing at an alarming rate and we will have to visit Chandigarh which is a red zone,” she added.Saurav Sharma, another student from HP added, “Not only are students worried about shelter and food, but no online classes have also been held. The syllabus is incomplete and students are not prepared to take exams. Many of us are worried that we will fail. The anxiety and fear is very real.”PU, on the other hand, says that they are doing their best to reach out to students.Parvinder Singh, PU’s controller of examination, said there are more than 200 distress calls for clarification at the helpdesk daily. He said around 800 to 900 queries have been dealt with already.“I have instructed my staff to classify all queries into categories including genuine, priority, regular and fake which will be put up on the university’s website,” the registrar said.The distress among students has been further aggravated by multiple fake circulars and posts about exams that are doing the rounds on social media. Singh said multiple FIRs have been registered against those spreading such fake news. “In fact, in one of the fake circulars, my signature was also forged,” he said.He further clarified, “In line with the government of India guidelines, examination for outgoing classes (final year students) will be conducted now. Considering the academic loss, students will be given 70 % choice in the examination,” Singh said. “At least 20 days time will be given to students before the examination starts. We are considering every aspect before finalising the date sheet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/outstation-students-in-a-tizzy-over-examinations-at-panjab-university-affiliated-colleges/story-8sEJrGcecgZx6JVNx4CofK.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 count crosses China’s tally||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,007 more coronavirus cases, a day before private offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) open after being shut for close to three months, under the third phase of the government’s Mission Begin Again. With its second single-day spike of over 3,000 cases ( the state had reported 3,041 cases on May 24), India’s worst-hit state’s tally now stands at 85,975 cases, taking it past China’s total of 83, 036 cases, according to data by worldometers.info.The city of Wuhan in China is the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak late last year. Maharashtra’s first case was reported on March 9 this year.The death toll of the state also breached the bleak 3,000 mark after 91 casualties were reported on Sunday.From Monday, the state government, under a staggered plan to unlock Maharashtra. has allowed private offices to operate with 10% strength or 10 people, whichever is more, with the remaining working from home. It has directed that all employers will have to take up a sensitisation program to educate employees about adequate precautions on returning home so that the vulnerable group, especially the elderly, is not affected.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) is also resuming its bus operations from today after a gap of three months to facilitate office-goers, said officials. Around 2,000 buses are expected to ply on the roads, while maintaining social distancing between commuters inside the buses. The new commuting conditions state that only 30 passengers are allowed to board a BEST bus from Monday, which will include 25 sitting and five standing. One passenger each will be allowed to sit on the left and right sides of the bus. Of Monday’s reported deaths, 30 of them were in the past two days, while the rest were between May 3 and June 3, clarified the state government. Mumbai has recorded 61 deaths, highest in a day so far. On Saturday, the city has recorded 58 deaths, which was the highest till yesterday. The city’s toll reached 1,638. The worst-hit Indian city also saw addition of 1,420 infections on Sunday, which took its count to 48,774, of which less than half — 21,190 — are active ones. The state has 43,951 active cases.State officials are expecting a surge in cases in the wake of the fresh relaxations, but are also hopeful that the curve will flatten in around 10 days. Dr Sanjay Oak, head of a task-force comprising 11 doctors constituted by the government for the clinical management of critically ill patients, said the flattening of the curve is expected by June 17. “I look at Wuhan where the flattening of the curve was witnessed on the 72nd or 76th day of the lockdown. By that parameter, we are expecting it in the next ten days. We also expect herd immunity to develop among people in the next few days,” Dr Oak said.“There will be a rise in cases over the next ten days in Mumbai owing to the fresh relaxations and resumption of activities, but there is no need to worry as our health infrastructure is ready to deal with the situation,” he further said. The state has asked authorities to brace for a spike in cases, with relaxations including inter-district travel within MMR and re-categorisation of red zones to only 18 cities. “Most of the patients who tested positive for the virus in the rural parts and semi-urban areas of the state are those who have travelled from big cities such as Mumbai and Pune. The authorities have been directed to monitor the influx minutely to contain the spread from these travellers,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.State health minister Rajesh Tope, however, said that the recovery rate has been improving as 39,314 patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals so far. “The recovery rate now has reached 45.72%. On Sunday, 1924 patients have recovered,” Tope said.The health minister said 5,51,647 tests have been conducted at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 4,65,672 people tested negative. It means, only 15.58% of the total cases are positive.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made significant changes for Covid-19 testing and has issued fresh guidelines on Sunday. “All direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases quarantined at home are to be tested between the fifth and tenth day of coming in contact with a patient. All such patients can directly approach the laboratories for home collection of swabs, for which no prescription will be required,” said the guidelines.“If any of the direct or high-risk contacts of patients develops symptoms in less than five days of coming in contact then he or she can be home tested immediately by giving self-attestation. Hospitals requiring Covid testing of suspected patients shall be entitled to do so directly through the laboratory and test reports can be shared with the hospital directly. However, laboratory shall have to inform the epidemiology cell as well,” it stated further.The BMC has also directed all laboratories to ensure that the results of all swabs taken by them are received within 24 hours only. This shall be observed with zero tolerance by the BMC.State currently has 3,654 active containment zones. A total of 18,515 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 69.60 lakh people.So far, 28,504 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 5,58,463 people have been put under home quarantine.The state health department on Saturday, allowed home quarantine for Covid-19 patients with no or very mild symptoms. The norm, which was applicable in Mumbai, has now been allowed across the state. Patients with adequate facilities for home isolation will be allowed to home quarantine for 17 days, starting from the day samples are taken for the test. The home quarantine can be ended if the patient is not developing fever in ten days. Dedicated caretaker for such a patient has been made mandatory, said the notification issued by health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-count-crosses-china-s-tally/story-ycVETembsmwzKay1zSKDNM.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Source of foul smell in suburbs not known yet, says civic body||A day after the mysterious foul smell was reported from some parts of the eastern and western suburbs on Saturday night, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it was unable to identify the source of the odour.After an extensive search for the source of the smell, suspected to be a gas leak, which went on for four to five hour in localities from where the complaints were received, the Mumbai Fire Brigade called off the inspection on Sunday early morning. The fire brigade had deputed 17 fire engines and senior fire officers for an investigation and searched areas in the periphery of up to two kilometres from the location of callers’ addresses.Regarding an investigation into the Saturday’s incident, a senior civic official said, “No decision about it has yet been taken. We will look into the matter.” BMC’s disaster management control room on Saturday received nine complaints from residents of Chembur, Mankhurd, Ghatkopar (East), Ghatkopar (West), Powai, Andheri, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli about a foul pungent odour, giving rise to the suspicions of a gas leak. In a series of tweets on Saturday, BMC said, “Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. Seventeen fire appliances are on field equipped with a public announcement system and ready for a response if required.”The civic body had earlier suspected that the smell originated from the US Vitamin Company near Indira Apartment in Govandi (East). However, chief fire officer P Rahangdale said, “We investigated the entire premises and nearby areas of US Vitamin Company but could not detect a leak.” US Vitamins later on Sunday issued a statement and said, “We wish to clarify that no foul smell emanated from our Govandi facility, as reported by certain sections of the media. The facility was fully checked by our safety team. We request media to refrain from linking our name to this episode.”The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Mahanagar Gas Ltd (MGL), Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers (RCF) and Mumbai police have been asked to remain on alert.This is the second incident in the span of less than one year, where residents of Mumbai’s suburbs complained of a foul odour. The civic body’s disaster management department had received 37 complaints from 15 locations of suspected gas leakages in September 2019 and the fire brigade had got 50 calls. Some citizens had also reported about a suspected gas leakage to the police. However, the source could not be confirmed following a thorough investigation by a special committee set up for the purpose last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/source-of-foul-smell-in-suburbs-not-known-yet-says-civic-body/story-M0mef7jChAxjJy814nyqDO.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs new high of 496 cases in a day, 47% from Gurugram alone||Twenty-one districts of Haryana — barring Charkhi Dadri — registered yet again an all-time high of 496 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 4,448. According to the health bulletin, the state’s death toll also rose to 28 with four people succumbing to the infection in last 24 hours. Three people battling Covid-19 died in Faridabad district, while one person died in Panipat. Gurugram continued the trend of throwing grim figures as 230 fresh cases were recorded in this NCR district on Sunday, followed by 73 in Sonepat and 56 in Faridabad, the other two NCR hotspots. At least 72% (359 cases) of new infections recorded in Haryana on Sunday came from Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad. At least 25 cases each were reported in Rohtak and Narnaul. In Nuh, 17 cases were detected, while 15 people tested positive in Bhiwani and 11 in Panipat. Among other districts, Karnal saw eight cases, followed by Ambala (7) Palwal, Panchkula and Fatehabad (5 each), Hisar (4), Rewari (3), Jhajjar (2), and Jind, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Kurukshetra and Kaithal (1 each). VIJ HITS OUT AT KEJRIWALHealth minister Anil Vij on Sunday said Haryana government will also treat Covid-19 patients of other states. He said Haryana will not be “harsh” like Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has announced to reserve the hospitals run by the Delhi government for locals only. “We cannot deny treatment to anyone…who is from outside Haryana... We cannot be harsh like Kejriwal,” Vij said, pointing out that in past few days, many people had contacted him informing that they were not getting beds in the national capital. Responding to a question, Vij said there was no community spread in any districts of the state. Though the health bulletin only mentioned four deaths, a 70-year-old man from Rajound succumbed to virus at the Khanpur Kalan medical college. Kaithal chief medical officer Rakesh Sehl said the patient had gone to the hospital a few days ago for treatment. He was diabetic and was tested positive on June 4. A 64-year-old woman from Sunshine County area admitted to Bhagat Phool Singh medical college also died of Covid-19. Sonepat DC Shyam Lal said she had tested positive on June 5. Mahendergarh, meanwhile, witnessed 25 new cases as well.165 NEW CASES EMERGE IN SONEPAT IN THREE DAYS Emergence of 165 new Covid-19 cases in last three days has placed Sonepat on the list of worst-hit districts in Haryana after Gurugram and Faridabad. The district’s tally climbed to 424 on Sunday. Sonepat civil surgeon BK Rajoura said most of the cases have been reported from Rai, Kundli and Ganaur areas. “The new patients are either Delhi-returnees or their contacts. Majority of the contacts of infected people who tested positive are asymptomatic,” he added. The civil surgeon said they were prepared to tackle the sudden surge in cases and have facilities with total 820 beds ready for patients in various parts of the district. “We will add 500 more beds by next week,” he added. Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said, “We have decided to turn two hostels of Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women into Covid healthcare centres. The health department has already constituted block-level teams for sampling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-new-high-of-496-cases-in-a-day-47-from-gurugram-alone/story-7ZOyITbWqBkp6uiQxVewrJ.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Break-in at mobile phone shop in Kurla, items worth ₹8 lakh stolen||The Kurla police on Sunday registered a house-breaking and theft case after unknown robbers broke into a mobile store in Kurla. The robbers used a gas-cutter to get inside the shop and took away 52 mobile phones and accessories worth ₹7.99 lakh. According to the police, the theft took place at Top-10 mobile shop at the station road in Kurla (West). The incident took place in the night between Saturday and Sunday. “The thieves used a gas cutter to cut the shutter of the shop. They took away 52 mobile phones and accessories worth ₹7.99 lakh,” said a police officer. According to the police, the complainant, Vivek Navin Satra, 28, is the manager of the shop. The incident took place in-between 4pm on Saturday to 10am on Sunday. “Total 52 mobile phones of different companies, 19 demo mobiles phones, mobile accessories, ₹5,000 cash and DVR of CCTV footage was robbed,” said a police officer. The owners claim that the shop was closed since the lockdown started in March. “We suspect some local or known person who was aware of the shop may have committed the crime. We are trying to get CCTV footage, but are yet to get,” said a police officer. Senior police inspector Dattarey Shinde along with police inspector and staff visited the spot after the incident. The case is being investigated by police sub-inspector N Patil. A case was registered under sections 454, 457 (house-breaking) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/break-in-at-mobile-phone-shop-in-kurla-items-worth-8-lakh-stolen/story-qVhtMerhW89vPcCTedahxH.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Fever cases drop by 64%, civic body says referred patients to special clinics||Fever cases in the city have reduced by 64% in the last two months, states the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). For the first time since 2016, Mumbai has reported as low as 1,700 fever cases in a month. The civic body claims that such a dip was because people with fever were referred to Covid-19 fever clinics for symptomatic treatment. However, activists claim that due to the lockdown, several patients failed to reach hospitals.According to the data provided by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the first five months, the city reports an average of 3,000 fever cases. After an initial rise in the number of fever cases to 4,749 in March this year, it dropped steeply in April to 1,703, a 64% decrease. In May, the number marginally increased to 1,745.As fever is considered the main symptom of Covid-19, suspected patients rushed to hospitals in a large number.“The inflow of patients with fever-like symptoms doubled at civic and private-run hospitals. In the initial days, several societies and officers were also demanding non-Covid certificates from people with fever. Thus, we decided to form fever clinics to bifurcate the suspected patients,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC.When fever clinics started coming up in the city, all symptomatic patients were referred to these centers. “All patients with fever were referred to these clinics for examinations. Thus, we witnessed a dip in fever patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.However, health activists have refuted the civic body’s claims. They state that due to unavailability of vehicles and closure of OPDs, the patients were forced to take medicines over the counter.“With the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, people got scared and they even refused to visit a hospital for treatment because of the fear of getting quarantined. Also, all the nearby private clinics closed down, they had to be dependent on chemist shops for medications,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a city-based health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fever-cases-drop-by-64-civic-body-says-referred-patients-to-special-clinics/story-9uqxrpDyg37kAo0sORmQiJ.html
08-06-2020||City||As Covid pandemic rages, fashion industry adjusts to the ‘new normal’||As state governments relax Covid-related lockdown conditions and allow commercial activity, many clothing stores have opened their doors, promising safe shopping experience, but there are no takers.When it comes to clothing, most people prefer brick and mortar stores to online shops, because they would like to touch and feel the fabric and try on the clothes before they buy. After all, it is not necessary that a dress that looks beautiful on a model or a mannequin will look good on you . However, today, the fear of catching the dreaded virus is holding back consumers from visiting these shops. Consumers worry about how many people may have touched the clothes and tried them on and whether any of them was an asymptomatic Covid positive individual. Besides, trying on dresses and tops that you pull over your head is also fraught with danger as the fabric comes in contact with your eyes, nose and mouth - unless you are wearing a mask and a plastic face shield (that may well become a new normal for trying on clothes) . The fact that there is hardly any information on the transmission of Corona virus through clothing or fabrics is also a factor.There is evidence of the virus remaining stable for a few hours to days on various surfaces - on stainless steel and plastic surfaces for two to three days, on cardboard for 24 hours, as per the study published in the New England Journal of Medicine. But on fabric surfaces, unfortunately, there is scant information on how long the virus may remain. Scientists do say that the virus does not survive long on porous material like clothes , unlike non-porous surfaces like plastic. Besides, porous surfaces tend to trap the virus, making transmission tough. In fact the virus becomes inert and disintegrates relatively faster on porous surfaces , they say.But that’s no consolation for consumers worried about their safety, because authentic and accurate information in this area is still lacking and nobody is ruling out the possibility of contamination of an apparel -even for a relatively short duration – if an infected person coughed or sneezed on it or touched it with contaminated hands. In fact experts warn against shaking any fabric that may be contaminated, as it can release the trapped virus into the air.Since no one knows how long the virus will continue to haunt us, fabric and clothing manufacturers are trying out various options to get the consumers back. A suiting material manufacturer for example, has come up with fabric that inhibits the growth and retention of micro organisms-both bacteria and viruses- up to 50 washes. The fashion industry is also trying various ways of sanitizing clothes - with ozone, ultra violet rays, to mention a few. More recently, an apparel brand has been offering its clients, one-on-one exclusive virtual shopping experience. Here, you shop from the safety of your home , yet experience the joy of visiting a brick and mortar store , including the interaction with the shop assistant to help you choose what you want , without the risk of Covid-19, through a video call from the store at a time and on a day convenient to you. Whatever you buy is sent home in a factory-sealed packet.These are certainly difficult times for everyone and it will take considerable effort on the part of the fashion/apparel industry to get consumers to buy clothes-either online or through video shopping - in these times of economic slowdown, earning losses, lockdowns and fear of the virus. Besides, in the absence of socializing, consumers are mostly not interested in buying new clothes. So it’s really a tough challenge for the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-pandemic-rages-fashion-industry-adjusts-to-the-new-normal/story-iZhxvyx1MbAfRWwFJJ4djN.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Why is it so difficult to get tested in Delhi?||Most private laboratories in Delhi have either capped the number of people they test in a day or are not collecting samples for some time, making it very difficult to get tested for the coronavirus disease in he capital. Some laboratories said they will start collecting samples from Monday.On Sunday, HT reached out to all 23 private labs recognised by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to check on testing: three said they were closed for Covid-19 testing because of “technical reasons”; two said they had a token system with people coming in early in the morning to give their samples on a first- come-first-served basis; two others had an online appointment scheduling system; eight said they could schedule a test on Monday or later; seven didn’t answer ; and only one said the patient could come and get tested right away.Delhi’s testing protocol is tighter than the Indian Council of Medical Research’s. Tests are restricted to symptomatic individuals. Even direct contacts of infected people can be tested only if they are senior citizens or have co-morbidities. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageUnder current rules, a senior official in the chief minister’s office explained, the first stop for a symptomatic individual should be a flu clinic (these are located in all government hospitals and the 10 private hospitals that have so far been identified by the government). There, a doctor inspects the symptoms and recommends a Covid test. A laboratory will accept any application for test only with a doctor’s recommendation.“If the symptoms are mild, the person is assigned home isolation till the result is out. If moderate or severe, then either institutional quarantine or a hospital is recommended, depending on age and presence of co-morbidities. No patient with symptoms can be refused diagnosis by any hospital under an order issued by the (state) health department,” said the official.Delhi currently has 42 labs for Covid tests, of which eight are temporarily suspended from collecting fresh samples.Once the person tests positive or negative, the same factors – nature of symptoms, age, co-morbidities, etc – determine whether the person is assigned home quarantine, sent to institutional quarantine or admitted in a hospital, the official added. It sounds simple on paper but isn’t: people who want to get tested will have to go to a doctor for a prescription for a test, get a referral form signed by that doctor, and then look for a laboratory that will test them.Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket and BL Kapur Memorial Hospital on Pusa road said they have a token system for tests. At Max hospital, patients have to reach at 7.30am at gate number 3 where samples are collected from the first 40 patients. At BL Kapur, 45 patients are tested, starting at 8 am.City X Ray and Scan Clinic in Tilak Nagar and Lifeline Laboratory in Green Park were not collecting samples on Sunday. The rest said tests can be scheduled depending on whether documents are in place. Some asked for the prescription, Aadhar card and ICMR referral form to be sent on WhatAspp before a test can be scheduled on a later date.Few labs didn’t answer calls—including Genestrings Diagnostic Centre in Sarvodaya Enclave; Gen X diagnostics in Sarvapriya Vihar; Aakash Healthcare and four others. Some of them had a book a test provision on their websites.Eight laboratories in Delhi were banned from carrying out tests after the government pulled them up on June 5 for not following protocol, and, according to the Delhi health minister, they were taking too long to report results. These are Dr Lal Pathlabs, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Prognosis laboratory, SRL , Fortis , Star Imaging Path laboratory, Pathkind Labs and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) .That leaves Covid-19 suspect patients with little option but to head to a government hospital where they can get screened and tested. Or the other option is to go to the nearest mohalla (neighbourhood) clinic where a doctor can recommend a test based on severity of symptoms; these tests can happen at the 16 Delhi government test centres. But many may not choose to go directly to a government hospital for the fear of contracting the infection there.Sambhav Bhalla (26), a banker, has locked himself up for the past four days; he suffers from fever, body ache and chills. He developed fever last week on Tuesday. He has called up many hospitals and private labs since then but none agreed to test for “technical reasons”. “I called up a few labs and they said they can’t do the test for now. I will go to a hospital if I feel my condition is deteriorating. I am not even calling government hospitals because I know the situation will be worse there as one of my friend’s uncle passed away and got his Covid test result a week after his death,” he said on Saturday. Bhalla spoke to HT on Thursday but didn’t answer calls on Sunday. He tweeted last week about the difficulties in getting tested.“There are two issues—individual rights and public rights. The individual has the right to get tested in a private facility if he or she feels the need to. In a government facility the government can have a policy to prioritise which cases it will test as public money is being spent. If both sides collapse it’s not good. Whether you finally get tested in private or in a government hospital they should counsel you on what you are supposed to do next based on the results. That is crucial in further spread of the infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-why-is-it-so-difficult-to-get-tested-in-delhi/story-SoPwKc2l6wZ0UHDjZpJ6TN.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||For now, Delhi hospitals only for city residents: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday beds in hospitals under the Delhi government, and private hospitals — with the exception of those providing specialised surgeries in certain fields — will be reserved for people of Delhi till the Covid-19 crisis subsides, even as he announced that the city’s borders with neighbouring states will be opened on Monday.People from other states can still be treated in the national capital’s hospitals that come under the central government. These include the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung Hospital and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.On June 1, Kejriwal ordered the closure of Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. On the same day, he sought suggestions from the city’s residents on whether the Capital should open its borders, citing the capacity of Delhi’s health care infrastructure, which he said could get burdened if people from other states were admitted.Citing the feedback from the city’s residents, Kejriwal said on Sunday that around 750,000 people responded, of whom more than 90% said that hospitals in Delhi should only cater to the residents of the city till the pandemic subsides.In a digital news briefing, Kejriwal said the government’s move was aimed at “striking a balance” as Delhi opens its borders with neighbouring states at a time when the city-state is reviving business and economic activities, and restarting public transport, even as daily new cases continue to remain over 1,000 in the recent days.“There will be utter chaos at the hospital’s emergency unit if we were to check the ID card of each patient that lands up here,” said a senior administrative official of a city hospital, asking not to be identified.Other hospitals said they needed to read the formal order to know the exact details of the directive.“We are yet to get the order, and will be in a position to respond once we get the notification,” said a spokesperson for Apollo Hospital. A Fortis Hospital spokesperson, too, said they awaiting the formal order “and will act according to the details”.Dr Sanjay Mehta, unit head and VP, BLK Super Speciality Hospital, also said they were waiting for the formal order to implement the directives. The Delhi government clarified that the directive was not applicable to central government-run hospitals.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said the Centre’s hospitals in Delhi are trying to accommodate as many patients as possible. “Our hospitals such as AIIMS, Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge are handling a lot of patient load in Delhi, including Covid-19 cases,” he said.The Delhi government, on Wednesday last week, set up a five-member advisory panel headed by Dr Mahesh Verma, vice-chancellor of Indraprastha University, to guide the government with its health care augmentation plan amid an increasing number of Covid-19 cases.Citing the findings of a report submitted by the body to the chief minister’s office on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “The five-member committee assessed the situation and found that by the end of June, Delhi will require around 15,000 beds to treat Corona patients. There are around 10,000 beds each in Delhi government and Centre-run hospitals. The five-member committee has also said that if people from other states are given access to Delhi government hospitals, around 9,000 beds can get occupied within three days.”“So far, the people of Delhi never refused treatment to those from other states, who, at any given point, comprise 60-70% of total patients in Delhi government hospitals. But Covid-19 cases are now rising in the city. The panel has suggested that the beds should be reserved for a few months. The cabinet decided that there is a need to strike a balance. So, we will open up borders and reserve beds in Delhi government hospitals. And the Centre-run hospitals will be for people across the country. The private hospitals will also be reserved for Delhi’s people,” Kejriwal said.“But those conducting specialised surgeries, which are not available elsewhere, especially in the fields of organ transplant, oncology and neurology, will be allowed to admit patients from other states. This balance will protect the rights of people of Delhi as well as those from other states,” he added. Senior officials said the government is in the process of preparing a list of such private hospitals.Delhi has five Covid-19-dedicated government hospitals and 10 such private hospitals. So far, the Capital has a total of 8,049 beds to treat Covid-19 patients.The government has also shortlisted some stadiums, hotels and banquet halls in the city to be used as extended hospital facilities for space augmentation in the days to come. Government records showed, as on June 7, the 15 hospitals collectively had 8,049 beds, of which 4,250 were occupied. These hospitals collectively have 480 ventilators, of which 237 were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-now-delhi-hospitals-only-for-city-residents-cm-kejriwal/story-MfokDfbjDy2L7wgelDsk0H.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Voter ID, drivers’ license among papers required for treatments in Delhi hospitals||The Delhi government on Sunday night issued a list of documents that would make a person eligible to be treated in either a state-run or private hospital, with the exception of those that provide specialised surgeries.The documents are — voter ID; bank or post office passbook, ration card, passport, drivers’ license, income tax return; latest water, telephone or electricity bill issued to the patient or close relative such as parents or spouse; proof of postal department’s posts received with the patient’s name in the given address; Aadhaar card issued prior to June 7; and any such document issued in the name of any of the parents if the patient is a minor, said the order.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday that beds in the city hospitals, including the private ones -- with the exception of which are providing specialised surgeries -- will be reserved for “people of Delhi”. The order, signed by the Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla, reads that the “private hospitals and nursing homes shall ensure that only bona fide residents of Delhi are admitted for treatment in these hospitals.”According to records of the city government’s planning department, the city currently has a population of around 19.1 million, of which, records of the election commission suggests, 14.6 million are eligible voters. The gap, senior officials said, are either minors or residents of the city who vote in other states.The order will now be sent to the office of Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/voter-id-drivers-licence-among-papers-to-prove-eligibility-for-treatments-in-delhi-hospitals/story-GCVLkLfhf0MvI1z0dZyyFO.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Liquor to be cheaper in Delhi as govt removes 70% corona fee||The Delhi government from June 10 will withdraw the special 70% coronavirus fees that it has been levying on the maximum retail price (MRP) of liquor, a senior government official said Sunday. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday. The cabinet note, which HT has seen, further said, value added tax (VAT) on liquor sold in Delhi will be increased from 20% to 25%.VAT is applicable on all Indian manufactured foreign liquor and country liquor. Prices of imported liquor – on which several other duty fees are levied – are likely to witness no change in MRP after June 10.The special ‘coronavirus fee’ was imposed by the Delhi excise department on May 3, the day government liquor shops in the city — which are not located in markets and shopping malls — were allowed to open after around six weeks of lockdown. Around 100 shops that were allowed to open witnessed massive crowds and rampant violation of lockdown norms.Between May 18 and 22, more shops, including those in markets and those owned by private enterprises, were allowed to open, but on alternate days based on the shop numbers.Between May 4 and June 3, excise department records showed, the Delhi government had earned around Rs 200 crore through the special coronavirus fee on liquor.From June 1, around 700 liquor shops in the city out of 864 have been allowed to function all days a week. From Monday onwards, those located inside shopping malls will be allowed to function too, said a senior government official.Vinod Giri, director general, Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, welcomed the Delhi cabinet’s decision.Giri said, “We had repeatedly pointed out that such steep increase will turn to be counter-productive as it would lead to fall in liquor sales and government revenues. We are indeed very pleased to note that the government has responded promptly to remove the cess and substitute it with tax increase, which is reasonable and within our recommendations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-to-be-cheaper-in-delhi-as-govt-removes-70-corona-fee/story-El5cAdtqJ6UypfhvYe5Z1J.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||Cases of vector-borne diseases from Jan to May lowest in five years: Data||Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, cases of dengue, malaria and leptospirosis in the city have dropped by 54% in the first five months of this year, compared to the corresponding period for the last five years, stated the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Though there has been a worry that the lockdown can affect BMC’s disease control measures before the monsoon, data shows that in comparison with the last five years, this year till May, Mumbai has recorded the lowest number of mosquito and vector-borne diseases.Data revealed that between January and May of 2016, 1,762 water and mosquito-borne disease cases were reported but this year till May, the number fell to 809, a drop of 54%.In the first five months of 2016, as many as 114 dengue cases were recorded but this year cases decreased to 37. There has been a fall of 71% in the reporting of mosquito-borne diseases. Similarly, in the same period in 2016, Mumbai reported 1,628 malaria cases which plunged to 753 this year.The city recorded 19 cases of leptospirosis till May 2020 compared to 20 in 2016, in the first five months.Health officials said that drop in construction activities could have reduced malaria and other vector-borne diseases. “The movement of people during lockdown has been restricted by 90%, which helped to control their exposure to mosquito breeding spots. People aren’t going to parks and playing grounds. Due to restriction on construction sites, discarded items that hold water have decreased,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.As the civic body is expecting a rise in the number of mosquito-borne diseases during monsoon, they have prepared non-Covid hospitals for treatment of such patients. “Patients with dengue, malaria or leptospirosis will be sent to peripheral hospitals along with KEM (King Edward Memorial) Hospital,” added Kakani.Symptoms of coronavirus infection, malaria, dengue and fever are similar, especially fever. This often causes panic and confusion among patients and physicians.“Before getting the swab test report, we can identify the patients with other symptoms which are uncommon in dengue or malaria, like loss of taste or smell, discolouration of fingers and toes. Also, an X-Ray helps in getting a quick check into the condition of lungs,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist at Hinduja Hospital.But on previous occasions, doctors have encountered patients coinfected with Covid-19 and dengue. Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist, who is part of the state task force for Covid-19, said, “We have received a few cases where a Covid-19 patient also had dengue. In such cases, the health complications further increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cases-of-vector-borne-diseases-from-jan-to-may-lowest-in-five-years-data/story-x8u2BMueoRewoojGGtKdlI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Ganga Ram to contest govt FIR against it for violating norms||The Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Sunday described the Delhi government’s first information report (FIR) against it as “unwarranted” and “harassment” and asserted that it would even go to court to get the complaint quashed.The Delhi government had filed an FIR against the hospital located in Rajendra Nagar for not following protocols for testing patients. The government had asked the hospital to stop testing patients on June 3, citing violations of the ICMR guidelines. The FIR was filed under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. “We will contest the FIR as it is totally unwarranted. How can an FIR be filed for not providing data in the format that government wanted? We may not have followed their format but we have been regularly updating Covid data and sending it across to the authorities concerned. So we will ensure that the FIR is quashed even if that means we have to approach the court,” said Dr D S Rana, chairman, board of management of the hospital. “Even though we are not at fault, I went and apologised for any oversight that may have occurred inadvertently and asked to stop this harassment. There was shortage of data entry operators during lockdown so there was difficulty in feeding data in a particular format. There is no criminal offence committed from our side.”A Delhi government spokesperson refused comment on the hospital contemplating to move the court. The copy of the FIR against the hospital read: “The order of Health and Family Welfare Department regarding guidelines for tracking and monitoring of every Covid-19 suspected cases tested in various accredited labs across Delhi wherein it was mandatory for the labs to collect sample only through the Delhi government’s RT-PCR App. Further CDMO (Chief District Medical Officer) cum mission director, Central, mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram hospital is still not using RT-PCR app even till today (03/06) which is a clear violation of direction issued under Epidemic Disease Covid-19 regulation 2020.” Rana said the management is also working on implementing the state government’s June 3 directive to turn the hospital into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. “We are working towards it and have so far managed to convert about 40% of the main hospital into a Covid hospital,” said Rana.The 675-bed hospital is increasing its ventilator bed count to 60 to treat critical patients. However, the primary concern of the hospital is to find space for its sick non-Covid patients. “Creating a dedicated Covid-19 facility is not easy as you have to assign staff, change ventilation, among other things. No hospital can turn do this overnight; much less a busy hospital like ours. It requires time as there are about 200 seriously ill patients, mostly cardiac, neuro surgery and nephrology patients who are not fit to be discharged yet. Where will I send them? We do not refuse to help in the pandemic, but at the same time we can’t let non-covid patients die,” said Rana.The hospital has already allotted two of its subsidiary hospitals- the 140-bed City Hospital and the 40-bed Kolmet Hospital- for treating only Covid-19 patients. “Apart from that 20% of our bed capacity in the main hospital was also assigned for treating Covid-19 patients, so what more did they want?,” said Rana.The government on June 3 had also ordered the hospital to stop testing for the coronavirus for violating Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. The hospital said it had to refer about 200 people to other centres from its fever clinic since.Seema Singh, 46, who was in the hospital for dialysis, was running a fever. She was asked her to tested for the virus. “I asked them to test my sample but they said they could not as the hospital had been barred from doing so for the time being. I come all the way from Ghaziabad and am not sure if I will find a facility to test for Covid there. It’s too much inconvenience for patients,” she says.The hospital is only testing those samples already under process. “It will only impact overall testing process as other labs will be overburdened and will send results late, more so for government testing labs that anyway are dealing with a huge sample load of their own. Ultimately, patients will suffer and we are helpless,” says Dr Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ganga-ram-to-contest-govt-fir-against-it-for-violating-norms/story-oRuES5faCHOTsHhNvW2MNP.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Containment curbs eased in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti after 70 days||After almost 70 days, residents of Nizamuddin Basti could step out their locality, as the Delhi government on Sunday scaled down the containment measures.The Basti was declared a containment zone on March 30, days after close to 2,000 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters.According to Delhi government officials, the area continued to be a containment zone for this long as a middle-aged woman tested positive on May 5.As per Delhi government officials, no case has been reported in the last 28 days and they decided to de-seal the area.Mohd Yamin, secretary of the Hazarat Nizamuddin Council, said, “We are thankful to the government for listening to us and de-sealing the area. With mosques being allowed to open from Monday, we are happy that now we can go and offer prayers.”DEFENCE COLONY But just a few kilometres away, a lane comprising 11 houses in Defence Colony was declared a containment zone on Sunday. Many residents in the area questioned the decision to declare such a small area a containment zone. According to a senior Delhi police official aware of the development, “There are 7-8 cases reported from the lane. There are two houses where there is more number of cases.”The area was declared a containment zone after Covid-19 cases were reported from households in C block. As per the order passed by Harleen Kaur, district magistrate of South East Delhi, public movement in the lane has been restricted.Col (retd) Ranjit Singh, the president of the Defence Colony RWA, said, “There are about 14 people in these three homes, of which two are in hospital and rest are quarantined at home. Several sanitisation measures are being taken in the area.”Kum Kum Malhotra, a resident of C-block, said she is in home-quarantine after her sister tested positive on May 29. Her sister was admitted to a hospital in Gurugram on May 30. “I don’t know why this area has been declared a containment zone. We have been in home quarantine ever since my sister tested positive. She has almost recovered and will be home soon. I hope they scale down the measures soon,” Malhotra said.Malhotra said her sister must have got the infection from their driver, who is in home quarantine after he tested positive. “There are seven members in our family. While my sister tested positive, the rest have all tested negative for Covid-19,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/containment-curbs-eased-in-nizamuddin-basti-after-70-days/story-orZDsgM2kH8LGY2pu9iERI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||North East Delhi riots: Charge sheet filed in murder of 85-year-old woman||The Delhi Police on Sunday filed a charge sheet in the rioting and murder case of 85-year-old Akbari Begum, the only woman among the 53 people killed during the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February. Six men, including two brothers, have been charged for allegedly killing Begum by setting her four-storey house at Garmi Road in Bhajanpura on fire on February 25, crime branch officials associated with the probe said.The 606-page charge sheet was filed before a duty magistrate in a Delhi court in the afternoon. The court has fixed the next date of hearing on June 21. All the men are presently in jail.Officials said that on February 25, a “riotous mob” barged into Begum’s house, on the ground and first floors of which her family members ran a garment workshop. The mob set the flammable items in the workshop on fire. The blaze soon reached the two upper floors where Begum and her family members were.“While her family members climbed onto the rooftop and locked themselves, Begum could not escape due to her old age and subsequently died of suffocation (asphyxia due to inhalation of smoke). Her body was found on a folding bed on the second floor,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo said.The firemen and the local police personnel safely rescued 13 people—Begum’s family members and others present in the building. The mob had also ransacked the building. A case was registered at the Bhajanpura police station on the complaint of Begum’s son. The case was later transferred to the special investigation team (SIT) of the crime branch.During the probe, an investigator, requesting anonymity, said they had learned that many people had captured videos and images of the violence at Begum’s house on their cellphones. The videos soon went viral on social media. The videos were procured and taken on record. The cellphones on which the videos were recorded were seized and the statements of 53 witnesses were recorded, the officer said.“We found CCTV camera footage in which the mob that entered Begum’s house and set it on fire was seen. Six men, mostly living in Begum’s neighbourhood, were arrested on the basis of videos, statements of witnesses and technical evidence,” the officer said.The arrested men were identified as Arun Kumar,26, his brother, Varun Kumar,22, Vishal Singh,29, Ravi Kumar,24, Prakash Chand,36, and Suraj Singh,28. They have been charged for rioting, murder, attempt to murder, dacoity with murder, arson, house trespass, and destruction of evidence under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.Crime branch officers said that 752 cases were registered in connection with the north-east Delhi riots that claimed the lives of 53 people and left over 400 injured. Until Sunday, the police had filed charge sheets in 81 cases, in which more than 520 people were charged with various offences, including rioting, arson, murder and attempt to murder.The police have also prepared their charge sheet in the murder case of head constable Rattan Lal, whose death was the first reported casualty when incidents of stone-pelting in north-east Delhi on February 23 turned into a full-blown riot the next morning. He had received a bullet wound, apart from multiple injuries to the head and body during one of many incidents of stone-pelting that took place that day. A deputy commissioner of police (DCP) was also critically injured at the same spot where Lal’s body was found. The charge sheet may be filed on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-east-delhi-riots-charge-sheet-filed-in-murder-of-85-year-old-woman/story-y8XvmJHOEmBaDzZ1YmKrxK.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||TikTok artist assaulted in viral video||A video in which a man with a shrouded face and a pistol is seen assaulting and threatening a teenaged TikTok artist surfaced on social media on Saturday, prompting the Delhi Police to identify the place of the incident and register a case.The police said that the incident took place on June 3 in a village in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla, where the 17-year-old TikTok artist lives with his family. The man who assaulted and threatened him with a gun has a criminal history and is said to be an associate of another criminal, who is lodged in a Gurugram jail in connection with a 2018 murder case. Investigators are looking for the attacker and his associate who recorded the incident on his cellphone, the police said.The police added that they have come across a few facts, one of which may be the reason for the assault and intimidation.“There could be several reasons for which he was assaulted—he had made a TikTok video in which he posed as a woman; he had stopped his friend from uploading a particular photograph as his social media profile picture (the friend is posing with the jailed criminal in the photograph); he is friends with a girl,” a police officer, requesting anonymity, said.In the 45-second video, a man, wearing a pair of shorts and covering his face with a white towel, is seen holding the boy by the collar and threatening him in Haryanvi. He refers to a TikTok video while pointing the gun at him. Another man, who has been identified as the boy’s cousin, arrives and asks the man what the issue is.The boy is seen apologising after the man asks him to do so. “Sorry bol dobara (Apologise again)”, the man says in the video as he slaps the boy a couple of times and asks him to leave.The person who uploaded the video on social media also sought police action, saying that the teenager did not file police complaint out of fear.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that a case of threatening, common intention and use of firearms has been registered under sections 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act.“We are looking for the two suspects. They will be caught soon,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tiktok-artist-assaulted-in-viral-video/story-SkJy0KPfFwsVtl4dgN8kKI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Two dead after speeding bike hits road divider in West Delhi’s Vikaspuri||Two men were killed on Saturday after the allegedly speeding motorcycle they were riding hit a road divider when the rider lost its control while descending a flyover in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri, the police said.According to the police, the two men, identified as Gulshan, 23, and Sunny, 24, worked as e-rickshaw drivers. The head and face of one of them was so badly crushed in the accident that it was difficult to identify him, they said. Broken pieces of helmets and the motorcycle were found scattered on the road, said a police officer associated with the case which was registered regarding the accident at the Vikaspuri police station.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the accident took place at around 9pm on Saturday when the two men were coming from Peeragarhi side on the motorcycle.The police said the witnesses told them that the rider was driving the motorcycle at high speed and lost his balance while descending the Vikaspuri flyover. “The two-wheeler then crashed into the road divider with the two men falling off the motorcycle. The two men skid on the road to some distance which caused multiple injuries,” said a police officer privy to the case.Some passersby had informed a constable who was patrolling the area about the accident. The constable reached the spot and alerted the police station. An accident spot inspection team arrived and a centralised accident and trauma services (CATS) ambulance was also called in, said the police.“The two motorcyclists were declared dead on the spot by the CATS staff. The two men were residents of southwest Delhi’s Hastsal Vihar in Uttam Nagar. Their bodies will be handed over to the family after an autopsy” the DCP said.The police said they are probing if the two men were hit by an unknown vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-dead-after-speeding-bike-hits-road-divider-in-west-delhi-s-vikaspuri/story-czsxEcrnBmtAoJ6MAPno7J.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||8,000 north MCD teachers on Covid-19 duty not paid salary for three months||Nearly 8,000 teachers in the 714 North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run schools, who are currently deployed at the government’s food distribution centres amid the Covid-19 pandemic, have not been paid salaries for the last three months. While many said that they are not being able to repay their loans and school fees of their children, some are struggling to even provide the basic necessities to their dependents. Niket Giri, a teacher at a municipal school in Mangolpuri, said that he has two loans to repay and five dependents to look after in the family. “I am working during a pandemic without thinking twice about the safety of my family. This is when I am not being paid (salary) for the three months. It’s become so difficult to survive now. I had to pay instalments of Rs 30,000 per month to the bank. For the last three months I have been borrowing money from friends’ and relatives to repay the loan,” he said.The teachers had last received the salary of the month of February in April. Another teacher working at the civic body school in Sultanpuri said he had used up all his savings on his wedding in February. “Within a few days after the wedding, the lockdown was announced and the schools were shut. I literally had nothing left. After waiting for two months, we received the salary for the month of February in April. It also came after the tax deduction. We have not received even a penny after that. I can show anyone that my bank account is zero since the last month. I get panic attacks when I think about how I will repay all the loans I have taken from my relatives and friends,” he said, requesting anonymity.A 35-year-old teacher working at a school in Budh Vihar said he is unable to even purchase groceries and shops are refusing to give items on credit. “We are distributing ration and cooked food among those in need but who will take care of our families?” he said.The MCD teachers association has warned the government of going on indefinite strike against the non-payment of salaries immediately after the lockdown is lifted. In the last three months, the association has written multiple letters to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, north MCD officials, members of the opposition party in the Capital and even to the Prime Minister Office seeking intervention. “While the teachers of east and south MCD schools have received their salaries, those working in north MCD schools are not being paid since March. We can’t go on strike amid the lockdown since it’s prohibited under the Delhi Disaster Management Act. We have also started sending out messages to the parents of our students seeking support,” said Ramnivas Solanki, president of the association.When contacted, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds education and finance portfolios, said, “We have given all dues till May. MCD should tell where they have used the money.”Authorities at North corporation said that they have not received funds from the Delhi government to pay the salaries. Avtar Singh, mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that the municipality has been trying to explore all the options to generate revenue to pay the salaries of their employees. “We understand the issues teachers and their families must be facing. We have been requesting the Delhi government to release all our pending funds. They should, in fact, give us extra funds keeping in mind how these teachers are risking their lives and working amid the pandemic,” he said. Solanki said that the government and the MCD should not let the teachers suffer. “The Delhi government always says it’s paid the money but the MCD maintains that they have not received sufficient funds. They should not let 8,000 families suffer because of their politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-000-north-mcd-teachers-on-covid-19-duty-not-paid-salary-for-three-months/story-G4g9zwnnl8HPhPwqHef7bO.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||CRZ 2019 looks at coast as an industry, mulls real estate, port development: Experts||Coastal communities along the Indian coastline have raised concerns about the safety of their livelihood as natural disasters are becoming frequent.Ahead of World Oceans Day on Monday, Goa-based coastal marine policy researcher Sarita Fernandes compiled a report on how all coastal states and union territories along the country’s 7,600 km coastline have objected to the coastal regulation zone (CRZ), 2019, norms through legal mediums, protests, and research publications over the past year.“Rather than having a strong coastal policy to protect ecosystems and stakeholders, the CRZ 2019 looks at the coast as an industry with promising real estate and port development as key stakeholders,” said Fernandes. “Rough estimates say at the CRZ 1991 was amended 25 times and 2011 rules were amended 15 times which clearly shows that the instruments which are easily mouldable cannot instil confidence for sound coastal and ocean management.”The report highlights how the fishing community and citizens in Maharashtra have moved the Bombay high court and Supreme Court (SC) against proposed projects that received CRZ clearance such as Coastal Road, bullet train and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue in Arabian Sea that propose to reclaim mangroves, wetlands, fishing beds and marine wildlife habitats like reef building corals, that are all protected under CRZ 2019 itself.Mumbai-based activist BN Kumar said, “Maharashtra cannot think about a blue economy scheme without maintaining blue waters properly.”Goa has challenged the entire policy itself seeking protection to ecologically sensitive areas such as Khazan lands and turtle nesting sites. “India’s coasts have for long been vulnerable to climate change impacts and localised disasters,” said Kanchi Kolhi, an environmental governance expert with Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research.“The recent cyclones are the newest reminders of this. However, the CRZ 2019 has been designed to claim most vulnerable coastal spaces for highways, industry, airports, real estate and even sewage treatment plants. It has assumed that these are empty lands, either devoid of environmental risks or where vulnerability can be circumvented with technology,” said Kohli.Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have objected CRZ clearances issued for major ports affecting lakhs of traditional fishers, the report said adding that citizens groups from Vishakapatnam have petitioned the government on the omission of the hazard line in the new CRZ 2019. “India’s coastal and ocean management really needs a rehaul,” said Sanjay Upadhyay, Supreme Court lawyer. “As far as regulatory instruments are concerned a notification issued as early as 1991 in the form of CRZ 1991 later amended in 2011 and now in 2019 clearly suggests that a loose instrument cannot be appropriate for sound coastal and ocean management,” Upadhyay said.Odisha and West Bengal, which recently witnessed cyclone damage, have raised an alarm about the reduction of the high tide line and NDZ risking the safety of more citizens along major beaches, that also happen to be the country’s largest turtle nesting grounds (Odisha). “Between 1991 and 2019, the only positive thing to happen was the introduction of CRZ IV (area covered between Low Tide Line and 12 nautical miles seaward). Apart from that there have only been relaxations to allow commercial exploitation of the coast,” said environmentalist Debi Goenka.A senior environment ministry official said, “CRZ 2019 was nothing more than enhancing previous coastal protection norms and combining sustainable development through tourism and livelihood opportunities, which is helping us achieve a balance and the concept of blue revolution.” Sanjai Jalla, from the Society of Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM) under the Union environment ministry said, “The overall supervision and monitoring from the high tide line onwards has become very active over the past six to seven years. There is a dedicated team working on this, which is developing state project management units. Their primary job is to protect the coastal regions and not to allow uncontrolled activities and illegal developments. This is getting further enhanced under CRZ 2019.”What the CRZ 2019 rules say?The norms, based on recommendations of Dr Shailesh Nayak-led committee, relaxed previous CRZ norms (1991 and 2011), to allow development closer to the coast. It increased floor-space-index for coastal cities, up to 15% FSI for no development zones (NDZ). It reduced the width of the creek from the high tide line to 50 metres from the earlier limit of 100 metres. It limited CRZ to the first 500m of land from high tide line (extent till which coastal waters can reach the farthest on land) and not till the hazard line (natural changes along the shore due possible impacts of climate change). Eco-tourism activities were allowed in ecologically fragile areas, mining activities could be regulated, redevelopment of fishing villages, and identifying open spaces and parks as NDZ among many other decisions.Coral bleaching along major coastal zones in India during May: BNHSMumbai: Pre-monsoon bleaching of coral reefs (schedule-I species) under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, took place during the month of May across the Gulf of Mannar, Gulf of Kutch, and Lakshadweep, said Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). “Significant bleaching was expected as sea surface temperatures ranged between 30-32 degrees Celsius. We have images from all these areas with 50% tridacna (giant saltwater clams), which was indicative of high bleaching,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS. Corals can survive narrow range distributions with temperatures ranging from 18-24 degrees Celsius. “Beyond 29 degrees Celsius continuous incidents of bleaching will take place,” said Apte adding that the next assessment of the marine ecosystems will be taken during the post-monsoon period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crz-2019-looks-at-coast-as-an-industry-mulls-real-estate-port-development-experts/story-glsDDM3VvMK6hz388303fO.html
08-06-2020||City||25 hospitalised after chlorine gas leak at waterworks in Mohali||Chlorine-gas leak at the waterworks facility in Balongi of Kharar left 25 persons hospitalised on late Sunday evening.Residents of the area said that around 8.30pm, they suddenly started experiencing nausea , dizziness and irritation in the eyes.The fire brigade was called but two of their firemen also had to be hospitalised after they experienced the same problems. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that around 25 persons, including women and children, were taken to the civil hospital in Phase-6.“Around 10 patients have been discharged. The others will also be allowed to go home soon. They are all in a stable condition,” he said.Fire officials buried the cylinder in the ground to plug the leak, but the operations were still going on at the time of the filing of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-hospitalised-after-chlorine-gas-leak-at-balongi-waterworks/story-9MpNjS6QJlLWqkLHGEm9yI.html
08-06-2020||Delhi||Nursing officers to govern Covid patients’ admissions in Delhi pvt hospitals: Delhi govt||(Updated)Nursing officers to govern Covid patients’ admissions in Delhi pvt hospitals: Delhi govtThe Delhi government on Sunday issued an order for appointment of senior nursing officers in 68 private hospitals in the capital who will be directly involved in admission of coronavirus patients in these hospitals based on the parameters specified in treatment protocols mentioned in government directives issued from time to time.The order issued by the health and family welfare department has asked hospitals run by the Delhi government to appoint senior nursing officers to the private hospitals.“All allopathic hospitals owned and run by Delhi government or owned by Delhi government and run under autonomous mode shall appoint a Sr. Nursing officer in each private hospital round the clock (24X7) as per details mentioned,” the order decrees.An annexure to the order lists all the 68 private hospitals including Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which was booked on Saturday for allegedly not following the laid out procedure for handling of coronavirus cases or suspected cases by the government.The government order says that all the listed hospitals will have to provide a separate room or chamber to the senior nursing officer. The order makes it abundantly clear that the government’s representative will have a direct role in deciding admissions of Covid cases in these hospitals.“The reception/help desk at these hospitals shall fill up the information in prescribed performa in respect of each Covid positive patient who is to be admitted, and on the basis of the information, the Sr. Nursing Officer shall take a decision on the admission of the aforesaid patient in the respective private Covid hospital strictly as per the prescribed protocol.Another annexure to the order carries the performa mentioned therein that lists detailed health parameters relevant to assessing the condition of a coronavirus patient, like temperature, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, presence of cough, shortness of breath, sore throat etc.This order by the health department follows another instruction to all hospitals in the capital not to refuse treatment to a patient suspected to be moderately or severely infected on the pretext of absence of a test confirming his/her status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nursing-officers-to-govern-covid-patients-admissions-in-delhi-pvt-hospitals-delhi-govt/story-OQoWgKcgGSivxSmiSYhwXJ.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Home minister Deshmukh counters ally Sena on Sonu Sood||Maharashtra Home minister Anil Deshmukh countered ally Shiv Sena on questioning Bollywood actor Sonu Sood for his efforts in transporting migrant workers back home.Speaking in Pune on Sunday during a press conference, Deshmukh said whoever is doing good work needs to be applauded.When asked about Shiv Sena spokesperson and editor Sanjay Raut’s article in Saamana criticising Sood’s work, Deshmukh said that by helping people, Sood has done good work.“I have not heard what Sanjay Raut said but Sonu or anybody else, if someone is coming forward and helping in the current situation, the person needs to be welcomed,” he said.Raut had lashed out at Sood, who has been widely appreciated for helping hundreds of stranded migrant workers home, as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party. The Sena leader also questioned how Sood managed to arrange for buses and flights when many state governments were found to be helpless during the lockdownOn the issue of migrants, Deshmukh said that so far 12 lakh migrant workers have been sent to their respective states through the special “shramik” trains and claimed that the entire cost of the journey was borne by the state government.Deshmukh was in Pune to review the Covid-19 situation in the city.“Till now, around 12 lakh migrant workers have been sent to their respective states in special trains. Around 5.5 lakh migrant workers were transported to their respective borders in state transport buses. The railway ministry announced that they would be bearing 85 per cent of the ticket fare of migrant workers’ homebound journey but not a single penny has been received from them,” he said.He said that the entire cost around Rs 100 crore was spent from the CM relief fund for sending the migrants to their states.“We made all the arrangements of the migrant labourers including giving them food and all these people upon reaching to their states are appreciating the state government,” he said.Replying to a question on the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis criticising the state government, Deshmukh said that all people from all walks of life, NGOs, all political parties are coming forward and helping in the fight against Covid-19 and in this time, in such situation, a leader like Fadnavis engaging in politics is not good.“Fadnavis should stop dreaming,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-minister-deshmukh-counters-ally-sena-on-sonu-sood/story-jpssrgVVwePo3ZjbxUhz4J.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Shopping malls all set to reopen in Ludhiana, but wait for dining-in||With shopping malls all set to reopen from Monday, last minute arrangements are being made to welcome back customers.Extensive cleaning and sanitisation was carried out in the malls on Sunday.Employees of lifestyle stores, including clothing and accessory shops, were seen arranging their latest products and all employees were made familiar with latest government guidelines to regulate customer rush.Also, requisite design changes, including using alternate urinals and taps, were made to maintain social distancing.Shopping malls have been shut since March amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Authorities of the Pavilion Mall said that staff will be deployed at the entrance and only persons with e-passes issued by the government will be allowed to enter. A thermal scanner has been installed at the entrance to check people for temperature and symptoms of Covid-19, they added.Joint managing director of MBD Group, Sonica Malhotra Kandhari said, “We are all set to resume operations for MBD Neopolis Mall in Ludhiana and Jalandhar from Monday. We have followed all guidelines and SOPs issued by ministry of health and family welfare on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.”She said opening of both malls will be done in a safe and controlled manner, strictly executing all guidelines related to thermal screening, sanitisation, wearing masks, gloves and PPE kits, and other necessary equipments as issued by central and state governments.“We have developed comprehensive SOPs for smooth mall operations. This would include social distancing, entry and exit of staff, retailers and visitors, vendor movement and crowd management,” Kandhari said.Restaurateurs dejectedHowever, restaurants and hotel owners were disappointed with the state government’s directive to not allow starting of dine-in services.The restaurant operators said this will cause a massive setback to the industry which is struggling for survival.Amarvir Singh, president of Punjab Hotel and Restaurants’ Association said 90 % of the staff has returned to their native states amid the pandemic. “Many restaurants have made requisite changes to maintain social distancing. We were eagerly waiting to reopen, but the Punjab government’s regulations have caused lot of disappointment,” Singh said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopping-malls-all-set-to-reopen-in-ludhiana-but-wait-for-dining-in/story-ejhMI71lk6OefRONReFEVI.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister lays foundation stone for 50-bed mother and child care hospital in Mohali||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday laid the foundation stone for a mother and child care hospital at the civil hospital complex, Kharar, in line with the objectives of Mission Fateh, to ensure adequate healthcare facilities to effectively combat Covid-19. Speaking on the occasion, the minister said that it would be a 50-bed hospital and would come up at a cost of ₹10 Crore. He added that the hospital would be well-equipped with modern equipments and will include four OPDs and family planning room. He said diagnostic departments including ultra sound, ECG, Immunisation, dressing/injection room and pharmacy would occupy the ground floor while two operation theatres, two delivery rooms, nursery, pre-delievery, recovery ward, doctor room, nurse room, changing room and ASHA room would be on the first floor. Sidhu said the SNCU area, ward with 28 Beds, nursing station, baby feeding area, two private rooms, lift no 2, stairs and sub-station would be on the second floor. The minister said the newly built 30-bed MCH hospitals at SDH Dasuya (Hoshiarpur district), Samana, Rajpura (Patiala), Khanna (Ludhiana), Nakodar (Jalandhar) and Pathankot will be fully functional by next month. He also exhorted people to follow social distancing guidelines and take precautions as per protocols of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-lays-foundation-stone-for-50-bed-mother-and-child-care-hospital-at-mohali/story-exY4Aep7KtiiT5ScQ11JWO.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Three in police custody for attacking former legislator, one accused on the run||Three people were remanded to two days in police custody while one man is on the run after a former legislator from Pune lodged a complaint of assault and outraging of modesty against four men for allegedly attacking her on Saturday night.“The one who attacked us is yet to be arrested,” said the complainant.The arrested men were identified as Amar Sayaji Bansode, 26, Vinod Suresh Gende, 26, and Rohidas alias Tejas Rajendra Kamble, 19, all residents of Ganajay society in Kothrud area of Pune.According to a complaint lodged by the 34-year-old former legislator, her father-in-law was walking their dog outside the society at 5:30pm on Saturday when the incident happened.“They were all drunk when it happened. Nobody has sustained any serious injuries. A medical test was performed on the complainant. The fourth accused is on the run,” said police sub-inspector Amol Ghodake of Kothrud police station who is investigating the case.The accused men started shouting at the complainant’s father-in-law and his dog. As they got into an argument, the accused allegedly started throwing glass bottles and stones at the older man. As the man ran inside the gates of the society he lives in, the complainant went outside the gate to confront the men. Residents from the locality, who are witnesses in the case, also joined the complainant as she tried to confront the men who then manhandled her, according to the complaint.A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kothrud police station against the four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-in-police-custody-for-attacking-former-legislator-one-accused-on-the-run/story-lMH5Z56tRDP5SwoRxAnCkM.html
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police get 5-day remand of shooter who opened fire outside bizman’s house||Chandigarh Police on Sunday obtained five-day remand of Karan Sharma, the third accused and first of the five shooters arrested for the firing outside a businessman’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. The crime branch on Saturday arrested Sharma from Mauli Jagran, where he had been hiding after the shooting. He was produced in court on Sunday.Investigations revealed that the 23-year-old from Ludhiana had been pursuing hotel management course at a private varsity in Mohali. Eager to join the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, he came in contact with his key aide Deepu Banur, who is lodged in the Ambala jail, through Facebook. It was Deepu who directed Karan to execute the firing along with four other gang members, said police.The men had fired 17 shots outside the bungalow of hotelier Rakesh Singla, what police said was a targeted attack on his younger brother, liquor baron Arvind Singla.His is the third arrest in the case after Sewak alias, Guri, 25, who lives and runs a gym in Kharar, and Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, 40, of Sarangpur village were held for providing logistical support to the shooters.Lawrence Bishnoi, who studied from DAV College, Sector 10, has been running his gang in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from behind the bars. He had even threatened to kill film actor Salman Khan. He has allegedly been executing various crimes through his key aide Deepu. To unearth the conspiracy and ascertain the motive, police are now seeking Deepu’s custody.“Deepu was in direct touch with Sewak, after the two came in contact in the Ambala jail. Sewak had provided logistical support to the Lawrence Bishnoi gang on earlier occasions too,” said sources.Sewak, during his interrogation, allegedly told police that Deepu had called him from jail, asking him to contact Bishnoi for some work. He was allegedly asked to arrange a vehicle for some men who were coming to Chandigarh for “sightseeing”. He had then borrowed a Ford Ikon from Gurdeep Singh of Banur and handed it to the men, who executed the shooting. Gurdeep has become an approver for the police, and it was on his statement that Sewak was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-get-5-day-remand-of-shooter-who-opened-fire-outside-bizman-s-house/story-AzN4lQm6tQGmdtPPM7AVcN.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Man booked for pronouncing triple talaq over phone||A man from Dharavi, Mumbai was booked along with his mother, sister, and maternal aunt by Pune police for pronouncing talaq with his wife over a phone call. A case of domestic violence has also been registered.The complaint in the matter was lodged by a 25-year-old woman who lives in Kasba peth area of Pune.The estranged couple married in August 2016 and initially lived in her husband’s house for over three years, according to the complainant.“One year ago she was thrown out of the house saying do not return without money, as per her complaint. She came back to live with her father after the incident and has been living with him ever since,” said police sub-inspector Tejaswi Patil of Faraskhana police station who is investigating the case.The estranged couple had a son who returned to Pune with the complainant. While the woman was a housewife, the man did not have any source of permanent income either, according to the police.The four booked in the case regularly abused the complainant verbally and physically for failing to bring money from her parents’ house, according to the complainant.The accused called the woman on Friday night and pronounced talaq thrice, according to the woman. The act is a punishable offence under a newly formed law.A case under Sections 498(a) (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with the intention of provoking a breach of peace) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 (talaq to be void and illegal) and 4 (Punishment for pronouncing talaq) of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019 was registered at the Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-pronouncing-triple-talaq-over-phone/story-JanGbvb5DyAL236fktkKFI.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Truck rams into motorcycle in Chakan, 1 dead||A 26-year-old man was killed in a road accident on Saturday morning in Chakan after a truck rammed into his motorcycle.The deceased has been identified as Pravin Nanasaheb Gade, a resident of Pune who worked at an agriculture machinery company in Pune.The incident took place around 8am near the Hindustan bio-diesel petrol pump in Bhasegaon, Chakan. The deceased was riding a KTM motorbike registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad when he lost control after a truck allegedly rammed into him from behind. After the impact, Gade fell down from his bike and the truck ran over his head, according to police.The truck driver has been identified as Shashikumar Baburao Muley, 46, a resident of Dehugaon, Pune, and arrested by police.A man named Ajit Dafal, 24, a resident of Gavadivasti, Shirur has lodged a complaint in the matter.A case under sections 279, 338, 304(a), 427 of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Chakan police station against the truck driver. Police sub-inspector GN Patange of Chakan police station is investigating the case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-rams-into-motorcycle-in-chakan-1-dead/story-2bvowBmI8shQlwMSBiA8gP.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Home Minister Anil Deshmukh lauds efforts of SPOs, police personnel at Tadiwala road in Pune||Amid Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, on Sunday, interacted and lauded the work undertaken by Special Police Officers (SPOs) and police personnel at Tadiwala road, which is one of the largest containment zones in the city.At the entrance of the containment seal, the SPOs flanked the road to lead the minister from Panchsheel chowk to the entrance of a private road.“You were all a big help to the administration. The efforts have paid off,” said Deshmukh while addressing one of the SPOs.Police commissioner K Venkatesham and additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde were among the senior police officers present with the home minister. Police inspector Shrikant Shinde and assistant police inspector Amol Kale who were at the forefront of the Tadiwala road containment effort were also present.“This is the biggest containment zone. The number of positive cases had reached 750. All the civic officials, police, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff, doctors, nurses, and the SPOs have contributed against the fight in a big way. The youngsters came forward in big numbers to help. This area has come under control thanks to all their efforts,” said Deshmukh.SPO Meena Shendge said, “The police officials were the facilitators and helped us at every step.”The SPOs also narrated their jobs of home delivering essentials like vegetables, milk, meat, groceries and ensuring cleanliness in the area.“The police contributed in many ways - by manning isolation and quarantine centres, check posts, and various other responsibilities. In the process, a number of them were infected. To the ones who have lost their lives, we are making an effort to arrange for Rs60-65 lakh,” he saidHe also said that the state administration is trying to get dedicated hospitals in every district where good treatment and facilities will be provided to police.“There are at least 23,000 police officials who are above 50 years of age. We have given them soft duty, that is, duty inside police stations. The ones above 55 years of age have been told to remain at home; their salaries will not be affected. There are 12,000 such officials in Maharashtra,” said Deshmukh.A medical emergency fund of Rs 1 lakh along with free medical services under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana will be provided to the officials. “Under the scheme, they can go to any hospital and avail free treatment,” he said.The state has recorded 30 police deaths and over 2,557 positive cases of Covid-19 among police officials till June 7. Two police officials in Pune have succumbed to the virus so far.The state has recorded 30 police deaths and over 2,557 positive cases of Covid-19 among police officials till June 7. Two police officials in Pune have succumbed to the virus so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-minister-anil-deshmukh-lauds-efforts-of-spos-police-personnel-at-tadiwala-road/story-3ltKoSe1l9q2nAyOz5UQNN.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Pune barbers threaten protest if not allowed to open salons||The members of the Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal in Pimpri-Chinchwad, an apex body of barbers in the state, has decided to protest if the government fails to revoke the lockdown which bars opening of salons.The lockdown is in place since March 2020 to contain the spread of Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.“We are in talks with Maha Vikas Aghadi government regarding our woes and we have put our demands in front of them. We have asked them to provide us with financial help so we can pay rent and electric bills of our shops, also we should be allowed to open the shops from Monday, otherwise, we will opt for intense protest,” said Ganesh Walunjkar, working president of Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal.The Mahamandal takes care of at least nine lakh salon operators across the state.Pimpri and Chinchwad Municipal Commission had allowed barbers to open their shops, but the order was reversed with state government imposing ban across the state.Guddu Shaikh, who works at the Raj hair parlour, Thergaon, “I have three daughters, one is just one-year-old. Due to the lockdown, the parlour is closed for more than two months now. I have almost used up all my savings. If the parlour does not open soon I will have to look for other work options.”“There are 4,500 salons in PCMC which includes unisex salons, while 1,500 ladies beauty parlours. The lockdown has impacted us severely and the government should support us during these testing times,” said Walunjkar.“We are ready to follow guidelines set by the government, but we must be allowed to start our business,” added Walunjkar.Price hike in pipelineMaharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal is planning to hike the charges for services at salons. The sole purpose of the price hike is to provide precautionary measures for the customers at the salons, according to the association members.“We have planned to provide complete kit to customers which include disposal towel, blade, napkin and scissors. All the used material will be disposed and fresh kit will be used for every new customer,” added Walunjkar.We will be cleaning the salon every two hours with disinfectant, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-barbers-threaten-protest-if-not-allowed-to-open-salons/story-ROlV3uB5mJSdWxcULVrbFK.html
08-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s worst-hit Bhavani peth manages to flatten the curve||The Bhavani peth ward, that emerged as Pune’s Covid-19 hotpot in April and May has reported a drop in the number of fresh cases on a daily basis, according to statistics shared by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).According to the PMC data, the Bhavani peth ward reported 865 progressive cases, of which 121 are active cases until June 4.This has led the area to the 10th spot in ward-wise ranking of active Covid-19 positive cases.In Bhavani peth, Mahatma Phule peth reported 383 cases, out of which 38 are active; this is followed by Lohiyanagar which had 257 positive cases of which 46 are active; and Rasta peth had 227 positive cases, of which 37 are active. The number of active cases in the ward is now lower than the Dhole Patil road (509), Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori (289), Bibwewadi (213) and Sinhgad road (204) wards.The Bhavani peth ward has also a reported 3,078 co-morbid patients and 378 pregnant women, both categories of whom are vulnerable to the infection and are being kept a close watch on.The ward administration which keeps a check on the ground took basic measures and ensured strict implementation which has resulted in the ward slowing down the rate of infection. Assistant municipal commissioner Bankar Somnath Haribhau said, “We have ensured maximum contact tracing as per the ICMR guidelines. We have also sealed the entire building of the slum lane when we found positive cases and also took swabs of all the residents, symptomatic and asymptomatic, which ensured that we could contain the spread of the virus. The restricted movement of PMC staff, most of who lived in this area was providing essential services, helped.”According to Haribhau, the PMC appointed dedicated officers to each of the micro-containment zones and also a police officer to ensure that social distancing and safety measures are followed, including wearing masks at all times when one steps out of the house.“Even today we have our officers to ensure that social distancing is followed at all shops which have opened again,” he said.A PMC health official working on the ground in Bhavani peth, requesting anonymity, said, “When Bhavani peth was at its peak, we were reporting about 30 cases per day which have now come down to five to seven positive cases daily. We could achieve all this because of the house-to-house survey to look for anyone who showed any possible symptoms of virus. We also cleaned the public toilets at least three times a day with sodium hypochlorite and started early contact tracing, which meant whenever we got the list of positives in our ward we started contacting at least six close contacts and collected their swabs within two-three hours, which were sent for tracing. Till the time the results were out they were either quarantined at home or in an institution, depending on if there were an attached toilet and a separate room in the house.”The official further added that while there was resistance initially from the locals as the awareness grew, they become supportive and came forward if they found any symptoms similar to flu.He further added, “We also started distributing homeopathic medicines which we delivered to each house. We also distributed masks to everyone. We conducted door-to-door surveys looking for vulnerable senior citizens who had any reported comorbidity and asked the home members to keep a close watch on them and report to the PMC in case of any symptoms of flu.”The ward has one swab collection centre at the Savitribai Phule municipal school and also has a mobile swab collection centre, run on a bus.The civic body has also supplied ration kits in the ward to restrict the movement of people within the ward.As of June 4, about 16,131rations kits have been distributed in the ward, of which 15,731 have been distributed by the PMC and remaining by NGOs.The ration kits provided to the citizens include essential items like sugar, flour, sweet oil, pulses, rice, flattened rice, salt, soap, chili powder, tea powder, and milk powder.Similar measures were taken at the Patil Estate slum which was the most affected in the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward. The slum is no more a containment zone in the newly declared list by the civic body. On June 2, the slum area was removed from the list of 66 micro-containment zones after several measures were taken to contain the spread of the virus. Bhavani peth’s road to taming Covid-19According to Bankar Somnath Haribhau, assistant municipal commissioner-Maximum contact tracing as per ICMR Model-Swabs of symptomatic and asymptomatic residents taken-Dedicated PMC officers in each micro-containment zone-Police officer assigned to ensure social distancing-House-to-house survey across Bhavani peth-Public toilets cleaned 3 times a day The Bhavani peth ward numbers Mahatma Phule peth – 383 positive cases / 38 activeLohiyanagar – 257 positive cases / 46 activeRasta peth – 227 positive cases / 37 active** Data released by PMCWards/areas with highest active Covid-19 positive cases Dhole Patil road – 509Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori - 289Bibwewadi - 213Sinhgad road - 204** Data released by PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/how-bhavani-peth-managed-to-flatten-the-curve/story-MdBPwmvQH8VgxnZQdILlHK.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old cuts birthday cake on road in Mumbai, lights firecrackers; held||Nagpada police have arrested a 22-year-old man for celebrating his birthday on a public road by lighting crackers and cutting a cake with his friends in Madanpura in south Mumbai. After a video of the celebration went viral, police registered a case against him for violating social distancing norms of the lockdown. The accused was arrested and released on bail. According to police, the arrested accused Hammad Ansari works as a social worker. “Ansari celebrated his birthday at midnight on June 6 at Mandanpura. At 12am his friends burst firecrackers and cut a cake. The celebration did not follow any social distancing norms as the friends are seen mixing around freely [in the video],” said an officer.“After the cake was cut, Ansari’s friends went on to rub the cake on his face. He shared the video of the celebration on social media with the tagline ‘Baap Baap Hota hai’ which sent out a message that the lockdown could not deter him from celebrating his birthday,” added the officer. Soon after the video went viral, Nagpada police swung into action and registered a case against Ansari under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “We arrested him on June 6 and after completing the formal procedures he was released on bail. We also made him delete the video and pictures of the celebration from the social networking site,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-arrested-for-celebrating-birthday-on-road-in-madanpura/story-CeYpmtsZTKuMqJDQBLg0WK.html
08-06-2020||Mumbai||HC upholds 10-year sentence of security guard for raping resident||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday upheld the conviction of a 36-year-old for sexually assaulting and robbing a resident in a building where he worked as a security guard. The man was convicted to 10 years imprisonment by a trial court in 2015.The incident took place in the early hours of January 24, 2014, and the resident’s brother found her injured and in a semi-conscious state a few hours later. The sessions court convicted the guard for sexual assault and robbery, and sentenced him to 10 years imprisonment based on CCTV footage and forensic evidence, including the odontology report of the convicted guard. The survivor’s mobile phone was also seized from him.The guard appealed against the verdict in the Bombay HC, which was rejected on Tuesday.Justice Prithviraj K Chavan rejected the security guard’s appeal, stating the evidence on record, including the CCTV footage, unerringly pointed towards his guilt, and that he had “executed his nefarious design in a calculated manner.”“The appellant as a security guard was duty bound to guard and protect the members of the society and their property,” justice Chavan observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-upholds-10-year-sentence-of-guard-for-raping-powai-dance-teacher-in-2014/story-54U5kuupetalebQXSpXY7N.html
08-06-2020||World||New York City’s shops cautiously reopen after months of lockdown||No city is more important to America’s economy than New York, and none has been hit harder by the coronavirus. “NYC Reopens” examines life in the capital of capitalism as the city takes its first halting steps toward a new normal.Macy’s, the quintessential New York store, isn’t opening. Nor is the Gap. But come Monday, Mackenzi Farquer will absolutely be selling her merchandise—in person, at her boutiques in Queens and Brooklyn—for the first time in more than two months.It won’t be the same, of course. Only curbside pickup is allowed in this first phase of New York’s Covid-19 reopening, but Farquer is prepared. Her five stores, called Lockwood, are for people who enjoy browsing, selling items like coffee mugs that say “Social Distancing Club,” Star Trek jigsaw puzzles and vanilla-scented erasers.So she had her visual merchandiser set up a curbside display that will allow shoppers to simulate Lockwood’s serendipitous shopping experience just a bit, with alcohol hand sprays and masks mixed in.“I’m hoping that when people come to do curbside, it feels for a brief moment like shopping,” said Farquer, 41.For New York’s small businesses, which depend almost entirely on city residents, Monday marks a vital moment to start bringing in the customers and revenue they lost during the shutdown — an undertaking all the more precarious with the current social unrest. Farquer’s Lockwood survived by selling merchandise through her website and getting four of her five landlords to cut rent by as much as 40% for the summer. Nearly 90% of small businesses have seen a large or moderate negative effect from the pandemic, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.“I think psychologically it will get people to shop a little more because it’s official.”Yet even as small shops scramble to get back to business and earn some money for the families that own them, major retail chains aren’t rushing to restart. Macy’s will not yet reopen its Herald Square flagship, one of the world’s largest department stores. Tiffany & Co. will wait at least another few days before considering serving shoppers at its Fifth Avenue shop. Coach, Kate Spade and Stuart Weitzman fashion boutiques will stay closed, as will New Balance shoe stores and Zales jewelry locations. Ulta Beauty hasn’t yet set a timeline for its return to the city. One that does plan to open is the Container Store, which will offer pickup for online and phone orders.We’re tracking everything you need to know as New York reopens after the Covid-19 shutdown. Read our explainer and sign up for alerts sent directly to your inbox.These big chains have hundreds of stores across the U.S. that have reopened in recent weeks and robust e-commerce operations fueled by vast international supply chains and distribution channels, so business elsewhere can prop up their stores in New York. Local shops didn’t have any of those benefits.“Small businesses are typically managed by their founders and owners,” said Mark Cohen, director of retail studies at the Columbia Business School. “A small business owner has a rent bill due, merchandise they’ve taken in that they haven’t paid for and employees they feel honor-bound to re-employ. So there’s probably a different motive component to small businesses reopening.”That’s certainly the case with Christine Alcalay, a fashion designer who owns two boutiques in Brooklyn called Kiwi and Fig. She’s kept her stores afloat by revamping the company’s e-commerce to make it easier to shop, but sales are still down about 80% from a year ago. She furloughed all but one of her 10 employees when the pandemic hit.That left her delivering online orders, answering customer e-mails and texts, while securing a loan from the Small Business Administration, which allowed her to start paying her staff again. She also made Instagram videos, in which she not only modeled clothes, but also talked about her struggles as a business owner. Now she’s hoping that the first phase of reopening New York’s retail industry would at least get residents comfortable with shopping again.“I think psychologically it will get people to shop a little more because it’s official,” said Alcalay, who has been in business for 18 years. Alcalay initially planned to make a marketing push for the reopening, but scaled it back because of the protests over police brutality. “It doesn’t feel like the right time to be pushing merchandise with what’s going on right now,” she said. Still, she planned to fix up the front of the stores for when people pick up orders. And she already had a local artist paint pickup hours and website addresses on the windows.“I think we are going to make it through this,” Alcalay said. “But I’m worried about the next year or two.”Lockwood’s Farquer  is locked in on the calendar, too—New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s next phase of reopening, when she’ll be able to open her doors to the public again.‘At some point you have to keep the business going,” she said. If limited retail is allowed by July, ‘for a lot of us it’s going to come just in the nick of time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-s-shops-cautiously-reopen-after-months-of-lockdown/story-OqNEiyUYVYweIjoZRMJSbI.html
08-06-2020||World||‘No need to be shy’: China asks US senator for proof of vaccine sabotage||China on Monday challenged a US senator to furnish evidence supporting his allegation that Beijing is actively trying to sabotage the efforts of western countries to develop a vaccine for Covid-19.Republican Senator Rick Scott has told BBC television that he thinks China is actively working to disrupt the efforts of the US and other western countries to develop the vaccine.“We have evidence that communist China is trying to sabotage us or slow it down. China does not want us and England and Europe to do it first. They have decided to be an adversary to Americans and I think to democracy around the world,” Scott said.Scott said the information was provided by the US’s intelligence community but didn’t elaborate.On Monday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying’s response to Scott’s accusation was acerbic.“Since this lawmaker said he has evidence that China is trying to sabotage western countries in their vaccine development, then please let him present the evidence. There’s no need to be shy,” Hua told journalists at the regular ministry briefing on Monday.Hua added that the development of a Covid-19 vaccine is not a bilateral competition and Beijing hopes Washington will mirror China’s pledge and offer any vaccine it develops to the world for free.On Sunday, a senior Chinese official said once developed, China will make its Covid-19 vaccine a global public good.Wang Zhigang, minister of science and technology, said at a press conference in Beijing that international cooperation should be strengthened in vaccine development, clinical trials and application.Vaccine development should focus on “…ensuring safety, effectiveness, and accessibility”.China is currently developing COVID-19 vaccines in five categories -- inactivated vaccines, recombinant protein vaccines, live attenuated influenza vaccines, adenovirus vaccines, and nucleic acid-based vaccines, Wang said.At the same Sunday press conference, vice foreign minister Ma Zhaoxu said China has participated in an international collaboration initiative launched by the WHO to accelerate the development of vaccines and medicines for Covid-19.The clash of words on developing the vaccine is the latest chapter in the ongoing row between China and the US on the pandemic.US President Donald Trump has led Washington’s criticism of China’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, accusing Beijing of cover-up and lack of transparency.Countering the accusations, China has repeatedly said it has been open and transparent about the outbreak, which first emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-need-to-be-shy-china-asks-us-senator-for-proof-of-vaccine-sabotage/story-FoLdUUDZdgRKnoJCsNKeEO.html
08-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests: Gandhi statue targeted in London||Protestors taped placards with anti-racism messages across Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Parliament Square and wrote ‘racist’ near its plinth, as UK became one of the major sites of George Floyd demonstrations outside the United States on Sunday.The statue, installed in 2015, is one among 12 in the square of prominent British, Commonwealth and foreign political figures, such as Abraham Lincoln and Nelson Mandela. Winston Churchill’s statue was also targeted, with the words sprayed on it: ‘was a racist’.The Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement provided spark in the south-west England town of Bristol, where there has long been public unease with its historical links with slave trade. Edward Colston, a 17th century local slave trader who profited considerably from the trade, has a visible presence through his philanthropic activities in the town, including a statue.ALSO WATCH | Mahatma Gandhi statue vandalised in Washington DC, US apologises Also read| Black Lives Matter protests: Winston Churchill statue vandalised in LondonThe statue, installed in 1895, was pulled down with ropes by throngs of anti-racism protestors, dragged along the town’s streets, and thrown into river Avon.Pulling down Colston’s statue was hailed by Labour MPs and others, while several policemen were injured in demonstrations in London. The action in Bristol came in for criticism from home secretary Priti Patel, who called it “utterly disgraceful”.Sajid Javid, former chancellor, said: “I grew up in Bristol. I detest how Edward Colston profited from the slave trade. But, THIS IS NOT OK. If Bristolians wants to remove a monument it should be done democratically - not by criminal damage”.Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: “People have a right to protest peacefully & while observing social distancing but they have no right to attack the police. These demonstrations have been subverted by thuggery – and they are a betrayal of the cause they purport to serve”.“Those responsible will be held to account”, he added.The police in Bristol defended not preventing the Colston statue being pulled down and thrown into the river, but added that it was an “act of criminal damage” for which an investigation will be carried out to identify those involved.A large number of people demonstrated through Sunday outside the US embassy in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-gandhi-statue-targeted-in-london/story-PhDYQb8WxzhAwJySGpRhsM.html
08-06-2020||World||United States’ current supply of Remdesivir to get exhausted by end of June||The US government’s current supply of Remdesivir, the only drug till now known to be working against coronavirus, will exhaust by the end of June.“Right now, we’re waiting to hear from Gilead Sciences, the manufacturer of the drug, what is their expected delivery availability of the drug as we go from June to July. We’re kind of not in negotiations, but in discussions with Gilead as they project what the availability of their product will be,” Dr. Robert Kadlec, a US Department of Health and Human Services official, told CNN.Kadlec further said that the Gilead has given a “general range” of product delivery for July and August, which then “significantly expands beginning in September, October, and through the fall as they kind of open the spigot of their production and processing.”However, “whatever the supply may be, there may not be enough for everyone who may need it,” he added.In May, the US Food and Drug Administration had given an emergency authorization for Remdesivir.When the coronavirus” pandemic first struck the world, the World Health Organisation (WHO) also identified Remdesivir as one of the potential treatments for the disease.The drug also managed to shorten hospital visits by four days and reduced mortality rate from 11.6 per cent to 8 per cent.However, Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) said these results were modest and there was no significant reduction in deaths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-current-supply-of-remdesivir-to-get-exhausted-by-end-of-june/story-fJPCWlPoFnSc1SirXhCBUO.html
08-06-2020||World||Former Pak PM tests positive for Covid-19, overall tally crosses 1,00,000||Pakistan has recorded more than 1,00,000 coronavirus infections, officials statistics showed on Monday. The death toll in the country rose to 2,067, the health department’s data showed.Officials said that 4,728 new infections were identified in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally in the country to 1,03,671. At least 65 fatalities were reported between Sunday and Monday, they further added.Out of the total cases, Punjab has registered 38,903, Sindh 38,108, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 13,487, Balochistan 6,516, Islamabad 5,329, Gilgit-Baltistan 932 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 396 cases, the Ministry of National Health Services reported.So far, 34,355 patients have fully recovered.The authorities have conducted a total 7,05,833 tests, including 22,650 in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, former Pakistan Prime Minister and Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz leader Shahid Khaqan Abbasi has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently quarantined at his house, media reports said.The local media quoted (PML-N) spokesperson Maryam Aurangzeb who confirmed the news.On Sunday, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) leader Sharjeel Memon also tested positive for the contagion. Memon is currently under self-isolation as well.Pakistan has been setting records for the number of new daily infections over the last 10 days, partly reflecting increased testing.But of the nearly 23,000 tests daily, more than one in five have been positive over the last 10 days.Pakistan is the 16th country to exceed 1,00,000 infections, according to news agency Reuters. The virus spread has yet to peak in Pakistan, it quoted officials as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-pak-pm-tests-positive-for-covid-19-overall-tally-crosses-1-00-000/story-nhTna5ZE1eNWkiNAQHPjJN.html
08-06-2020||World||‘Must know what it did right’: Pak journalist praises UP’s handling of Covid-19 crisis||The coronavirus disease preparation of Uttar Pradesh government has received appreciation from a Pakistan journalist.Fahd Hussain, the Editor of Pakistan’s ‘Dawn’ newspaper, tweeted that UP has lower mortality rate than Pakistan and that what it did right.“Look at this graph carefully. It compares death rate of Pakistan and Indian state of UP. Both have roughly same population profile & literacy. Pakistan has lesser density/km and higher GDP/capita. UP was strict with lockdown. We were not. See diff in death rate,” Hussain said. Look at this graph carefully. It compares death rate of Pakistan and Indian state of UP. Both have roughly same population profile & literacy. Pakistan has lesser density/km and higher GDP/capita. UP was strict with lockdown. We were not. See diff in death rate #COVIDー19(1/2) pic.twitter.com/so8SgEtjCwAlso Watch | ‘Will conduct 15,000 Covid tests per day from 15 June’: Yogi Adityanath As per the graph, Pakistan has a population of 208 million and UP 225 million but the neighbouring country had Covid-19 death rate almost seven times higher than that of Uttar Pradesh. Hussain also compared Pakistan’s performance with Maharashtra.“Here’s another graphic comparison this time between Pakistan and Indian state of Maharashtra (prepared by an expert). This shows how terribly Maharashtra has performed in relation to Pakistan. Shows the outcome of bad decisions & their deadly consequences,” Hussin said in his second tweet. Here's another graphic comparison this time between Pakistan and Indian state of Maharashtra (prepared by an expert). This shows how terribly Maharashtra has performed in relation to Pakistan. Shows the outcome of bad decisions & their deadly consequences #COVIDー19 (1/2) pic.twitter.com/6AHenrznIs“While Indian state of UP has lower mortality rate than Pakistan, Maharashtra has higher rate despite younger population & higher GDP/capita. We must know what UP did right & Maharashtra did wrong to learn right lessons,” Hussain said.He also tagged Pakistan’s state minister of health Zafar Mirza.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,007 more coronavirus cases. With this second single-day spike, India’s worst-hit state’s tally now stands at 85,975 cases, taking it past China’s total of 83,036 cases.The city of Wuhan in China is the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak late last year. Maharashtra’s first case was reported on March 9 this year.The death toll of the state also breached the bleak 3,000 mark after 91 casualties were reported on Sunday.Meanwhile, the total numbr of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan crossed the 1,00,000-mark, officials statistics showed on Monday. The rise in daily infections has prompted authorities to begin strict enforcement of government safety measures.Pakistan has recorded 2,067 deaths and 1,03,671 infections of the novel coronavirus.The country lifted its lockdown last month but promulgated protocols for the reopening of markets, industries and public transport - including mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/must-know-what-it-did-right-pakistani-journalist-praises-up-s-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-bVec30xS4pW1Zzp50Eif9J.html
08-06-2020||World||Covid-19: New Zealand lifts all domestic restrictions, PM declares virus victory||New Zealand lifted all domestic coronavirus restrictions on Monday after its final Covid-19 patient was given the all clear, with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern revealing she danced around her living room when told about the milestone.While strict border controls will remain in place, Ardern said restrictions such as social distancing and limits on public gatherings were no longer needed.“We are confident we have eliminated transmission of the virus in New Zealand for now,” she said in a televised address, saying Kiwis had “united in unprecedented ways to crush the virus”.The South Pacific nation, with a population of five million, has had 1,154 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths.There have been no new infections for 17 days and, until Monday, just one active case for more than a week.Details of the final patient were not released for privacy reasons but it is believed to be a woman aged in her 50s who was linked to a cluster at an Auckland nursing home.Ardern said the sacrifices made by New Zealanders, including a drastic seven-week lockdown that helped curb infection rates, had been rewarded now that there were no active cases in the country.Asked about her reaction upon hearing the news, she replied: “I did a little dance” with baby daughter Neve.“She was caught a little by surprise but she joined in, having absolutely no idea why I was dancing around the lounge.”New Zealand’s move down to Level 1, the lowest rating on its four-tier virus response system, means nightclubs can operate without dance floor restrictions and theatres will reopen.It also means sporting events can proceed with crowds in the stands, a change New Zealand Rugby (NZR) said offered its Super Rugby Aotearoa competition the opportunity to achieve a world first when it kicks off this weekend.“We’re incredibly proud, and grateful, to be the first professional sports competition in the world to be in a position to have our teams play in front of their fans again,” NZR chief executive Mark Robinson said.While many other sporting competitions around the globe have announced plans to restart, the vast majority will be played either with no crowds or with numbers severely restricted.On a broader level, Ardern said easing restrictions would help New Zealand’s economy.“We now have a head start on economic recovery because at level one we become one of the most open, if not the most open, economies in the world,” she said.The Prime Minister said modelling showed the economy would operate at just 3.8 percent below normal at Level 1, compared with a 37 percent impairment at Level 4 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-new-zealand-lifts-all-domestic-restrictions-pm-declares-virus-victory/story-f7wyIX7IfTAXt7ne0o2v6J.html
08-06-2020||World||Can’t you just fire me? Man paid to do nothing wanted $2 mn||An executive who was paid about $18,000 a month by LafargeHolcim Ltd. to do nothing failed in his suit to force the cement maker to fire him with a payout worth more than $2 million. Timing was his undoing.When his employer Lafarge SA announced in 2015 a staff-buyout program as part of its merger with Holcim Ltd., Antoine Zenone hoped he could get a golden handshake. But the company told him he wasn’t eligible and French judges have said “non” -- three times in a row.The Paris appeals court ruled that Zenone couldn’t benefit from the plan because he’d already agreed to an expatriate position in Singapore. That suspended his French employment contract and excluded him from buyout offers made to Lafarge’s domestic staff.Zenone was seeking about 2.1 million euros ($2.3 million) and until recently had been paid 16,195 euros gross a month by Lafarge without having to provide any work, according to last week’s ruling.The world’s two largest cement makers combined in 2015 to cut costs and boost value as demand for building materials eroded. But LafargeHolcim shares slid in subsequent years on a loss of investor confidence and a scandal over operations in war-torn Syria.Chief ExecutiveWhen Zenone came back from his posting as chief executive officer of Lafarge’s branch in Singapore two years ago, Lafarge offered him a project manager position but he didn’t take the role. He states on his LinkedIn profile that he started a new job at a plastic pipe maker last month.LafargeHolcim said in a statement it doesn’t comment on personnel matters. Zenone didn’t respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit.As part of the tie-up, Lafarge told staff representatives in May 2015 that about 380 jobs would be cut throughout the world, in part through a voluntary program.Just two days earlier, he had written an email cited in the court case that he agreed to take the Singapore position. “I look forward to starting,” he said.French ContractHad he replied two days later, Zenone might have been considered for a buyout.Zenone later complained that he was misled into taking the Singapore expat job and asked to get back on a French contract.He told Lafarge in mid-2016 that he had only agreed to the posting because he believed it meant eventually becoming country CEO for both cement makers’ operations in the southeast Asian state.That argument, which didn’t move LafargeHolcim, also failed to convince the Paris appeals court.“He can’t claim that his job was made impossible given that he continued to occupy his post for almost three years,” the judges ruled. The court added that there was no evidence that Lafarge was responsible for the failure to complete the merger of the two companies’ operations in Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-t-you-just-fire-me-man-paid-to-do-nothing-wanted-2-million/story-mqPkEwO2svjFrYLb6rB5JN.html
08-06-2020||World||Tropical Storm Cristobal makes landfall along southeast Louisiana||Tropical Storm Cristobal on early Sunday evening (local time) made landfall in southeast Louisiana between the mouth of the Mississippi River and Grand Isle, CNN reported citing data from the National Hurricane Center.With maximum sustained winds near 50 mph, Cristobal is expected to move north at about 7 mph, the Center said. It should become a tropical depression within 24 hours and will continue to dump heavy rain that could lead to flash flooding, mainly across the Mississippi River Valley in Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas.Life-threatening storm surges could occur in parts of Mississippi and Louisiana. Storm surges occur when rising water moves inland from the coast, potentially causing injury and damage to property.“Just because this is a tropical storm doesn’t mean that we want to let our guard down,” CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam said.“A storm surge is a major threat, and it’s the number one killer in tropical storms like this,” Dam added.New Orleans issued a voluntary evacuation order on Sunday afternoon as well for areas outside the levee system.As per the Hurricane Center, the impacts from the third named storm of a busy Atlantic hurricane season will be felt hundreds of miles away. Neighbouring states to the east such as Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, even the Carolinas will pick up several inches of rain in a short period of time which could trigger flash flooding.Widespread rainfall along the coast will likely be in the 5-10 inch range, with some areas picking up at least a foot total. This will exacerbate the flooding concern for states like Louisiana, Arkansas, and Florida, which have already received at least 8-10 inches in just the last 30 days, the Center said.Another concern for a severe weather condition is tornadoes and water spouts -- funnel-shaped clouds over water -- which have already been reported in the southeast.“We’re seeing not just the significant storm surge, but tornadoes,” CNN Meteorologist Tom Sater said.“Numerous water spouts have been making their way over toward land,” he added.In Florida Saturday there were seven tornado reports, including one that hit near downtown Orlando. At least three homes were significantly impacted by storm activity, according to a city spokesperson.According to some media reports, coronavirus testing events that had been scheduled for Monday in Jackson have been cancelled owning to the approaching storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tropical-storm-cristobal-makes-landfall-along-southeast-louisiana/story-PBllAEhp0yL0bzAoQzJLgJ.html
08-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests: Winston Churchill statue vandalised in London||Anti-racism protesters in England defaced the memorial to Winston Churchill in Westminster during Black Lives Matter protests on Sunday, local media reported.According to the The Evening Standard, demonstrators scrawled “was a racist” on the statue of the wartime British Prime Minister in Parliament Square on Sunday afternoon as thousands descended on London for another protest over an American black man George Floyd’s death.Activists surrounded the monument and jeered “Churchill was a racist”, despite others intervening to protect it from further defacement.The same statue was also defaced with green graffiti during a huge anti-racism rally on Saturday, the 76th anniversary of D-Day.It prompted Piers Morgan of ITV Breakfast programme Good Morning Britain, to tweet: “Memo to protesters in Westminster today: defacing Sir Winston Churchill’s statue on the 76th anniversary of D-Day is not a good way to make your point.”Thousands flooded the streets outside London’s US Embassy yesterday for another Black Lives Matter rally, alongside rallies in Manchester, Edinburgh and Bristol among the other UK cities.In Bristol, in southwest England, a statue honouring the 17th century slave trader Edward Colston was torn down by protesters.Demonstrators were later seen rolling the statue to the nearby harbor and throwing it into the River Avon.The local police told CNN that an investigation has been launched into the incident.“There was a small group of people who clearly committed an act of criminal damage in pulling down a statue near Bristol Harbourside,” Avon and Somerset police said Sunday in a statement.“An investigation will be carried out to identify those involved and we are already collating footage of the incident,” the statement read.The statue of Colston had stood in Bristol’s city center since 1895 but had become increasingly controversial, with petitions created to demand its removal.According to local police, Sunday’s Black Lives Matter protest in Bristol was attended by an estimated 10,000 people.“The vast majority of those who came to voice their concerns about racial inequality and injustice did so peacefully and respectfully,” the police were quoted as saying.“Keeping the public safe was out greatest priority and thankfully there were no instances of disorder and no arrests were made,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-winston-churchill-statue-vandalised-in-london/story-JgO1w5fAmeav3pyEYKj79M.html
08-06-2020||World||Zero active cases: How New Zealand eliminated Covid-19||At a time when the world is grappling with the fast-spreading Covid-19, New Zealand has announced that it has eradicated the novel coronavirus which causes the disease.The stunning announcement came on Monday when the country’s health officials said that it has no active cases of Covid-19. The Pacific island nation is among only a handful of countries that have emerged from the pandemic, which first gripped the United States and has now turned Latin American into a hotspot.It has been 17 days since the last new case was reported in New Zealand, and Monday also marked the first time since late February that there have been no active cases.So how did they do it?New Zealand enforced a strict lockdown for nearly seven weeks, in which most businesses were shut and everyone except essential workers had to stay at home.Experts say that its isolated location in the South Pacific also gave New Zealand vital time to see how outbreaks spread in other countries. Just over 1,500 people contracted the virus in New Zealand, including 22 who died.New Zealand’s Health Ministry said in a statement on Monday that the last person who was being monitored for coronavirus had recovered.The officials, however, caution that new cases could be imported into the country, which has closed its borders to everybody but citizens and residents, with some exceptions.How was lockdown implemented in New Zealand?The country of five million people has pursued an elimination strategy to beat coronavirus, rather than just aiming to contain the disease.Elimination did not mean eradicating the virus permanently from New Zealand, but eliminating “chains of transmission” for at least 28 consecutive days after the last infected person left isolation, which would be on June 15, the ministry said.And this was done by the strict lockdown put in palce by the Jacinda Ardern government.What now?New Zealand has decided to move to national Alert Level 1 from the current Level 2. New Zealand’s Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday that all coronavirus measures in the country will be lifted from Tuesday, barring border closure restrictions.She said public and private events can go on without restrictions, retail and hospitality sectors can operate normally, and all public transport can resume.“Having no active cases for the first time since February 28 is certainly a significant mark in our journey but as we’ve previously said, ongoing vigilance against Covid-19 will continue to be essential,” Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zero-active-cases-how-new-zealand-eliminated-covid-19/story-vTybkQoMZOp824nRAuYI7N.html
08-06-2020||World||Chinese army carries out large-scale drill to check preparedness at border with India||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China has carried out a large-scale drill involving thousands of paratroopers to check its preparedness in transporting soldiers and armoured vehicles from a central Chinese province to border areas to the northwest of the country.The largescale “maneuver operation” was done in the backdrop of the ongoing border standoff with India, the nationalistic tabloid Global Times and national broadcaster CCTV said in reports.The news on Chinese state media came out on a day when New Delhi said that India and China will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve a weeks-old standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Also Watch | India-China tension: What happened at border meeting of top army officersThis was after talks were held between delegations led Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps and a delegation led by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday.The reports didn’t give the location where the soldiers and the armoured vehicles were transported to but said enough to indicate that the drill was a message to India.Using civilian airlines, logistical transportation channels and railways, several thousand paratroopers under a PLA Air Force airborne brigade recently maneuvered from Hubei, which is in central China, to an undisclosed location in the plateaus of northwestern China thousands of kilometres away, China Central Television (CCTV) reported on Saturday.“Several hundred pieces of military equipment including armoured vehicles and huge batches of supplies were also involved in the operation, which ended successfully in just a few hours,” the report said.The maneuver was completed in a few hours, the report said.“This maneuver mission saw significant breakthroughs not only in the scale of mobilised troops but also means of transportation. [Using civilian transportation] substantially expanded our means of transporting forces and increased efficiency in maneuvering an entire organisation of troops,” Major Colonel Mao Lei, head of the training department at the airborne brigade, said on CCTV.“Groups of tanks and armored vehicles attached to the 76th Group Army under the PLA Western Theater Command also conducted a long-distance maneuver on May 14,” according to Chinese military media outlet China Military, quoted by GT.Last week, another report in the Global Times had said that the PLA’s Tibet Military Command recently “...sent troops to a high-altitude region at an elevation of 4,700 meters at night for infiltration exercises behind enemy lines and tested their combat capability under a harsh environment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-army-carries-out-large-scale-drill-to-check-preparedness-at-border-with-india/story-fTUML5T6h9e3uMRRp2Vr7L.html
08-06-2020||World||New Zealand eliminates Covid-19 with zero active cases reported||New Zealand reported zero active cases of Covid-19 for the first time since the pandemic reached its shores, indicating it has achieved its aim of eliminating the virus.The South Pacific nation said Monday that the last of its coronavirus patients has recovered. That makes it one of the few countries in the world to have successfully eradicated the pathogen, and the first among those that suffered a sizable outbreak. Only a handful of nations can make the claim, mostly small islands that had very few infections to begin with.The development comes just hours before Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is expected to announce a lifting of all remaining restrictions on people and businesses -- other than strict border controls to keep the virus out -- paving the way for a resumption of normal life.New Zealand pursued an explicit elimination strategy rather than seeking to merely suppress transmission of the virus. It enforced one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, asking everyone to stay at home and allowing only essential services to operate. While this has almost certainly triggered a deep recession, the government says elimination of the virus should allow the economy to recover more rapidly than many of its peers.It is taking a cautious approach to the elimination milestone, however. The Ministry of Health’s definition of elimination is 28 days of no new cases after the last person to have contracted the virus via community transmission left quarantine, which would be achieved on June 15.The seven-week lockdown ended May 14 and cabinet will decide today whether to lower the nation’s alert level to 1, which would remove the last remaining restrictions, including the requirement for social distancing. Ardern is scheduled to hold a press conference at 3 p.m. in Wellington.MasterclassArdern’s masterclass in crisis management has won her praise at home and abroad. Support for the prime minister and her Labour Party surged in recent opinion polls, forcing the main opposition party to replace its leader less than four months out from a general election.But it is not a foregone conclusion that Ardern will sweep to victory at the Sept. 19 vote, with unemployment expected to soar in coming months.The closed border is taking a heavy toll on the tourism sector, which was the nation’s biggest source of foreign exchange earnings before the pandemic, and there is little prospect of it fully recovering until a vaccine is found.There has also been criticism that New Zealand’s response to the virus was too extreme, as neighboring Australia appears to have achieved similar results with less stringent measures. During its lockdown it allowed more industries to continue operating, such as construction, and consumers were still able to get a haircut or buy a takeaway meal, keeping many workers on lower incomes employed.However, there are early signs that New Zealand’s status as a virus-free haven will work to its advantage. It is in talks with Australia to open a so-called travel bubble, and the Education Minister has said the country may become an even more desirable destination for foreign students, even if they need to serve a two-week quarantine on arrival.The theory behind New Zealand’s elimination strategy is that Covid-19 has a longer incubation period than influenza -- an average of five to six days and as long as two weeks, compared with just two to three days for the flu.That means authorities have time to identify and isolate those who have been in contact with an infected person before they themselves become infectious.New Zealand recorded a total of 1,504 confirmed and probable cases of Covid-19 and 22 deaths. It hasn’t had a new case for 17 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-eliminates-covid-19-with-zero-active-cases-reported/story-ygfqpU0g6h2YHTHlryl20I.html
08-06-2020||World||Canada’s junk food consumption, alcohol and tobacco intake rises amid Covid-19: Survey||Canadians have taken to drinking and smoking a lot more, and eating larger amounts of junk food as a fallout of the coronavirus crisis, according to a Government survey which has alarmed health authorities.With restrictive measures in place for over 75 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Canadians have significantly increased their intake of junk food, alcohol and tobacco, leading to the country’s seniormost health official to call for “healthy food choices.”In a statement, chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam cited a survey from the country’s statistical agency Statistics Canada, in this regard, as she said they showed “show more Canadians have increased their consumption of alcohol and junk food or sweets since the beginning of the pandemic.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageShe advised, “While social interactions and activities might look different right now, Canadians should be actively looking for safe ways to socialize, engage in physical activity and make healthy choices.”The StatCan report pointed to a considerable increase in consumption of junk food and sweets over the period of a month. When compared with a previous survey conducted between March 29 and April 3, StatCan found more than a third of the respondents, or 35 per cent, reporting “that they were eating more junk food or sweets” as against 27 per cent earlier.Those figures as consistent for other unhealthy habits as well, like consuming alcohol or tobacco products. “Close to one in five Canadians (19%) said that their consumption of alcohol had increased, compared with about 14% a month earlier,” StatCan noted. The number consuming more tobacco products grew from 3 per cent to 5 per cent.While StatCan did not comment on a possible correlation, it found that almost one in five Canadians reported feelings of moderate to severe anxiety, even as they “are stricken by grief, financial hardship and labour market difficulties. Canadians are also spending extended periods at home, which can be stressful for individuals of all ages.”However, the survey also found that Canadians were largely being careful when it came to coronavirus-related precautions. There were increases in the number of respondents saying they were practising social distancing, washing their hands more regularly and avoiding crowds or large gatherings, with more than 90 percentage for each category.Tam said she “was pleased to see that 92% of participants confirmed they have been practising physical distancing, and 95% have reported washing their hands more regularly.” Canada has so far recorded 7800 deaths due to the coronavirus with 95684 infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-junk-food-consumption-alcohol-and-tobacco-intake-rises-amid-covid-19-survey/story-VUrWBSh4fO2LerXKLHKgXI.html
08-06-2020||World||Officials urge Floyd protesters to get coronavirus tests||With New York City poised to reopen after a more than two-month coronavirus shutdown, officials on Sunday lifted a curfew that was in place amid protests of police brutality and racial injustice. But they also urged that demonstrators be tested for Covid-19.“Get a test. Get a test,” New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo told people who have been participating in rallies and marches in memory of George Floyd.He said the state would open 15 testing sites dedicated to protesters so they can get results quickly.“I would act as if you were exposed, and I would tell people you are interacting with, assume I am positive for the virus,” Cuomo added.The call is similar to those made in Seattle, San Francisco and Atlanta following massive demonstrations, with free testing for protesters.New York has been the epicenter of the US outbreak, with black communities hit especially hard.The Rev. Brandon Watts of Epiphany Church in Brooklyn, was mindful of the pandemic while organizing a “Pray & Protest” march with several other churches. He mandated that protesters wear masks, and he came with boxes of them. He also asked the group to try to maintain social distancing but acknowledged “it’s kind of hard in a protest.”Attendees also were offered free coronavirus tests at one church.“US-19 hit the inner city harder than anybody else,” Watts said. “And so we have to be very careful. We’re the only ones in a pandemic within a pandemic.”Brooklyn resident Celeste Douglas attended her third protest in the past week and said she’ll continue until legislation is passed on budgets for police and education.“I want to tell my children when they ask when this stuff started to change, I want to tell them I was a part of it,” Douglas said, acknowledging being nervous in a crowd during a pandemic but also planning to be tested.New York City prepared to enter its first phase of reopening after virus shutdowns. Up to 400,000 people are expected to head back to the workplace Monday, with many using a subway system that most New Yorkers have avoided since March to keep away from crowds.Mayor Bill de Blasio lifted the city’s 8 p.m. curfew imposed for the Floyd protests. The police pulled back on enforcing the curfew Saturday as thousands turned out.“Last night was the best by far,” de Blasio said. “We had the biggest number of protesters, the fewest arrests, the fewest problems and that convinced me it was time for the curfew to go away. I have no intention of bringing it back.”Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot also lifted the city’s curfew, reopened downtown train stations and allowed full bus service to resume following days of largely calm protests.Cities imposed curfews amid last week’s spasms of arson, assaults and smash-and-grab raids on businesses. Recent US protests have been overwhelmingly peaceful, as were rallies held around the globe.Floyd’s body arrived in Texas for a third and final memorial service, said Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo. A viewing is planned for Monday in Houston, followed by a service and burial Tuesday in suburban Pearland.The 46-year-old out-of-work bouncer died after a Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes even after he stopped responding. His death has drawn new attention to the treatment of African Americans by police and the criminal justice system.In Washington, D.C., National Guard troops from South Carolina were seen checking out of their hotel Sunday shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted he was giving the order to withdraw them from the nation’s capital.The D.C. mayor had called on Trump last week to withdraw outside forces amid days of largely peaceful rallies after he ordered guard troops to “dominate” the streets.At the newly renamed Black Lives Matter Plaza near the White House, protesters posed with the street sign and the yellow block lettering painted on the pavement by the city. As ice cream truck jingles mixed with protest chats, the district’s Metropolitan Police Department patrolled in place of federal law enforcement officers and National Guard troops.At Atlanta Motor Speedway, NASCAR paused before Sunday’s Cup race to acknowledge the nationwide protests, in a remarkable moment for the sport with its roots in the South and one-time embrace of Confederate symbols.During warm-up laps, the 40 cars pulled to a stop in front of the empty grandstands and shut off their engines so NASCAR President Steve Phelps could deliver a message over their radio sets.“Our country is in pain and people are justifiably angry, demanding to be heard. The black community and all people of color have suffered in our country, and it has taken far too long for us to hear their demands for change,” Phelps said. “Our sport must do better. Our country must do better.”Protesters in Bristol, England , tore down a statue of Edward Colston, a 17th century slave trader, and pushed it into the harbor of the port city in southwestern England.On Saturday, a small group of demonstrators toppled a statue of a Confederate general in Richmond, Virginia, the former capital of the Confederacy. Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam has pledged to remove a statue of Gen. Robert E. Lee after days of Floyd protests.In other protests outside the US:A crowd estimated at 10,000, many in face masks, filled a square in front of the main courthouse in Brussels, holding white roses and signs decrying racism. “You think you are tired of hearing about racism? We are tired of experiencing it,” read one placard held up by a young black woman.In Milan, Italy, a few thousand people rallied against racism outside the central train station, many of them African migrants or the children of migrants who want to see reforms making it easier to receive citizenship. One held a sign saying, “I Fight For My Kids.”Thousands massed outside the gleaming new US Embassy in London, where student Darcy Bourne said the demonstration was about “more than just George Floyd, more than just America, but racism all around the world.”Thousands wearing masks against the virus gathered peacefully in Spain’s main cities, including at the US Embassy in Madrid, to denounce racism and chant: “Police murderers!” and “No justice, no peace!” A protest also was held in central Barcelona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/officials-urge-floyd-protesters-to-get-coronavirus-tests/story-EXCYXt6yHSKBDlkxIyLG4N.html
08-06-2020||World||Curfews lift, police show less force amid peaceful protests||With New York City poised to reopen after a more than two-month coronavirus shutdown, officials on Sunday lifted a curfew that was in place amid protests of police brutality and racial injustice. But they also urged that demonstrators be tested for Covid-19.“Get a test. Get a test,” New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo told people who have been participating in rallies and marches in memory of George Floyd. “I would act as if you were exposed, and I would tell people you are interacting with, assume I am positive for the virus.”Cuomo said the state would open 15 testing sites dedicated to protesters so they can get results quickly. His call for demonstrators to proceed carefully is similar to those made in Seattle, San Francisco and Atlanta following massive demonstrations, with free testing for protesters.New York has been the epicenter of the US outbreak, with black communities hit especially hard.The Rev. Brandon Watts of Epiphany Church in Brooklyn, was mindful of the pandemic while organizing a “Pray & Protest” march with several other churches. He mandated that protesters wear masks, and he came with boxes of them. Attendees also were offered free coronavirus tests at one church.“Covid-19 hit the inner city harder than anybody else,” Watts said. “And so we have to be very careful. We’re the only ones in a pandemic within a pandemic.”In addition to suffering disproportionately from the the virus, the black community also has been roiled by the death of Floyd, a black man who died after a white officer pressed a knee into his neck while arresting him.Floyd’s death sparked massive protests throughout the country and renewed calls to reform policing in America. A majority of the City Council in Minneapolis, where Floyd died, said Sunday they support disbanding the police department. A heavy-handed police response to protesters in many places has underscored what critics have maintained: Law enforcement is militarized and too often uses excessive force.Cities imposed curfews as several protests last week were marred by spasms of arson, assaults and smash-and-grab raids on businesses. More than 10,000 people have been arrested around the country since protests began, sometimes after violent confrontations with officers. Videos have surfaced of officers in riot gear using tear gas or physical force against even peaceful demonstrators.But recent US protests have been overwhelmingly peaceful — and over the weekend, several police departments appeared to retreat from aggressive tactics.Several cities have also lifted their curfews, including Chicago and New York City, which is preparing to enter its first phase of reopening after virus shutdowns. Up to 400,000 people are expected to head back to the workplace Monday.“Last night was the best by far,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said. “We had the biggest number of protesters, the fewest arrests, the fewest problems and that convinced me it was time for the curfew to go away.”In Compton, California, several thousand protesters, some on horseback, peacefully demonstrated Sunday through the city, just south of Los Angeles. The only law enforcement presence was about a dozen sheriff’s deputies, who watched without engaging.A similar scene played out on Saturday when thousands of protesters converged on San Francisco’s Golden Gate Bridge. Tow trucks held off car traffic, and police directed vehicles caught in the middle to go around protesters.For the first time since protests popped up in New York more than a week ago, most NYPD officers were not wearing riot helmets as they watched over marches and rallies. Police moved the barricades at the Trump hotel at Columbus Circle in Manhattan for protesters and replaced when they passed through the area.Mayor de Blasio said police had arrested just four people and issued 24 court summonses on Saturday — in stark contrast to more than 2,000 arrests made through Friday morning.Even at Brooklyn’s Barclays Center, which has been the site of numerous faceoffs between protesters and police, officers stood by casually as hundreds of protesters gathered to observe a moment of silence for George Floyd. Some officers even shook hands and posed for photos with motorcyclists at the rally.In Washington, D.C., National Guard troops from South Carolina were seen checking out of their hotel Sunday shortly before President Donald Trump tweeted he was giving the order to withdraw them from the nation’s capital.At the newly renamed Black Lives Matter Plaza near the White House, protesters posed with the street sign and the yellow block lettering painted on the pavement by the city. As ice cream truck jingles mixed with protest chats, the district’s Metropolitan Police Department patrolled.Meanwhile, a majority of city council members in Minneapolis vowed to radically overhaul policing. Council Member Jeremiah Ellison went so far as to promise the council would “dismantle” the agency.The state of Minnesota launched a civil rights investigation of the department last week, and the first concrete changes came Friday when the city agreed to ban chokeholds and neck restraints.“It is clear that our system of policing is not keeping our communities safe,” said Lisa Bender, the council president. “Our efforts at incremental reform have failed, period.”￼Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey told protesters outside his house that he doesn’t support the “full abolition” of the police department. Protesters shouted back: “Shame! Shame!”Floyd’s body arrived in Texas for a third and final memorial service, said Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo. A viewing is planned for Monday in Houston, followed by a service and burial Tuesday in suburban Pearland.The 46-year-old out-of-work bouncer’s death at the hands of police has drawn new attention to the treatment of African Americans by law enforcement — in the United States and around the world.At Atlanta Motor Speedway, NASCAR paused before Sunday’s Cup race to acknowledge the nationwide protests, in a remarkable moment for the sport with its roots in the South and one-time embrace of Confederate symbols.During warm-up laps, the 40 cars pulled to a stop in front of the empty grandstands, and NASCAR President Steve Phelps spoke.“The black community and all people of color have suffered in our country, and it has taken far too long for us to hear their demands for change,” Phelps said. “Our sport must do better. Our country must do better.”Protesters in Bristol, England, tore down a statue of Edward Colston, a 17th century slave trader, and pushed it into the harbor of the port city in southwestern England.A crowd estimated at 10,000, many in face masks, filled a square in Brussels, holding white roses and signs decrying racism. And outside the new US Embassy in London, student Darcy Bourne said the demonstration was about “more than just George Floyd, more than just America, but racism all around the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/curfews-lift-police-show-less-force-amid-peaceful-protests/story-El3xslzC73TMhjDuQfoLqI.html
08-06-2020||World||Robot dog hounds Thai shoppers to keep hands coronavirus-free||A scurrying robot dog named K9 dispenses hand sanitizer to curious children and wary shoppers -- one of the more unexpected measures Thai malls are taking as the kingdom relaxes virus restrictions.The hi-tech hound is controlled using 5G, a technology promising super-fast internet speeds with immediate reaction times that is still in the initial stages of roll out in Thailand. Mimicking an excited puppy, K9 roams around the popular Central World mall in downtown Bangkok, drawing the attention of delighted children eager to get gel from a bottle attached to its back. “It’s convenient for people to wash their hands, just like a preventive measure... especially in this Covid-19 situation,” said Petra Saktidejbhanubandh, a marketing officer for mobile operator Advanced Info Services (AIS).AIS is aiming to roll out a 5G network for smartphones by the end of the year. K9’s 5G-powered comrades include ROC, which checks temperatures, and LISA, a customer service-bot. “For K9 especially, people just think it’s really cute,” Petra told AFP, adding they hope to dispel any fiction-fuelled fear of a robot takeover. “The robots are here to assist people, not to replace them.” But shopper Lapassanan Buranapatpakorn was unconvinced, saying that she found K9’s skeletal mechanical frame “creepy”. “I think the execution, like the robot itself, is a bit scary,” the 29-year-old said, though she admitted that giving out hand sanitiser is a “good idea”. Thailand has gradually lifted restriction on businesses, which have taken precautions such as seating customers apart in restaurants or erecting plastic dividers in massage parlors. The kingdom currently has 3,101 confirmed cases of the virus and 58 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robot-dog-hounds-thai-shoppers-to-keep-hands-coronavirus-free/story-Q3hZrBgZ4tHWElAQUnSvOM.html
08-06-2020||World||Obama urges 2020 graduates to vote for change in November||Former President Barack Obama urged Class of 2020 graduates to vote for change, saying protests alone won’t end discrimination and injustice that have sparked almost two weeks of nationwide demonstrations.Speaking in virtual commencement address on YouTube, Obama called on young Americans to play their part in democracy “even it all seems broken.”“I’ve noticed that there have been some debates among young people about how useful voting is compared to direct action and civil disobedience in ending discrimination in our society,” he said. “The fact is that we don’t have to choose, we need both.”Obama has shed the customary restraint of former presidents and criticized the Trump administration’s response during the coronavirus pandemic. Last month, he told graduates of historically black colleges that the outbreak shows that many of those in the government “aren’t even pretending to be in charge.”He also wrote lengthy posts on Medium and Instagram about the recent wave of protests against police brutality, and with a similar call to action.The coronavirus pandemic “just brought into focus problems that have been growing for a very long time,” Obama said Sunday, citing economic inequality, lack of basic health care, bigotry and political polarization.Decades of AnguishRecent protests “speak to decades worth of anguish and frustration over unequal treatment and a failure to reform police practices and the broader criminal justice system,” Obama said.Aspirations for change have to be translated into laws and institutional practices at every level of government, including those “that don’t get as much attention as a presidential race,” he said.Michelle Obama struck a similar tone at the virtual graduation, which featured A-list artists such as Taylor Swift, Lady Gaga and K-pop group BTS.“If you’re spending a lot of time just hashtagging and posting right now, that’s useful, especially during a pandemic,” the former first lady said. “But it’s only a beginning. Go further. Send all your friends a link to register to vote.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/obama-urges-2020-graduates-to-vote-for-change-in-november/story-yWE3RCeexmeAASpbbbCXRM.html
08-06-2020||World||South Korean court to decide whether to jail Samsung heir JayY Lee again||A South Korean court will rule as soon as Monday whether to send Samsung Group heir Jay Y. Lee back to jail after more than two years of freedom, as new allegations dog the executive and cast a pall over the country’s top conglomerate.Lee, 51, is scheduled to appear in the Seoul Central District Court at 10:30 a.m. (0230 GMT), then head to a detention centre to await the judge’s decision, expected as early as same day.Prosecutors on Thursday asked the court to issue an arrest warrant against Lee on suspicion of stock-price manipulation, audit-rule violations and other offences, culminating a probe into accounting fraud and a contentious 2015 merger of two Samsung affiliates that they said helped smooth Lee’s succession.Samsung on Friday denied the stock-manipulation allegation against Lee, saying it was “beyond common sense” to claim Lee was involved in the decision-making.In a further statement over the weekend, the group said the lengthy probe is weighing on management, which is in a “crisis” at a time when Covid-19 and U.S.-China trade disputes are adding to uncertainty.Samsung said “groundless, incorrect and speculative media reports” about Lee would “never be desirable, not only for Samsung but for the future of the Korean economy.”The company declined to make Lee available for comment.He served in jail for about one year until Feb. 2018 for his role in a bribery scandal involving former President Park Geun-hye.He is also on trial on charges that he gave horses as gifts to win government support for the merger that increased his control of the group - and of its crown jewel, Samsung Electronics Co, South Korea’s biggest company - as he was preparing to succeed from his ailing father, Lee Kun-hee.“If he is arrested, this will further hurt the reputation of Lee and Samsung. There will more questions about his legitimacy as the CEO and successor of the company,” Chang Sea-jin, business professor at Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology. “The public would think, ‘Oh he may have done something wrong again.’“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korean-court-to-decide-whether-to-jail-samsung-heir-jayy-lee-again/story-5cQXJThekB0Krxn75RPNwM.html
08-06-2020||World||Covid-19 cases top 7mn; China promises greater collaboration on vaccine||Global cases of Covid-19 crossed seven million on Sunday, according to coronavirus data collected by Worldometer, as China promised to strengthen international cooperation in future clinical vaccine trials.The confirmed global death toll from the pandemic reached at least 400,000. At least 6.9 million people have been infected across the world by the coronavirus, according to Johns Hopkins University.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHealth experts, however, believe that the John Hopkins tally falls short of showing the true tragedy of the pandemic and Worldometer, an online source for world statistics, showed that the number of cases had already crossed the grim 7 million mark on Sunday.China said it will strengthen international cooperation in future Covid-19 clinical vaccine trials, building on earlier collaboration in vaccine development.China is expending great efforts in the global scramble to develop a vaccine for the new coronavirus epidemic that began in its central city of Wuhan, with Chinese researchers conducting five separate clinical trials on humans, or half of all such trials globally, according to the data compiled by the World Health Organization.President Xi Jinping had vowed last month at the World Heath Assembly, the WHO’s governing body, that vaccines China’s develops will become a “global public good” once they are ready for use, and it will be China’s contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries.Developing “a vaccine is still the fundamental strategy in our effort to overcome the new coronavirus,” Chinese science and technology minister Wang Zhigang said on Sunday.But vaccine development is very difficult and takes time, he said, when asked how China would initially prioritise shots by country if and when a vaccine is found.In a white paper released by the State Council Information Office at the news conference, the Chinese government urged global cooperation, saying the international community should resist finger-pointing and politicising the virus. It did not name any country.US President Donald Trump’s administration has been accusing China of cover-ups and lack of transparency regarding the pandemic. The head of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention briefed his US counterpart by phone on the then-unknown virus as early as January 4, according to the white paper.Meanshile, Shanghai Junshi Biosciences has started an early-stage study in China to test a potential antibody treatment in uninfected people, official paper Liberation Daily said on its online channel on Sunday.The experimental drug, JS016, is also expected to begin human study in the US in the second quarter of this year, through collaboration with Eli Lilly and Co.Junshi is among a few biotech firms and research institutes backed by global pharmaceutical giants to work on antibody-based therapies to help those infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-top-7mn-china-promises-greater-collaboration-on-vaccine/story-8rikI1hgbxywSIPzIdgjJK.html
08-06-2020||World||Coronavirus vaccine will take minimum 1 year to be available widely: Singapore PM Lee||The much-needed vaccine to combat the coronavirus will take at least one year before it becomes available widely, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said on Sunday, urging the people to “learn to live” with Covid-19 for a long time.He asked Singaporeans to play their part in limiting the spread of the virus by maintaining personal hygiene, wearing masks, observing safe distancing rules and avoiding crowded gatherings.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It will take at least a year, probably longer, before vaccines become widely available,” said Lee in the first of six national broadcasts on Singapore’s future after the Covid-19 pandemic in the coming days. We will have to learn to live with Covid-19 for the long term, as we have done in the past with other dangerous infectious diseases, like tuberculosis,” Lee said.The prime minister also highlighted Singapore’s progress in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.New cases in the wider community have come down and the situation in foreign workers living in dormitories has stabilised, Lee said.This has allowed the country to ease strict circuit breaker measures, he said, adding that the contact tracing and testing will be stepped up to detect the coronavirus cases earlier, isolate their contacts, and prevent clusters from forming.“If all goes well and the outbreak remains firmly under control, we will ease up further (on measures to control the spread of coronavirus), and resume more activities as soon as possible,” he said.The prime minister said that beyond the public health impact, Covid-19 had become a serious economic, social and political problem.“It is in fact the most dangerous crisis humanity has faced in a very long time... We are in a totally unprecedented situation,” he said. Pointing to the global economy having virtually ground to a halt, Lee said the governments have spent trillions of dollars to support businesses, economies and jobs, but still tens of millions of jobs have been lost. Singapore’s domestic economy has also taken a severe hit. The country’s gross domestic product is likely to shrink by between 4 and 7 per cent - its worst contraction ever. Singapore’s economy depends heavily on international trade and investments, which were already slowing down before the pandemic hit. “Now this slowdown will happen faster, and go further,” Lee said. The government has spent billions of dollars to save jobs and keep businesses afloat, and is doing so without having to borrow. On Friday, parliament passed a second supplementary supply Bill, bringing government spending on four Covid-19 support packages to Singapore dollars 92.9 billion or nearly 20 per cent of the country’s GDP. These will require a Singapore dollars 52 billion draw from Singapore’s past reserves. “But even for us, this level of spending is hard to sustain. More importantly, these measures cannot shield us from the tectonic shifts taking place in the global economy,” Lee conceded. The world will not return to the open and connected global economy of the past anytime soon, he said, adding that the movement of people will be more restricted, and health checks and quarantines will be the norm.Industries that depend on travel, like aviation, hotels and tourism, will take a long time to get back on their feet, and may never recover fully, Lee said, pointing out that it would no longer be easier to travel easily as has been happening. Countries will also strive to become less dependent on one another, especially for essential goods and services such as food or critical medical supplies, the prime minister said.“This will have strategic implications. Countries will have less stake in each other’s wellbeing. They will fight more over how the pie is shared, rather than work together to enlarge the pie for all. It will be a less prosperous world, and also a more troubled one. All these changes will impact Singapore greatly and mean that the next few years will be a disruptive and difficult time,” he cautioned. But the prime minister said Singapore will emerge stronger and better from the crisis. Singapore has an international reputation built up over decades, a headstart on preparing for the uncertainties ahead, and plans in place to help Singaporeans cope with the challenges, he said. Singapore Ministers will share more details at later broadcast as a follow up to the prime minister’s Sunday broadcast. Broadcasts have been scheduled between June 9 and June 20 by Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat, Senior Ministers Teo Chee Hean and Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing and National Development Minister Lawrence Wong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-vaccine-will-take-minimum-1-year-to-be-available-widely-singapore-pm-lee/story-Enm29EusgJi44KNVcFDTvN.html
08-06-2020||World||Anti-racism marches held across US, Europe, Asia||Tens of thousands of people marched in Washington DC in what was described as the city’s largest yet demonstration against institutional racism in the wake of the custodial death of African-American George Floyd.They walked to the White House, National Mall, the Lincoln Memorial and the Capitol, singing and chanting slogans — “No justice, no peace”, “Black lives matter” and “Defund the police”. Similar weekend protests were held in New York, Los Angeles, Detroit and other places, as well as in many cities globally.President Donald Trump, who is treating the protests as partisan and aimed at him, sought to underplay them. “Much smaller crowd in DC than anticipated,” he tweeted. “National Guard, Secret Service, and DC Police have been doing a fantastic job. Thank you!”Reports quoting US officials said on Sunday that Trump had wanted to call in 10,000 active duty troops, not the reservists of the National Guards now in DC and other cities. But he was persuaded against it by his top officials at a reportedly “contentious” meeting.A senior aide of the president’s re-election campaign, Mercedes Schlapp, has apologised for retweeting a video of a chainsaw wielding man running after protestors shouting racial slurs. With protests increasingly peaceful, law enforcement presence is being wound down across the country. National Guards are expected to begin leaving DC on Monday, as Trump confirmed in a tweet, with a warning that they can “quickly return”.Officials in New York city, which had another day of relative peace, decided to lift the curfew. Two police officers of Buffalo, New York state, were charged earlier for shoving an elderly man to the ground during protests, videos of which have gone viral triggering outrage . In Richmond, capital of Virginia state, a small group of protesters pulled down a statue of Confederate general Williams Carter Wickham. Around the world, protesters echoed the rage of American demonstrators. Dozens of people protested in front of the US consulate in Hong Kong on Sunday. In Bristol, England, protesters venting their anger at the country’s colonial history by toppling a statue of a 17th-century slave trader Edward Colston. In London people defying official warnings not to gather lay down outside the US embassy. Police said 14 officers were hurt on Saturday during clashes with protesters in London. In the French port city of Marseille, police fired tear gas and pepper spray during clashes with protesters whose rally drew more than 2,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anti-racism-marches-held-across-us-europe-asia/story-YnBG2xgkmiLSU3Gk2B1AWK.html
08-06-2020||World||10 killed at rehab centre in Mexico||Ten men were killed on Saturday when gunmen opened fire on a drugs rehabilitation centre in the Mexican city of Irapuato, the government of Guanajuato state said.Guanajuato, a region in central Mexico, has become one of the principal flashpoints of surging gang violence which President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has promised to quell.But despite lockdown measures imposed to combat the coronavirus outbreak, homicides continue to test record levels.The state government said in a late Saturday statement that according to preliminary findings, three unidentified assailants shot up the rehab centre in Irapuato, an industrial hub south of the state capital, also named Guanajuato.Meanwhile, police are also investigating the killing of three men shot dead in a separate attack on Saturday in the city of Celaya, state government said.Rehab centres have previously been targeted by criminal gangs waging turf wars for control of the drug business.In September 2017, at least 14 people were killed and several wounded in an attack by suspected gangsters on a drug rehab centre in the northern city of Chihuahua.The governor of a Mexican state recently roiled by clashes between security forces and demonstrators apologised on Saturday for abuses carried out by police against people protesting the against death of a man in police custody.Enrique Alfaro, governor of the western region of Jalisco, said he was appalled that police in Guadalajara had on Friday beaten some participants in a demonstration over the death of the man, Giovanni Lopez.“It embarrasses me, it distresses me, it greatly pains me as a man from Jalisco, and as governor,” Alfaro said.Floyd’s death helped drive demonstrations over the fate of Lopez, who died in police custody in Jalisco last month after reportedly being detained by municipal officers for not wearing a face mask to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-killed-at-rehab-centre-in-mexico/story-OKj7lpJArTwuLJQ1CNOETM.html
08-06-2020||World||Dutch nightclub resumes the party with social distancing rules||Dutch youth hit a club on Saturday, sort of, in one of the country’s first attempts to resume night life after the coronavirus outbreak, with social distancing rules still in place.Clubbers at Doornroosje in the eastern city of Nijmegen booked ahead of time to enjoy short sets of electronic dance music in the afternoon, rather than around midnight, as they used to. During the show, they were restricted to chairs.But when the lights went down and the sound came up, almost everything fell into place. “I expect amazing social dis-dancing!” said Nadie, a young woman who had come to see local favourite DJ Odin play. “I think it’s your perfect daily dose of music, like, 20 minutes is enough, yeah, sure.” said Nuray Boga, 19. “It made me happy.”Promoter Jonatan Brand said the original plan had been to have the guests dance while standing in place 1.5m apart. But local authorities said they had to sit in chairs, at least for now. “It’s still very cool,” Brand said. “People are still dancing, although they are on the chair, they’re fist-pumping, they’re moving their bodies, so - it’s great.”A maximum of 30 guests were allowed in the building at a time. The club plans to expand to 100 in July. The cover charge was 10 euros, including a drink. Shows did not sell out, and the event was also streamed online. “It’s nice to play actually on a loud volume again, to see some familiar faces,” said DJ Davy Brandts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-nightclub-resumes-the-party-with-social-distancing-rules/story-AVic4T5vNO77XeIav87nXJ.html
08-06-2020||World||Brazil govt removes virus toll, case data from official website||Brazil’s government has stopped publishing a running total of coronavirus deaths and infections in an extraordinary move that critics call an attempt to hide the true toll of the disease in Latin America’s largest nation.The Saturday move came after months of criticism from experts saying Brazil’s statistics are woefully deficient, and in some cases manipulated, so it may never be possible to gain a real understanding of the depth of the pandemic in the country.Brazil’s last official numbers showed it had recorded over 34,000 deaths related to the coronavirus, the third-highest number in the world, just ahead of Italy. It reported nearly 615,000 infections, putting it at the second-highest, behind the US. On Friday, the federal health ministry took down a website that had showed daily, weekly and monthly figures on infections and deaths in Brazilian states. On Saturday, the site returned but the total numbers of infections for states and the nation were no longer there. The site now shows only the numbers for the previous 24 hours.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro tweeted on Saturday that disease totals are “not representative” of the country’s current situation.A Bolsonaro ally contended to the newspaper O Globo that at least some states providing figures to the health ministry had sent falsified data, implying that they were exaggerating the toll. Carlos Wizard, a businessman expected to assume a high-level post in the Health Ministry, said the federal government would be conducting a review intended to determine a “more accurate”’ toll.“The number we have today is fanciful or manipulated,” Wizard said. A council of state health secretaries said it would fight the changes by Bolsonaro, who has dismissed the gravity of the coronavirus pandemic and tried to thwart attempts to impose quarantines, curfews and social distancing, arguing those steps are causing more damage to the economy than the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-govt-removes-virus-toll-case-data-from-official-website/story-UpdBJ7CJaGC8nQxxNYLyUK.html
08-06-2020||India||Kolkata Police team nab JMB operative, second such arrest in 10 days||The Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police have arrested yet another man for allegedly being an operative of the banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), from West Bengal’s Hooghly district.The arrest comes within 10 days of the STF arresting an alleged JMB operative, Abdul Karim, from Murshidabad district.“Sk. Rezaul alias Kiron, a resident of Birbhum district, was wanted in the STF police station case number 01/2018 and has been arrested from Dankuni police station area in Hooghly district. He will be produced before a court,” an STF spokesperson said on Monday.The spokesperson said Rezaul was “a key person of JMB” who is “supposed to have worked in close liaison with Salahuddin Salehin” and served as “a leading fund collector of JMB in India”.Salehin, the helmsman of what is known as ‘old JMB’ or the pro-Al Qaeda faction of JMB, was sentenced to death in Bangladesh but was ‘freed’ during a terror attack on a prison van carrying him and has since been hiding in different parts of India. In 2018, Salehin announced the launch of JMB’s India chapter. He is in the list of “most wanted” declared by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).“Rezaul is said to have coordinated meetings of key personnel in the organisation,” the spokesperson said.Since the 2014 Burdwan blast that opened the lid on a flourishing JMB network in West Bengal, and also some other states like Assam, Jharkhand and Karnataka, more than five dozen suspected JMB operatives have been arrested in West Bengal, according to a senior police officer who is involved in anti-terror operations.The NIA had unearthed several JMB modules in the districts of Burdwan, Birbhum, Nadia and Murshidabad. Karim alias Boro Karim, who was arrested from Murshidabad on May 29, was described by the police as “the main leader of the Dhuliyan module (Murshidabad) and would actively supply logistics and support and shelter top leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-police-team-nab-jmb-operative-second-such-arrest-in-10-days/story-6agnwn1kHaU59uBUxbFzKL.html
08-06-2020||India||Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch killed by terrorists in Anantnag, parties condemn attack||Ajay Pandita alias Bharti, a 40-year-old Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch in south Kashmir’s Anantnag, was shot dead by terrorists on Monday evening. Ajay Pandita, sarpanch of Lukbawan village in Larkipora, was attacked at his orchard at around 6 pm, police said.Bharti, who was affiliated with the Congress, was taken to a hospital but did not survive, police said.Locals said the family of the sarpanch had migrated from south Kashmir in early 1990s but returned around two years back. He successfully contested the panchayat polls.The police and army have launched a search operation to track down the terrorists who killed the sarpanch. Today at about 1800hrs some unknown #terrorists fired upon one #Congress Sarpanch identified as Ajay Pandit at #Lokbawan #Anantnag who later on #succumbed to his injuries at hospital. #Police is on the spot. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAll state political parties have condemned the killing. Later in the evening, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also condoled the gruesome killing of his party’s grassroots worker“My condolences to the family and friends of Ajay Pandita, who sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. We stand with you in this time of grief. Violence will never win,” Gandhi tweeted. Congress Sarpanch Ajay Bharti had been pleading for security. Yet BJP Govt denied him security. This when the BJP-RSS miss no opportunity to exploit the Kashmiri Pandit issue. What hypocrites. They are morally responsible for Ajay's death! pic.twitter.com/Vegbjd9DS3Union minister Jitendra Singh said: “It is a desperate attempt by anti-national elements to defeat the process of grassroots democracy, which is sought to be established in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time at the instance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.Former chief minister Omar Abdullah also condemned the “terror attack on a grassroots political worker”.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti who is handling her mother’s social media account, tweeted a double-barrelled attack that targeted the government also.“Condolences to the family. Shrinking political space in Kashmir has made party workers all the more vulnerable. They are stuck between punitive actions of a vindictive government & militants on the other end,” she tweeted.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Bharti had no security cover and sought a judicial inquiry. The party also demanded a judicial inquiry into the gruesome incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-pandit-sarpanch-killed-by-terrorists-in-anantnag-parties-condemn-attack/story-KaeSpT9BYDYtn0wFHrCSdM.html
08-06-2020||India||Nine, including minor boy killed after being hit by lightning in Odisha||Nine people including a minor boy who had gone out to watch a cricket match were killed after being struck by lightning in different places of Odisha on Monday.Narasingha Majhi of Sunadangari village in Nabarangour district had gone to Miriguda village to watch a cricket match. When he was returning home at around 3 pm, heavy rain accompanied with lightning began. The boy collapsed on the ground after being hit by lightning. When he was rushed to the Papadahandi Community Health Centre, doctors declared him dead.In Dhenkanal, two women were killed by lightning while they were sitting on the balcony.Apart from these incidents, six other people lost their lives due to lightning in the state. The six victims include three from Keonjhar, a farmer from Jagatsinghpur, and others from Kendrapada and Cuttack districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-including-minor-boy-killed-after-being-hit-by-lightning-in-odisha/story-e6DDf3GRp3zPlpwukyf5eJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Kerala reports 91 fresh Covid-19 cases, state’s tally crosses 2000-mark||With 91 fresh Covid-19 cases, Kerala’s coronavirus tally crossed the 2000-mark and the state also reported one more death on Monday taking the death toll to 17, state health minister K K Shailaja said. She warned people not to lower their guard in the name of ‘Unlock 1’ as more people are expected from abroad and other states in the coming days.A 41-year-old man from Thrissur, who came from Maldives two weeks ago, died at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital, said the minister adding out of 2005 cases, 1174 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Among 91 fresh cases, 73 have returned from abroad, 15 came from other states and two people contracted the disease from the primary contact. Two health workers are among those infected. “The state is going through a critical phase. We have to keep utmost vigil. Some provisions were eased to reduce hardships of people but some are behaving as if normalcy has returned to the state. We have to discourage such tendencies,” the minister said asking everyone to keep social distance when shrines and malls open in the state on Tuesday. Many prominent mosques and churches have decided to defer opening saying the time is not ripe for it.Earlier many religious heads had written to the government seeking its help to open shrines saying it left a spiritual and emotional vacuum among the devotees. But now many have second thoughts after witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. Cases went up sharply after the return of expatriates and people stranded in other states. Around 2 lakh people are under observation in the state now, the highest number since the outbreak began in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-91-fresh-covid-19-cases-state-s-tally-crosses-2000-mark/story-4lkMt69KKPgy4u4D0RowGI.html
08-06-2020||India||Bengal extends lockdown restriction in containment zones till June 30||Even as shopping malls, restaurants and places of worship opened across the country on Monday under Unlock 1, the West Bengal government extended lockdown restrictions in containment zones till June 30. The restrictions on the Covid-19 hotspots were to end on June 15.In an order issued on Monday afternoon by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government also offered certain relaxations. It said 25 people at a time can attend marriages, funerals and places of worship. The number is now fixed at 10.“Norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Any violation in compliance of norms of physical distancing, health hygiene protocol and wearing of masks shall attract penal action as per law,” the order said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The night curfew will remain in force.“It is reiterated that movement of individuals shall remain prohibited between 9 PM to 5 AM, except for essential activities. District administration and local authorities shall issue appropriate orders in this regard and ensure strict compliance,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-extends-lockdown-restriction-in-containment-zones-till-june-30/story-kwJPeQMROBx4DqldkoJlLI.html
08-06-2020||India||49 personnel of National Disaster Response Force test Covid-19 +ve in Odisha||At least 49 personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who had returned from West Bengal after Cyclone Amphan restoration work, have tested positive for coronavirus in Odisha, said officials. The personnel belonged to the 3rd battalion of the NDRF at Mundali area of Cuttack.NDRF sources said the 49 jawans who tested positive today were part of the 173-member force that had gone to Bengal for Cyclone Amphan relief and restoration work and returned to Odisha on June 3. “On June 3, one of the personnel showed Covid-19 symptoms and tested positive. He was admitted to Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. Afterwards, the swab of all the jawans of NDRF who had gone to Bengal were tested. The swab results of 49 tested positive,” said an NDRF official in Mundali.All those who tested positive have been quarantined inside the NDRF campus at Mundali.In addition, 376 personnel of the Odisha Fire Services and 271 of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force were also sent to West Bengal for relief and restoration works. The results of their swab samples are yet to be received.NDRF officials said the force has developed a new Standard Operating Procedure for its personnel and victims during floods in the light of pandemic guidelines. Odisha has provided free Covid-19 test for the NDRF personnel deployed for Amphan. The government had supplied 60,000 normal PPE to the NDRF and two sets of customised PPE per person.Meanwhile, two jawans of the military wing of Proof and Experimental Establishment, a unit of DRDO at Chandipur in Balasore district tested positive for Covid-19. The jawans had gone to Kolkata where they were tested during health check-up at Command Hospital, Kolkata. Three others who also visited the hospital have been isolated there.Associate Director of PXE, HS Panda said the PXE has been shut down and the campus, including the office premises, has been sanitised. Its employees have been advised to work from home and stay in isolation. Eight jawans of Integrated Test Range at Chandipur, who had been to the military camp of PXE, are now in quarantine. ITR has been declared a containment zone.The total number of cases in Odisha surged to 2,994 today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49-jawans-of-national-disaster-response-force-test-covid-19-ve-in-odisha/story-S3htPn5wlm4pTUcGrZT9gO.html
08-06-2020||India||On Sonu Sood’s relief work, defence minister Rajnath Singh’s nudge to Sena||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been getting migrant workers home, deserves credit not criticism, underlined defence minister Rajnath Singh, a day after the actor found himself being criticised by a Shiv Sena leader.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, in his Sunday column for Sena mouthpiece Saamna, accused Sood of being a BJP stooge and prospective star campaigner for the party.“Instead of lauding his work, the government has criticised actor Sonu Sood for his efforts to send migrant workers back home. The Maharashtra government should learn from UP and Karnataka on how to contain coronavirus spread,” the defence minister said while addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers, titled Maharashtra Jansamvad.The BJP seems to have restarted the political activities as its leaders have been holding virtual rallies to drive home the party and the government’s message to its workers across the states. Home minister Amit Shah conducted similar rallies for Bihar and Odisha. The actor, among his many other relief acts, had managed to send 177 girls, stuck in Kerala’s Ernakulam, in a special plane to Bhubaneswar in Odisha. Raut alleged that since Sood was not able to find a plane in Kerala, a special plane was flown from Bengaluru to Kochi. Raut asked if it was possible for Sood to pull this off without political, government and administrative backing.The BJP slammed Raut for his comments. “This is an extremely unfortunate comment by Raut. It shows the extent of failure of the Maharashtra government in handling Covid-19. If an actor is helping out migrants using his own money, what is Sena’s problem with this? He is doing their job,” said Maharashtra BJP leader Ram Kadam.Soon after the controversy broke, the actor met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his residence on Sunday night.“This evening Sonu Sood met up with CM Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray ji along with Minister Aslam Shaikh and me. Better together, stronger together to assist as many people through as many people. Good to have met a good soul to work for the people together,” tweeted Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, without a hint of resentment with the work that the actor was doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sonu-sood-s-relief-work-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-s-nudge-to-sena/story-SvR5sL2Ib4xU7lE3ZnthFO.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Talks with China positive, will continue’: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said India’s military and diplomatic levels talks with China have been positive and will continue.Addressing the BJP’s Maharashtra Jan-Samvad Rally via video link, the minister also said the Narendra Modi-led government will ensure that India’s pride is not affected as far as the situation along Indo-China border is concerned.“The border dispute between India and China has been ongoing for a long time. We want to resolve it as soon as possible,” Singh said.“Talks with China are on at military and diplomatic level. The June 6 talks were very positive and both the countries have agreed to continue talks to resolve the ongoing tussle,” he said.“I want to assure people that leadership of the country is in strong hands and we will not compromise on India’s pride and self-respect,” he said.Singh said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and some opposition leaders had sought the government’s clarification on what is happening at the India-China border.“As the Defence Minister of the country, I want to say that whatever I have to say I will say it inside Parliament, I will not mislead the people,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-positive-will-continue-rajnath-singh/story-tAjAOrJrBfRMgAK0m98WSJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Goa revises SOPs for arrivals, Covid-19 test no longer mandatory||Goa has decided to amend its SOPs and do away with mandatory testing of anyone entering it following increased movement of people to and from the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant, who had a series of meetings throughout the day, said that it was becoming increasingly difficult to test all persons given the increasing numbers which have created a backlog of test reports.“Almost 2,500 test results are pending. We are conducting 1,500 to 2,000 tests per day which will continue, but we have to change the standard operating procedure for arrivals,” Sawant said. “Persons entering the state can opt for 14-days home quarantine and their movements will be monitored through the local representatives so that they do not mingle during the period. People can also opt for a paid quarantine if they do not wish to go home or the third option for those who are coming to the state only for a few days and do not wish to quarantine themselves is to take a swab test by paying Rs 2,000,” Sawant said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Under the revised protocol all persons will be scanned upon entry and will have to walk through thermal scanners that will be set up at airports, railway stations and road check points and if found symptomatic will be compulsorily tested, Sawant said. The Goa government had made testing compulsory for all persons entering the state including those who arrived by air, rail and road. However, with the further relaxation on movement as part of the Unlock 1 guidelines, the resumption of regular train services with several stops within the states has made it logistically impossible to continue with the compulsory testing. The new protocol will come into effect from June 10. The opposition has accused the government of going down a ‘dangerous path’ that could come at a huge cost to lives. “The State government has thrown its hands in the air and is going for herd immunity. Herd immunity can either be achieved by injection (vaccination) or infection. This will come at a huge cost to Goa. The vulnerable people will be very badly affected,” said Vijai Sardesai, leader of the Goa Forward Party. “The major proponents of the herd immunity theory have suffered a lot. Boris Johnson in the UK himself got infected and 42,000 people have died. Bolsonaro in Brazil who dismissed the virus has seen 36,000 deaths. The man who was saying to make America great again has seen more than a lakh deaths in the USA. This is a rightist government that doesn’t care for the people,” Sardesai saidGoa’s Covid-19 tally went up to 330 on Monday with 30 new cases. There are now 263 active cases, most of which are linked to the state’s lone containment zone at Mangor Hill. After a relatively lengthy period with no new cases, Goa began to witness a rise in the number of positive cases no sooner special trains services commenced allowing for interstate travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-revises-sops-for-arrivals-covid-19-test-no-longer-mandatory/story-4GxCt1jpkjwtldzLD6qhmJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Delhi’s coronavirus tally climbs to 29,943 with 1,007 new cases; 17 deaths in last 24 hours||The national capital on Monday reported 1,007 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, taking Delhi’s total tally over the 29,000-mark to 29,943, according to Delhi Health Department data.With 17 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the capital’s death toll has now mounted to 874. There are currently, 17,712 active coronavirus positive cases in the city.Sixty-two Covid-19 deaths took place in Delhi from May 30 to June 6, and 27 of these fatalities occurred on June 5.ALSO READ | Delhi govt sets up 24x7 helpdesks in its hospitals to help needy patientsThe highest spike of 1,513 fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded on June 3.At least, 11,357 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease and been discharged from various hospitals. A total of 358 coronavirus patients were discharged in the last 24 hours.The current doubling rate of the coronavirus infection in the national capital is 14 days, so Delhi is likely to see over 56,000 cases by the end of the next two weeks, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday.ALSO READ| Arvind Kejriwal goes into self-quarantine, may undergo Covid-19 test tomorrow“The expert committee, which was set up by us earlier, has said that the doubling rate is 14-15 days and currently the city has recorded 29,943 cases in total so by the end of two weeks, it is estimated to rise to 56,000,” the minister said.Except for June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.With 9,983 new coronavirus cases, India’s Covid-19 tally on Monday mounted to 256,611, according to the Union health ministry data. The country also recorded 206 deaths.This is the fifth day in a row that India has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day. The number of active cases in the country stands at 125,381 and the recovery rate at 48.35% with 124,094 people cured of the respiratory disease, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-coronavirus-tally-climbs-to-29-943-with-1-007-new-cases-17-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-fNRIVNyzSBm9l47aAqhPIN.html
08-06-2020||India||Lockdown effected downturn to cause spike in child trafficking, SC told||A Supreme Court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, on Monday issued notice to the central government, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and nine states and asked the petitioner Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi-run non-governmental organisation (NGO), Bachpan Bachao Andolan’s counsel HS Phoolka and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta to work together and come up with solutions to curb the growing child trafficking menace in the country.Earlier, the NGO in its plea said that the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, would lead to a spike in child trafficking cases because of the pandemic-induced economic crisis.The petitioner prayed that the Central government should frame appropriate policy and guidelines at the earliest in a bid to prevent child trafficking cases that are likely to go up among the marginalised sections of the society because of the growing economic crisis triggered by the raging viral outbreak in the country.The plea, filed through advocate Jagjit Singh Chhabra, said: “The economic crisis, increased insecurity, poverty and marginalisation induced by Covid-19 are key drivers for families grasping onto straws of survival for pushing their children into trafficking.”Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana have been made a party to the case, as the petitioner received complaints about child trafficking from these states.The petitioner pointed out that the lockdown has proved to be catastrophic for lakhs of migrant labourers and daily wage workers, who were forced to trek back to their villages, as they were staring at a sudden loss of their livelihood and an uncertain future.“It’s a poignant reality that poverty and hunger awaits them, as they would have migrated (to cities) in the first place due to lack of work in their native villages. Many will be forced into a vicious debt cycle at predatory interest rates because of their dire financial situation, which will prove to be a fertile ground for child traffickers,” the petitioner said.Child labour and sex trafficking are the two primary ways of this heinous crime, the petitioner highlighted. “Children are trafficked first and then placed in labour, either forced or for a sub-minimal wage. However, the most unfortunate ones, particularly young boys and girls, are forced into sexual exploitation,” the plea argued.The NGO contended that it received inputs from multiple sources that traffickers have become active and have started approaching potential victims and families and even started handing out advance payments for their children.“Once lockdown is lifted and normal manufacturing activity resumes, factory owners will look to cover their financial losses by employing cheap labour and the easiest way of doing this is by employing child labour,” the plea stated.CJI Bobde remarked that policing alone would not be a solution and the problem of child trafficking persists because there is a ready market for child labour. He said that contractors, who are engaged in supplying labour, should be kept under strict vigil in a bid to prevent child trafficking and child labour.The apex court also contemplated setting up an expert committee to address the issue raised by the NGO. However, no directions were passed to this effect on Monday and the matter was posted for the next hearing after two weeks.“Policing alone will not do. You’ll have to find some measures to prevent contractors from employing children,” CJI Bobde said.The petitioner claimed that the business of commercial sexual exploitation, which took a downturn due to the lockdown restrictions, would look for innovative ways to be back in business and overcome the losses by engaging younger girls, as they fetch higher returns.“Underage girls will be sold into prostitution and the number of street children pushed into begging will also go up,” the plea warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-effected-downturn-to-cause-spike-in-child-trafficking-sc-told/story-cYh4qgoP9aN2z4Qpyli6YM.html
08-06-2020||India||13 days on, experts from Singapore will try to plug gas blowout in Assam||Three experts from a Singapore firm reached Assam’s Tinsukia district on Monday to try to plug the uncontrolled release of gas, 13 days after a natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) had a blowout.The well located at Baghjan close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park continued to release natural gas and oil condensate “uncontrollably” since it first started on May 27.The experts from Alert Disaster Control, who landed in Guwahati on Sunday by a special chartered flight, reached Duliajan on Monday morning where they were briefed by OIL officials about the situation on the ground.“The experts complimented OIL for all the preparatory works carried out so far. They are confident of controlling the well at the earliest,” OIL said in a statement.Nearly 2,000 residents of the area have been shifted to four relief camps in view of the blowout which is described as uncontrolled release of gas or oil from a well when pressure systems fail.According to OIL, safety of the local people in the area and the technical team working at the well site will be of prime concern while carrying out the operation to control the blowout.Last week, a team from the Union petroleum ministry had visited the site to take stock of the situation. In 2005, when a similar blowout took place at an abandoned oil well of OIL at Dikom in Dibrugarh district, it took nearly a month to bring it under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-days-on-experts-from-singapore-will-try-to-plug-gas-blowout-in-assam/story-eX86o4wZWXGr5BHHheCBIN.html
08-06-2020||India||2,553 new Covid-19 cases take Maharashtra’s tally past 88,000||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went up to 88,528 on Monday after 2,553 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the government said.Out of the 2,553 cases, 1,311 cases were from Mumbai alone. The new cases have taken Mumbai’s tally to 50,085 on Monday. The Maharashtra capital’s count alone is higher than Telangana, the second worst affected state with more than 31,000 Covid-19 cases.The pandemic also claimed 109 lives in Maharashtra over the last 24 hours to take the death toll to 3,169. Mumbai recorded 64 of the fatalities. The death in Mumbai is now 1,702.On Saturday, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope had said that the government will procure 10,000 vials of the Remdesivir drug to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Last week, India had approved the use of Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-553-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-s-tally-past-88-000/story-AOTaHeB6k4EBIkCcmijHRI.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Power without responsibility is a character trait’: Rajnath Singh on Congress||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his party and alleged that “power without responsibility” was nothing new for the Congress. The union minister was referring to the role of the Congress in Maharashtra, where it is part of the coalition that helms the state government. “Rahul Gandhi had said that Congress is not a key decision maker in Maharashtra. What does this mean? Are they washing their hands off their responsibility at this time? This is nothing new, power without responsibility is their character,” Singh said addressing a virtual rally for BJP workers in Maharashtra.The defence minister also criticized the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government over its handling of the Covid-19 health crisis, saying the current situation in the state looks like a circus is going on instead of proper governance. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country with the highest number of coronavirus positive cases.ALSO READ | ‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit Shah“The Maharashtra government should learn from Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka on how to contain the coronavirus outbreak. Isn’t it fair to say that the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra shows the government’s incapability?” Singh asked. Simultaneously, he also assured all possible assistance to the Maharashtra government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Hitting out at the Congress more than once, the defence minister said, “Today, Rahul Gandhi and some opposition leaders said the Centre should clarify what is happening at the India-China border. As the Defence Minister of this country, I want to say that whatever I have to say, I will say it inside Parliament, I will not mislead the people on any issue.”Singh also backed actor Sonu Sood for his work for stranded migrant workers amid the pandemic and questioned the state government’s criticism of the actor. Sood had recently come in for criticism by the Shiv Sena which had alleged that he was only a front and the BJP was using him “Instead of lauding his work, the government has criticised actor Sonu Sood for his efforts to send migrant workers back home,” the minister said.ALSO READ | ‘PM Modi’s citizenship law gave respect to refugees in India’: Amit ShahBilled the Maharashtra Jansamvad Rally, the event is one of a series of virtual meetings through video conferencing, that senior BJP leaders have started since Sunday. Home Minister Amit Shah had addressed BJP workers in Bihar through a similar virtual rally yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-without-responsibility-is-a-character-trait-rajnath-singh-on-congress/story-PPe6OWawYHaQ3QD2HuvzUI.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Biggest blow’: RSS body opposes pictorial warning on beedi packs by Centre||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has opposed the union health ministry’s notification for allowing pictorial warning on beedi packages, claiming it will be “the biggest blow” to the industry that employs over 4.5 crore people.The body, which is an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has asked the ministry to view beedi as separate from other tobacco products and formulate new policies accordingly.In May, the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued a notification specifying new health warnings on tobacco packs that will be enforced from September 1. All tobacco products will have to come with pictorial warning about the ill-effects of using them.Pointing out that there is no nodal agency to address the concerns of those dependent on the beedi industry, the BMS said the Labour Ministry and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) have tried to find alternate livelihoods for beedi workers. The attempts, said the BMS, have not succeeded as a large number of workers employed here are mostly uneducated women from OBC, SC and ST categories and minorities.“…Similarly, the ministry of agriculture has tried to find alternative crops for tobacco and is spending crores of rupees every year to encourage farmers to grow alternative crops. All these attempts have failed. The Tobacco Research Institute could not convince the farmers to grow other crops,” the BMS said in a statement.It blamed the multiplicity of authorities for the lack of comprehensive policy on beedi.“Almost seven ministries are dealing with this subject. Each ministry is thinking differently…Ultimately it is the workforce which becomes the victim of the wrong and lopsided policies of the central government. To formulate a comprehensive policy, the government should form an inter-ministerial committee comprising labour, health, agriculture, commerce, finance, forest, tribal affairs, home affairs, women and child welfare and skill development. This committee should suggest an action plan within a month after tripartite consultations,” the statement said.Taking up cudgels for them, the RSS body underscored that workers in this agro-forest-based industry are predominantly unorganised and uneducated.“Entire rural and small industries in the country are witnessing huge job losses, particularly among rural areas and unorganised sector workers, under crisis due to unprecedented pandemic. In such a situation, this is the most inappropriate time for the government to amend the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (COTPA),” the BMS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-blow-rss-body-opposes-pictorial-warning-on-beedi-packs-by-centre/story-KBWmyGss5ls8ws59XSqbbJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand hotels to remain shut, hoteliers say govt guidelines impractical||Hoteliers in Uttrakhand have decided to keep their hotels shut saying the government’s guidelines were impractical for their business. The Uttarakhand government has allowed hotels and homestays in the state to open from Monday with fresh guidelines in Unlock 1.Under the new guidelines issued on Sunday, hotels cannot accept bookings from guests from high-load Covid-19 cities which include Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Noida and others.It has also prohibited the guests from visiting the tourist spots and public places along with a minimum stay of seven days in the hotels. The hotel associations of popular tourist towns like Mussoorie and Nainital have termed the guidelines as impractical and have decided to keep their hotels closed. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Dinesh Shah, president of Nainital Hotel Association under which there are about 120 hotels said, “Though the government has allowed us to resume our operations but has put conditions which if followed will be difficult for our business. Hence, we have decided to keep the hotels closed.”Shah while pointing out the conditions said, “The government has prohibited us from taking bookings of guests from high-load Covid-19 cities among which there are those from which we get our maximum business. Also, people come here to visit the tourist spots from distant places but now why would they come if they won’t be allowed to visit those spots? They are not fools to come here and quarantine themselves for seven days inside the hotel.”“We have already suffered losses during our peak business months of April and May. We will only open when it will be favourable for us,” said Shah adding “The government has also not released the hotels which it has taken as quarantine centres.”RN Mathur, president of Mussoorie hotel association which has about 200 hotels under it, gave similar reasons and said they will also not open their hotels. “Mussoorie is a place where tourists stay in hotels for a maximum one of two days. But the guidelines say that they have to stay for seven days. Why would he stay for such a long period?,” said Mathur. “We will keep our hotels closed for the next 10 days till we take some decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hotels-to-remain-shut-hoteliers-say-govt-guidelines-impractical/story-2HMnDSqnZ9v2fiQHgIiWvI.html
08-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Bengal’s most popular shrines remain shut to ward off coronavirus||Even as religious places in states across the country welcomed devotees on Monday, some of the most visited shrines in Bengal decided to keep their doors closed on the first day of Unlock 1.At the famous Dakshineswar Kali Temple by the Hooghly River near Kolkata, the gates remained closed. The temple was built in 1855 by Rani Rashmoni who became a living legend by helping poor people and farmers. She appointed Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa; one of India’s most well known saints, as the main priest of the temple. His disciple, Swami Vivekananda, formed the Ramakrishna Mission in 1897. “In a day or two we will start letting in 10 people at a time as prescribed by the state government but managing the crowd that will wait outside the main gates is going to pose a problem. Even on ordinary days, the temple is visited by at least 10,000-15,000 people,” Prasun Hazra, one of the trustees of the temple and descendant of Rani Rashmoni said.“The temple complex is huge. Efforts are on to put in place a health safety mechanism. Initially, we installed a gate where devotees would have to pass through a shower of sanitizing liquid. But the local district administration said it might affect children and infants. Now we have to think of an alternative,” said Hazra.“I used to visit the Dakshineswar Temple at least once a week. This is quite a dilemma but what can one do when there is a pandemic?” said Taranath Chatterjee, a resident of Bally in Howrah district.Beside common people, the temple has been visited over the years by hundreds of eminent personalities, movie stars and politicians. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have both offered prayers at the temple. Incidentally, the famous Kali temple at Kalighat near the south Kolkata residence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also closed. Shah offered prayers at the temple in March this year.At the famous Furfura Sharif shrine in Hooghly district, Bengal’s most visited place of pilgrimage for Muslims, the lockdown continued and devotees were not allowed to enter the campus. Furfura Sharif is built around the mausoleum of Pir Abu Bakr Siddiqui. It also has a mosque built in 1375. Furfura Sharif draws millions from across the country during the annual fair dedicated to the Pir and the Urs festival.“We have kept the gates closed because fighting the coronavirus infection is more important right now. True believers can offer their prayers from anywhere. One need not enter the mazar,” Pirzada Jiauddin Siddiqui, one of the custodians of the shrine, told HT. “People offered prayers from outside the gates maintaining safe distance from each other,” he added.Following the decision taken by the Bengal Imams Association last months, prayers at mosques are being offered by a small group of people accompanying the resident imams but no gathering or Jamaat is being held.“I have not visited a mosque in two months. I offer prayers at home along with my family,” said Abdul Rezzak who repairs air-conditioners and lives in Kolkata’s Park Circus area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-bengal-s-most-popular-shrines-remain-shut-to-ward-off-coronavirus/story-T3rRJtEtgRnByMaQhHEbRJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Troop movements halted at India-China standoff points but defences are up deep inside||There hasn’t been any activity at the four standoff points along the Line of Actual Control after Indian and Chinese military commanders held a 7-hour-long ice-breaking meeting over the weekend, people familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times on Monday.India, which was the first to speak about the meeting at the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point some 14,000 feet above sea level, had underlined on Sunday that the two sides had agreed to peacefully resolve the situation. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry statement about the discussions over the weekend made the same point.To be sure, the two sides are not anywhere close to a resolution of the standoff at three points in the Galwan valley and the fourth, near Pangong Lake.Saturday’s meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, agreed to keep talking at the brigade and battalion commander level.Also Read: India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled watersThe Indian assessment is that the shortest time frame that one could look at for a resolution is next month, if not later. That would be comparable to the time taken to end the Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days and ended only after conversations at the highest level.ALSO WATCH | India-China tension: What happened at border meeting of top army officersBut the good thing, people familiar with the development told HT, is that there has been very little activity at the standoff sites over the past day or two.The Indian side, however, has taken note of a defensive military buildup by the People’s Liberation Army in places such as Kashgar, the headquarters of the PLA’s Xinjiang military district some 480 km from the standoff points along the LAC.An Indian official said the buildup at the district headquarters had happened over the last few weeks and days, around the time that China had been talking about dialogue to resolve the standoff that started from a May 5 clash between soldiers at one location in eastern Ladakh.According to senior indian officials, India had responded and mobilised its troops also.Also Read: The first move on the India-China chessboard | HT Editorial“Our buildup matches the Chinese deployment, if not more, in terms of troops, support elements, force multipliers and aerial support,” a senior official said.Chinese troops did have an advantage in the initial days of the standoff when its soldiers took the first steps to adopt an aggressive stance at Pangong lake and Galwan valley. But the Indian deployment was beefed up rapidly after additional troops underwent the seven days of acclimatization required to enable them to operate at 16,000 feet height.One official said the Chinese forces had been putting pressure on the Chip Chap river-Karakoram-Trig heights-Galwan-Depsang bulge axis after the Indian Air Force revived the Daulat Beg Oldie airfield by landing an AN-32 transport aircraft in May 2008. After a standoff with Chinese troops in April 2013, the Indian Air Force had landed the Lockheed Martin C-130J Super Hercules four-engine military transport aircraft as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troop-movements-halt-at-4-ladakh-standoff-points-but-defences-are-up-deep-inside/story-OfoihTqPa6GqMINcgaMLUO.html
08-06-2020||India||Mizoram imposes total lockdown from midnight on Monday to control Covid-19||Guwahati: As the rest of the country further eased restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19 on Monday, the Mizoram government decided to impose a total lockdown in the state for two weeks.The decision was made at a consultative meeting on Covid-19 in state capital Aizawl that was attended by legislators, senior officials, NGOs, church groups, hospital associations, and village council members.“Total lockdown for two weeks starting midnight tonight (Monday). Quarantine period will be for 21 days. Home quarantine option to be limited to only extremely unavoidable cases,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.Other guidelines for the lockdown are being framed, he said.Mizoram has recorded 42 Covid-19 cases till date. The first patient, a 50-year-old pastor, was found recorded on March 24, after he returned to the state from the Netherlands.But with the return of thousands of people to the state after a ban on inter-state travel was lifted on May 4, the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-imposes-total-lockdown-from-midnight-on-monday-to-control-covid-19/story-lSOQSLOpy9AgMrsQUQXWEL.html
08-06-2020||India||‘I live and work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?’: Chidambaram asks CM Kejriwal||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday sought to know from chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as to who qualifies to be a Delhi resident, reacting to the government’s decision to mark hospital beds for its residents. “Mr. Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite? If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?,” tweeted the Congress leader. Chidambaram, who also doubles up as lawyer, asked if any legal opinion was taken before making such an announcement. ALSO WATCH | On The Record: Why the government is fighting a hospital during pandemic“I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Aayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India? Did Mr Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement?,” asked Chidambram. Mr. Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite?If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?However, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities that no patient should be denied treatment for not being a resident of Delhi, overruling the AAP government’s earlier order.As complaints escalated on social media on the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals, CM Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all. The declaration sits at odds with the stated aim of the AAP government: “AAP ki sarkar (government for you).” For identifying the residents, voter IDs, bank passbooks, ration cards, driving licences, phone and electricity bills in addition to Aadhaar cards carrying a residential address from the city were said to be considered. Earlier today, the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the current doubling rate of Covid-19 in the city-state is 14 days so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks.Defending his government, he said, “Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals.”The minister claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday.Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.The national capital has nearly 29,000 coronavirus cases, country’s third highest after Maharashtra (85,975) and Tamil Nadu (30,152).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-live-and-work-in-delhi-am-i-a-delhiite-chidambaram-asks-cm-kejriwal/story-6Rqqi8uWfO90jOA1OuUEQI.html
08-06-2020||India||Lt Guv overrules Kejriwal order on reserving Covid-19 beds for Delhiites||No patient should be denied treatment for not being a resident of Delhi, directed Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Monday, overruling the AAP government’s decision to reserve beds in government and private hospitals for only Delhi residents.Baijal impressed upon the state government that the Supreme Court has held in several judgments that right to health is an integral part of right to life. “Direct departments and authorities concerned of NCT of Delhi to ensure that treatment is not denied to any patient on the ground of not being a resident of Delhi,” said the L-G in a statement. As complaints escalated on social media of the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all. ALSO WATCH | On The Record: Why the government is fighting a hospital during pandemicEarlier today, defending the government’s decision, state health minister Satyendar Jain said, “Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals.” The current doubling rate of Covid-19 here is 14 days so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks, said Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain.Jain claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The Congress’ P Chidambaram, who also is a lawyer by training, asked the Delhi CM if legal opinion was sought before making such a decision. Citing his own case, as a person living and working in Delhi, he wanted to know from the CM as to who qualifies to be a Delhi resident. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday.Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.The national capital has nearly 29,000 coronavirus cases, country’s third highest after Maharashtra (85,975) and Tamil Nadu (30,152).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lt-governor-overrules-aap-s-decision-to-reserve-hospitals-for-residents/story-iJgaHfBYDJbxeYpSwgORXM.html
08-06-2020||India||Four militants killed in south Kashmir ‘s Pinjora village||Srinagar: Four militants were killed in a gun battle in south Kashmir ‘s Pinjora village after security forces launched an operation in the area on Monday.This was the second such operation against militants in Shopian district since Sunday. Earlier, police killed five militants at Reban village, around 12 km from the site of Monday’s gun battle.The four militants, believed to be locals affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen, were killed inside a house that was damaged during the clash.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar confirmed nine terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen were killed by security forces in the two gun battles in Shopian since Sunday.“Four militants were killed in today’s (Monday’s) encounter, which took place at Pinjora, and the operation ended in the afternoon,” he said. Kumar described both operations as “clean” and said there was no collateral damage.Though police haven’t identified the militants killed in the two operations, local residents said they belonged to Shopian and Pulwama and some of them had recently joined militancy.Director general of police Dilbag Singh said 22 terrorists, including six commanders, had been killed in nine different operations across Jammu and Kashmir in the past fortnight.He told a media briefing the intensity of operations against militants has gone up in the past two weeks.“Among the dead militants were six top commanders, who were involved in attacks and killings of innocent civilians, police and security forces. They all had a long list of crimes. They also killed an SPO, a young girl named Khushboo, in south Kashmir,” he said.He said of the 22 dead militants, 18 were from Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian districts in south Kashmir. “The killing of 18 terrorist from the area is a big relief for people of that area,” he said.In Jammu region, three terrorists were killed in Rajouri and Poonch while trying to infiltrate into the area. “Another terrorist who infiltrated was killed in Kalakote sector. This shows Pakistan and its agencies are trying to infiltrate terrorists from all sides, from Rajouri, Poonch, Kashmir and the international border,” Singh said.He added an attack involving an improvised explosive device (IED) was foiled while militants were trying to use the bomb on a highway. “Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai, who was affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen and developed this IED, was killed,” he said.Singh said the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed is still trying to make IEDs for attacks.“This year, 88 terrorists have been killed in around 36 operations,” Singh said, adding security forces were “neutralising” terrorists who infiltrated into the region in the hinterland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-militants-killed-in-south-kashmir-s-pinjora-village/story-BYuOsnqJFVLO5NHm5lwarO.html
08-06-2020||India||Assam: Despite relaxation, Kamakhya Temple to remain closed till June 30||Guwahati: All religious places of worship in Assam opened their doors on Monday amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.However, Kamakhya Temple, the oldest and most sacred Hindu shakti peeth located in Guwahati, is still shut.The temple trust authorities have decided to keep it shut in a bid to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak in view of the upcoming Ambubachi Mela, slated to be held between June 22 and 26 this year, as it attracts lakhs of devotees from India and neighbouring countries. The congregation at the Ambubachi Mela would not be held this year, they said. “The shrine was shut on March 20 following the government directives, and it’ll remain off-limits for devotees at least till June 30,” said Kabindra Prasad Sarma, chief priest (junior), Kamakhya Temple.“If the Covid-19 outbreak shows any sign of improvement in Assam, the temple may be opened from July. Else, it’ll continue to remain shut beyond June 30,” he added.Located on Nilachal Hill in Guwahati, Kamakhya Temple is considered the most sacred and oldest of the 51 shakti peeths of Hinduism. It is the centre of the tantrik cult in the country, and on an average, nearly 3,000 devotees visit the temple daily.Ambubachi Mela is the biggest annual religious congregation in the north-east. It is held every year in June, when the revered Goddess Kamakhya is said to have her annual menstrual cycle, and the temple remains closed during those three days.“This year, the mela was to be held from June 22 to June 26. Nearly 25 lakh devotees from across the country and neighbouring Bangladesh and Nepal visited the shrine during Ambubachi Mela last year,” said Sarma.“We’ve decided to keep the temple shut, as the Ambubachi Mela could have led to a massive congregation and a violation of the social distancing norms amid the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-despite-relaxation-kamakhya-temple-to-remain-closed-till-june-30/story-zdSPlnMvMl0Jo7iXI5ktrM.html
08-06-2020||India||Cadets at Indian Military Academy to sport masks, keep distance at passing out parade||In a first, the Gentleman Cadets (GC) will be wearing masks as a precautionary measure while participating in the ceremonial parade during the upcoming Passing Out Parade (POP) event of the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on June 13, IMA officials said on Monday. The development has come days after the IMA administration had informed that as a precautionary measure for the safety of the GCs and IMA staff, the parents of the cadets would not be allowed to attend the POP at the academy. Lt Col Amit Dagar, public relations officer, IMA said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this time the IMA has introduced many changes in the POP as per the Centre’s guidelines. Among that, one is wearing of facemasks by the GCs during the parade. They will also be maintaining more distance than usual from one another during the parade in full adherence to the guidelines.”Lt Col Dagar also informed that there would also be some changes in the Pipping Ceremony following the parade during which the GCs celebrate and get their stars put on their shoulders by their parents as a symbol of becoming an army officer. “This time as their parents and dear ones won’t be able to attend the event; their instructors at the academy along with their wives will be playing the role of their parents and putting the stars on their shoulders. However, they will not be able to celebrate by hugging each other and singing during the Pipping Ceremony due to social distancing,” he said. The IMA official also added, “This time as the parents won’t be able to attend the ceremony, we have requested the media to cover it extensively so that the family members of the GCs could witness their wards passing out as Indian Army officers.”The POP which will be held on June 13, will see a total of 423 GCs passing out from the academy, including 333 from India and 90 from friendly foreign nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadets-at-indian-military-academy-to-sport-masks-keep-distance-at-passing-out-parade/story-l0viLbpKLwdcSdBjWIzHZL.html
08-06-2020||India||History will record Janta Curfew in golden letters, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the way he has led the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic.‘’During the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the government fought along with 130 crore Indians. This is exactly why India is among those countries which have fared better in the fight against coronavirus. On the behest of PM Narendra Modi, 130 crore people stayed indoors and co-operated with his vision to fight the pandemic,” Shah said at the Odisha Jan Samvad virtual rally.“When the history of epidemics is written, the one on janta curfew will be written in golden letters no matter who writes it. I have never seen that kind of response to a public curfew.”He conceded that migrant workers including those from Odisha did face difficulties when returning home but the government ensured that they eventually reached home.“Migrant workers initially faced problems but the government was more concerned about their safety from Covid-19. PM Modi started running Shramik Special trains from May 1 to take migrants home,” he said.The Centre had come under flak for announcing the lockdown with a four-hour notice and then delaying the evacuation of migrant workers. Shah said the PM regularly kept in touch with chief ministers to discuss the strategy against Covid-19. “He discussed measures for the pandemic with chief ministers five times.”Shah said the Centre pumped in Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them tide over the lockdown‘When PM Modi came to power, 7 crore families had no bank accounts. Under the Jan Dhan Yojana, 31 crore bank accounts were opened. During the lockdown, the Modi government sent Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them during these times,” Shah said. In the second such virtual rally after the one for Bihar on Sunday, he also said BJP workers have fed more than 11 crore people during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/history-will-record-janata-curfew-in-golden-letters-says-amit-shah/story-ufmzIj8CWWWN4HXkSNYtBP.html
08-06-2020||India||India-Malaysia ties back on upswing; Kuala Lumpur to buy more rice, sugar||Relations between India and Malaysia are back on the upswing after taking a hit under former premier Mahathir Mohamad, with Kuala Lumpur increasing its purchases of rice and sugar from New Delhi in recent months.India quietly initiated steps to reset the relationship after Mahathir, who irked New Delhi with his repeated criticism of the situation in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), resigned in March, people familiar with developments said on Monday.India’s ambassador to Malaysia, Mridul Kumar, was the first foreign envoy to meet new Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin and foreign minister Hishammuddin Hussein within a week of the formation of the new cabinet in March, and the two sides have worked behind the scenes to put ties back on an even keel.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India is buying 200,000 tonnes of palm oil for the June-July period from Malaysia, the world’s second-biggest producer and exporter of the commodity after Indonesia.Earlier this year, India, the world’s largest buyer of edible oils, had changed its rules to effectively bar imports of refined palm oil from Malaysia, largely because of the position taken by Mahathir.“This is the largest order for palm oil by India in the past few months,” said one of the people cited above.Indian importers will also benefit from Malaysia’s decision of June 5 to fully exempt palm oil from export duty for the rest of this year as part of efforts to help industries hit by the Covid-19 crisis.“This move will benefit India’s refining industries, which had been hit hard by the imposition of this duty earlier in the year. This duty has been a focus of India’s commerce ministry,” the person said.On the other hand, Malaysia has placed an order with India for 100,000 tonnes of rice for May-June, whereas its total import of rice from India last year was around 85,000 tonnes, the people said.MSM Malaysia Holdings, the country’s leading refined sugar producer, bought around 88,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar from India last year, whereas it procured 130,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar worth $50 million for the January-March quarter this year, the people said.Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian government also approved the supply of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol for Malaysia, the people said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Malaysian counterpart Hishammuddin Hussein also spoke in mid-April about the response to the pandemic and efforts to assist citizens stranded in each other’s country.Malaysia is one of India’s key trading partners in Southeast Asia, and bilateral trade was worth $17.25 billion in 2018-19, up from $14.71 billion in 2017-18However, bilateral ties were hit after Mahathir repeatedly criticised CAA and the situation in Kashmir after the Indian government scrapped the region’s special status last August.Despite push back from India, Mahathir continued his criticism and the diplomatic spat led to India imposing curbs on palm oil imports that hit Malaysia for some time.Last December, Mahathir had said people were “dying” because of CAA, prompting India to dismiss his remarks as factually inaccurate. During the UN General Assembly last September, Mahathir said Kashmir had been “invaded and occupied”. At that time, New Delhi had said he was interfering in India’s internal affairs and such statements went against the spirit of long-standing bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-malaysia-ties-back-on-upswing-kuala-lumpur-to-buy-more-rice-sugar/story-NqWfiAhMOl0CjVaeakatKL.html
08-06-2020||India||BJP banks on Amit Shah to give impetus to Bengal campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is banking on Union home minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally in West Bengal on Tuesday to galvanise its cadre and give impetus to the main opposition party’s campaign in the eastern state for the assembly polls slated to be held in May next year.Shah’s rally, which will be digitally broadcast via social media platforms, is expected to serve the twin purpose of highlighting the Centre’s “achievements” and flag the “failures” of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “misrule” amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, said BJP functionaries.“There’s a lot of anger and disappointment among the people in Bengal. People can see the weak response of the state government, whether it was Covid-19 management, or the relief work after the cyclone Amphan. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has failed the public, as compared to the Centre’s timely actions,” said Saumitra Khan, a Member of Parliament (MP) representing Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district, and the newly appointed chief of the BJP’s youth wing.ALSO WATCH | ‘What did you do?’: Amit Shah questions opposition on migrant exodus“The rally will give an opportunity for the Union home minister to explain to the public how the BJP will help West Bengal become self-reliant and how it can overcome the problems created by the TMC government,” he added.Shah’s digitised rally aims to reach out to 50 lakh people in the state and also seeks to send out a message that the former BJP chief will continue to play a decisive role in the next year’s assembly polls, seen as one of the final frontiers for the saffron party to conquer.“Shah was instrumental in shaping the BJP’s campaign in the state ahead of the 2019 general elections and the party won 18 seats of the 42 seats. Now, when a new team is in place and the workers are being targeted by the TMC government to the extent that they’ve not even been allowed to carry out relief work during the pandemic, Shah’s involvement will act as a motivator,” said a party functionary.A second functionary said Shah has focused on the eastern states of West Bengal and Odisha, as he sees potential for the BJP’s growth in the region. On Monday, Shah addressed a virtual rally in Odisha.“Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee has focused more on targeting Shah. She realises that targeting Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi is counterproductive, which explains her attacks have been largely against Shah,” said the second functionary.Earlier in March, the state government had refused to give permission for Shah’s rally in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, citing law and order concerns.Banerjee and Shah have been engaged in a war of words over several issues, including the response to the pandemic and the migrant workers’ plight during the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Banerjee was upset at the Modi government’s decision to send two central teams to Bengal to do a “reality check” on the Covid-19 outbreak and for being kept in the dark about ferrying stranded migrant workers to the state by Shramik Special trains from across the country amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.Kumar Rana, a Bengal-based political commentator, said political parties should focus on handling the crisis of poverty and hunger, which have been exacerbated by the pandemic and cyclone Amphan.“It’s unfortunate that they are focusing on electoral politics instead of dealing with the growing Covid-19 positive cases. Their priority should be to tackle the problems caused by the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-amit-shah-to-give-impetus-to-bengal-campaign/story-PjAUVYlpi409Uvi4E2oJJM.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP and people can’t be distanced due to ‘Do gaz ki doori’, says Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit ShahPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic cannot mean to put a distance between the BJP and its people, underlined home minister Amit Shah at a virtual rally on Monday. Read moreOnce a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last weekMumbai’s civic body officials have said that no coronavirus fatalities have been reported from the slum area of Dharavi in the past week and that it could be close to flattening the Covid-19 curve. Read moreEx-school principal and mother found dead at home, neighbours suspected they had Covid-19Sharmistha Dey (56), a former school principal, and her mother, Papiya Dey (79), were found dead at their home in Salt Lake on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Sunday morning. They were the only occupants of the two-storey house at BE Block. Read moreRupee settles 3 paise higher at 75.55 against US dollarThe rupee settled on a muted note, up 3 paise, at 75.55 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday as dollar-buying by banks as well as importers and rebounding crude prices restricted gains of the local unit. Read more‘I wanted revenge’: Wasim Akram recalls incident when Allan Donald bouncer left him with 20 stitchesFormer Pakistan captain Wasim Akram bowled in an era when international cricket was dominated by a good crop of fast bowlers. The 1990s witnessed a steep rise in the quality of fast bowling as almost all the international teams boasted of pacers, who made their presence felt at the highest level. Read moreGujarat Board 10th Result 2020: GSEB SSC result to be declared on June 9Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSEB) on Monday said that the Gujarat Board 10th (SSC) Result will be declared on June 9 at 8 am. Students who have appeared in the SSC examination can check their results online at gseb.org, after it is declared, by using their roll number. Read moreAnurag Kashyap’s girlfriend Shubhra Shetty reviews Choked, gives it 5/5: ‘Definitely lost objectivity now’Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap’s girlfriend Shubhra, who brought the script of his new movie Choked to his attention, has reviewed the film, giving it a five star rating. Shubhra posted her review on the website Letterboxd, a social media directory for film fans. Read moreFrom lockdown 4.0 to vaccine: What India searched for in MayThe Covid-19 pandemic has locked everyone inside their homes. Amid the circumstances, Google has been releasing Search trends that give us a glimpse into the collective interests of people in India. Now, the company has shared insights into what people in the country searched for in the month of May. Read moreAnand Mahindra asked tweeple to share the first thing that came to their mind upon seeing this picture. Responses are interestingAnand Mahindra is known for sharing some of the most interesting and entertaining posts on his Twitter handle. From funny videos to posts showing innovative inventions, the business tycoon uses his tweets to keep his Twitter followers engaged and one of his recent posts is no different. Read moreHappy 45 Birthday Shilpa Shetty: A look at the actor’s stunning wardrobeTo talk of beauty is to talk of Shilpa Shetty! She is not only a stunning model and a kind-hearted, beautiful soul, but her brilliant talent has immortalized her in the hearts people worldwide. Read moreWatch: ‘If Centre would’ve stopped..’: Satyendar Jain on Delhi’s rising Covid tally||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-and-people-can-t-be-distanced-due-to-do-gaz-ki-doori-says-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-NEP1mivH5PsQUGKLReQBXM.html
08-06-2020||India||Relaxations in place, Covid-19 lockdown extended till June 30 in West Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced extending the coronavirus lockdown, which was due to expire on June 15, had been extended till June 30.“The lockdown is being extended in the state till June 30, with all existing relaxations and conditions still in place. Earlier, we had allowed only 10 people at social programmes such as a marriage or a funeral ceremony, now we have increased it to 25,” Mamata Banerjee told reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet, according to news agency PTI.West Bengal had relaxed lockdown curbs from June 1 along with other parts of the country. In an order later issued on Monday afternoon by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government said the hard lockdown restrictions would apply to containment zones. Elsewhere, the order raised the number of people who can attend marriages, funerals and enter places of worship from the existing limit of 10 to 25.Mizoram government also announced a similar directive after a consultative meeting was chaired by chief minister Zoramthanga on Monday. The state government has decided to impose a 2-week total lockdown starting June 9 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation. Consultative meeting chaired by Chief Minister Zoramthanga decides to extend the period of quarantine which currently is 14 days to 21 days with immediate effect: Mizoram Government https://t.co/FwhW4ZTpzg “Lockdown guidelines will be notified shortly,” a statement from Mizoram government noted. The period of Covid-19 quarantine has also been increased from 14 days to 21 days with immediate effect in the state.  We have decided to extend the lockdown till June 30 in West Bengal: Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/LHl8tFxSmuAlso Watch | Mamata Banerjee announces relaxations in WB, offices, shrines to reopen Last week, Manipur government also to extend the lockdown restrictions in the state till June 30. Chief minister N Biren Singh announced the same at a press conference last Sunday describing the extension of lockdown restrictions as a preventive measure that would help save people’s lives from the viral outbreak.Besides this, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Punjab have also batted for restrictions to remain in place and have extended the lockdown till June 30 with some relaxations. Maharashtra government rolled out guidelines on lockdown relaxations that are to be implemented in three phases under its mission ‘Mission Begin Again’.Tamil Nadu government also announced the extension of lockdown till June 30 coupled with a number of relaxations, barring containment zones. Ban on places of worship and interstate transport will remain prohibited across the state. Coronavirus cases across the country continue to rise unabated with the national tally soaring beyond 256,000. India now stands fifth on the global Covid-19 tally after countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decided-to-extend-the-lockdown-till-june-30-in-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-sP0OgKjNy43TLn6gNiTyAJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Boiler pipe bursts at dyeing factory in Gujarat’s Surat, 6 suffer burn injuries||Six workers suffered burn injuries on Monday after a pipe attached to a boiler burst open and released hot water at a fabric dyeing factory in Palsana in Gujarat’s Surat, officials said.The condition of three of them is serious and they have been kept in the ICU, said an official.“Early Monday morning, we admitted six workers who suffered burn injuries due to a blast in a pipe joined to a boiler. Three of them are serious and have been admitted in the ICU,” Mukesh Rana, medical officer of Sanjeevani Hospital said.Prem Sharma, the manager of Viveklene Industries, where the accident took place, said the workers were sleeping near the pipe and got scalded by hot water when it burst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boiler-pipe-bursts-at-dyeing-factory-in-gujarat-s-surat-6-suffer-burn-injuries/story-DrBPwW3CuCdwzbOh785BdL.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Do gaz ki doori’ cannot become distance between BJP and people: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic cannot mean to put a distance between the BJP and its people, underlined home minister Amit Shah at a virtual rally on Monday. The minister has been conducting a series of virtual rallies to drive home the message of the government.“Do gaz ki doori’ cannot put a distance between BJP and its people,” said Amit Shah at Odisha Jansamvad virtual rally.On Sunday he conducted ‘Bihar Jansamvad’, underscoring it is not a poll rally and adding that this virtual rally for the people of Bihar was to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.The BJP seems to be the first party off the blocks, giving a push to political activities with these rallies. The Congress, on its part, has been conducting various press conferences to seek answers from the government and suggest measures to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Rahul Gandhi, in particular, has been holding online conversations with experts to find a way out of the grave health crisis that has severely hit both the economy and the people. Just last week, the BJP appointed its new state unit chiefs in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Manipur, signalling a restart to political activity.After four phases of nationwide lockdown, it has now been ordered in containment zones till June 30. The Centre, with an “economic focus” in mind, has decided to open up gradually in a three-phase plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-gaz-ki-doori-cannot-become-distance-between-bjp-and-people-amit-shah-on-virtual-rallies/story-v7KlYkgPHdbkY0Xs64gsQJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Delhi HC seeks police response on Tharoor’s plea to keep wife’s Twitter account, tweets||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the Delhi Police’s response on a plea filed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor seeking direction to it to take measures to preserve the Twitter account and tweets made by his wife socialite Sunanda Pushkar before her sudden death in 2014.Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri, who was hearing the petition, issued a notice to the Delhi Police on Tharoor’s application.The plea sought a direction to the investigating officer (IO) in the case to write a letter to social media micro-blogging platform ‘Twitter’ to secure and preserve the inactive Twitter account of Sunanda Pushkar, as her tweets are crucial for the criminal trial.ALSO READ | ‘Never been an opportunist’: Tharoor tweets to end speculation he may join BJPTharoor, is the prime accused in the death case of his wife, and has sought direction to the Delhi police to take steps to preserve the social media account and tweets by asking ‘Twitter India’ to preserve Pushkar’s account till the legal proceedings are over before the trial court.The court, which held the hearing through a video conference, has listed the matter for further hearing on July 15.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa and lawyer Gaurav Gupta represented the Congress MP and argued that perusal of Pushkar’s tweets would reflect her actual frame of mind which is contrary to the case built by the prosecution.The lawyers said that she never had any suicidal tendencies which were reflected in the series of tweets withheld by the Delhi Police from the trial court.Tharoor, in his application, has said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar are of vital importance in the case and there is an apprehension that they might be deleted, denying him a crucial right to exonerate himself from the alleged charges brought against him by the prosecution.ALSO READ | Sunanda Pushkar’s body had 15 blunt force injuries, scuffle marks: PoliceThe former Union minister was accused by the Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.The plea also referred to Twitter’s policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a prolonged period of time.“Further, in certain cases, if some authorized person or close relative of a deceased person contacts Twitter, the account of such a deceased person can be deactivated. In such cases of deletion of account or deactivation of account, the tweets and contents of the Twitter timeline are lost forever,” the plea said.The Delhi Police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony due to a strained relationship with her husband. She had allegedly had a scuffle with her husband and had various injury marks a few days before her death, it had said. The maximum punishment for the offence listed in the chargesheet is 10 years of imprisonment. However, if convicted for 302 (murder), the maximum punishment is death penalty while the minimum is life imprisonment.Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a suite of luxury hotel Leela Palace in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying at the hotel at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-seeks-police-response-on-tharoor-s-plea-to-keep-wife-s-twitter-account-tweets/story-AqBssARCWJ7PfUeNlwv2zJ.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Delhi’s status on Covid-19 community spread to be discussed tomorrow’: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the administration will hold a meeting on Tuesday to discuss if Delhi has reached the state of community transmission of Covid-19.The minister took to Twitter and said that in view of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s ill-health, he will be presiding over the meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority tomorrow.  Also read: Once a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last weekकल दिल्ली आपदा प्रबंधन अथोरिटी की बैठक अपने निर्धारित शेडयूल के अनुसार होगी. मुख्यमंत्री की तबियत ठीक न होने के कारण उन्होंने मुझे इस बैठक के लिए अधिकृत किया है. कल की बैठक में चर्चा होनी है कि क्या दिल्ली में कोरोना community spread की स्थिति में पहुँच गया है ...“The chief minister has authorized me for this meeting as he is not feeling well. It is to be discussed in tomorrow’s meeting whether Corona has reached the status of community spread in Delhi,” Sisodia posted.WATCH | Covid: Delhi in community infection stage? Top committee to decideSisodia said that the number of coronavirus cases are increasing by the day and that is why the meeting is being called tomorrow. The minister said that the most important feature of the meeting will be the discussion on the status of coronavirus transmission in Delhi. “Tomorrow’s meeting will see the presence of experts wherein it will be determined if Delhi has reached the state of community spread concerning Covid-19 and what would be the strategy ahead,” he said. This comes on a day when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was reported ill with fever and cough. Kejriwal is set to take a test for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He had consulted a doctor over the phone and plans to get himself tested tomorrow if symptoms don’t subside,” a party spokesperson said on Monday. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital jumped to 28,936 on Monday. As per the data by the Ministry of Health, Delhi had witnessed 812 fatalities whereas 10,999 patients have recovered from the deadly infection here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-if-delhi-is-witnessing-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-meeting-tomorrow-manish-sisodia/story-YLTK5P7YnLPtmBIlBAT8EM.html
08-06-2020||India||Congress tells PM Modi to double days of employment under MNREGA to 200||The Congress on Monday asked the Centre to scale up MNREGA and expand the number of days of work under the scheme to 200 from the current guaranteed 100 days of employment for rural workers for the next six months to a year to offset the devastating economic effect of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Please consider expanding employment under MNREGA to 200 days. The Bihar government has also demanded such a thing. Those employed may be paid in advance for 10 days which can then be adjusted with the payment for the rest of the days,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said at a video press conference. “We demand MNREGA in its content, reach, boundaries be scaled up as it has proved to be the closest glove that fits the hand of Covid distress. PM should forget his words have come back to haunt him, that Covid marks clear negation of whatever the PM and the BJP said about MNREGA,” He also suggested that employment be provided to people within four to five kilometers of their houses.Singhvi also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to take the remarks in an adversarial spirit“Please consider how much good you can do to the nation through this scheme. Don’t take our remarks in an adversarial spirit. In May 2020, 2.19 crore households benefited from this scheme, the highest for May in eight years,” he said.The Congress spokesperson also said that there is a need to ensure that states that are grossly lagging need to push MNREGA and cited examples of Haryana and Gujarat.He warned that the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic will last many months and alleged that numbers of employment under MNREGA are fudged.“Innovation of MGNREGA was that the statutory right to get work on demand was created i.e. work for up to 100 days couldn’t be denied upon demand. Sadly people are fudging figures. 50-75 days is being passed off as 100. This is deplorable, the government should punish all culprits,” he said.Singhvi claimed that it was the Congress’ pressure under which the government increased the allocation for MNREGA but pointed out that Rs 16,000 crore out of an allocation of Rs one lakh was arrears for unpaid wages and that the actual increase in allocation was Rs 24,000 crore.“It is because of the Congress’ sustained pressure that compelled this Government to increase the allocation by Rs 40,000 crores but Rs 16,000 crore out of Rs 1 lakh total allocation is arrears for unpaid dues,” he said.He also suggested freeing MNREGA from budgetary limits and ensure that gram panchayats are given primacy in implementing the employment scheme at the ground level“At least, for the duration and aftermath of the Covid distress, it is imperative to free MGNREGA from the fetters of budgetary limits. It is important that gram panchayats are given privacy in selecting, implementing, segregating at the ground level,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-tells-pm-modi-to-double-days-of-employment-under-mnrega-to-200/story-TXDvIMx7Jon9gbYXjZGUwJ.html
08-06-2020||India||New planes to fly PM Modi, President to have self-protection suites||Two custom-made B777 aircraft, which will be used to fly Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top Indian dignitaries, are likely to be delivered by Boeing to Air India by September, senior officials said on Monday.In October last year, government officials had said that the delivery of these two planes, which are earmarked for VVIP travel only, would be done by July.“There has been some delay, primarily because of Covid-19. The two planes are likely to be delivered by September,” the officials said on Monday.The two B777 aircraft will be operated by pilots of the Indian Air Force and not of Air India.However, the new wide-body planes will be maintained by the Air India Engineering Services Limited (AIESL), which is a subsidiary of the Indian national carrier, the officials said.Currently, the Prime Minister, the president and the vice president fly on Air India’s B747 planes, which have the call sign ‘Air India One’.Air India pilots fly these B747 aircraft for the dignitaries and the AIESL maintains them.When these B747 aircraft are not flying the dignitaries, they are used by the Indian national carrier for commercial operations. The new planes will be used for travel of the dignitaries only. These two aircraft were part of Air India’s commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting them for VVIP travel.The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).In February, the US agreed to sell the two defence systems to India at a cost of USD 190 million.The Centre has already initiated the process of divestment of its stake in Air India, which has a debt of over Rs 60,000 crore. However, the process has been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.“We would not like to make any comment on these issues pertaining to the (aviation) ministry and the government of India,” an Air India spokesperson said in response to queries sent by PTI.Boeing has not responded to queries on this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-planes-to-fly-pm-modi-president-to-have-self-protection-suites-report/story-lkphkMXi7TVNs5LktSJeBJ.html
08-06-2020||India||SC seeks response from Centre, J&K in plea on detention of J&K leader Saifuddin Soz||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Central government and the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir to a petition challenging the detention of Congress leader and former union minister Saifuddin Soz.The habeas corpus petition filed by Soz’s wife, Mumtazunnisa Soz, was heard by a bench of justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee, which declined a request by Soz’s counsel, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, for an early hearing of the case. The bench posted the matter to be taken up in the second week of July.The term habeas corpus literally translates as “produce the body”, and is a plea seeking a directive to the government to produce a detainee in court and to release her or him if the detention is found to be illegal.Soz, an octogenarian, is a former member of Parliament who represented Baramulla constituency in 1983. Since then, he has been re-elected to Parliament numerous times and served as Union minister for environment and forests during 1997-99, and as Union minister for water resources during 2006-2009. He has also been president of the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress committee.Soz has been detained since August 5, 2019, when the Central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution that conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories. Numerous mainstream and separatist leaders were detained and the Kashmir Valley was placed in a state of lockdown.Similar petitions were filed in the Supreme Court in February, challenging the detention of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, both former chief ministers.While Mufti’s detention was challenged by her daughter Iltija Mufti, Abdullah’s detention was challenged by his sister Sara Abdullah Pilot.The plea by Mumtazusinna said Soz had emerged from his house on August 5 last year with the intention to visit an ailing neighbour. The guards of his property informed him that he could not go out as he had been placed under house arrest.“The guards further informed him that in the intervening night, the concerned Station House Officer had visited the premises and had passed on the instructions for keeping the detenu (Soz) under house arrest, purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978,” the petition said.It was alleged Soz had not been provided a copy of his detention order. He asked authorities and the guards at his residence to provide the order but to no avail.“The Jammu and Kashmir Police, refusing the request, intimated the detenu that written orders have been received by the concerned officers for implementation of the order, but a copy cannot be provided to the detenu,” the petition said.It said the non-supply of material which is the basis of detention makes the order unconstitutional and liable to be quashed.“Since August 5, the detenu has been wrongfully detained and kept in house arrest for an indefinite period, grounds of which have neither been communicated to him, nor has a copy of the impugned detention order been furnished to him despite several requests over the course of ten months, which is in violation of the exercise of his fundamental rights,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-j-k-in-plea-on-detention-of-j-k-leader-saifuddin-soz/story-LBYCm0m2SHNtM5DagmGQ7L.html
08-06-2020||India||Once a Covid-19 hotspot, Mumbai’s Dharavi reports no deaths in last week||Mumbai’s civic body officials have said that no coronavirus fatalities have been reported from the slum area of Dharavi in the past week and that it could be close to flattening the Covid-19 curve.Nearly 1,900 coronavirus cases have been reported from Dharavi so far of which 939 have recovered, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said on Sunday.“Dharavi has not reported a single death in the last six days, which is the first major indicator that we are on the right track. The number of people getting discharged is also increasing,” BMC Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G North Ward, Kiran Dighavkar said. Also read: Traffic snarls reported across the city as offices in MMR open partially“A total of 34 people had tested positive for coronavirus on June 1 which has now come down to 10,” Dighavkar said.The official said that aggressive testing and the setting up of fever clinics helped in tackling the Covid-19 challenge in the area which is among the most densely populated in the country.“With the help of fever clinics, we could identify the people showing symptoms similar to that of coronavirus infection. We isolated them immediately which helped in either containing further transmission of the virus or spreading any kind of infection from those who are feeling unwell,” he said.Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patientsMumbai is one of the top Covid-19 hotspots in the country. The city has reported over 48,000 Covid-19 cases till date while over 1,600 people have succumbed to death. Maharashtra continues to lead the Covid-19 tally in the country with 85,975 coronavirus cases - more than China’s total. More than 3,000 people died in the state till date. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-covid-19-hotspot-mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-no-deaths-in-last-week/story-G0QGuXIJvesO157IAYZdPI.html
08-06-2020||India||Only poor and middle-class will continue to pay, Chidambaram’s take on fuel price hike||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday criticised the government after it increased the prices of automobile fuels twice in two days.State-run oil companies raised the prices of petrol and diesel by 60 paise per litre for the second consecutive day on Monday. They had hiked fuel prices by the same amount on Sunday as well.“Fuel selling prices raised twice in two days, following tax hikes two weeks ago. This time to benefit oil companies,” Chidambaram tweeted.“Government is poor, it needs more taxes. Oil companies are poor, they need better prices. Only the poor and middle class are not poor, so they will pay,” the former Union finance minister said.Monday’s hike came after oil marketing companies resumed the dynamic pricing system for daily revision of fuel prices after a gap of more than 80 days.Prices of transportation fuel were last revised under the dynamic pricing policy on March 16 and there were few instances of price hike only when the respective state governments hiked value-added tax (VAT) or cess.Several state governments had raised taxes imposed on transportation fuels to increase revenues during the nationwide lockdown.The Centre had raised the excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 and on diesel by Rs 13 per litre on May 6 to recompense for revenue loss due to Covid-19 lockdown but it did not affect the retail sale price of the fuels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-poor-and-middle-class-will-continue-to-pay-chidambaram-s-take-on-fuel-price-hike/story-548sArgSiWyqJNH96PnkLP.html
08-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police detains two policemen for alleged involvement in supplying ammunition to Maoists||Chhattisgarh police detained an assistant sub-inspector and a head constable in Sukma district on Monday for alleged involvement in supplying ammunition to Maoist rebels in Bastar region. Senior police officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were looking into the possible involvement of some more policemen in the matter as part of an ongoing investigation.People familiar with developments said the two detained policemen were allegedly involved in supplying ammunition to the rebels with the help of middlemen. “They were doing some forgery in the record-keeping of the stock of cartridges and then supplying them to the Maoists,” said a senior police officer.Director general of police DM Awasthi confirmed that two people had been detained.“We were following this gang for a long time and some more people are on the scanner. Interrogation of the two policemen is going on in Sukma district,” Awasthi said.Police in Sukma had earlier arrested four people who were involved in this racket and more arrests will follow, he said.On June 4, two people were arrested in Sukma, and two more were arrested in Kanker on Sunday. Police recovered ammunition for SLRs, INSAS rifles, AK-47 assault rifles and 303 rifles from them. “We were following the gang for the last 45 days. We got information on June 4 that two middlemen - Manoj Sharma and Shankar – had been arrested and told us that two persons from Kanker district, Atmaram Nerti and Genesh Kunjam, were supplying the ammunition. We arrested them in Kanker on Sunday,” said a police officer from Sukma who declined to be named.The people cited above said the alleged middlemen had supplied ammunition, police uniforms and caps to the Maoists in the past too.“The secretary of the Pratapur Area Committee of CPI-Maoist group in Kanker district, Darshan Padda, was directly in contact with Nerti and Kunjam and they used middlemen to send the ammunition to the Maoists in the jungles. The price for one bullet was Rs300 to Rs500 and they would get a commission on each consignment ,” said an official.When police accessed the call records of the mobile phones Nerti and Kunja, they uncovered their alleged links with the assistant sub-inspector and the constable and began questioning them on Monday, the official said.“We are working on this nexus and we are expecting something big will come out. We working on many angles,” said Sukma’s superintendent of police Shalabh Sinha.In Bastar, police are lenient in maintaining records of bullets used by police personnel because it is very difficult to bring back spent cartridges from jungles after gun battles.“During the anti-Naxal drive, the police personnel are not told to bring back cartridges after firing and this sometimes helps them to hide some bullets. Earlier also, there were complaints that policemen were supplying bullets due to which we had made the rules strict. Now, after every anti-Naxal operation, each and every policeman is thoroughly checked after they reach their camps. But this is a different case, the person involved was the stockkeeper of cartridges,” said an IPS officer posted in a Maoist-affected district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-detains-two-policemen-for-alleged-involvement-in-supplying-ammunition-to-maoists/story-pWLuqtzcymAq69cixcYDvL.html
08-06-2020||India||Once a coronavirus hotspot, Covid-19 recovery rate in Indore now at healthy 64%||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the Covid-19 recovery rate has climbed to an encouraging 64% in Indore, which was earlier identified as a coronavirus hotspot with a high concentration of positive cases.“The recovery rate in Indore is over 64% now. Positive cases are being reported but more and more people are recovering. With the cooperation of the people, the situation in Indore is now under control,” Chouhan said on Monday.The Madhya Pradesh chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the city and also held a meeting at the Indore District Collector’s office on Monday.On reaching Indore, the MP chief minister underwent a thorough health checkup at the airport. ALSO READ | Nearly half of Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 cases in IndoreMadhya Pradesh has so far reported a total of 9,401 Covid-19 positive cases while the total number of active cases in the state stands at 2,658.The Madhya Pradesh government on Sunday had announced that shrines in Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in the state, will not open their doors for devotees today.The famous Mahakal Temple, however, and four other shrines in Ujjain city, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state, will see entry of devotees on Monday in a staggered manner, after closure of these shrines for more than two months now, according to the district administration.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on June 1 announced opening of the shrines across the state from June 8. However, he had made it clear earlier, that the decisions on commercial activities and other establishments will be taken by district crisis management groups in every district after reviewing the Covid-19 situation over there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-coronavirus-hotspot-covid-19-recovery-rate-in-indore-now-at-healthy-64/story-aBSED72uA4xZKlQLoOgc6L.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Inhuman, not acceptable’: Chhattisgarh CM reacts to viral clip showing police official thrashing people||Videos showing a police officer thrashing people for reportedly violating containment zone guidelines in Birgaon area of Raipur, Chhattisgarh has gone viral on social media. Senior officials have ordered an enquiry and sent the officer on leave. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took note of the incident and described it as “inhuman”.In one of the purported clips, Urla Station House Officer (SHO) Nitin Upadhyay is seen without his uniform, thrashing people with a stick. The video, which was shot by the locals, was widely shared on social media by journalists and activists of the state.Chief minister Baghel tweeted on the incident and wrote, “This is inhuman and not acceptable. Departmental enquiry has been constituted and he (the SHO) has been sent on leave.” Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Arif Sheikh said that he has initiated a departmental enquiry into the incident. Also read: 80-year-old MP man found tied to hospital bed over alleged non-payment of billThis is inhuman and not acceptable.Departmental enquiry has been constituted and he has been sent on leave. https://t.co/jLXxxCkApu“A departmental enquiry has been ordered against the concerned officer. Besides, a separate enquiry into the incident headed by Raipur Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) has also been ordered,” the SSP told media.The senior police official said that a suspected Covid-19 patient died in Birgaon area on Sunday, which is already a containment zone, after which six to seven fresh coronavirus cases were reported from the area.“In view of the death, the officials had requested people in the area to stay indoors. Despite repeated requests, when people did not adhere to the containment guidelines, the officer went there to disperse the crowd and stop the movement,” he added.“Excesses committed by him are not acceptable and suitable action will be taken in this regard after the probe,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inhuman-not-acceptable-chhattisgarh-cm-reacts-to-viral-clip-showing-police-official-thrashing-people-in-raipur/story-0thuAaHvjZMbyBP9sXYmQO.html
08-06-2020||India||BJP drops names given by Karnataka CM for Rajya Sabha polls, stuns state unit||Placing its bets on two relatively unknown Karnataka leaders - Eranna Bhimappa Kadadi and Ashok Jasti - as its candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha election on June 19, the BJP central leadership has pulled a surprise, both on the opposition and within its party.After hectic lobbying, the state unit, which had met under the leadership of CM BS Yediyurappa and Karnataka BJP unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, had recommended the names of Ramesh Katti, Prakash Shetty and Prabhakar Kore. None of the names were considered by the party high command.Even Karnataka BJP spokesperson S Prakash admitted to being surprised at the names chosen by the central leadership, but defended the move as ‘rewarding grassroot workers.’“Yes, it is a surprise but both of them are grassroot workers and it only goes to show that the BJP is the only party that identifies and rewards those who have worked at the ground level,” S Prakash told HT.Also Watch | Gujarat Congress shifts 19 MLAs to Rajasthan resort ahead of Rajya Sabha polls Eranna Kadadi is a former president of the Belgaum rural unit of the party, while Ashok Jasti is a party leader who hails from Raichur district. “Ashok Jasti belongs to Savitha Samaja and thus a ticket to him is recognition to the backward classes in the state,” Prakash added.However, a senior cabinet minister in the Yediyurappa ministry, who did not wish to be identified, sounded shocked at the choice of candidates.“I honestly don’t know the reason why the recommendations of the local unit were not considered. I myself barely remember Eranna though the other (candidate) I have never met in spite of having been in the party for this long,” the party leader told HT.The Congress on Friday nominated former Union minister and senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge, also a prominent Dalit face of the party, as its candidate for the June 19 polls.Kharge, a former leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, had lost the 2019 general election from his Gulbarga parliamentary seat.Adding to the mix, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda has decided to throw his hat in the ring and contest the polls, the party announced on Monday.The announcement comes as a surprise as in January Gowda had said that he is not interested in going to the Rajya Sabha. The JD(S) leader had said that he will “work towards strengthening the party”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-drops-names-given-by-karnataka-cm-for-rajya-sabha-polls-stuns-state-unit/story-gs2MpSLH1E7f8KWemkzMJK.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Differences should not become disputes’: China says consensus at military talks on border standoff||China on Monday said the militaries of the two countries had reached a consensus during the weekend talks not to allow differences to escalate into disputes.In brief comments on the meeting between senior military officers on Saturday to resolve the standoff in Ladakh, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday that the two sides had agreed to implement the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping not to allow differences to become disputes.Modi and Xi have reiterated several times including during their second informal summit in Chennai last October that New Delhi and Beijing should not allow differences to escalate into disputes; differences can be managed, they reiterated.Also Watch | India-China tension: What happened at border meeting of top army officers Also read: Chinese army carries out large-scale drill to check preparedness at border with IndiaIn the first meeting of senior military officers since Indian and Chinese border troops got locked in a standoff along the LAC in Ladakh, a delegation led Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, held talks with a Chinese delegation led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday.“On the afternoon of June 6, a meeting was held between the commanders of China and India in the Chusul-Moldo region. The two sides held consultations,” foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying said at regular ministry briefing on Monday.“Recently through diplomatic and military channels, the two sides have maintained close communication on the situation along the border,” she said.“One consensus (of the talks) is that the two sides need to implement the two leaders’ consensus and make sure that the differences do not escalate into disputes. And, the two sides will work to maintain peace and tranquility along the border and create a good atmosphere,” she said.“So, the situation overall is stable and controllable and the two sides are ready to engage in consultation to properly solve the relevant issues,” Hua added.Also read: India, China will continue talks on border stand-offThe Chinese foreign ministry’s statement echoed the Indian one – at least in tone if not in length -- issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday.“The two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the Indian statement said.That Hua said that the “two sides are ready to engage in consultation…” is seen as an indicator that more dialogue was needed to resolve the current friction.On Friday, joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry had held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference to review bilateral relations, including “current developments”.This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-differences-with-india-to-not-escalate-into-disputes-will-maintain-peace/story-LlcXqNDfztkbiMu2cCAgsN.html
08-06-2020||India||Yes Bank case: ED raids five premises of Cox and Kings in Mumbai||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday raided at least five premises linked to global tour and travel company Cox and Kings in Mumbai in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering probe.Cox and Kings is one of the top borrowers of the bank, with an exposure of about Rs 2,267 crore. It is the second borrower to be searched by the agency after DHFL.A senior ED officer confirmed the development and said searches being underway. The agency had summoned Peter Kerkar, promoter of Cox and Kings, in March.ED, in a recently filed charge-sheet, had quoted former Yes Bank CEO Ravneet Gill as saying that he analysed the asset portfolio of the bank and found it had assumed very large exposures (relative to its net worth) to many entities that were facing significant stress and liquidity.It also said that for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, the bank disclosed a credit watch list with names of clients vulnerable to short-term slippages. The notable cases where large non-performing assets arose included ADAG group, Dewan Housing Finance, Essel Group, Cox and Kings, Omkar Group, Radius Developer, Sahana Developers and Avanta group.The agency recently filed a charge-sheet in connection with the Yes Bank fraud against the bank’s former chief operating officer and managing director, Rana Kapoor, his Bindu, and daughters Rakhee, Roshni and Radha in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mumbai.ED officials said the charge-sheet also named entities allegedly associated with them – Morgan Credits, RAB Enterprises (India) Private Limited and Yes Capital India Private Limited.The agency, which probes financial crimes, conducted searches under provisions of PMLA last Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-case-ed-raids-five-premises-of-cox-and-kings-in-mumbai/story-Bi7208vYhjndCpObP5zkuM.html
08-06-2020||India||First Covid-19 case reported in Election Commission, staffer’s room sealed for sanitation||An assistant section officer in the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) division of the Election Commission has tested positive for Covid-19, EC officials told Hindustan Times.This is the first case of coronavirus in the Election Commission. The official’s room on the second floor has been sealed for sanitisation, said a source in the EC. “The rest of the office will continue to function as usual,” the source said. “As per norms laid by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the office will be sanitised and those who came into contact with the person will be home quarantined and tested,” the official said. Election Commission officials have been working from the office, even during the lockdown, as per requirement. Most officials have attending office two to three days a week. The source mentioned above said that the officials have been reporting to work daily since last week. Also read: Arvind Kejriwal goes into self-quarantine, may undergo Covid-19 test tomorrowThe Commission held its first in-person meeting last week, after which the dates for the Rajya Sabha polls were announced. This was the first in-person meeting of the Commission with chief Sunil Arora in attendance who was in the US when the lockdown was imposed and subsequently under home quarantine. “There are sanitisers installed everywhere and all officials wear masks to office,” said a second EC official. “The rooms are also being sanitised daily, we are taking adequate precautions for our safety.”The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 256,611 on Monday. The national capital has reported 28,936 cases as per the data by the Ministry of Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-covid-19-case-reported-in-election-commission-staffer-s-room-sealed-for-sanitation/story-uSFwzRs4BAcUofAl0PxU0K.html
08-06-2020||India||Sikar inmate gives birth to baby boy in jail||A woman from Rajasthan’s Sikar district, who had allegedly axed her husband to death after he molested her minor sister, delivered a baby at the district jail on Sunday morning, officials said. They added that it was an emotional moment for the entire jail staff as it was the first time when they had heard any good news in the jail.Sourabh Swami, deputy jailor at Shivsinghpura district jail, said that for the first time in the history of the jail, which is functional since August 1992, an inmate has delivered a baby inside its premises.  Also read: Teenager commits suicide in Rajasthan’s Kota after playing Pubg game“The lady was admitted to the jail on Friday. She remained very silent and was not speaking to anybody but around 2.30 am on Sunday, she suffered from labour pain after which the staff immediately called the jail doctors and an ambulance. As she was been taken to the hospital, the inmate told the doctors to carry out her delivery inside the jail only,” Swami added.He further said that the doctors and the jail staff agreed and the delivery was carried inside the jail premises. The undertrial inmate gave birth to a baby boy after which both were admitted to a government hospital. Both mother and child are healthy. The weight of the baby is around three kilograms.The undertrial inmate was arrested on June 3. The woman had told the police that she had called her 15-year-old minor sister to take care of her as the delivery date was nearing. On June 1, her 30-year-old husband, who works as a daily wage labourer, molested her sister. When she intervened, her husband, who is an alcoholic, started beating her, she said. On June, at around 3.30 am, when the husband was sleeping, she attacked him multiple times with an axe which led to his death. She allegedly dug a pit behind her house and buried the body. In the morning, the woman reached the local police station and confessed to the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikar-inmate-gives-birth-to-baby-boy-in-jail/story-Km23pO4Ssl3gt6lxpnRPCO.html
08-06-2020||India||Thermal screening, social distancing as devotees back in places of worship||Devotees and faithfuls were back in places of worship as temples, gurdwaras, mosques and churches reopened in most states following Unlock 1 guidelines on Monday amid an uptick in coronavirus cases. Presenting numbers, the Union health ministry said there have been 9,983 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 206 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning. This is the fifth day in a row that the country has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day. The opening of places of worship is the first of the three-phase plan for reopening of prohibited activities in non-containment zones with a stringent set of Standard Operating Procedures(SOPs) which will be in place till June 30.The new phase is especially challenging for the five worst affected states, accounting for nearly 70 per cent of the total coronavirus cases, and nearly 78 per cent of the death. Maharashtra(85,975 cases), Tamil Nadu(30,152), Delhi(28,936), Gujarat (20,097) and Rajasthan (10,599) were the five worst-hit states. Here’s a look at the devotees:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thermal-screening-social-distancing-as-devotees-back-in-places-of-worship/story-GZ9ZfDQAEuRSLIVplsZtjJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Mumbai rush-hour traffic increases, concerns arise over social distancing||Mumbai: Mumbaikars took to the streets on Monday morning in large numbers amid the Maharashtra government’s third phase of Mission Begin Again campaign.The state government has undertaken a staggered plan from Monday onwards to unlock Maharashtra and has allowed private offices to operate with 10% of strength or 10 employees, whichever is more, and the rest of the staff to work from home. The offices in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reopened after almost three months, as they were shut because of the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since mid-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.On Monday morning, office-going Mumbaikars could be seen trying to catch a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus that resumed operations or a private taxi to their respective workplaces.Long queues of office-goers could be seen at BEST bus stops amid concerns over the violation of social distancing norms, as Mumbai is bracing for 50,000 Covid-19 positive cases.Mumbai Police’s traffic control room recorded moderate or dense traffic flow in many parts of the country’s financial hub.The major arterial roads of Babasaheb Ambedkar Road in south and central Mumbai, LBS Road in the eastern suburbs, SV Road in the western suburbs, and freeways such as the Western Express Highway and the Eastern Expressway reported dense traffic. Toll plazas, which are the entry points into Mumbai such as in Navi Mumbai, Mulund, and Panvel, also reported heavy traffic.The BEST authorities operated 2,132 buses on 81 routes on Monday morning. Passengers and BEST conductors have been asked to adhere to social distancing norms and 30 people are allowed to board a bus at one time, including 25 sitting and five standing.However, a few passengers complained about BEST bus services that were either cancelled or delayed. “I work as a security guard and Monday was my first day to work since the lockdown. I waited for 40 minutes to board a bus from Ghatkopar to Mulund. The buses were delayed. There was no space in most of the buses,” said Akhlakh Khan, a Ghatkopar resident.Though shops in Mumbai, except those in the containment zones, opened last Friday, shopkeepers are expecting better business activities from Monday.Viren Shah, president, Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, said, “Many shops were either closed or were not working at full capacity last Friday, as a majority of staff couldn’t get to work due to lack of public transport facilities. We’ll have a better picture by this afternoon about how businesses are shaping up.”Many essential workers and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) employees, who live in satellite towns in and around Mumbai such as Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai, and Dombivali, used public transport on Monday morning to report to work instead of the special transport facilities that were being provided to them during the lockdown restrictions.Suburban trains, Mumbai’s lifeline, are yet to resume their operations due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rush-hour-traffic-increases-concerns-arise-over-social-distancing/story-tgDO9Hm4KARnmdWmzIxBhL.html
08-06-2020||India||22 terrorists, including 6 top commanders, killed in last two weeks, says J-K DGP||At least 22 terrorists, including 6 top commanders, were killed in last two weeks in nine different operations, Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Monday.He said that nine Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) terrorists were killed in the last two days in Shopian. Four terrorists were killed in the encounter which broke out on Monday morning. Addressing a press conference here, Singh said: “In last two weeks, security forces in Jammu and Kashmir are carrying out an operation against terrorists. In the last two days, nine Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists have been killed. Among them were three top commanders against whom several cases were registered including the killing of innocent civilians, attacks on police and security forces.”“In Awantipora, an alert police team arrested those who were readying new boys to join militancy. Three youngsters were rescued from the clutches of militants and have been handed over to their families. In the last two weeks, nine big operations were conducted in which 22 terrorists including 6 top commanders were killed,” he added. Singh said that three terrorists who were trying to infiltrate were killed in Nowshera sector in Jammu. “Another terrorist who infiltrated was killed in Kalakote sector. This shows that Pakistan and its agencies are trying to infiltrate terrorists from all sides,” he said. “An IED attack was averted on May 28. Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists along HM terrorists were trying to harm security forces. They tried to take IED to their target locations but alert forces foiled their attempt. 150 kilogram IED which was recovered on May 28 can cause harm like Pulwama. Abdul Rehman alias Fauji Bhai who was affiliated with HM and developed this IED was also killed,” the DGP added. The senior police officer said that 88 terrorists have been killed this year in around 36 operations.“This year, 88 terrorists have been neutralised in around 36 operations. 40 terrorist associates were arrested and 240 Over Ground Workers (OGW). Some of them have also been booked, including some in PSA,” he said. “Our border grid has to stay alert. We have reports that JeM terrorists who are commanded by Pak agencies are developing IED. We have alerted all our forces. It is the first time that launching pads maintained by Pakistan were active during winter. They did not wind up. The first terrorist group infiltrated in Keran sector on March 31. They tried to infiltrate but alert security forces killed them,” he said. Responding to a question on the number of terrorists at launchpads along the Line of Control (LoC), Singh said: “There is an assessment that the number could be around 150-250 for Kashmir region and 125-150 for Jammu region.”Singh said that a very significant low number of terrorists have joined terrorist ranks this year and most of them have already been neutralised.“2018-19 was very successful years as counter-terrorism operations are concerned. Their numbers have fallen considerably. They are trying to prepare more local youths... People appreciated our role post abrogation of Article 370. We have not allowed anybody to put under harassment that was also appreciated by people at large. A very significant low number of terrorists have joined terrorist ranks this year. A large number of them have been neutralised already,” he said.Singh said that Pakistani terrorists are infiltrating into Jammu and Kashmir under the banner of Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM.“There is no such report of Taliban’s hand in the Valley. As of now, Pakistani terrorists are infiltrating to Jammu and Kashmir under the banner of Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM. They also named an organisation called TRF which we call Terrorist Revival Front. Most of the people joining TRF are from Lashkar-e-Toiba and JeM. Pakistan Army is involved in a big away apart from the ISI. All launching pads are manned by Pakistani Army,” the DGP said.“I will say that Chenab Valley will be free from militancy soon. There is no militant in Ramban, one in Doda and three in Kishtwar. Weapons with them are in low numbers that’s why they have pistols and grenades. They attempted to drop ammunition through drones but there have been no reports of a successful drop,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-terrorists-including-6-top-commanders-killed-in-last-two-weeks-says-j-k-dgp/story-JG3KRz5oXw6b1wuKUKRB5N.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in DelhiAn official at the Election Commission of India (ECI) has tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, news agency ANI reported on Monday. This comes amid reports of government officials testing positive for coronavirus across the nation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more9 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian district in 24 hours, say policeNine terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen have been killed by security forces in two operations since Sunday morning in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, a senior police official said on Monday. Read moreIt’s your time now: Beyonce pays tribute to Black Lives Matter, calls out sexism and racism is powerful graduation speechBeyoncé Knowles-Carter is not only an iconic black musician whose powerful ballads have resonated with people all around the world, but is also a huge inspiration for the Black community and her recent powerful statement on sexism, the Black Lives Matter movement and being ‘othered’, asking people to stand up and be seen during YouTube’s “Dear Class of 2020” virtual graduation on Saturday has won people over all around the world. Read moreWill stump microphones make all the noise in the absence of crowds?Mumbai Call it the candid microphone. On YouTube, some of the most watched cricket videos are the pirated ones, where voice scores over visuals. Read moreApple granted patent for creating synthetic group selfies, here’s how it will workLooks like post-pandemic world will not just change the way we interact with others in real life but will also bring a massive change when it comes to taking selfies. And Apple seems to be at the forefront of all this. Read moreMaharashtra’s covid cases go past China’s total tally, over 7 million cases worldwideHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, relaxation of norms for import of certain drugs, acute water crisis in Bundelkhand, resumption of party with social distancing rules in Dutch nightclub. Read morePenguin teaser: A helpless Keerthy Suresh is searching for her missing sonThe teaser of Keerthy Suresh’s forthcoming Tamil thriller, Penguin, was unveiled on Monday. Going by the visuals, the film follows the story of a mother in search for her missing son with a serial killer on the prowl. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-election-commission-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0lzVKYtcLiLTMDpu2CYlKN.html
08-06-2020||India||Kerala elephant may have accidentally eaten cracker-filled fruit: Environment ministry||The pregnant elephant, who died in Kerala’s Palakkad last month triggering widespread outrage, may have accidentally eaten a cracker-stuffed fruit, the Union ministry of environment has said.The 15-year-old elephant died after chewing on a pineapple stuffed with crackers, according to initial reports, but later an autopsy conducted on her found it was a coconut, and the injuries she suffered were at least two weeks old.“Primary investigations revealed, the elephant may have accidentally consumed in such fruit. Ministry is in constant touch with Kerala Govt & has sent them detailed advisory for immediate arrest of culprits & stringent action against any erring official that led to elephant’s death,” the ministry has said.Also Watch | Kerala: Two arrested in connection with pregnant elephant’s death in Palakkad It also noted locals illegally plant explosive-filled fruits to repel wild boars from entering plantation farms. The ministry has also said, in a series of tweets, one person has been arrested in connection with the elephant’s death.“As of now, one person has been arrested & efforts are on to nab more individuals who may have participated in this illegal & utterly inhuman act. The @WCCBHQ has also been directed to act on this matter with utmost sense of urgency,” the ministry posted.The minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo has requested people not to believe “rumours and fake news” being circulated on social media, it said. The Kerala government and all departments of the ministry are handling the matter in an unbiased manner, it added.“We are confident of concluding the investigation sooner than later, to be followed by exemplary #LegalActions & punishment that will act as strong deterrent to committing such future acts,” it said.The ministry had held a meeting headed by Sanjay Kumar, the director general of forests and special secretary, on Sunday with several officials to discuss the progress in the matter.News agency PTI reported citing an unnamed official that the meeting was also attended by an official from the National Tiger Conservation Authority(NTCA), inspector general of wildlife, the additional director of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and scientists from the Elephant Cell, PTI.The details of the meeting, however, are still awaited, it added.The elephant’s brutal death came to light on May 27 when a forest officer wrote about it on Facebook after witnessing it. The elephant had rushed to the nearby Velliyar River in the Silent Valley rain forest after eating the cracker-filled coconut and stood there for days with her trunk and head immersed in the water to nurse its injuries.Forest officials rushed to save the jumbo after local people alerted them but she succumbed to her injuries on May 27. Later, locals said the elephant was around the river for more than a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-elephant-may-have-accidentally-eaten-cracker-filled-fruit-environment-ministry/story-tCeHRIOdiFbeyJJ0qSiTEM.html
08-06-2020||India||Deve Gowda to contest Rajya Sabha election from Karnataka||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) (JD-S) leader HD Deve Gowda has decided to contest Rajya Sabha elections, news agency ANI reported. He is doing this at the request of party legislators, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and many other leaders, ANI further reported.His son and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said that Deve Gowda will file the nomination on Tuesday.Deve Gowda had said in January that he is not interested in going to the Rajya Sabha. The JD(S) leader had said that he will “work towards strengthening the party”.Four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka are falling vacant this month after Rajeev Gowda and BK Hari Prasad of the Congress, Prabhakar Kore of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and D Kupendra Reddy of the JD(S) retire.Gowda left his traditional stronghold of Hassan - from where he was elected five times between 1991 and 2014 - to his grandson Prajwal Revanna in the Lok Sabha elections held last year.He had contested from the Tumkuru Lok Sabha seat. While Revanna won, Gowda lost to the BJP’s GS Basavaraj by about 13,000 votes.The BJP won the Lok Sabha polls in the state with a huge margin as it cornered 25 of the 28 seats and one Independent backed by the party also won. The Congress and the JD(S) were reduced to a seat each.The elections to fill the vacant 18 Rajya Sabha seats from seven states will be held on June 19. The last date of filing nominations has been fixed on June 9 while scrutiny of papers would be held on June 10.The last date of withdrawal of papers has been fixed on June 12, the notification from Election Commission of India said.Congress has decided to field one candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief DK Shivakumar said on Monday that the party would soon take a decision on the issue of support Deve Gowda’s candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deve-gowda-to-contest-rajya-sabha-election-from-karnataka/story-tqu7OXttYTDayK9IMWYneO.html
08-06-2020||India||We paused to save lives, now we need to start again to save livelihoods: Sajjan Jindal||Industrialist Sajjan Jindal on Monday pitched for restarting the economy and said that saving lives is as important as saving livelihoods. “The Covid-19 crisis brought the world to a stop! We paused to save lives but now we need to start again to save livelihoods,” the Chairman of diversified JSW Group said in a statement. He further said the economic implications of the lockdown can be severe and opening of business activities is crucial for India to achieve its aim of becoming a successful economy. “Global economies are opening up. Staying at home till a cure is found will make the loss of livelihoods as severe as the loss of lives in India,” he said adding “the slower we are to re-start, the more we lose against countries out of lockdown. We can’t lose any more time”. He further said India as a country needs to get back to its full capacity at the soonest to be the successful economy that it aims to be. “Europe opened up. People in Spain, France, Amsterdam and Germany have accepted a new normal and have started living again. Restaurants, Shopping complexes, public transport have all sprung back into action. That’s how you save the economy! Not by staying indoors!, he said. The government has announced a phased exit from the over-two-months-long nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-paused-to-save-lives-now-we-need-to-start-again-to-save-livelihoods-sajjan-jindal/story-cnyBqCw3F8Su2MsncTKOYN.html
08-06-2020||India||Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in Delhi||An official at the Election Commission of India (ECI) has tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, news agency ANI reported on Monday. This comes amid reports of government officials testing positive for coronavirus across the nation amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier this month, a NITI Aayog official was reported positive for coronavirus. A floor of NITI Aayog’s Delhi’s office was sealed for sanitation after the staffer tested positive for Covid-19. Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patientsDelhi: One official at the Election Commission of India's office has tested positive for #COVID19. pic.twitter.com/b2b7onqmFKAlso Watch | Covid update: India’s 9000 daily stat; Delhi doctors ‘insulted’; China’s defence On June 2, at least 13 employees at Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s office, Raj Niwas, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), an official spokesperson said.Baijal tweeted out saying, “Deeply concerned about health of officials of my secretariat who tested positive for COVID-19 Health of all officials is stable & is being closely monitored. All of these officials were working tirelessly in these difficult times shoulder to shoulder with other frontline workers.” At least two officials working with the external affairs ministry tested positive for coronavirus last month. While one official who tested positive worked as a consultant in the ministry’s Central Europe (CE) division in New Delhi, the other staffer worked as a legal officer in the law division, news agency Reuters reported.Covid-19 cases in India now stand at the fifth spot in the world. With over 250,000 cases, India follows countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom. On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the national Covid-19 tally to 256,611. While over one lakh people have recovered from the deadly infection, more than 7,000 patients have lost their lives. Globally, the number of Covid-19 cases have zoomed beyond the 7 million-mark, more than 4 lakh people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-staffer-tests-positive-for-covud-19-in-delhi/story-qOwEqn77qzV75nFdGUJFQM.html
08-06-2020||India||Diesel sales from Delhi, Rajasthan shift to neighbouring states due to price advantage||Cheap diesel is flowing from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to neighbouring Delhi and Rajasthan through legal and illegal routes, executives of oil marketing companies and petroleum dealers said.Both consumers and unscrupulous elements find a price difference of up to Rs 7 a litre lucrative enough, and diesel vehicles, particularly long-distance trucks save on an average up to Rs 5,000 on the fuel in a trip, they said.Pump prices of petrol and diesel across the country are market-determined and attract uniform central excise duty, but their prices differ from state to state because of wide variations in the local levies or value-added tax (VAT).In oil retail economics, diesel is the most important fuel in terms of revenue income for both dealers as well as the exchequer because of high sales volume compared to petrol, executives and dealers mentioned above said requesting anonymity. Delhi and Rajasthan markets became uncompetitive after the two states raised VAT on auto fuels sharply compared to their neighbouring states to mop up additional revenues to fight the slump during the Covid-19 lockdown, they said.This has paved way for sales shifting to neighbouring border cities where prices are Rs 5 to Rs 7 per litre cheaper, said petrol pump dealers.“A diesel-run car registered in Delhi saves at least about Rs 250 if it gets tank full in Gurgaon [Gurugram] and for long-distance trucks that have double fuel tanks easily save up to Rs 5,000 at one go,” Nischal Singhania, a Delhi-based dealer and former president of the Delhi Petrol Dealers Association (DPDA), said.“Smuggling of diesel is now rampant. Double-tank trucks coming from Punjab bring diesel and sell it locally. They make about 2,500-3,000 in one trip as the price difference is very high,” Meerut-based Hemant Sirohi, who is also an active member of the Empowering Petroleum Dealers Foundation (EPDF), said. The diesel price difference between Delhi and Mohali in Punjab is Rs 7.49 a litre.“This is not all. Inter-state smuggling of diesel is rampant as it is one of the essential commodities and pass the borders easily. This is happening under the garb of a new initiative of door-to-door fuel delivery. Diesel is being carried in barrels and tankers from Gurgaon [Gurugram] to Jaipur as the price difference is Rs 7.44 per litre,” Sirohi said.An oil ministry official said requesting anonymity that the government was yet to receive any formal complaint in this regard.“It is believed that OMCs (oil marketing companies) are keeping a watchful eye on these illegal developments and take appropriate action. The government may also seek an explanation from OMCs,” he said.The oil ministry spokesperson declined comments. State-run OMCs—Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)—did not respond to the queries.Government official and oil companies’ executives said the price distortion is due to variations in state-level tax rates as VAT in Delhi and Rajasthan are very high.The Delhi government had almost doubled VAT on diesel on May 5 from 16.75% to 30% that also attracts an additional Rs 250 per kilolitre air ambience charges. VAT on diesel in Rajasthan was raised to 28% from 22% in addition to Rs 1,750 kilolitre road development cess. One kilolitre is equal to 1,000 litres.Although other states have also raised VAT rates on auto fuels, they calibrated the levy in such a way that the consumer prices would remain competitive compared to neighbouring cities of border states.According to the latest date of the oil ministry, state-level tax on diesel in Haryana is 16.4% or Rs 9.20 per litre, whichever is higher, plus 5% additional tax on VAT. Punjab levies 15.15% VAT, plus 10% additional tax on VAT, Rs 1,050 per kilolitre cess and 10 paise per Litre urban transport fund. The VAT rate on diesel in Uttar Pradesh (UP) is 17.48% or Rs 10.41 per litre, whichever is higher.Effectively, on June 8, diesel was sold at Rs 71.54 per litre in Jaipur (Rajasthan), Rs 70.59 a litre in Delhi, Rs 64.89 a litre in Ghaziabad (UP), Rs 64.10 a litre in Gurugram (Haryana), and Rs 63.10 in Mohali (Punjab).Experts said the problem will continue unless states levy a uniform tax on the fuel, which is only possible if petrol and diesel are brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) net.“The rate arbitrage between the neighbouring states has always resulted in this problem for various goods like diesel/petrol and liquor (currently under VAT) and mobile phones, etc. (prior to GST),” Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY India, said.“It is difficult to control/deter these prevalent practices unless a uniform rate is implemented for products still under VAT. For products under GST (since the rate is uniform across all states) this problem has been taken care of,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-sales-from-delhi-rajasthan-shift-to-neighbouring-states-due-to-price-advantage/story-ctTeBSCBS5P0TpMpEY0xwM.html
08-06-2020||India||‘Good thought to keep heart happy’: Rahul slams Shah’s remark on border protection||Congress MP and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that everyone knows the reality of the situation at India’s borders. Gandhi’s Twitter post came in a sharp reaction to Union home minister Amit Shah’s remark wherein he said that if there is any country, after the US and Israel, that is able to protect its borders, it is India. Gandhi slammed Shah’s for his comments made on Sunday and said that “the thought is good to keep the heart happy”.  Also read: At ‘non-election rally’, Amit Shah says NDA will win two-third majority in Bihar pollsसब को मालूम है ‘सीमा’ की हक़ीक़त लेकिन,दिल के ख़ुश रखने को, ‘शाह-यद’ ये ख़्याल अच्छा है।https://t.co/cxo9mgQx5KAlso Watch | ‘What did you do?’: Amit Shah questions opposition on migrant exodus The home minister on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad’ virtual rally and lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership over the past six years. “India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. The whole world agrees that after USA and Israel if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India,” Shah said during his address. Shah on Sunday addressed the ‘Bihar Jansamvad Rally’ through video conferencing saying that the event was to bring the people of the country together amid the coronavirus pandemic. The home minister said that the rally had nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.From lauding the indomitable spirit of nation’s ‘corona warriors’ in India’s fight against Covid-19 to underscoring the many milestones achieved under the PM Modi’s leadership, Shah’s Sunday address was wide-ranging. “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP government, we did,” he said. The minister also said that the Citizenship Amendment Act provided citizenship and respect to refugees in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-thought-to-keep-heart-happy-says-rahul-after-shah-s-remark-on-border-protection/story-UdVcCcqHSI4GYNBe4u7V6O.html
08-06-2020||India||9 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian district in 24 hours, say police||Nine terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen have been killed by security forces in two operations since Sunday morning in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, a senior police official said on Monday.In the latest gun battle, which took place in Pinjora area of Shopian, four terrorists were killed by security forces on Monday morning, police said.“9 #terrorists including two commanders neutralised in less than 24 hrs. Proud of #Team Kashmir which includes JKP and SFs. Vijay Kumar, IGP Kashmir,” Kashmir zone police tweeted.Two of the four terrorists killed in Monday’s encounter are top Hizbul terrorists, Umer Dhobi and Rayees Khan of Shopian. “Both of them are category-A terrorists,” a police officer said.Before picking up the gun in August 2018, Umer Dhobi was listed in police records as an overground worker of the Hizbul Mujahideen and a “chronic stone pelter”. He has been named in 10 terror related cases; many of them relate to carrying out attacks on security personnel.Rayees Khan was also involved in two attacks on the army camp and a patrol party besides abduction and killing of civilians.“In the last two weeks, nine big operations were carried out in which 22 terrorists have been eliminated including six top commanders,” Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir director general of police, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. According to ANI, the bodies of the four terrorists killed in Pinjora have been recovered along with arms and ammunition. The operation there has concluded.On Sunday, five terrorists were killed after 12-hour long encounter in Reban village of Shopian district, which is around 12km from Monday’s encounter site in Pinjora.Sources have said the terrorists belonged to the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group and one among them is believed to be a top commander.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-shopian-in-24-hours-say-police/story-D18wPM3DDZ7DmqPIfQrbvM.html
08-06-2020||India||Matang leader moves HC, seeks regulation of nomination to legislative council||Matang community leader Diliprao Agale has approached Bombay high court to regulate the governor’s power to nominate members to the legislative council.The Matang community is considered one of the most suppressed and neglected castes in Maharashtra.In his petition, filed through advocate SB Talekar, the 58-year-old social worker sought a declaration that clauses 3(e) and 5 of Article 171 of the Constitution violate Article 14 and the rule of law, which is a basic feature of the statute.Article 171(3)(e) empowers the governor to nominate members to the legislative council, and Article 171(5) requires that the persons to be appointed should have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, arts, cooperative movement and social service.“No doubt enough guidance is provided as to the qualification or eligibility criteria of the nominated members,” the petition said. “However, there is nothing prescribing the mode and manner to nominate members on the State Legislative Council.”The petition will come up for hearing on June 16 before a division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Surendra Tavade.Agale complained that there is nothing in the scheme of these appointments regarding the parameters and tests to select candidates.The Maharashtra legislative council has a total of 78 members, of whom 66 are elected and the remainder are nominated by the governor.Agale’s petition further said all proposals for nominating members to the legislative council, under the Maharashtra Government Rules of Business, are required to be submitted to the chief minister, while the governor nominates members on the basis of recommendations from the chief minister.He complained that no scrutiny is done to ascertain where the candidates fulfil essential requirements and if they have incurred disqualification, as contemplated by Article 191.Besides, the candidates nominated by the governor are not required to disclose their wealth and criminal past, if any, as is required in elections to the state and Central legislature.Therefore, according to Agale, the power to nominate becomes unfair, arbitrary and discriminatory, as it is open to the chief minister to choose people to be nominated according to whims and fancies.The power conferred on the governor is not only arbitrary but has no place in a polity governed by the rule of law. It also violates the mandate of equality enshrined in Article 14, the petition said.The actions of the chief minister, council of ministers or the governor have to be fair, impartial and based on a realistic assessment on whether the candidates have the required special knowledge or practical experience.Agale also complained that there are thousands who meet the requirements for such nomination, “but only those who are close to the centre of power or those who enjoy the confidence of those in power are considered for nomination”.He added, “The selection is done either on party lines or depending upon who is close to or in good books of the chief minister or the high command of the party in power…Barring a few exceptions, most of those nominated were either active politicians or person affiliated or associated with the party in power or individuals enjoying political patronage.”Besides, he also complained about the disparity within scheduled castes in Maharashtra in connection with their political representation, contending that the major benefit of reservation is taken by the predominant Magar community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matang-leader-moves-hc-seeks-regulation-of-nomination-to-legislative-council/story-dAPsE2y6M6DCZZiAmHAzHN.html
08-06-2020||India||Millions of hatchlings of endangered Olive Ridley turtles make their way to the sea from Odisha beach||Over the course of the past month, around two crore hatchlings of the endangered Olive Ridley turtles have crawled their way to the sea after they hatched from their eggs at the Garhirmatha sanctuary in Odisha. This marks the completiong of the annual journey that the endangered species make to the island in Odisha.Arribada is the phenomenon when female turtle lay their eggs. Around 4.70 lakh female turtles had turned up to lay eggs at the Gahirmath beach, which is widely regarded as the world’s largest nesting ground for Olive Ridley turtles, according to Bikash Ranjan Dash, the divisional forest officer (DFO), Rajnagar Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division. He said, “The hatchlings had mostly emerged during the first fortnight of May,” adding, “According to an estimate by officials, nearly two crore turtles have emerged and found their way to the Bay of Bengal. As there was barely any disturbance, the number of hatchlings this year was considerably higher.”Read all about it here.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/quickreads/millions-of-hatchlings-of-endangered-olive-ridley-turtles-make-their-way-to-the-sea-from-odisha-beach/story-bBqZS5Vl1BLn5Y4J6MdTqM.html
08-06-2020||India||Unlock 1: Religious places open but Kashi Vishwanath, Vaishno Devi and other famous temples still closed||Normalcy started returning across the country as the relaxations under Unlock 1 kicked in. Restaurants, mall and religious places opened in most parts of the country, but some famous temples remained closed.Among them is the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir, Mathura’s Banke Bihar temple and Panchkula’s Mansa Devi temple, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. One of the grandest mosque in Lucknow, the Asifi mosque, was also kept closed, Hindustan reported.While the Banke Bihari temple has been kept closed till June 30, the Kashmi Vishwanath and Mansa Devi temples will open from Tuesday, Hindustan further reported. These places attract huge crowds and there is fear of the spread of Covid-19.The curbs, however, are in place in containment zones and areas with high caseload (hostpots). In Maharashtra, the worst-affected state, the state government is yet to take a decision about opening of these places.Devotees showed up in a large number at various places of worship across the country which opened on Monday. But all the protocols are being followed at these places, including social distancing. Only those who wear masks are allowed inside the premises to offer their prayers. Offerings like prasad and garlands are not allowed.Among the places which opened today are Old Delhi’s Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib, the famous Gorakhnath Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also offered prayers inside the temple.The Centre, in its guidelines issued last week, allowed opening of these places but said that they have to ensure social distancing in place, sanitisation and thermal screening of devotees at regular intervals. According to the guidelines issued by the Centre, no more than five people are allowed inside at a time, while footwear cannot be clustered together.The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside.The orders were issued as India prepares for a calibrated exit from the Covid-19 lockdown by easing more restrictions under Unlock 1. The country, meanwhile, reported close to 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Monday which pushed its tally to above 2.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-religious-places-open-but-kashi-vishwanath-vaishno-devi-and-other-famous-temples-still-closed/story-vHKukxVs1yofYPyIdwuvBO.html
08-06-2020||India||Thane: Traffic snarls reported as restrictions ease||Long queues of vehicles could be seen at Mulund check naka, the entry point to Mumbai from neighbouring Thane, on Monday morning, amid the easing of restrictions in lockdown 5.0, which came into effect on June 1 and will be in place till June 30 to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The traffic flow has increased since last week. But, on Monday morning there were more office-goers, as compared to last week, which led to traffic congestion at Mulund check naka,” said a senior Thane Traffic Police officialThe traffic movement has also been disrupted because of the ongoing repair work of a grand arch at Anandnagar in Thane.“The traffic movement is restricted to only a single lane because of the ongoing repair work of one of the pillars of a grand arch at Anandnagar. The construction work has intensified traffic snarls because the grand arch is located at the main entry point to the Eastern Express Highway, a north-south artery of Mumbai that connects its eastern suburbs and Thane,” the official said.“Traffic congestion was also noticed at Kalyan during the rush hour, including Kalyan-Bhiwadi Road, Durgadi Junction and Kongaon toll plaza,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-traffic-snarls-reported-across-city-as-offices-open-partially/story-NKo6hRPejD9iPnbSdbABZP.html
08-06-2020||India||Health Ministry drafts rules to help severely ill Covid patients access new drugs||Seeking to facilitate availability of experimental drugs for severely-ill Covid-19 patients, the Union Health Ministry has issued a draft notification for “compassionate use” of any unapproved drug that is in the phase-III clinical trial globally.The draft New Drugs and Clinical Trials (Amendment) Rules stipulate manufacture and import of unapproved drugs based on a prescription by a hospital or medical institution. According to a gazette notification of the draft rules published on June 5, a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for “compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need”, which has not been permitted in the country, but under Phase-III clinical trial (human trial) in the country or abroad, by making an application to the Central Drug Regulator.Also, if any hospital prescribes a new drug for the same purposes then they may be approved to be manufactured in a limited quantity subject to provisions of the rules.The manufacturer intending to manufacture a new drug will have to obtain the consent in writing from the patient to whom the medicine has been prescribed or his legal heirs and make an application to the Ethics Committee of the hospital or medical institution for obtaining its specific recommendation for manufacture of such new drug.  After obtaining the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the manufacturer shall make an application to obtain the permission, to the Central Licensing Authority for manufacturing the new drug for the purpose of compassionate use, the draft rules stated.“The manufacturer to whom the permission is granted shall make use of the new drug only for the purposes specified in the permission and no part of it shall be sold in the market or supplied to any other person, agency, institution or place,” it stated.  The new draft rules will be applicable for 15 days during which people can send their objections and suggestions to be considered by the Central Government after which the final amended rules will be published in the gazette of India.  The set of new rules have been inserted under section 96 which deals with filing an application, granting the license to the importer or manufacturer, conditions and suspension of such licenses among others.For both manufacturing and importing, the licence shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date it has been issued.If an importer or the manufacturer to whom the license is granted fails to comply with any provision of the Act and these rules, the Central Licensing Authority, may, after giving an opportunity of being heard, suspend or cancel the license for such period as considered appropriate either wholly or in respect of some of the substances to which the violation relates.  The quantity of any new drug manufactured or imported on the basis of permission granted shall not exceed one hundred average dosages per patient, the draft rules stated.But in exceptional circumstances on the basis of the prescription of the medical officer and the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the Central Licensing Authority may allow the manufacture of such new drug in larger quantity.   In both cases, for import or indigenous manufacturing, the application should have details including rationale for the use of the new drug as compassionate use over the available therapeutic options, the criteria for patient selection with description of the patient’s disease or condition and the method of administration of the drug, dose, and duration of therapy.It should also mention the description of the manufacturing facility and a description of clinical procedures, laboratory tests, or other monitoring necessary to evaluate the effects of the drug and minimize its risks among others.Several drugs across the country are in phase III clinical trials phase for Covid-19. Anti-viral drug Remdesivir, last week, was approved for “restricted emergency use” on severe Covid-19 patients.India’s drug regulator granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences marketing authorisation for the drug for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalised Covid-19  in view of the crisis posed by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-drafts-rules-to-help-severely-ill-covid-patients-access-new-drugs/story-d0ly0QMQw0C8jpWI9Q7VJN.html
08-06-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases outnumber China’s, Mumbai has over 48,000 patients||Coronavirus cases in the country crossed 250,000 on Monday. According to the latest figures by the Ministry of Health, the country now has 256,611 Covid-19 cases of which 124,429 have recovered while 7,200 have lost their lives. Maharashtra, which leads the national tally with the highest number of coronavirus cases overtook China’s record by crossing the 85,000-mark on Sunday, the Ministry of Health confirmed the same by updating Maharashtra’s tally to 85,975 on Monday morning. According to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tally, China has reported around 84,191 coronavirus cases till date. Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are also witnessing a rapid rise. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers. The big 5Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 85,975 on Monday. As many as 3,060 people have died of coronavirus in the state while 39,314 have recovered. Mumbai alone has reported over 48,000 coronavirus cases. In Tamil Nadu, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 31,667. Two hundred and sixty-nine people have died of Covid-19 in the state, nearly 17,000 people have recovered. In the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 28,936 on Monday, 10,999 patients have recovered here while 812 died due to Covid-19. Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally soars to over 2.56 lakh, death toll at 7,135Gujarat Covid-19 cases jumped to 20,070 on Monday. The state has seen 13,635 people recover from coronavirus while 1,249 people have died.Rajasthan has reported 10,599 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 7,641 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 240.Situation in other statesMadhya Pradesh has reported 9,401 Covid-19 patients while the number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped to 10,536 in Uttar Pradesh. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 8,187 while 396 people have died from the deadly contagion, 3,303 have recovered. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 5,088; the death toll in the state has jumped to 30. More than 2,400 people have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state. Also read: Petrol, diesel prices hiked by 60 paise per litre for 2nd consecutive dayAndhra Pradesh has reported 4,708 Covid-19 cases till date. While 75 people have died in the state, 2,682 people have recovered from the deadly contagion. Karnataka has reported 5,452 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 3,600 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,000-mark. Haryana nears the 4,500-mark while coronavirus cases in Telangana crossed 3,600 on Monday. Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura and Assam are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. Chandigarh, Manipur, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Puducherry, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. All coronavirus patients in Andaman and Nicobar Islands have recovered.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-coronavirus-cases-outnumber-china-mumbai-alone-has-over-40-000-patients-covid-19-state-tally/story-gfJLahNeCUjW3zemumGQdL.html
08-06-2020||India||Rape victim’s say mandatory in deciding bail of accused, says Delhi High Court||Courts cannot ignore issuing notice to victims in sexual assault cases while deciding bail pleas of offenders, the Delhi High Court has held, noting that survivors were not being informed in a majority of matters.Hearing a case related to the bail granted to the accused in a minor’s rape case, the court said that during emergency situations such as the current lockdown, bail pleas are being heard by sessions judges who are not regular POCSO courts, so it is necessary to sensitise them about these mandatory provisions.The HC set aside the trial court’s order granting interim bail to the accused in the minor’s rape case without giving a hearing or notice to the girl.“It is deemed appropriate to direct that any non-compliance of the mandatory condition of issuance of notice and service of notice to the complainant/ victim/informant could entail consequential action, in accordance with law,” the court said. It also directed respective district judges to conduct sensitisation programmes through videoconferencing within a week and inform all presiding officers about the importance of compliance of this mandatory condition. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the petition challenging the interim bail granted to the accused without giving her notice has highlighted a “perennial and grave problem”: hearing not being accorded to victims in bail pleas filed by the accused facing trial for rape and gang-rape of minors under the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.In pursuance to court’s earlier direction, the registrar general of the high court collected data from the trial courts for the period between April 22 to May 23, which is the lockdown period. The data showed that out of 294 cases where bail was sought by the accused in sexual offences cases, notices were issued to the complainant in only 79 matters.“...in 215 cases constituting almost 70 per cent, no notice was issued. A perusal of the report of the registrar general, in fact, confirms the analysis which has been placed on record by the petitioner in respect of 122 cases, to the effect that complainants/ informants are not being heard prior to hearing in bail applications to accused under the provisions of the POCSO Act,” it said, adding that, issuance of notice is the mandate of law.The court added there was also no doubt that most sessions courts are not issuing notices to the complainant before entertaining or hearing bail applications of accused, including those for interim bail.In fact, even if compromise is the ground for seeking bail, there is a greater need that the same ought to be verified or confirmed from the complainant/victim, it said.The plea was filed by the girl’s mother, through advocate Tara Narula, challenging the interim bail granted to the accused on May 5 on the ground that the order was passed in routine manner and was not only bad in law but also suffered from procedural lapse on the part of the sessions court.The victim’s counsel submitted that with effect from April 21, 2018, there was an amendment in the law by which it has been mandated that the presence of the informant or any person authorised shall be obligatory at the time of hearing of the application for bail to the person accused of sexual offences.The period for which the interim bail was granted to the accused expired on June 5, the day the high court passed its verdict.As the accused has filed a fresh bail application before the sessions court, the high court said it be decided in accordance with law after hearing the complainant and the prosecution and also the grounds raised by the man in the plea.The court said non-issuance of notice to the complainants or victims is not merely a procedural lapse, but is clearly contrary to the unequivocal legislative mandate and settled law.It said the lockdown period has thrown up several challenges to the judicial system which courts are bracing for on an everyday basis and issuance of notice to the complainant is such a fundamental precondition, that the requirement of law cannot be bypassed, ignored or neglected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-victim-s-say-mandatory-in-deciding-bail-of-accused-says-delhi-high-court/story-xm1Klsjxj71WCz8RHHw2LN.html
08-06-2020||India||Many countries, including India, don’t know when Covid-19 peak will come: Top Chinese expert||Several countries, including India, have not yet seen the peak number of the coronavirus disease or Covid-19 cases, a leading Chinese infectious disease expert has said and warned that the second wave or a rebound of the outbreak could be stronger than the first.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageZhang Wenhong, head of Shanghai’s Huashan hospital’s infectious disease department, said in an interview to state media that India, Brazil and Russia, for example, haven’t seen the peak of the pandemic curve yet and don’t know when the cases will come down.India until now has reported more than 2.56 lakh cases and nearly 7,000 deaths.The increase in the number of cases is being aided by the easing of lockdown in many countries, Zhang was quoted as saying in thepaper.cn.Giving the example of the United State, where the epidemic is most severe, he said after production was resumed in the US the outbreak in many states has shown signs of a rebound or a surge in the number of cases.The outbreak is also rebounding in West Asia including in Iran, Zhang added.For China, it will be crucial to control the number of imported cases – or infected persons returning to China from abroad – to stop the rebound.According to real-time statistics from Johns Hopkins University, there have been more than 7 million confirmed cases of new coronary pneumonia in the world and the death toll stands at 402,709.Zhang had warned in April that the pandemic is unlikely to die out in summer and a second wave of the infection was expected. He said then while speaking at an online discussion that China’s experience with disease control means any resurgence in infections later this year will be manageable.It will not require a repeat of the dramatic measures taken to curb the virus’s initial spread as needed earlier in the year, he said.“China won’t implement any shutdowns, and imported cases will certainly still make up the bulk of the outbreak,” the Caixin magazine quoted Zhang as saying.“For a long time, epidemic prevention and control will go through periods of relaxation and tightening. It will be possible to live and work normally, but it probably won’t be possible to completely eradicate the outbreaks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-countries-including-india-don-t-know-when-covid-19-peak-will-come-top-chinese-expert/story-wPJlAD9TfnypRNsV6Po5tI.html
08-06-2020||India||Operation Samudra Setu: Navy ships to bring back Indian nationals from Iran||The ships of the Indian Navy will bring back Indian nationals stranded in Iran as part of the country’s Samudra Setu initiative. The repatriation of Indians from Iran’s Bandar Abbas to Porbandar in Gujarat will begin on Monday.The Indian embassy in Iran is preparing a list of citizens who will to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after requisite medical screening, a state from the Navy said.The Indians will be brought back onboard INS Shardul.The Navy said that the ship has been specially provisioned for the evacuation operation and the staff onboard will follow social distancing norms. Additional medical staff, doctors, hygienists, nutritionists, medical stores, rations, personal protective equipment, face-masks and lifesaving gear is lso present on the ship, the Navy said.Some innovative products developed by the Indian Navy to help during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis is also being carried onboard, it further said.The evacuated Indian nationals will be handed over to the state authorities when they reach India, the Navy said.Indian Naval ships Jalashwa and Magar have already evacuated 2,874 personnel from Maldives and Sri Lanka to ports of Kochi and Tuticorin as part of “Operation Samudra Setu”.INS Jalashwa repatriated 700 Indian nationals stranded in Maldives and arrived in Tuticorin on Sunday.The bulk of the repatriated persons, 686, hailed from Tamil Nadu while the others belonged to Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry, Tuticorin port officials said.The ship left Port of Male on June 5 and came back to India on Sunday.Operation Samudra Setu is part of the Centre’s initiative to repatriate Indians stranded in foreign countries due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-samudra-setu-navy-ships-to-bring-back-indian-nationals-from-iran/story-VuWDMkRE0oQZ5ik0QjJmhJ.html
08-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally soars to over 2.56 lakh, death toll at 7,135||With 9,983 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 206 deaths between Sunday and Monday morning, India’s infection tally has risen to 256,611, according to the Union health ministry data.This is the fifth day in a row that the country has reported more than 9,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day and as restaurants, shopping malls and places of worship were allowed to reopen across most part by strictly adhering to the guidelines laid down by the Centre.The number of active cases in India stands at 125,381 and the recovery rate at 48.35% with 124,094 people cured of the respiratory disease, according to the health ministry.Also read| Zero active cases: How New Zealand eliminated Covid-19Maharashtra has reported 85,975 Covid-19 cases and 3,060 deaths so far. India’s worst-hit state has now overtaken China in terms of the number of infections. China, where the virus first emerged late last year, has a total of 84,191 cases, according to data by America’s Johns Hopkins University.The number of Covid-19 cases has also surged in Tamil Nadu, where there are 31,667 patients and 269 death so far. Delhi has reported 27,654 infections and the number of fatalities in the national capital stands at 761. Gujarat has 20,070 Covid-19 cases and 1,249 people have succumbed in the western state.The Centre on Sunday defended the timing of imposition of the lockdown and rejected as “baseless” media reports expressing concerns that it did not take inputs from technical experts while drawing up its Covid-19 strategy.It asserted that coronavirus is a “new agent” about which not everything is known and also said it is “fine-tuning” its strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground.Also read| Delhi borders open: Entry allowed from Gurugram, commuters claim chaos at UP borderThe health ministry said in a statement that the decision on the lockdown was taken due to the rapid escalation of Covid-19 cases.“The doubling rate of cases had dropped to a low level, pointing toward a dangerous trajectory of high caseload and high mortality, as experienced by many western countries. The possibility that our health systems could soon be overwhelmed with Covid-19 patients seemed to be real,” it said.There was a unanimous consensus on the lockdown among all state governments, it said. The government has already shared information on the impact of the lockdown and other restrictions to avert lakhs of infections and thousands of deaths, the ministry said.Follow live updates on the Coronavirus outbreak here“These apprehensions and allegations are unfounded and baseless. The government is constantly in consultation with experts for technical and strategic inputs, scientific ideas and domain-specific guidance to address the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said about reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the government excluding the views of technical experts. Globally, there are more than 7 million Covid-19 cases and the number of people who have died due to the disease is 402,709, according to Johns Hopkins’ coronavirus tracker.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-soars-to-over-2-56-lakh-death-toll-at-7-135/story-Dhq8T6XxLjzmoPkenG5EPL.html
08-06-2020||India||Two killed as trainer aircraft crashes in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district||A pilot trainer and a woman trainee pilot were killed in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district on early Monday morning, when a Cessna FA-152 VT-ENF trainer aircraft crashed at Birasala airstrip shortly after it took off. Anupama James, superintendent of police (SP), Dhenkanal, said the accident occurred at Birasala airstrip under the Kankadahada police station area soon after the Government Aviation Training Institute (GATI)-run aircraft took off around 6.30am. “It seems the aircraft developed some snag after it took off. The trainer pilot, Sanjay Kumar Jha, and the trainee pilot, Anis Fathima, were killed in the accident. Kamakhyanagar sub-divisional hospital authorities declared them brought dead,” said James. Jha is said to be from Bihar, while Fathima is from south India.Birasala is among the 19 airstrips in Odisha, where aspiring commercial pilots undergo training. The total strength of the trainees at Birasala was 90, including 36 aspiring pilots, before Monday’s accident.The Birasala facility was opened last year, attracting trainee pilots from across the country. The airstrip was reopened on June 1 amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Cessna FA-152 VT-ENF, Cessna- 152 VT-EUW, Cessna-172 VT-AAY, and Cessna-172R VT-TED are used by GATI authorities for the training exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-as-trainer-aircraft-crashes-in-odisha-s-dhenkanal-district/story-F0XqXPbE2kuTfPUCPBejiL.html
08-06-2020||India||Hustle bustle returns, long queues of devotees in masks as places of worship reopen across India||Long queues returned to religious sites and places of worships as temples, mosques, gurudwaras, churches, among others, opened gates to public after more than a couple of months of lockdown. While devotees showed up in a large number at various places of worship across the country, social distancing norms were seen in practice along with other preventive measures. Only those who wear masks are allowed inside the premises to offer their prayers. Offerings like prasad and garlands are not allowed.  #WATCH Punjab: Devotees visit Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) in Amritsar to offer prayers as Government allows reopening of religious places from today. pic.twitter.com/QOUOmzOVGlDiljeet Kaur, a devotee who visited Old Delhi’s Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib today said, “We’re not allowed to enter without wearing masks and they’re checking the temperature of people at entry. Social distancing is being followed”.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also offered prayers at the famous Gorakhnath Temple today. Punjab: Devotees visit Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple), Amritsar to offer prayers as Govt allows reopening of religious places from today.A devotee says,"We all must follow social distancing norms&take precautionary measures like wearing masks&sanitizing our hands frequently". pic.twitter.com/7dfnAo1KFDThe administration of various places of worship have put elaborate measures in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “We have made adequate arrangements for sanitation. If somebody doesn’t have a mask, we will provide him at the gate. We will maintain social distancing. Offerings like “prasad” and garlands are not allowed,” Subhash Goyal, secretary at Delhi’s Gauri Shankar Temple said. Many sites have disinfectant tunnels in place to ensure that the devotees are completely disinfected before entering the premises. Delhi’s Bangla Sahib Gurudwara is one of them.  #WATCH दिल्ली: छत्तरपुर मंदिर में भक्त पूजा करते हुए दिखे।सरकार ने आज से धार्मिक स्थलों को फिर से खोलने की अनुमति दी है। pic.twitter.com/3NQhhcwqTHSome of the most famous places of worship across the country reopened today including Mata Vaishno Devi Mandir in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The state government, however, has barred pilgrims from outside from visiting. Some cities like Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh has deferred opening of shines to June 10. Shrines in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in the state, will also not open their doors for devotees for now.  Delhi: Devotees offer prayers at Gurudwara Sisganj Sahib as Govt allows reopening of places of worship from today. Diljeet Kaur,a devotee says,"We're not allowed to enter without wearing masks&they're checking temperature of people at entry. Social distancing is being followed". pic.twitter.com/vszf0tgMrdThe Central government, in its guidelines issued last week on ‘Unlock 1’, stated that all places of worship that open up will have to ensure social distancing in place, sanitisation and thermal screening of devotees at regular intervals. No more than five people will be allowed inside at a time, while footwear cannot be clustered together. The guidelines also specifically mention that only asymptomatic people will be allowed inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hustle-bustle-returns-long-queues-of-devotees-in-masks-as-places-of-worship-reopen-across-india/story-ctHUfeA5S2fHXsunanWmVO.html
08-06-2020||India||As country reopens under Unlock 1, some restrictions to continue in these places||Shopping malls, restaurants, places of worship will reopen in most parts of India from Monday as states gear up to implement Unlock 1, the first phase of easing of restrictions in place under the coronavirus lockdown since March 25.The Union health ministry issued detailed guidelines in this regard, which will be in place till June 30. At the same time, the Centre has allowed states to decide what will open and place their own rules.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe reopening comes as India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) has risen and it is now the fifth most-affected country in the world. India’s count rose to 246,628 on Sunday after 9,971 cases were reported in 24 hours, the highest single-day rise yet. The country’s death toll rose to 6,929.Most economic activities are set to reopen on Monday outside containment zones in the country’s big urban centres, including Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad.However, Chennai, Mumbai and Gurugram will continue to see restrictions in view of mounting cases of Covid-19. Malls will remain shut until June 30 in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Meghalaya, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu and Haryana’s Gurugram and Faridabad.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said restaurants, malls, and places of worship will reopen from Monday but hotels and banquet halls will remain shut. In neighbouring Haryana, restrictions will continue on hotels, restaurants, and places of worship in Faridabad, apart from Gurugram, because of the high number of cases.In Mumbai, BEST’s public bus service and offices with 10% staff limit will resume. Around 300 buses will operate but only 29 passengers, including five standing, will be allowed in its 54-seater buses. BEST was operating its buses only for essential services employees so far.West Bengal has allowed buses and cabs to ply but Metro and suburban train services will remain shut. Religious bodies in the eastern state have decided to keep important religious places shut till June 15.In Goa, churches and mosques have decided to remain shut. Similarly, the Jammu & Kashmir administration has ordered places of worship to remain shut for the time being. According to the new guidelines, all religious places across the Union territory, which were closed nearly a week ahead of the nationwide lockdown, would continue to remain shut till further orders. The Uttarakhand government said places of worship will be allowed to open from 7am to 7pm but those in containment zones will remain closed till further orders. The state government said that the pilgrims from places outside the state are not allowed to visit until further orders. The Badrinath temple will open its gates on Monday but has asked the state to keep the yatra suspended till June 30.Odisha has allowed hotels to reopen but malls and places of worship will remain shut till June 30. It has declared a lockdown on weekends in 11 out of 30 districts. Hoteliers in the state have been asked to keep occupancy at 30%.In Tamil Nadu, economic activities would start on Monday except in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu. However, religious places will remain shut until the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-country-reopens-under-unlock-1-some-restrictions-to-continue-in-these-places/story-mA2oB7ZrKFvGRdxcMOg8cL.html
08-06-2020||India||Ahead of 2021 polls, Assam ‘regularises’ services of 46,000 teachers||Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has ‘regularised’ services of more than 46,000 teachers in the state’s government schools, ahead of the assembly elections next year.Though the decision in this regard was taken at a cabinet meeting on May 26, the announcement was made on Sunday by education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at a press conference in Guwahati.The government move would benefit 29,701 teachers who were employed after clearing the teacher eligibility test (TET) as part of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), 11,206 state pool teachers working in lower primary and middle English schools and 5,283 teachers working on contractual basis in high schools.“All these teachers will get benefits and perks like other government teachers and will retire on completion of 60 years of age. Due to Supreme Court order on TET teachers, we can’t use the term ‘regularise’ for them, but they will get all benefits of a regular government job,” Sarma said.“Our party, the BJP, had given a promise of ‘regularising’ services TET teachers when we went to polls in 2016. We have been able to fulfil that promise now. It will give the teachers dignity as well as remove uncertainty about the status of their jobs,” he added.Assamese mandatory in all schoolsSarma said Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi has approved a move making Assamese a mandatory subject from Class 1 to Class 10 in all schools, government and private including central schools, in the state.However, the rule won’t be applicable to the three districts of Barak Valley, where Bengali is the dominant language, and the four districts of Bodoland Territory Area Districts (BTAD), where Bodo is spoken prominently.“The act in this regard passed by the state assembly has been approved by the Governor and we have notified it. From now on all schools will have to teach Assamese as a subject, except those in Barak Valley and BTAD,” Sarma said.Free admissions for all students of colleges, universitiesIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic and economic hardships faced by families, Assam government has decided to admit all students free of cost in government colleges, universities across the state including medical, engineering, agriculture, veterinary colleges etc.Earlier, only those students with a family income of less than Rs 2 lakh annually were eligible for that benefit.“As an attempt to provide relief to families affected by Covid-19, we have decided to give free admissions to all students this year irrespective of the income of their families from higher secondary to postgraduate level. Colleges can’t take any fees in lieu of prospectus, excursions etc,” Sarma said. The government also decided to reimburse Rs 1,000 per month as mess dues to students staying in hostels of government colleges. Students pursuing graduation will also get Rs 1,000 for textbooks.SoP for classes in schools twice a weekAssam government is mulling reopening of schools in a staggered manner, starting with regular classes for Class 10 and Class 12 followed by classes twice a week for other grades.“Our government has prepared a set of standard operating procedure (SOP) on beginning with classes for Class 10 and Class 12. Others classes may resume twice a week in order to ensure social distancing and also to ensure that their learning is not affecting,” Sarma said.“Only online class is not an option and might not be feasible for students in remote areas or villages. We have prepared our SOP, but will follow whatever guidelines central government formulates in this regard,” he added.Sarma said the Assam government has decided to shut down 17 schools which recorded zero pass percentage in this years’ high school leaving certificate (HSLC) exams, results of which were announced on Saturday.The teachers of these schools will be transferred to other schools all over the state and students allowed to take admissions in the nearest government school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2021-polls-assam-regularises-services-of-46-000-teaches/story-W2rvVaLq9kFdmtbCGEcIPJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Case against Rajasthan hospital staff for WhatsApp posts against Muslims||The police in Rajasthan’s Churu district launched an investigation into the messages exchange between the staff members of a private hospital on a WhatsApp group. The members were discussing not attending to the patients of minority community suffering from Covid-19, the police said.The owner of the hospital had apologised for the WhatsApp conversation and also said that the messages are of the month of April when cases of Tablighis were high in number.The screenshots of the message exchange between two women working at Srichand Baradiya Rog Nidan Kendra in Sardarshahar town of the district were widely circulated after which the police took notice and a complaint was lodged on Friday. A formal FIR was lodged against the accused on Sunday under Section 153A (attack upon any religion) and 505 (Statements conducing to public mischief) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of violation of Disaster Management Act.“FIR was registered today against three persons which includes a doctor, a lab technician and a comp under after preliminary investigation the conversation was found biased against a particular region,” Mahendra Dutt Sharma, station house officer of Sardarshahar police station, said on Sunday.Dr Sunil Choudhary, who runs the Srichand Baradiya Rog Nidan Kendra in Sardarshahar apologised through a post on social media.“I apologise for the chats which are getting viral on social media. Me and my staff members don’t want to hurt sentiments of any religion. In future my staff would not give you any chance of complaint,” Choudhary said.One of the messages exchanged between the staff of hospital read, “I take oath that from tomorrow we will not do X-ray of Muslim patients.”Another message reads, “We should stop attending to Muslim patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-rajasthan-hospital-staff-for-whatsapp-posts-against-muslims/story-zZ64BiDQZguAC5HA0JMSXK.html
08-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi reopens restaurants, malls and interstate travel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi reopens restaurants, malls and interstate travelRestaurants, shopping malls and places of worship are allowed to open in Delhi from Monday but they will have to strictly adhere to the guidelines laid down by the Centre, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, allowing the resumption of these activities in the national capital after a gap of over 70 days. Read moreNew Zealand eliminates Covid-19 with zero active cases reportedNew Zealand reported zero active cases of Covid-19 for the first time since the pandemic reached its shores, indicating it has achieved its aim of eliminating the virus. Read more‘Amazing to bowl with Kuldeep in tandem, hoping to do it again soon’: Yuzvendra ChahalFrom the time they answered the Indian team management’s call for wrist spin as the way ahead in limited-overs cricket in 2017, Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav have established themselves as a formidable bowling pair. Read moreHappy birthday Shilpa Shetty: Her 10 pics with husband Raj Kundra, son Viaan and daughter Samisha that are just perfectActor Shilpa Shetty turns 45 years old on Monday, we are bringing you her best pictures from the family album. Shilpa is the wife of businessman Raj Kundra and mommy to son Viaan and daughter Samisha. Read moreiPhone SE review: It’s a solid winFor a long time, there has been no non-foldable, small, compact device in the market that makes a very good case for itself. Then came Apple with the iPhone SE 2nd Gen or the iPhone SE 2020. Read moreWorld Brain Tumour Day 2020: Recovery after brain surgeryThere has been an increase in the incidence of brain tumour in India. About 50,000 new cases are reported, out of which 20% are in children with medulloblastoma being the most commonly occurring type. Read moreActor Chiranjeevi Sarja passes away at age of 39 due to cardiac arrestKannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja passed away on June 7. The 39-year-old actor died due to cardiac arrest. Fans gathered outside the hospital where he had been admitted. He was nephew of Tamil actor Arjun & grandson of veteran actor Shakti Prasad. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-reopens-restaurants-malls-and-interstate-travel-and-all-the-latest-news/story-C0FWNfj1FHpD16yeEwKEdJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Odisha accords state anthem status to Bande Utkala Janani||Almost two decades after the then speaker of the assembly ruled that the patriotic song Bande Utkala Janani should be adopted as the state anthem, the Odisha cabinet on Sunday accorded the status to it.The state cabinet, which met on Sunday through video-conferencing, adopted Bande Utklala Janani or Glory to mother Utkala as the anthem of Odisha.“The song has been inspiring the people of Odisha since ages. It was a long-standing demand of people of the state to accord state anthem status to Bande Utkala Janani, which has been passed by the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik,” Bikram Keshari Arukh, the parliamentary affairs minister, said.Arukh added the information and public relations department will prepare and release uniform lyrics, style of singing and it’s recording. The song will be sung at all government programs, assembly sessions, college and university cultural functions.The anthem will be played or sung in schools, colleges, meetings, cultural events. Whenever the anthem is sung or played, everyone will have to stand in attention except senior citizens, patients, infants, disabled and pregnant women.Lakhs of Odia people across the country had sung Bande Utkala Janani on May 30 to honour frontline workers or Covid-19 warriors. Several others had posted their videos singing the song on social media sites. Bande Utkala Janani was written by poet Lakshmikanata Mohapatra. The poem envisages Utkala, one of the former names of present-day Odisha, who maintains her self-respect and dignity from a position of confidence and strength rather than insecurity and fear. The poem inspires every Odia to move ahead in life. The song was first sung at the Utkal Sammilani’s conference at Balasore in 1912, a few months after Rabindra Nath Tagore’s Jana Gana Mana, now the national anthem, was sung. It is sung during various conferences of the Utkal Sammilani, the organisation that spearheaded the movement of a separate province of Odisha since 1912.In 2000, the assembly speaker Sarat Kar had ruled that the song should be adopted as the state song and advised the Odisha government to initiate action in this regard.Biju Patnaik, who was the chief minister, had proposed in 1994 that the song should be played at the end of the assembly session. In 2006, the then assembly speaker Maheswar Mohanty had constituted a committee for adopting the song as the state song.As many as 11 states, including Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat, have their own state anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-accords-state-anthem-status-to-bande-utkala-janani/story-Cu4l5MH56EsbEJEm7TwUwK.html
08-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s tally increased from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh in five days||India’s Covid-19 tally has been increasing at a rapid rate. It took just five days for the total number of infections to reach from two lakh to 2.5 lakh.The Union health ministry dashboard showed on Monday morning that India recorded another spike of almost 10,000 cases, taking its tally to 2,56,611.On June 3, the total number of cases had reached 2,01,997.India as been recording increasing number of daily cases. From nearly 8,000 infections a day, the nationwide tally is now increasing by almost 10,000 daily.India on Sunday reported 9,971 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 287 deaths, another highest spike, in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.With a tally of 246,628 infections, India is now the fifth worst-hit country in the world after the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.The surge in numbers came as places of worship, shopping malls and restaurants, are scheduled to open on Monday. It is the first of the three-phase plan for reopening of prohibited activities in non-containment zones with a stringent set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which will be in place till June 30.The number of active Covid-19 cases stands at 1,20,406 while a total of 1,19,292 people had recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry added. Around 48.37 per cent of the patients have recovered so far, a senior ministry official said.Maharashtra, which reported 3,007 new cases on Sunday on its own, surpassed China which accounted for 83,036 Covid-19 infections to be in the 18th position in the global country tally. It has 85,975 cases of Covid-19.However, there was some good news from Mumbai’s Dharavi, believed to be Asia’s largest slum and also a hotspot.In signs that could point to the flattening of the coronavirus curve in Dharavi, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said the slum cluster has not reported a single Covid-19 death in the last six days while 939 of the total 1,899 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-tally-increased-from-2-lakh-to-2-5-lakh-in-five-days/story-NEDxlzmCl0Hr91h7duuXHP.html
08-06-2020||India||Wildlife smuggler caught with flapshell turtle in Uttarakhand, booked||The Uttarakhand forest department has arrested a 36-year-old man on charges of smuggling Indian flapshell turtle in US Nagar district, said forest officials.Himanshu Bagri, divisional forest officer (DFO) Terai West forest division, said, “We had received a tip-off that one wildlife smuggler was planning to sell a flapshell turtle.”“So we decided to arrest him. We were waiting for the smuggler for a week but he was not coming. Finally, when we came to know that the smuggler had come to Kashipur on Saturday evening, we constituted a team under the leadership of AK Saxena, Kashipur Ranger officer to catch him,” he said.The Indian flapshell turtle, also called Lissemys punctata, is a freshwater species of turtle found commonly in lakes and rivers across the Indian subcontinent.Bagri said the forest team finally arrested the smuggler from Kundeshwari road in Kashipur in US Nagar on Saturday evening.“He has been identified as Sanjit Kumar, resident of Kashipur in US Nagar. We have booked him under Section 9 (prohibition hunting, no person shall hunt any wildlife listed in schedule 1,2,3,4) of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972.”Bagri said that Indian flap shell turtle is found in freshwater ponds, rivers and drains and its meat is considered a delicacy.This is not the first time when turtles and tortoises have been recovered in the state. Turtles are killed for their meat and are in good demand in some areas of US Nagar like Dineshpur, Transit camp and Shaktifarm.In May last year, forest officials arrested 40-year-old Abdul Rauf in Jhirna range of Corbett tiger reserve and recovered a dead turtle from his possession. In August last year, three people were arrested by the city patrolling unit of police at Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar district and 14 tortoises were recovered from their possession. In December last year, police had recovered 40 turtles from a man in Dineshpur area of US Nagar. The accused had kept the turtles hidden in a polybag in his kitchen.Earlier in March last year, 25 turtles were recovered from the same village hidden in the bathroom of a house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-smuggler-caught-with-flapshell-turtle-in-uttarakhand-booked/story-jHrJAQfAJSZ3U9sHIGKw8K.html
08-06-2020||India||With a drop in Covid-19 cases and deaths, Dharavi shows signs of flattening the curve||Dharavi, a hotspot in Mumbai, has not recorded a single death related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last six days and 939 of the 1,899 patients have recovered so far, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials have said.Officials said on Sunday that 34 people had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 1 and that the number has now come down to 10 in Dharavi, which is Asia’s largest slum.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Dharavi has not reported a single death in the last six days, which is the first major indicator that we are on the right track. The number of people getting discharged is also increasing,” Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G north ward of BMC, said on Sunday, according to news agency PTI.Dighavkar said 939 of the 1,899 Covid-19 patients have recovered.“Dharavi area has reported 71 deaths so far. But the real change is (reflected) in the daily testing of samples. A total of 34 people had tested positive for coronavirus on June 1 which has now come down to 10,” he added.Mumbai had recorded 1,420 new Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths taking the case count and toll to 48,774 and 1,638 respectivelyMaharashtra saw 3,007 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 85,975. It also reported 91 fatalities taking the state’s death toll to 3,060.Dighavkar said Dharavi has reported lower number of cases because of aggressive screening and testing of suspected cases in the area as well as the activation of fever clinics.“With the help of fever clinics, we could identify the people showing symptoms similar to that of coronavirus infection. We isolated them immediately which helped in either containing further transmission of the virus or spreading any kind of infection from those who are feeling unwell,” he said.Dharavi, which home to at least a million people, had reported the first Covid-19 case on April 1, a week after the national lockdown came into force on March 25. The slum in central Mumbai has become a focal point since then as it is home to many small-scale industries and also a major supplier of informal labour.According to BMC officials, the large scale exodus of people during the lockdown could have also contributed to the lower number of Covid-19 cases.“Dharavi offers jobs to hundreds of thousands of people. With continued extensions to the lockdown, a sizeable number of people have left the slum for their homes. This helped us in ensuring physical distancing to some extent,” an official was quoted as saying by PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-a-drop-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-dharavi-shows-signs-of-flattening-the-curve/story-EV5e2Q7YxwG5SCxBfQdGgO.html
08-06-2020||India||4 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J-K’s Shopian, 9 in 24 hrs||Four terrorists were killed in an encounter with the security forces in Pinjora area of Shopian district of Jammu-Kashmir on Monday morning, police said. Security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area, news agency PTI reported quoting a police official.He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated.After the operation ended, the bodies of the terrorists were later recovered and arms and ammunition were also recovered. Pinjora is around 12kms from Reban village where five terrorists were killed  on Sunday. Two houses were also damaged.A joint operation of army, CRPF and police was launched early in the morning after a tip off about the presence of terrorists at Reban village. The militants were killed after a 12 hour encounter. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-j-k-s-shopian/story-h0AmFf2nD7VGjReusYMiaO.html
08-06-2020||India||Boosting demand key for economic revival||What will be the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact on India? The Reserve Bank of India expects the Indian economy to contract in the current fiscal year. But given the recent release of GDP numbers for the quarter ending March 2020, a big-picture analysis may be needed. In a three-part data journalism series, HT attempts to do exactly that. The first part, which appeared in the edition dated June 6, looked at the economic situation before the pandemic. The second part, which appeared yesterday, looked at the immediate effects of the crisis and their macroeconomic consequences. The third part will argue that the existing policy response might not be enough.On 12 May, in an address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an economic package worth 10% of India’s GDP. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the details of the package in press conferences over the next five days. The package does amount to over ₹20 lakh crore. But the actual fiscal spending involved is much lower. In fact, two-thirds of the package is focused on credit infusion programmes. These include guarantees by the government and provision of additional liquidity by the Reserve Bank of India. The package also announced major steps to deregulate agriculture markets.The lack of fiscal push surprised not just commentators but even markets. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets says that “while markets were expecting a more demand-side stimulus...a large part of the attention has been towards medium-term supply side measures”.What should be the objective of an economic package during this pandemic? It depends on the economic situation before the pandemic. If the economy was in good shape, it should focus on restoring the status quo. However this is not the case with India. As pointed out in the first part of this series, the Indian economy was caught in one of its worst ever deceleration phases before the pandemic. So, just getting the economy to where it was immediately before the pandemic, difficult as it is, is not going to be enough.Part I of this series argued that India was facing a demand driven slowdown before the pandemic. Part II argued how loss of incomes due to reverse migration could squeeze rural incomes and demand. So, supply side measures such as easing credit supply are unlikely to help boost the economy, although some businesses may benefit from it.As for the emphasis on reforms, a key component of the package that was announced, not all of these will increase demand. Reforms generally improve the ease of doing business, and thus make an economy more attractive for investment.The failure of corporate taxes reforms announced last year to boost investment activity is a classic example of how something aimed at improving the business environment may not result in sustained demand.Where does demand come from? In a modern economy, it comes from three sources: domestic consumption, exports and investment. Imports represent negative demand, as local purchasing power is diverted towards foreign goods. India enjoyed a good export growth phase until the 2008 financial crisis. The performance has been disappointing post-2008. With the multilateral trading regime in jeopardy, rise of protectionism and trade wars and shock of the pandemic, exports are unlikely to revive anytime soon. Another factor which will prevent an export surge is India’s inability to join any major mega regional trade treaty. The inability of exports to boost growth like they did in the pre-2008 period is a structural shock to the Indian economy.This leaves domestic consumption. Private Final Consumption Expenditure has had a share of almost 60% of India’s GDP in the recent period. India’s private spending is very unequal in nature. An analysis of 2011-12 NSSO data (latest available figures) shows that almost half of it came from the top 20% of the population.The NSSO numbers probably underestimate India’s income inequality. An analysis of income tax data shows that 90% of income taxes in India came from the top 5% of the 50 million who even file income tax returns. India’s workforce is more than 400 million strong.So, what can be done to boost consumption demand? The consumption of the rich could actually go down rather than increase. A Mint column by Niranjan Rajadyaksha explained why this could happen due to the pandemic’s economic pain. “Precautionary savings tend to rise under conditions of income uncertainty. People who have lived through a storm understand the importance of setting some money aside for rainy days”, the column said. “There is thus a strong likelihood that the income uncertainty people are experiencing right now will nudge Indian households to increase precautionary savings at least for the next few years. And this psychological switch may persist even after the Indian economy recovers momentum” it adds. Given the fact that India’s private consumption is skewed towards the rich, any cutback in consumption demand will make economic revival even more difficult. As the column argues, easier credit provisioning might not help in this case.This leaves investment as a driver of growth. Demand for capital goods is a derived demand. Unless businesses see future growth in domestic demand or exports, they will not invest. This is exactly what has been happening in India.What does this entail for Indian economy’s prospects? The concept of paradox of thrift developed by John Maynard Keynes, is important here. It says that if everybody were to start saving more in an economy, aggregate demand would go down. This will lead to lower incomes. Because savings are a fraction of income, collective savings will go down as well.So what should be done? A democratically elected government cannot force individuals to make consumption or saving decisions. However, there is merit in focusing on the bottom 80% of the population. A large part of this struggles to make ends meet. It can hardly save if even if it wants to. NSSO data shows that at least half of India’s population spent half of its budget on food. This is in keeping with the 40% weight of food in India’s retail inflation basket. The primacy of food in household budgets is also the biggest political economy fault line in India. A rise in food prices hurts the poor. A squeeze hurts farmers. Governments juggle this balance.However, this need not be a zero sum game. An expansion of the current food security programme could benefit both farmers and consumers. One such way could be allowing employment of MGNREGS workers in private agricultural activity. This can be rolled out almost immediately. The paddy cultivation season will start in weeks.Another area where things can be changed in the medium to long term is health and education services. In India, even the poor spend beyond their means on private education and healthcare. An improvement and expansion in public services could change this trend.Investment in food security, health, education etc. is generally seen as a resource diversion from physical infrastructure which directly promotes growth. There might have been some merit in this argument in India as long as the consuming classes consume. In the absence of any incentive to – the package announced by the government has little by way of putting more money in the hands of people – this is a perverse argument. State spending in the food economy and social sector, even with stagnant or slightly lower wages, could free up a greater amount for spending by the poor in the non-farm economy. It could just be an extra pair of slippers or a bicycle.This series draws from the author’s work at the Centre for Advanced Studies of India at University of Pennsylvania as a visiting fellow. It is in the process of being developed as a working paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boosting-demand-key-for-economic-revival/story-HVPcub0YRt5drpDDuQWGQN.html
08-06-2020||India||Human-animal conflict should be addressed as an emergency||A pregnant elephant consumes a pineapple with firecrackers and dies. The fruit bomb was not for her, but wild boar who ruin the local crops. What do we make of this and the many cases of unbelievable cruelty against animals in India?Human-animal conflict should be addressed as an emergency. In the first instance, habitat conservation, even commons, is the most essential means of reducing torment to wildlife. Animals seek food or walkways because their own habitats are destroyed. Some believe selective culling by the forest department is a solution. It’s short term-other individuals will follow the food. Some state governments have been allowed to cull, yet what is the basis of this culling? Should you kill every single wild boar and then later term it endangered? Where is the ground research? And if it is done, will we see Tigress Avni like opaque, cruel shooting? Investment in smarter, preventive measures on farm-based conflict is needed. What tactics have worked? How to scale them? Finally, vermin is an outdated category, before the ecosystem approach. Such animals should not be fair game for torture. People will continue to kill them, but science must help find other ways to prevent their presence, or worse case, work with farmers to cull them for a specific period. At least let culling be scientific, transparent, short-term and replaced by conservation.Preventing such violence to wildlife needs both modern and traditional knowledge systems. They must be speedily harvested, before both the animals and custodians of such knowledge pass on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-animal-conflict-should-be-addressed-as-an-emergency/story-6G25IP5GM06NYvqGsgW91M.html
08-06-2020||India||Tripura doctor involved in screening turns Covid-19 positive||A Tripura doctor tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday and a senior state health official said she was likely to be the first doctor in the state to be diagnosed with the virus.The doctor, a homeopathy practitioner, was posted at Akhaura Integrated Check Post in Agartala and tasked with screening stranded Indians returning from Bangladesh earlier this month. “She was with the screening team at Akhaura check post. We decided to test the doctor as she had screened stranded Indians returning from Bangladesh. The test result found her positive for the virus. She is currently admitted at Covid care centre set up at Bhagat Singh Youth hostel,” said the official mentioned above.The state has registered a total of 750 Covid-19 cases so far. 173 of these have recovered, three have migrated and one met with an unnatural death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-doctor-involved-in-screening-turns-covid-19-positive/story-2mpWciR7ftzmuxM5xCUWRM.html
08-06-2020||India||Shrines will open in Ujjain, but places of worship to remain shut in Bhopal, Indore||Shrines in Bhopal and Indore, two major Covid-19 hotspots in Madhya Pradesh, will not open their doors for devotees on Monday according to decisions taken by the administration in both districts on Sunday.However, the famous Mahakal Temple and four other shrines in Ujjain city, another Covid-19 hotspot in the state, will see entry of devotees on Monday after closure of these shrines for more than two months now, according to the district administration. Another famous temple in the state- Ma Peetambara Peeth at Datia will also allow entry of devotees on Monday. However, the facility of darshan will be limited to local devotees only. No more than 450 devotees will be allowed in a day, as per the district administration in Datia. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on June 1 announced opening of the shrines across the state from June 8. However, he had made it clear earlier that decisions on commercial activities and other establishments will be taken by the district crisis management group in every district in view of the Covid-19 situation over there.The decisions on shrines in Bhopal and Indore were taken by the respective district administrations on Sunday. There is no let-up in the Covid-19 situation in both the cities. In Bhopal, the district administration in a meeting held under the chairmanship of collector Tarun Pithode in which various religious leaders also took part, decided not to allow opening of shrines for at least one week.“The district administration decided not to allow opening of shrines till June 15. The next decision for will be taken on June 12,” said an official spokesperson.After the district administration’s decision in Bhopal, Mushtaq Ali Nadvi made an appeal to committees of all the mosques in Bhopal to continue to follow the administration’s guidelines till further orders and ensure cleanliness and hygiene in mosques during the period. Dr RR Patel, information officer in Indore, said, “The district administration has decided not to allow opening of shrines on Monday. The administration will assess the situation later to take a decision in this regard.”Besides, the Mahakal Temple the shrines that will see people’s entry in Ujjain from Monday include Kal Bhairav Temple, Catholics Church, Jama Masjid and a Gurdwara, as per an administrative authority.Ujjain district administration decided on opening of selected shrines in the city on Friday.The administrator of Mahakal Temple management committee Sujan Singh Rawat said, “The first slot for devotees’ entry to the temple is 8 am to 10 am. The timing of darshan is till 6 pm. This makes it clear that no one will be allowed to watch Bhasm Aarti which is held early in the morning.”As per decisions taken no shops selling prasad items and flowers will be allowed around Mahakal Temple. Only such devotees would be allowed to enter the temple premises who have got themselves registered one day in advance. No one will be allowed to attend four other aartis in the temple. Devotees will have to wear face masks and undergo a thermal screening. They will not be allowed to ring the bell and take prasad.The temple premises will be sanitised every two hours. No more than 300-350 devotees will be allowed to remain present on the campus at a time and a maximum of 1000 devotees will be allowed to enter the temple premises in a day.(With inputs from Anand Nigam in Ujjain).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrines-will-open-in-ujjain-but-places-of-worship-to-remain-shut-in-bhopal-indore/story-KgFQePVCxQbsVSvaTImY3O.html
08-06-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan damages habitat of living fossil horseshoe crabs in Bengal||Two consecutive cyclones – Amphan and Bulbul - that hit the Bengal coast within a gap of six months have severely damaged the habitat of horseshoe crabs - a living fossil that has remained unchanged for millions of years.Forest officials and researchers are now trying to restore this habitat and also relocate some of the animals to three new islands in the Sunderbans to save them. Plans are also afoot to tag some of the animals so that they could be tracked with the help of satellites.“The horseshoe crab habitat on Sagar Island has suffered extensive damage because of two consecutive cyclones - Amphan and Bulbul. We have identified three beaches at Kalash, Haliday and Bakkhali where a section of the population of the horseshoe crab will be released,” said S Kulandivel, joint director of the Sunderban Biosphere Reserve.Cyclone Amphan hit Bengal on May 20 with winds up to 185 km per hour, Bulbul had hit the Bengal coast close to Sagar Island in November 2019. “Satellite pictures clearly show that its mangrove habitat on the Sagar Island has been damaged. Ground reports say that it is littered with debris including plastic that was brought in by the storm. Also the water has a lot of ‘ghost nets’ which are basically fishing nets that got ripped in the storm and has now been abandoned,” said Punyasloke Bhadury, who heads the Centre for Climate and Environmental Studies at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER).Forest officials and researchers from IISER and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) will soon start restoring the habitat, first removing the debris and nets. The local fishermen will be involved as Cyclone Amphan has also affected their livelihood. A threshold population will be allowed to stay on the Sagar Island. Talks are also on to tag the habitat as an ecologically sensitive zone in future.Out of the four species of horseshoe crabs in the world, two are found in India. Their habitats in India are confined to the beaches of West Bengal and Odisha in areas such as Sagar Island and Bhitarkanika. The total length of the habitat in Odisha and West Bengal is around 150 km.“While hundreds of Indian horseshoe crab (Tachypleus gigas) comes ashore particularly during the monsoon to breed, the mangrove horseshoe crab (Carcinoscorpius rotundicauda) usually stays in the mangrove areas to feed,” Bhadury said. The researchers will intercept some of the injured horseshoe crabs and treat them before releasing them again in the wild.As of now we want to give them some kind of tag which will help us to identify them in the future. In the next stage we will go for satellite tagging so that they can be monitored.“We first need to assess the damage. More than the cyclone it was the storm surge and the heavy rain that could have inflicted the damage on the habitat which comprises mangrove and mudflats. Some may have got washed further inland and their tail may have been broken,” said BC Choudhury, executive trustee of WTI.The pharmaceutical industry depends on this animal’s blood to test for bacteria in vaccines. The creature has copper-rich blood clots in the presence of bacterial endotoxins and hence has long been used to detect contamination in shots and infusions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-damages-habitat-of-living-fossil-horseshoe-crabs-in-bengal/story-yU1I0mOOahvkq4vDNjUY1M.html
08-06-2020||India||Telangana reports 14 deaths, 154 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, state tally now at 3,650||Telangana on Sunday reported 14 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest-ever number of fatalities in a single day in the state, taking the overall death toll due to the deadly virus to 137.According to an official bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday night, as many as 154 new Covid-19 cases have been detected, taking the total number of coronavirus positive cases to 3,650.What is more alarming is that there has been a steep rise in the number of deaths over the last 20 days after the lifting of lockdown restrictions on May 17.The number of deaths due to Covid-19, which were just 34 on May 18, has now reached 137 – a massive increase by 104 deaths in a span of 20 days. In the last five days alone, as many as 45 deaths were reported in the state.Similarly, the number of Covid-19 positive cases which were just 1,661 on May 18 has now gone up by more than double to reach 3,650 – a massive jump of nearly 1,989 cases.Of the 154 coronavirus positive cases reported today, 132 were from areas under GHMC, 12 from Rangareddy, three from Medchal, two from Yadadri and one each from Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool and Karimnagar.Meanwhile, 32 patients were discharged on Sunday which has taken the number of recovered patients to 1,742. As such, there are 1,771 active patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, the bulletin said.Director of medical and health department, G Srinivasa Rao, attributed the steep rise in the number of deaths and positive cases to increased movement of people from all walks of life and of all age groups from one place to another, after the relaxations in lockdown 4.0“People are travelling across the state and some of them are not following basic preventive measures like wearing a mask, maintaining safe physical distance and overcrowding. This has resulted in a surge in the cases since relaxation of lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-14-deaths-154-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-state-tally-now-at-3-650/story-KuIaYT8cZZZht63EfiMFzK.html
08-06-2020||India||Prices soar as Dehradun’s biggest vegetables market remains shut over Covid-19 cases||Prices of vegetables and fruits in Dehradun have gone up following the closure of the biggest vegetable and fruit market in the city after several cases of Covid-19 emerged from it.The Niranjanpur Mandi located on Saharanpur road was closed down a few days ago by the district administration after five cases of Covid-19 were reported from there. The mandi is the biggest wholesale one in the city where the majority of the vegetables and fruits is received from different parts of the state and country. The closure of the market for over a week has gradually resulted in the increase in retail prices of vegetables and fruits.Gajendra Singh, a retail seller of fruits and vegetables near the mandi said, “The closure of the mandi has posed a challenge for us to arrange a supply for the shop. Earlier we used to buy from the whole sellers in the Mandi, but now we have to arrange it from elsewhere.”Singh said, “The action has resulted in an increase in retail prices of vegetables and fruits in the market especially fruits.”“A few days ago, the price of 1.5 kg mangoes was Rs 100 but now it’s Rs 80 for a kg. Similarly the price of bananas which was Rs 40 a dozen is now about Rs 50-60 a dozen,” he said. Amid the closure of the Niranjanpur Mandi, the district administration has established a temporary mandi in Maldevta area of the city from where the vegetables and fruits are being supplied at present. But the supply has fallen short of the city’s requirement.A mandi official on condition of anonymity said, “The total requirement of the city is about 4,000 kg of vegetables per day. However, due to the closure of the Niranjanpur mandi, the supply is now about little more than half per day. We hope soon it will be resolved.”Meanwhile on Sunday, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) continued its sanitisation programme for the second day of complete closure of the city amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the city was closed as per the decision of the Uttarakhand government to carry extensive sanitisation in all the public places including markets, streets, colonies and shops. No shops, liquor shops, were allowed to open apart from the complete prohibition of movement of vehicles. Only the shops of essential items were allowed to open. The vehicles involved in essential services were the only ones allowed to ply on the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prices-soar-as-dehradun-s-biggest-vegetables-market-remains-shut-over-covid-19-cases/story-WJeA8vupwhi1JAMQC5zOSN.html
08-06-2020||India||India, China will continue talks on border stand-off||India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve a weeks-old stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Sunday amid indications that the two sides were hunkering down for the long haul on the issue.An hours-long meeting on Saturday between a delegation led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC ended without a breakthrough.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Sunday morning said that “the two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas”.Saturday’s meeting between the Indian and Chinese commanders – the first meeting of top military officials since the stand-off began in early May – “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere”, the statement said. It added that both sides agreed to work towards peacefully resolving the situation.“Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations,” the statement said.“Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” it added.The statement noted that, in recent weeks, India and China have “maintained communications through established diplomatic and military channels to address the situation” along the LAC.People familiar with developments and who spoke on condition of anonymity said both sides appeared to be preparing for the long haul, including protracted discussions to defuse tensions, end the stand-off and ensure a return to the status quo that existed in April.Saturday’s meeting, slated to begin early in the morning, was delayed by several hours. It began at about 11.30am and continued for almost seven hours, with a break for lunch. The people cited above said that the talks ended inconclusively.“The two sides discussed the need to adhere to existing border protocols to maintain peace and tranquillity on the frontier. They also talked about the need to avoid any aggressive activities that could lead to a flare-up,” said one of the people cited above.A second person, who too didn’t want to be named, said: “This has the makings of being a long-drawn affair. That’s why the official statement talks about the need for more military and diplomatic contacts.”The people said India is sticking to its position that the status quo existing in April, before intrusions by Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of LAC, would have to be restored, and that all bunkers and positions constructed by the Chinese side would have to be removed.They also acknowledged that the discussions could take several months before any sort of resolution is reached.A day ahead of the crucial talks between the army commanders, India and China agreed on Friday on not allowing their differences to escalate into disputes while respecting each other’s concerns.Joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry held talks with Wu Jianghao, director general in China’s foreign ministry, through video conference on Friday and reviewed bilateral relations, including “current developments”. This was the first formal diplomatic meeting between the two sides since tensions flared along the LAC.The army commanders met almost a month after tensions between India and China rose along the disputed border and took bilateral ties to a new low.India has dismissed China’s contention that its troops were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hampering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has made it clear it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC, and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint”.Lt Gen (retired) Vinod Bhatia, a former director general of military operations, said it would be difficult to set a time frame for resolving the dispute.“We have to be patient. It is important that the situation along the LAC remains stable and status quo ante (as of early April) is restored. And as long as military and diplomatic level talks are on, there is a high possibility the dispute could be resolved,” he said.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said India would have to be ready for prolonged negotiations to resolve the situation. “Clearly, the military and diplomats [on the Indian side] are coordinating on what they do,” he said.“However, the Chinese have already come with manpower, firepower and reinforcements and they’re not going back. They’re also blowing hot and blowing cold, and seem to have adopted a maximalist position,” he said.“Besides, President Xi Jinping, who would have cleared any action of this sort, has faced domestic criticism for the disengagement after the Doklam stand-off in 2017. We have to be ready for protracted discussions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-will-continue-talks-on-border-stand-off/story-SzEedczOwlQkTy01eqSC4N.html
08-06-2020||India||In one village, rising tide waters bring back nightmare of cyclone||When the gale died down and the squall ended in the early hours of May 21, Chandan Patra thought the worst was behind him. Cyclone Amphan tore the roof off his modest two-room house in Harinhula village in the North 24 Parganas district of West Bengal and smashed most of the belongings, but everyone in his family was safe and the hutment was still standing. Their biggest worry was the water swishing around on the floor – the cyclone smashed at least 22 river embankments in the area, allowing waters from the Bidyadhari river to gush through – but Patra estimated that in another week, the water level would plummet as relief reached the village. He was wrong. Roughly three weeks after the fiercest cyclone hit the region in a century, water levels are rising once again, courtesy the full-moon tide that threatens to maroon the entire village and overwhelm the recently repaired embankments. Patra, who works at a leather factory near Kolkata, was forced on June 4 to shift his ailing mother and sister to a relative’s house on the other side of the river. “In our house, the water is nearing waist-level. We fear if it rises again, it will destroy whatever we have left. The current sometimes is so strong that we feel we will be swept away,” said Patra. The road approaching his house has almost been washed away, making it difficult for relief workers to access his family. The male members of the family take turns perching themselves on a bed atop a small pile of trunks and belongings while another one goes to get dry food and ration from the local government office. “We are regularly getting relief material and food, but we are not sure how long our house will stand the gush of water. It is our home after all; we built it after much hardship. How do we abandon it?” asked Patra. The village of roughly 1,200 people stands in an under-developed part of the state that is dependent on agriculture and manual labour. Patra’s father is an agricultural labourer, his brother is unemployed and his sister is studying in a local college. Their nemesis, the Bidyadhari river, is one of the scores of waterways that form a unique interconnected network of channels, marshes, and salt lakes in the Sunderban delta. It once cradled a glorious ancient civilisation that now survives only in the form of a ruins and fort at nearby Chandraketugarh. A lifeline for the local population – dominated by marginalised castes, for who the local assembly constituency is also reserved – are the decades-old embankments that protect the area against storm surges. Local residents allege these structures were slowly weakening because of insufficient maintenance – hastening soil erosion in the area. “Over the years, we have lost chunks of land to the river,” said Shyamal Mondal, a local school teacher. Amphan crushed 22 of them, but within weeks, local residents and the administration were able to rebuild about 20. “About 500 labourers worked day and night to repair the embankments. But in two big ones, the water pressure was so high that it was dangerous to work there. These have not been repaired,” said Mondal. As a result, columns of water are gushing towards the low-lying Harinhula that falls right in the direction of the current. Two additional factors are complicating relief. The area is without power because Amphan uprooted all electricity poles in the vicinity and the lingering threat of Covid-19, which has infected at least 1,000 people in the district. The administration has provided generators and local residents have pooled in money to buy portable batteries to be installed in the main chowk of the village. Their biggest concern: keeping mobile phones charged. The administration is aware of the challenge in a block where roughly 60% of the houses were severely damaged. “The damage is extensive. We are trying our best and giving relief and food to the locals,” said Usha Rani Mondal, the local legislator. She said the water surge was too much for the workers to bring it under control. “It may take up to one month for the water to completely go down,” she added. The state government admitted that some areas were still inundated. “While most people have returned home and have started rebuilding and repairing their huts, there are some areas which are still inundated and people have not been able to return to their house. They have been kept in makeshift camps. More than 16 lakh tarpauline sheets have been distributed. Disaster kits with stoves, utensils for cooking, and water containers have been distributed. They need to stay in camps till the water recedes,” said Javed Khan, state disaster management minister.But for Patra and his family, the threat is more immediate. “We don’t know if our house will remain standing when the water surges again. Where will we go?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-one-village-rising-tide-waters-bring-back-nightmare-of-cyclone/story-OrPtJS8I1qq03R9emTRq0I.html
08-06-2020||India||11k Jharkhand workers to build roads near China boundary||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has allowed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to induct 11,815 workers from his state to build critical roads in areas close to the China border after being assured that their welfare and rights will be safeguarded, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.The state government conveyed its consent to BRO in a letter dated June 6. It gave the permission after getting assurances on concerns flagged by it about the welfare of workers and wages not being paid in time, the officials said.In a letter to the Jharkhand government on the movement of migrant labour dated June 5, BRO clarified several aspects related to the fixing and payment of wages, medical facilities, injury benefits, ration, clothing, free conveyance and work hours.On safeguarding the interest of the workers, the letter said, “The BRO is committed to safeguard the interest of the labour who are the backbone of the organisation. It has been the constant endeavour of the BRO to ensure that the aspirations of the labourers are met and their legitimate wages are paid in time.” The officials said BRO has communicated to the state the revised wages that will be paid to all categories of workers --- unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled --- who will get 15% to 20% extra from June 10, the officials said. The workers will be transported on 11 trains to Jammu and Chandigarh, and then be ferried to border areas in Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where BRO is constructing important roads, as reported by HT on May 31.The move comes even as Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball to eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. The roads on which works are being carried out include the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie (DS-DBO) road.The Chinese troop build-up in the Galwan area threatens the critical DS-DBO road and if the project is blocked, the Indian army will be forced to use aerial supply lines and prepare for an arduous alternative route.HT on April 28 reported BRO’s plans to induct up to 40,000 workers to carry out the construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas in the forward areas along the China border despite the Covid-19 pandemic.BRO employs a labour force of around 100,000 workers for its various construction projects. Of this, around 60,000 workers are employed locally and the rest of the requirement is met through hiring migrant labour.BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the organisation’s workforce involved in building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. It plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11k-j-khand-workers-to-build-roads-near-china-boundary/story-IrNvnEkzVQWSBabVoRhMtN.html
08-06-2020||India||Massive 84% dip in textile sales, finds study||The apparel sales have plummeted to a historic low of 84% because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed in late March to check its spread, a Clothes Manufacturing Association of India (CMAI) survey of around 1,000 factories has found. Only 22% of the factories were functioning by the May end while 40% of them manufactured personal protection equipment (PPE). Over 83% of the factories surveyed with global marketing research firm’s AC Nielson’s help reported sales of under 5% sales in May compared to the same month last year. Rahul Mehta, the chief mentor of CMAI, cited the survey and said the apparel market was worth Rs 6.5 lakh crore in 2019 and they estimate it to shrink by 15% this year to around 5.85 lakh crores. He added in the April-June quarter, most brands and retailers would be unable to achieve over 15- 20% of their 2019 first-quarter sales.Mehta said the industry, which contributes 4 to 5% to India’s GDP, employs close to 12 million people. “It is our estimate that approximately 50% of the labour force is migratory,” Mehta said. Union textile ministry officials said the demand was at an all-time low with even the government was unable to sell its own stock. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageA textile ministry official said there is no demand right now. “Only 10% of the stock has been sold in the last 15 days. The export market is dwindling as well. Luxury products are not selling.”The official said the ministry has not conducted any assessment of the losses but added stocks were piling up at mills even as the Centre on May 30 released details of the first of a three-phase plan--Unlock 1.0--to lift stringent restrictions imposed to stop the Covid-19 spread. The official said National Textile Corporation Limited, under the ministry, has a stock worth Rs 130 crore but no takers. “Rs 70 crore worth raw material is also lying unused.”The official said mills are unable to dispense with the stocks because the “market is at a stalemate”. “This may change by July. There are sectors that are worst hit like construction... Right now people are not spending money, but that will change.”Indian Technical Textile Association chairman Dr Sundaram said the Centre’s order for 20.2 million PPE kits has helped some offset huge loses. “At Rs 635 for a [PPE] suit, the order for 2.2 core [20.2 million], has pumped [Rs] 1,400 crore into the sector over the last three months.” He added this is nothing compared to the overall losses.South India Mills Association secretary-general K Selvaraju said the industry lost about 5,500 crore daily during the lockdown and the road ahead does not look easy.That nearly 70% of the workers employed in the industry are migrants has added to its woes as the lockdown led to their massive exodus from cities. Selvaraju said there will be at least 30 to 50% fall in consumption. “Most migrants have returned home and will only be back after the monsoon. It is likely that a semblance of normalcy will return to the industry in September...”Former Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) secretary-general D K Nair said there will at least 50% revenue loss and restarting the industry will be especially tough. He said the business would only get tougher if the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi do not reduce. “They are the main trading centres and right now, they are [Covid-19] hotspots. Nothing is moving there,” said Selvaraju. “Production across the industry, whether it is in spinning, garments, yarn, has come to standstill.” Selvaraju said exports make up for 30% of the revenue and most orders have been cancelled or deferredNair said the export demand is likely to fall further as the largest exporter, the US, is also facing anti-racism protests along with the pandemic. He added the US and Europe account for 60% of exports from India. CITI has written to Indian Banks Association and sought a series of measures, including an extension to the moratorium on repayment of term loans until March 31, 2021, to help the industry. Nair said many would be unable to tide over the revenue dip as medium or small scale enterprises account for 80% of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-84-dip-in-textile-sales-finds-study/story-QtuWcVSecymJc55eduKzhI.html
08-06-2020||India||Social innovation hub on anvil||The Union social justice and empowerment ministry is planning to organise a “social innovation hub” in Delhi to facilitate business ventures and start-ups by weaker sections of society, a person with knowledge of developments said on Sunday. The event, likely to be held at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre in central Delhi, is aimed at building a world-class social innovation hub that works for the promotion of grassroots innovators, the person added. It comes at a time the government has unveiled a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The innovation hub aims at developing business leaders among weaker sections especially the scheduled castes by facilitating them to establish and scale up business ventures with support from government schemes. The aim is to catalyse economic growth and boost the socio-economic fabric of the country. The social justice ministry is presently drawing the contours of the plan,” said the person, who wished not to be identified.According to details accessed by HT, the ministry intends to support at least one aspiring entrepreneur from the weaker sections in every district . The idea is to mentor and scale up indigenous innovative solutions for the benefit of these communities.The innovation hub might provide business coaching and other support to promising entrepreneurs, and guide them on issues like market access and fund-raising, according to the person cited above. The hub could also help these entrepreneurs gain access to new technologies and best practices. The hub could also explore tie—ups with corporate players to boost the new entrepreneurs.“The most important aspect is that such a hub is relevant to the socio-economic scenario. Therefore the ministry is brainstorming to make it an effective platform,” said the person cited above. The hub could hold leadership programmes for NGOs, social enterprises and even have entrepreneur-in—residence programmes, according to the person cited above.Another key idea is to provide business skills to persons from the weaker and underrepresented sections, which could be former convicts or those recovered from alcohol or drug addiction. “One of the Modi government’s focus areas has been ensuring employment and entrepreneurship opportunities to all sections. There is a view in the ministry that promotion of entrepreneurial skills and opportunities could mean actual empowerment of a significant strata. The hub could play a key role in this direction,” said the person cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-innovation-hub-on-anvil/story-anO1gO7FUt7cX3ACcuYN9N.html
08-06-2020||India||Reopening depends on Covid-19 situation: M Jagadesh Kumar||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) is awaiting the government’s directions on reopening educational institutes that were closed in March when the measures to curb the Covid-19 spread were introduced. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar spoke to Amandeep Shukla about his plans for reopening the university, and issues like the post-Covid-19 life, the pandemic, online learning, digital divide, etc. Edited excerpts:How has JNU coped with the Covid-19 pandemic?The [Covid-19] lockdown was enforced strictly by sealing gates and restricting movement. JNU has been able to not only shield itself from any outside social contact but made the most of social distancing by getting digitally closer to the world. Academically, JNU showed its responsibility by holding online classes, organising over 100 webinars, and discussions. To help the nation’s fight against Covid-19, JNU made a substantial contribution to the PM CARES [the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations] Fund by voluntary deductions from salaries...How would you respond to criticism of online education given the digital divide?While a majority of our students are participating in online academic activities, we are aware that some may not have good connectivity to access lectures and participate in the online evaluation. For all such students, the university has decided to conduct lectures and evaluations when they return.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWhen do you plan to reopen the university for regular teaching?Our initial plan was to open the university from July 1. We planned to conduct special lectures and evaluations from July 1 to July 31 for all students, who could not be part of the online academic activities... However, the actual date of reopening will depend on how the Covid-19 situation evolves and if we are going to get any new guidelines.Do you plan tie-ups with hospitals to tackle any emergency situations?We have formed a Covid-19 task force, which issues guidelines from time to time. The campus community has been very cooperative. We have a good health centre and two ambulances are available 24/7.What will change for JNU, which has a very lively campus?Life is going to be different for all of us primarily to protect ourselves and also to ensure that a second wave of infections should not affect us. Particularly in common areas, we will be taking precautions to maintain safety and health. Our sanitary section, too, is actively involved in maintaining the hostels and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-depends-on-covid-19-situation-m-jagadesh-kumar/story-wOY725J4kRUOUpvE3Cg9PN.html
08-06-2020||India||Woman held for links with IS tests positive in NIA custody||A woman arrested for her alleged links with the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) and charged with instigating violent protests in Delhi in February has been hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 in the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) custody, people familiar with the matter said. It wasn’t immediately clear how Hina Bashir Beigh, 39, contracted the disease.The people cited above said the interrogators have been asked to undergo Covid-19 tests and follow the quarantine process. A person aware of the developments said that around 7-8 officials, including a police superintendent, questioned Beigh last week.Beigh and her husband, Jahanzaib Sami, who are from Srinagar, were arrested from Delhi in March for their alleged links with ISKP and for allegedly instigating protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.NIA, which is probing cases pertaining to IS in India, took the custody of Beigh, Sami and another suspect, Mohammad Abdullah Basith, from Delhi’s Tihar jail on May 29. Basith, who is from Hyderabad, was arrested in August 2018 for allegedly trying to carry out attacks in India and inspiring people to join the group.The three tested Covid-19-negative when NIA took their custody, the people said. NIA questioned the three at the agency’s headquarters for nine days. Beigh developed Covid-19 symptoms during the interrogation and was tested again. NIA informed the duty magistrate at New Delhi’s Patiala House Courts Complex on Sunday that Beigh has been found positive for the infectious disease.Her lawyer, MS Khan, said: “I urged the court that Beigh should be immediately referred to a hospital and permission be granted for her to talk to me regularly, which was not allowed earlier.”Sami and Basith have not shown any signs of the disease yet, the people said.An NIA spokesperson did not respond to HT’s calls for a comment.NIA on May 29 said the agency needs the custody of the three to “unearth a larger criminal conspiracy” as they were in touch with several unknown people in India and abroad. “Beigh, Sami and Basith were motivated by ISIS ideology and working for banned terror organisation ISKP in India for which they had created a lot of email IDs and secured social media chat platform IDs to interact with the like-minded persons for sharing the contents propagating the ideology of ISKP and ISIS in general,” according to the NIA remand paper accessed by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-for-links-with-is-tests-positive-in-nia-custody/story-ohsrcvdk2qrFXiGsFuAVsK.html
08-06-2020||India||Rise in younger people seeking NREGS work||More younger people are seeking jobs under the government’s flagship rural job guarantee scheme -- indicating the impact of the return of migrant labour from cities back home to the hinterland because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread that stopped work at construction sites and factories around the country and also forced restaurants and retail stores to down shutters. The month of April saw a tepid start of the world’s largest job programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), with 12.8 million households asking for work. Officials point out that a hard lockdown, lack of preparation at the state level and scarcity of workers led to low demand even as millions were stranded jobless as the Covid pandemic swept across India.But as more Shramik special trains brought migrant workers back to their states, the demand for work jumped by 181% in May with 36.1 million households wanting work, according to official data. The railway ministry said it ran 4,286 Shramik special trains to bring back over 5.8 million migrant workers to their state of domicile from cities such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Delhi.In the first week of June, the MGNREGS dashboard shows that 19.6 million families have asked for work, signalling further rise in the demand as the harvest season is over and hardly anyone is returning to their workplace. With younger workers having returned to their villages, their participation in MGNREGS has increased. Among the people employed in the flagship job programme this year, 31.1% are in the 31-40 years age group. And another 30% in the 41-50 age bracket. For last year, the corresponding figures were 29.5% and 29.6%.As the participation of younger workers—mostly those who returned from cities—increases, the proportion of workers in the age group 51-60 years has reduced to 19.3% as against 20.2% of the last year.The drop in percentage terms is small, but across tens of millions of households, the change in absolute terms is significant. For instance, across 10 million people, a 1% point difference will mean 100,000 people. “The established pattern in MGNREGS was that while young men would leave for cities in search of more lucrative jobs, the women or the elder people in the family would opt for the government’s job scheme to earn additional money. This year, we are witnessing some changes in this pattern,” said an official.The flagship job scheme, once criticized by a section of the politicians for rampant corruption, has emerged as the main source of income for the rural poor in this distress. The government too, has pumped in an unprecedented Rs 1.01 lakh crore in the programme and aims to generate 3 billion person days of work to help jobless migrant labourers in their villages.Among the states, Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Odisha Punjab, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh have witnessed massive demand for work. Officials pointed out that while large parts of Maharashtra and Rajasthan have now been reopened from lockdown allowing MGNREGS work, the other states have seen large-scale return of migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-younger-people-seeking-nregs-work/story-jb9mqc9MrErQzORsvDQ1WJ.html
08-06-2020||India||Bundelkhand stares at acute water crisis||The average water consumption has more than doubled in urban and semi-urban areas of the arid Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh because of a focus on maintaining hygiene to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, a study by Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan and Parmarth, a voluntary group, has found. Sanjay Singh, the group’s national convenor, said the rise in water use could be attributed to repeated hand washing, home cleaning, and washing of clothes. “We have analysed the water being supplied from two biggest dams Mata Teela and Pahuj and found that the water consumption has jumped one-and-a-half-times,” he said. Mata Teela supplies 110 MLD and 40 MLD through two waterworks plant and Pahuj provides 5.5 MLD to Jhansi and other areas. “Earlier 80% of the water was being used but after the [Covid-19] lockdown was announced, the consumption became cent percent. More so, the water is [also] made available to people through a network of tankers,” said Singh, who is known as ‘the waterman’ in Bundelkhand, where he has been working on water conservation for 20 years.The demand for water further increased with the return of the migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown. A looming water crisis is weighing heavily on the women, who traditionally have shouldered the responsibility to collect and conserve water. “The women are troubled because of the heightened demand for water which is available through pipelines and handpumps in 10% of total households in Bundelkhand,” Singh said. “At present, on average, a person is washing hands six to seven times a day. People are cleaning their homes multiple times. They are using more water to clean vegetables and other commodities leading to a rise in water consumption.”Officials said at least 24% of handpumps were not working in the region and their repair has been hampered because of the pandemic.Bundelkhand faces water shortage because of its unique granite topography, which does not allow rainwater to seep in and recharge the groundwater table. The region has 20 dams and seven rivers, which are its main water sources of water along with reservoirs and ponds.Singh said 70% of water is used for agriculture, and about 12 to 15% for industrial and personal consumption in Bundelkhand, which has faced two major droughts in recent years. “The government should at war footing initiate measures to repair and desilt reservoirs, wells and ponds as the water crisis in Covid times is bound to become serious.”Uttar Pradesh Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh admitted the water consumption has gone up but said the government has ensured availability to all. “We have set control rooms at the block level to state level and I am personally monitoring the situation every day; the policies and work on the ground of state government is such that there has been no complaint of water shortage in the last three years in Bundelkhand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bundelkhand-stares-at-acute-water-crisis/story-6YdaJzthwqHhetonpXCrkL.html
08-06-2020||India||Nod to reopening 820 protected monuments||The culture ministry on Sunday approved the reopening of 820 Archeological Survey of India (ASI)-protected monuments that have remained closed since the Centre clamped a national lockdown to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Union minister Prahlad Patel said.The list of monuments includes temples, mosques and churches, with 114 monuments in the north region, 155 in central, 170 in the west, 279 in the south and 103 in the eastern circle.“Today, the culture ministry has approved the opening of 820 of its active monuments under the ASI from June 8. All protocols issued by the home ministry and the health ministry should be followed,” Patel tweeted.While the list of monuments approved for reopening included the Taj Mahal, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said the 17th-century will not open for public from Monday. The district administration decided not to open the monument as the area is classified as a Covid-19 hotspot.People aware of the developments said that monuments located in Maharashtra were also unlikely to be opened in view of the surging Covid-19 infections in the state.A statement issued by the Centre said: “Culture Ministry said that ASI shall ensure that preventive measures as stipulated in the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India, on 4.6.2020 to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the religious places/places of worship are effectively put in place and scrupulously followed while opening and managing these Centrally Protected Monuments.”The culture ministry decided to open only ASI-maintained monuments where religious events are held.About 3,700 centrally protected monuments and heritage sites were closed in March after the nationwide lockdown was announced. Once allowed by local administrations, the highest number of monuments is set to reopen in Karnataka (153), followed by Uttar Pradesh (111), Tamil Nadu (77) and Andhra Pradesh (75).The monuments allowed to open include the Afsah-wala-ki-Masjid situated outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb, the Qutub Minar and Nizamuddin Dargah in Delhi. According to the document, the Nizamuddin Dargah sees nearly 5,000-6,000 worshippers every day. The Govind Dev Temple in Mathura (1,500-2,000 worshippers daily) has also been allowed to open. The famous Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa (700-2,500 visitors per day, depending on the time of the year) has also been approved to reopen. The Ambernath Temple, which sees a footfall of 800,000 a year, has also been allowed to reopen.The Union culture and tourism minister told Hindustan Times that the move will allow the ministry to observe and gauge the way forward as the central government eases restrictions in a phased manner. “Hotels and restaurants have also been allowed to function starting tomorrow (Monday),” Patel said. “The standard operating procedures issued by the health and home ministry will be followed at the places of worship that have been allowed to be opened,” he added. “The states can further issue orders for the monuments that fall under them,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nod-to-reopening-820-protected-monuments/story-4iSYa6p4F61m7UJV629X7I.html
08-06-2020||India||Centre relaxes norms for import of certain drugs||The Union health ministry has issued a draft notification to allow import and manufacturing of certain unapproved drugs on compassionate grounds in small volumes based on a prescription from a medical institution. The move is aimed at making experimental drugs for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) accessible for severely-ill patients in India.In the draft gazette notification issued on June 5, the health ministry amended the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, in consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board, which advises the government on all drug-related matters.“…Application for import of unapproved new drug for Compassionate use for treatment of patients by hospitals or and medical institution… a medical officer of a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need, which has not been permitted in the country…” says the notification.The rules will also be applicable to the manufacturing of such drugs in the country.However, only those drugs will be allowed to be imported or manufactured that are under phase-III clinical trial either in India or in any other country. The medical superintendent of a hospital or head of a medical institution will have to certify an application before sending it to the central licensing authority for approval.“This rule already existed and was applied on a case to case basis... keeping the Covid situation in mind... the rules now have been amended to allow import or manufacture of an unproved drug to treat seriously-ill patients based on a prescription by the authority concerned,” said an official in the drugs controller’s office. “The prescription will be given to manufacturer or importer who will attach it with the application for approval to the central drugs controller. Many drugs are being approved for trials and there may be a need to get these drugs to our patients.”The official said the condition related to phase-III the clinical trial is to have the safety and efficacy data in place, which is important to know when you are giving an experimental drug to a patient.The rules will be applicable 15 days after the final draft is published in the gazette of India. “As per protocol, we have to wait for a particular time for responses on the proposed amendment. If there is no objection, then the draft is finally gazette notified and implemented,” the official said.Drugs controller general of India, VG Somani, last week approved “emergency use” of Gilead Sciences Inc’s anti-viral drug remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-relaxes-norms-for-import-of-certain-drugs/story-S0XXffd4ggGcVCec9OkipM.html
08-06-2020||India||Odisha cops exhume body parts of youth killed over suspicion of witchcraft||An 18-year-old young man was allegedly killed by a group of people in Odisha’s Malkangiri district over suspicion that he practised black magic that led to the death of 17 tribals over the last 3 months, police said Sunday.The alleged killers also chopped his body into pieces and buried them in a pit.Police officials in Malkangiri district exhumed the pieces of Samaru Madkami’s body, three days after he was murdered by villagers, said the inspector of Malkangiri police station Ramprasad Nag. Nag led a police team to Kenduguda village on Sunday and arrested four people who had allegedly killed Samaru.Many of the 17 men who died in the last three months, had complained of swollen legs and swollen stomach. Most of them reportedly did not have the strength even to walk or stand properly and suffered acute respiratory problems. A medical team has been camping at the village for over a week to find out the reason behind the deaths.Police said four tribals - Deba Madkami, Budra Muchaki, Aaita Kabasi and Ram Madi - had called Samaru and two other boys from their houses on the night of June 4 on the pretext of a meeting. They took the three to the outskirts of the village and tried to kill the three. While two boys managed to escape, Samaru was battered to death by the four who accused him of practising witchcraft.After killing Samaru, they chopped his body into pieces and later buried the body parts before fleeing from the spot.The village is situated in a remote area and is difficult to access. Though a primary health centre is located 5 km away, local villagers did not go there for treatment of their ailments.Killing over witchcraft is not new in Odisha. In February this year, a tribal in Malkangiri district was killed by his neighbour over suspicion that he practised black magic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cops-exhume-body-parts-of-youth-killed-over-suspicion-of-witchcraft/story-QaKfXpRdxEzdyq7QTzqGuI.html
08-06-2020||India||At ‘non-election rally’, Amit Shah says NDA will win two-third majority in Bihar polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that the virtual rallies being organised by the BJP were to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is not an election rally. This is a virtual rally to boost the morale of the public against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said during the Bihar Jansamvad rally. “I want to salute the crores of corona warriors who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution.”But it was clear that the former BJP national president had sounded the bugle for assembly election later this year in Bihar where the JD (U), BJP and the LJP run an alliance government.Shah went on to list the achievements of both the central and Bihar government, attacked the opposition in the state and touched upon the touchy issue of the return of migrants.“The elections are there. I have full faith that the people of the state will vote Nitish Kumar to power with a two-third majority and help form the government again,” said Shah, after he had spelt out statistics of work done in the state.Shah defended Centre’s handling of the migrant crisis during the lockdown. “I appeal to all people who returned from their workplace that keep yourself aloof from those elements who are out to misguide you,” he said and saluted their contribution in nation building.“The country respects you. Everybody knows that developed states and development in the country would not have been possible without your sweat. Yours have been an important contribution in the development of the nation. However, those misguiding you, don’t know your value,” he said in an obvious reference to appease close to 21 lakh migrants who returned to Bihar during the lockdown.“There were certain disturbing pictures during the course of their return that gave us pain, but the Centre gave Rs 1,100 crore for their food, we transported 1.25 crore people to their respective state, besides providing Rs 11,020 crore package for the poor by way of different schemes and foodgrains worth Rs 6,000 crore. What did you do? Where were you, Delhi or Bihar,?” he asked taking a swipe at leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who early in the morning beat utensils in protest against the virtual rally.“Some people welcomed our today’s virtual rally by clanging ‘thalis’. I am glad they finally heard PM Modi’s appeal to show gratitude towards those fighting Covid-19,” he said.Bihar’s Covid-19 tally rose to 4,972 on Sunday with 141 new cases. There have been 30 casualties in the state so far.Shah praised the duo of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi “for leaving no stone unturned” to extend relief to the migrants.“Bihar government didn’t hesitate in providing relief. The state government had so far spent Rs 8,538 crore during in providing relief during the current corona crisis. Most of the people who returned by special trains were quarantined for 14 days. The government spent Rs 5,300 per person at a quarantine centre,” the former BJP president said and explained how the Centre spent its Rs 1.25 lakh crore package to the state announced by PM Narendra Modi before 2105 assembly polls.PM Modi had announced that the development of the country cannot be complete without progress in eastern states and it is his commitment that several projects in different sectors are underway in Bihar as well.“Bihar has moved forward under Nitish-Sushil Modi at a growth rate of 11.30 %, from a budget outlay of Rs 2,300 crore during RJD to a budget outlay of Rs 2.11 lakh crore under Nitish-Modi, from a reach of power to only 22% households to 100%, from 34% roads to 96% roads and from a negative industrial growth rate to a 17% industrial growth rate and from strong arm to a politics of development. We have moved away from lantern age to LED age,” he said. Shah also said that several crucial issues which no earlier government had dared to touch in 70 years were resolved in the first year of the Modi government’s second term as he referred to the controversial citizenship amendment law, the abolition of triple talaaq and the scrapping of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-non-election-rally-amit-shah-says-nda-will-win-2-3rd-majority-in-bihar/story-4aieaVMjb9wm31ZwMLlbtO.html
08-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand teenager listening to music on her headphone, killed by leopard||A teenage girl who was listening to music on her headphones was attacked and mauled to death by a leopard in Ramnagar area of Nainital district, said forest officials Sunday. Mamta, a class 8 student from Chunakhan area under Bailparao forest range in Ramnagar was sitting on the bank of a canal that flows parallel to her thatched house on Saturday evening. She was listening to music on her headphone when a leopard suddenly attacked her and dragged her towards the forest area. Her body was later recovered from the nearby bushes, said a forest official.“When we rushed to the spot on getting information from the villagers about the incident, a headphone and a comb were found from the spot. The victim was wearing headphones so she probably couldn’t hear the leopard,” said Santosh Pant, range officer, Bailparao forest range in Ramnagar.With the latest incident, eight people have been killed in Kumaon by leopards in the last one month.Forest officials have set up two cages and seven camera traps near the place where the incident took place to catch the leopard. The big cat returned to the incident place but it could not be trapped as villagers raised alarm on seeing it due to which it escaped to the forests, said Pant.“The leopard has been caught on camera trap. He returned to the place where the teen was killed. It was heading towards the cage but it fled when villagers raised an alarm on seeing it,” said Pant.Pant said, “Two cages and seven camera traps have been set up near the place where the incident took place. We will change the place and position of the cage in the evening to catch the big cat. If the villagers had not raised the alarm on Saturday evening, the leopard would have been trapped in the cage”.Pant said the body of the girl was handed over to her relatives on Sunday after post-mortem.“The victim’s family will be sanctioned Rs three lakh as ex-gratia from the state forest department. So far a cheque of Rs 90,000 has been provided to her family,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forest, western circle in Kumaon.On Friday, a 65-year-old man was attacked by a leopard in Tanakpur area of Champawat district when he had gone to fetch firewood. He was severely injured and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-teenager-listening-to-music-on-her-headphone-killed-by-leopard/story-MGvGDp43TljmGAcsV1S6IM.html
08-06-2020||India||Rally to boost public’s morale against Covid-19 pandemic, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said his virtual rally for the people of Bihar was to bring the country together in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“This is not an election rally. This is a virtual rally to boost the morale of the public against the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said during the Bihar Jansamvad rally. Assembly elections in Bihar, where the BJP runs the alliance government with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), are due later this year. “I want to salute the crores of corona warriors who are fighting against the virus by risking their lives. Health workers, police personnel and others, I want to acknowledge their contribution,” he said.Shah listed the achievements of the Centre and cited Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, power connections for the poor, toilets, the airstrikes in retaliation to the Pulwama terror attack, triple talaq, Ram Janambhumi, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the establishment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and teh scrapping of Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir.Watch: ‘Virtual rally will connect people to ‘self-reliant’ India’: Amit Shah “There was a time when anybody used to enter our borders, beheaded our soldiers and Delhi’s darbar remained unaffected. Uri and Pulwama happened during our time, it was the Modi and BJP govt, we did surgical strikes and airstrike,” he said.Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to bring changes in the lives of millions of poor people“Many people had said Indira Gandhi had also promised to remove poverty. But Narendra Modi does what he promises.”He took a swipe at the RJD which had opposed his virtual rally.“Some people welcomed our today’s virtual rally by clanging ‘thalis’. I am glad they finally heard PM Modi’s appeal to show gratitude towards those fighting Covid-19,” he said.Shah defended the Centre’s handling of the migrant crisis during the lockdown and cited the Shramik Special trains that were operated to transport stranded people.He also said PM Modi had regularly been in touch with chief ministers and changed the strategies accordingly during the lockdown.Shah hailed Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Opposition leaders dismissed the Prime Minister’s efforts to unite country in fight against Covid-19 as political propaganda but nation followed his appeals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-addresses-bihar-jansamvad-rally-salutes-crores-of-corona-warriors/story-qHaT5nlmuIPgdSqYcYF0dJ.html
08-06-2020||Editorials||Bihar gets into poll mode | HT Editorial||The campaign for the Bihar election, scheduled for the end of the year, has begun. In a display of what campaigning may look like in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-hit era, Union home minister and top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amit Shah addressed workers in a digital rally. His message was simple: The BJP-Janata Dal (United) alliance had delivered on governance; it will win a two-thirds majority under chief minister Nitish Kumar; and the Centre and the state government have worked to address the distress of the poor, particularly migrant workers. Mr Shah’s claims are questionable. There is a sense in Bihar that in his third term, Mr Kumar’s record in office has been patchy, especially when compared to his own previous track record where he improved Bihar’s infrastructure and law and order. The last five years have been marked by political instability. He won the election in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), but changed partners mid-way. The next generation of reforms, needed to bring in investment to industrialise the state, has not happened. But most critically, Mr Kumar’s record in dealing with the health and the economic crisis in the last two months has had several gaps. Bihar’s testing was low in the initial period; it was not proactive in bringing back migrant workers — who are central to the remittance economy of the state; when migrants returned, there has been a surge in cases beyond the anticipation of the state government; and it has been unable to rigorously follow health protocols and come up with an adequate economic response.Yet, the BJP-JD(U) alliance has an advantage in the race, primarily due to caste arithmetic and the state of the opposition. In Bihar’s triangular polity, whenever two actors come together, they have an advantage over the third. The ruling combine has the substantial backing of upper castes, backward communities, and a large segment of Dalits. But its biggest strength is the RJD. With Lalu Prasad still in jail, the leadership mantle of the party is with Tejaswi Yadav, who does not have his father’s mass connect and charisma. The RJD has the solid backing of Muslims, and the majority of Yadavs (though segments of Yadav’s moved away in the Lok Sabha elections to the National Democratic Alliance). This social coalition is enough to make the RJD a strong opposition, but not enough to win. It is also unclear if the RJD has the political heft to capitalise on the palpable discontent against the state government. But irrespective of the outcome, the real significance of the poll is in how parties mobilise during times of a pandemic and the shifting nature of issues that will now be central in the choices of voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bihar-gets-into-poll-mode/story-UfcngJwruXWBt3XnaN4rvK.html
08-06-2020||Editorials||The costs of anti-Indian nationalism in Nepal | HT Editorial||India’s political stand-off with Nepal over the Lipu Lekh border persists. Nepal’s Parliament is expected to pass a constitutional amendment to formalise a map to include territory, which is both claimed by India and has been under Indian control. This escalation on Nepal’s side has been coupled with a rise of strong anti-Indian nationalism. At the root of the discord is a simple question. India and Nepal have a “special relationship”. In practice, this has meant that India and Nepal share open borders; India allows Nepalis to work in India without restrictions; and Nepalis serve in the Indian Army. In turn, Nepal has both conceded, indirectly, a role for India in its domestic politics, and has been sensitive to Indian security interests. The rise of ultra-nationalism and the emergence of a new generation of Nepali elite, which does not share the same emotional bond with India, mean Kathmandu wants a reset of ties now. But while India has benefited from the special ties too, this reset will have clear costs for Nepal. It can mean hard borders; it can mean restrictions on Nepalis from working in India; it can mean a reduction in bilateral support essential for Nepal’s development; and it can lead to political resistance from the Tarai, Nepal’s southern plains. Is Kathmandu ready for the costs that come with its focus on absolute sovereignty, a clear pro-China tilt, and belligerent nationalism? The dilution of the special relationship will harm both countries, but cause more damage to Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-costs-of-anti-indian-nationalism-in-nepal/story-WM6jUrWmJR0JZrOq9qaHeM.html
