09-06-2020||News||In India and the US, a tale of two rights movements, writes Salman Khurshid||For people who admire the world’s oldest democracy, the developments in the United States (US) have caused considerable concern. If President Donald Trump’s politics remains perplexing, the latest public outburst on the merciless killing of a black man, George Floyd, came as a frightening validation of the thesis that democracy is in deep trouble. To think that four years after President Barack Obama’s comforting tenure, to quote from William Butler Yeats’ Second Coming, “things fall apart, the centre cannot hold, and mere anarchy is loosed upon the world”.But there is a bright light yet in the spontaneous kneeling gesture of the Miami police to apologise for the inhuman conduct of a killer in uniform. Nations do not have unexceptional goodness. But if they know how to swiftly contain moral aberrations and encourage acts of forgiveness and reconciliation, such as the Miami police exhibited, one’s faith and confidence in democracy is preserved. What happened in Minneapolis is wrong, and even in a divided society, white supremacists have been silenced, and liberals across colour and communities have been openly arguing that “black lives matter”. Curiously, some Bollywood stars, who seem unmoved by recent events in India, have joined the US chorus for justice.As protests over Floyd’s death intensified in the US, social media was flooded with posts on police brutality. However, amid the news of rioting, tear-gas and baton charge, there were also reports of police personnel in Miami joining the protesters’ cause and apologising for the brutality. Police forces at several places laid down their shields and helmets to express solidarity with those speaking out against racism and for human rights, while some knelt before the demonstrators.But here, at home, some courts have not found the time to seek an explanation for the police brutality writ large, but heartlessly shrouded in the exigencies of the Covid-19 lockdown. Jamia Millia Islamia awaits justice for brutal assaults on protesting students on two separate occasions in the wake of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests, despite the university management having publicly complained of the unwarranted conduct of the police. Far from reaching out to the aggrieved student body, the police have issued notices to dozens of them and arrested several under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or Indian Penal Code to begin with, and immediately, if granted bail, under UAPA a period of incarceration without bail.The State might well be able to inflict unnecessary pain upon these young persons, even derail their career prospects, but hopefully will not crush their spirit and commitment to democracy and freedom. The State has a solemn duty to intervene wherever there is even a hint of suspicion about any person working to undermine national integrity. There can be no cavil with that proposition. But there is a difference between the State and the government of the day. Vigorous opposition of the latter cannot remotely be an anti-State posture. Much evil has been done in history in the name of State security. We see the same happening today in India. If people and institutions fail to step in to expose this, this will amount to a situation when history is retold.Unable to support wild charges of sedition, the investigation officers are reportedly browbeating innocent political activists to surrender to their will and give evidence against their colleagues. This is a gross violation of human rights under the very nose of the top courts in the capital. Similar infractions of the law in Uttar Pradesh (UP) were brought to the notice of the National Human Rights Commission by the Congress’ general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi, several weeks ago, but there has been no forward movement. The pain is now, but the panacea will come at some distant moment, and that too if the truth prevails.Although the ostensible object of the investigation launched by the special cell of Delhi Police is to get to the bottom of what they claim is a “larger conspiracy” to create civil unrest at the time of Trump’s New Delhi visit, the focus seems to be on Jamia and Shaheen Bagh. People are being asked why they participated or organised the anti-CAA protests and how they were connected. The Northeast riots are used to conveniently blame the violence on innocent persons.Despite attempts to create a misleading narrative that includes the home minister telling Parliament how proud he was of the Delhi Police bringing the violence under control within 48 hours, the fact remains that former Supreme Court judges took public transport to visit the affected areas and pointed out clear dereliction of duty by the police. The harsh comments made by Justice S Muralidhar of the Delhi High Court before he was suddenly transferred to Chandigarh, the unequivocal concern expressed by a trial court in remand proceedings that the “investigation was targeted to one end”, and another high court judge granting bail to an accused by stating that jail was for convicted prisoners and not under-trials, all point to a serious disquiet in the judiciary. But we are also a witness to government law officers speaking of high courts running a parallel government even as the government rewards them with engagements such as special public prosecutors. The months ahead will be a serious contest between the rule of law and the ruse of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-india-and-the-us-a-tale-of-two-rights-movements/story-rFAlg2aidkvM8Ah2JY8rXM.html
09-06-2020||News||South Asia must now build resilient supply chains | Analysis||The outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has brought about new opportunities for regional cooperation in South Asia. On March 15, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi organised a regional conference with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) leaders and set up an emergency fund of $10 million to fight the pandemic. A senior official-level meeting was held on March 26 to frame mechanisms to further health cooperation. The region is also witnessing cooperation at a bilateral level, with Bangladesh supplying food and medical equipment to Maldives, and India stepping up its medical assistance to the region.Many commentators envisage that there will be a decline in globalisation and relative strengthening of regional supply chains. Geography will assume an important role in supply chains, with the proximity of production centres weighing equally against conventional elements such as facility, labour, and transportation time and cost. India, in particular (and largely the South Asian region), is foreseen to benefit from this for two reasons — one, it is expected that several firms moving out of China will look at India as a potential destination, and two, India’s importance as a market for its neighbouring countries will also increase. While the shifting focus on localisation of global supply chains provides an opportunity for the region to become better integrated economically, there are existing challenges that must be addressed.In the recent Brookings India report, India’s Limited Trade Connectivity with South Asia, we have mapped the trends in India’s low trade connectivity with the region, the gaps that need to be addressed, and recommendations for increasing trade in the region. Despite huge potential, intra-regional trade in South Asia is among the lowest in the world at 5% (World Bank). To date, India’s trade with the region has ranged between 1.7% to 3.8% of its global trade. China has steadily increased its exports to the region from $8 billion in 2005 to $52 billion in 2018. As a result, only Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan now have a higher trade share with India as compared to that with China. However, India continues to be an important market for all its neighbouring countries, except Myanmar and Pakistan.The pandemic created both supply and demand-side shocks to global trade. A recent report by the Economist Intelligence Unit shows that companies with localised industries and supply chains were able to mitigate the shocks better.Recently, PM Modi also stressed on self-reliance while emphasising on bolstering India’s supply chains. South Asian economies, particularly the small and medium enterprises in the region, can benefit from strengthening regional supply chains. The relatively younger population of the region and a rising middle-class, is well placed to supply workforce for labour-intensive production and generate demand for goods and services, respectively. To achieve better regional integration, there are several steps that South Asian countries can take.First, supply chains can only be strengthened if protectionism in the region is reduced to facilitate the flow of goods and services across borders. This includes the reduction of both tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. This can be done either through the revision of the free trade agreements or unilaterally by India. India’s health exports in particular — such as medical devices, surgical equipment, and pharmaceuticals — are beneficial to the neighbourhood.Second, cross-border logistics and infrastructure must be improved for supply chains to be economical. The region also lacks seamless end-to-end connectivity, has high logistics cost and inadequate infrastructure for warehousing. Over the last few years, there has been a focus on improving infrastructure at trade ports in the region — approximately six Land Customs Stations (LCS) have been upgraded to Integrated Check Posts with 13 more in the pipeline, connectivity infrastructure with Nepal and Bangladesh (rail, road, pipelines and inland waterways) has increased in number, and air connectivity with Sri Lanka has grown with the operationalisation of Jaffna airport. Despite this, there is a need for South Asian countries to focus on reducing logistics barriers.Third, the pandemic has shown the importance of digitisation. As sanitation measures increase in cross-border movements, there is a need to increase investment in digital infrastructure to reduce human interactions. The digitisation of documentation and installation of radio frequency identification at land ports are some of the measures that can be explored.India’s dominant presence in South Asia necessitates that it must take steps to strengthen cooperation, build resilient supply chains and support economic recovery in its neighbouring countries. The pandemic has provided an opportunity for India to reverse its sluggish trade with the region. Since regional markets are easier to connect than global markets, India is seen as an attractive market by its neighbours; Bangladesh, for example, has shown interest in connecting with the Northeast. By optimising its strategic location in South Asia and its availability of labour and a growing middle class to generate supply and demand of goods and services, India has immense potential to attract investments and make itself an export-led economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/south-asia-must-now-build-resilient-supply-chains/story-u1Uv8SzbcVnfpbwhtYNVxK.html
09-06-2020||News||A three-fold test for new legislations | Analysis||Governments are on a law-making spree. When legislatures are not in session, as is currently the case, India’s Constitution empowers the government to make laws through executive action. The central government has made ten new laws in the last two months. Four were made recently. Two of these are new legislations which aim is to give a “boost to rural India and agriculture”. The third protects companies from insolvency proceedings for defaulting on their financial commitments after March 25. The last one gives power to the government to regulate the supply of food items like cereals, oils, pulses in extraordinary circumstances.Indian statute books are overflowing with more than 6,000 laws passed by the Centre and state governments. They are the preferred tool for problem-solving for all governments. But laws are also blunt instruments which have a large impact. So the use of laws for governance intervention raises three key questions.First, how well are these laws made? Effective laws are the outcome of a robust law-making process. Over the years, both the government and Parliament have tried to bring about more rigour to this process. But not all laws go through a standardised process of law-making. Some laws sail through the process, bypassing multiple layers of scrutiny. Ordinances, which are laws made by the government to deal with an emergent situation when Parliament is not in session (such as those mentioned above) are one such example. They are rarely sent to a parliamentary committee for examination. But the rationale for their existence, ie to tackle an emergent situation, makes it critical they be scrutinised carefully and in a timely manner by Parliament. More so when these are brand new laws or significant amendments to existing legislations.The second question is whether these laws accomplish their intended purpose. Take for example the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. Its purpose is to prevent the exploitation of migrant workers. It starts by admitting that “the provisions of the various labour laws are not being observed in their case and they are subjected to various malpractices”. Another example is the law to eliminate the inhuman practice of manual scavenging. The 2013 Bill that was enacted into law admitted that a previous law made 20 years ago was ineffective. Clearly, making a law is no guarantee that it will solve a problem.After the initial excitement of passing a new law wanes, it seems to be forgotten on our statute books. There are no regular checks to ensure that it is working well on the ground, and whether there is a need for revising the law. In 2019, in a public lecture, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu stressed on the importance of post-legislative impact assessment of laws. A parliamentary committee headed by Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Bhupender Yadav is currently examining how the evaluation of laws can be done to measure their impact. The report of this committee will be instrumental in reducing the gap between the intent of laws and their implementation.The last question with respect to laws is whether their use is appropriate in a particular situation. In the 1960s, two American academics Kaplam and Maslow popularised the phrase, “If all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.” Also termed as the law of the instrument, the axiom is a reference to the overreliance on a familiar tool, irrespective of its suitability to solve a problem.A recent example is the use of laws to address complex issues thrown up by the coronavirus pandemic. The closing down of commercial establishments after the first lockdown left a large number of workers with no source of livelihood. To address the problem, the government directed employers to pay full wages to workers for the lockdown period. With little to no earnings during the lockdown, businesses themselves were facing financial trouble. They petitioned the Supreme Court, which directed the government not to take action against them.With workers unable to make ends meet, they started heading back to their home states. When the lockdown was eased, commercial establishments slowly started opening up. But, by then, there was a shortage of workers. To address this problem, state governments allowed factories to increase their working hours to 12 hours a day.The thought process was that fewer individuals could work for longer hours to make up for the shortage of workers. In hindsight, perhaps these legal measures on their own were not appropriate to address the distress faced by workers and businesses.The pandemic has led to calls for creating new laws to deal with the unprecedented situation. But for laws to be effective, they cannot be a simple exercise on paper. They have to be carefully made, regularly sharpened and judiciously used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-three-fold-test-for-new-legislations/story-SasESZdEN6zdM3Cw2lRKMK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Facing lack of labour, Ludhiana industry doing all it can to bring back migrants||Reeling under crisis ever since the lockdown was announced in the country, the Punjab industry heaved a sigh of relief during the last week of April when industrialists were allowed to resume operations.Their hopes of revival, however, soon dashed, when the Railways started Shramik special trains to ferry lakhs of migrant workers back to their hometowns. A month later, the industry is currently facing a massive shortage of labour and industrialists are now doing all they can to bring the workers back.Factory owners of the city, a hub of the state’s cycle, hosiery and sewing machine industries, have been airlifting the workers from their homes, booking train tickets, arranging taxis or simply sending money to them to arrange their transport back to Ludhiana.As many as seven workers reached Ludhiana from Patna by air via Delhi last week as their employer booked air tickets for them.Bobby Jindal, owner of Balaji Processors, a blanket manufacturing firm, said, “Prior to the spread of Covid 19, the strength of workers at my firm used to be 250, on an average. Soon after the government started Shramik trains in May, I was left with fewer than 50 workers at my unit. The labour now wants to come back. I booked air tickets for seven master workers, who took a flight from Patna to Delhi and then from Delhi to the Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana only last week.”“I arranged two taxis and also booked train tickets to bring back others. I have already spent close to Rs 2 lakh on bringing back 50 workers in the last few days,” he added.Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president of the United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), who owns cycle parts manufacturing units in the city, said he has already sent money to three of his contractors in Bihar, who employ around 30 workers each.“As trains have not fully resumed, workers are finding it difficult to get confirmed tickets to come back via trains. The government should start the trains to bring them back also,” he said.Punjab industries minister Sham Sunder Arora, who held a meeting with industrialists last week at the Circuit House here, had said that the migrant labour wants to come back and he had arranged two buses to bring back workers to Hoshiarpur on June 4.Vinod Thapar, president, Ludhiana Knitwear Club, said, “All efforts are on to bring migrant labour back. “Summer stuff has already taken a hit as market was closed. Our effort is to see that now the sale of winter stuff is not affected as this is the peak time for us,” he added.Harkirat Singh Rana, president, Hazuri Road Hosiery Association, said reservation of train tickets is a major problem being faced by workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/facing-lack-of-labour-ludhiana-industry-doing-all-it-can-to-bring-back-migrants/story-jBiczugVyPsdfDF48i4a9L.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Computer mechanic held for depositing fake currency notes in Ludhiana||A computer mechanic was arrested on Tuesay for allegedly printing fake ₹2,000 currency notes and depositing 15 such notes in his account through an ATM. The accused has been identified as Pawan Kumar, 46, a resident of Luxmi Nagar of Haibowal.Inspector Jarnail Singh, station house officer (SHO) at division number 8 police station said that that a case was registered after a complaint was lodged by Manoj Kumar Chaudhary, manager of State Bank of India, Tagore Nagar branch.As per the compliant, the accused had a savings account in the branch and he printed 15 fake currency notes of ₹2,000 and deposited them in his account through an ATM On March 17. The complainant said the machine identified fake currency notes with same serial number. After banks reopened following the lockdown being eased, the bank manager informed police about the fake currency.The inspector added that police have lodged an FIR under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 489-B (using as genuine forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/computer-mechanic-held-for-depositing-fake-currency-notes-in-ludhiana/story-1G27J6mTc2DHYgtrGQ3o3I.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||HC relief for 70-yr-old widow tortured by daughter||The Bombay high court (HC) has come to the rescue of a 70-year-old widow who was being mentally and physically tortured by her daughter and threatened to evict the younger woman if she caused any further harm to her parent.“If children cannot take care of their parents and allow them to live in peace, they at least ought not to make their life a living hell,” said the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Surendra Tavade, while issuing a stern warning to the daughter of the septuagenarian.The bench stopped short of evicting the daughter, a divorcee, and her son, from the petitioner woman’s flat at Lokhandwala Complex, because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The court, however, warned the daughter and her son that they would be evicted forthwith if either of them caused any harassment to the elderly woman or tried to stop any of her relatives from contacting her or from entering the flat.The judges said that after talking to the petitioner, they had gathered the impression that the petitioner could suffer physical and mental harassment and consequently, a threat to her life at the hands of her daughter if she continued to reside with her daughter. “However, in view of the pandemic and the consequent problems that individuals are facing, we are today not passing an order directing the daughter to make alternate arrangements,” said the bench.The elderly woman moved the HC seeking eviction of her abusive daughter and her son, as the tribunal constituted under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 could not take up her plea for urgent reliefs due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner said that her daughter had eloped with her boyfriend, a person having a criminal background, in 1998. They spent two years in constant fights and in July 2000, he abandoned her and their toddler son. The daughter then returned to her parents’ home at Lokhandwala, as a temporary shelter for a few months. However, since then she and her son have been forcibly residing in the flat.The 70-year-old added that a few months after returning home, the daughter started harassing both, the petitioner and her husband and had threatened to level false accusations of molestation against her father.The elderly woman’s petition stated that she was mentally and physically tortured by her daughter, especially after her husband died in January 2011, and her finances were taken over by the younger woman. She alleged that she was forced to remain naked, to compel her not to step out of the house, and was served food only once a day.On August 3, 2018, the petitioner got an opportunity to step out of the flat, but was hit by an autorickshaw while crossing the road, and had to be hospitalised. Thereafter, the 70-year-old was bedridden for a long time. During this period, her daughter did not allow any of her relatives to enter the flat and also broke the woman’s mobile phone to ensure that she could not contact anyone.In February this year, the elder woman’s other daughter visited from the US and took her to Bombay Hospital, where a series of tests revealed that she had a shoulder fracture and several nerves around her neck had been badly damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-relief-for-70-yr-old-widow-tortured-by-daughter/story-MnKHckOOH3Z29FQ9J38dZM.html
09-06-2020||City||Two spotted deer rescued from Thane||Two spotted deer were rescued from a housing society in Thane, in the wee hours of Tuesday. One of the deer was bitten by dogs and was found injured at the gate of the society. The veterinarian informed that the deer is critical. Around midnight, the watchman of Grand Square Society, near Anandnagar area of Ghodbunder Road, saw a young spotted deer in the society premises. Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell (RDMC), said, “We got a call around 12.35pm about the deer found in this society. We handed the deer to the Yeoor forest department who later took him to the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. Around 6am today, we received a second call about another spotted deer stuck in the gate of the Rutu Enclave building.”The RDMC along with the fire brigade reached the spot. The deer had suffered severe injuries on his leg and other parts of the body as he was bitten by a dog. “A resident saw the deer in the morning and called us. We rescued the deer with the help of fire brigade officials. We admitted him to Society for Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals (SPCA), Thane, to give him immediate first aid and later took him to Sanjay Gandhi National Park,” Kadam said.Kadam said that both the deer were around a-year-old and must have got separated from the herd. Dr Shailesh Pethe, a senior veterinarian at SGNP, said, “The deer found in the morning has dog bites on his thighs, groins, abdomen and leg. His condition is critical and may not survive. The other deer found at night is not injured and will be released in the wild.”Two other spotted deer were sighted by passersby in Anandnagar. However, the forest officers did not find any deer in the area.Sanjay Pawar, forest officer, Thane city forest, said, “We got another call from the passersby about two more deer being spotted in a nullah in Anandnagar area. We searched more than a kilometre, however, we did not find any deer in the area. The deer must have got to the national park from the nullah.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-spotted-deer-rescued-from-thane/story-Ban07mr6cjlbLdNcdgpZWK.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Stab victim’s body goes missing from morgue, hospital staff booked||The Tilak Nagar police have registered a case against an unknown medical officer and morgue in-charge of Rajawadi hospital after a body of a 23-year-old victim in a murder case, went missing from the morgue of the hospital between June 4 and 7.According to the police, the deceased, Mehraj Shaikh, a resident of Govandi was stabbed by a group of people on June 3. He was admitted to Rajawadi hospital with serious injuries and died the same night. It was mandatory to perform Covid test before the post-mortem, hence his body was kept in the hospital. Deonar police, who have been investigating Shaikh’s murder, visited Rajawadi hospital to collect the body for post-mortem after Shaikh’s Covid report came positive. They found the body missing from the morgue, said a police officer.A complaint was then registered by Shaikh’s brother Siraj at Tilak Nagar police station. Police are also checking the records of all the dead bodies handed over to families or cremated between June 4 to June 7.Deputy commissioner of police Shashi Meena said, “We have registered a case under section 297 (trespassing on burial places) and 201(causing disappearance of evidence of the offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on.”“No one has been named in the FIR so far. We need to figure out the particulars of people who were in charge of the morgue, as well as who was supervising from the medical team” said Meena. This is not the first incident after an outbreak of coronavirus. In another incident, a 70-year-old man’s body went missing from KEM hospital who tested positive for Covid-19 and was on a ventilator. After an inquiry, the man’s body was later found in the hospital’s morgue. The second incident occurred last week; the Jogeshwari Trauma Hospital performed the last rite claiming to be an unclaimed body of a 41-year-old real estate agent Rakesh Verma. Verma’s family then complained that the hospital and police cremated Verma without informing the family. The police claimed that the family’s address was not found and the family claimed that entire family members were quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stab-victim-s-body-goes-missing-from-morgue-hospital-staff-booked/story-f5nWo9RKQLkpMBBWVQJq6J.html
09-06-2020||City||Dispersal of new industries must: CM Thackeray on Samruddi corridor||Mumbai: In a review meeting for the Mumbai-Nagpur expressway or Samruddhi corridor on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stressed on dispersal of industries while creating new clusters. In the wake of the coronavirus-ensued lockdown, the chief minister noted that industrial zones also have high-density population, so it becomes important to take a look at dispersal of industries in the planning stage. Thackeray also asked officials to set up trauma care centres at regular intervals of the expressway. The 701-km expressway will cover the distance between the two cities in 8 hours. It will connect 10 districts in the state and also lead to formation of 20 new townships with social infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dispersal-of-new-industries-must-cm-thackeray-on-samruddi-corridor/story-ihsetVbau0slVW0Y9OTWJK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana paddy farmers hiring buses, booking train tickets to bring farm labour from UP, Bihar||As paddy-sowing season in the state is set to start from Wednesday, farmers in Ludhiana are busy hiring buses and booking train tickets to bring farm labourers from Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar.One such bus, ferrying nearly 30 farm labourers from UP, arrived in the city on Tuesday night.Confirming the development, Dr Jaspreet Kaur, senior medical officer (SMO) of the Government Meritorious School quarantine centre said, 30 migrants have arrived and all of them have been screened. “They will be kept in isolation at the sheds, located outside the village. As per the protocol, we will collect their samples for Covid-19 test,” said Dr Jaspreet Kaur.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said six such buses bringing farm labourers from UP and Bihar have been sent to Barnala.“The farm labour has started returning to Punjab. Many labourers have got in touch with the farmers and expressed their intention to return,” said Lakhowal.He said farmers are seeking permission of the district administration for bringing these workers for transplanting paddy.Jagmohan Singh, a farmer from the Sidhwan Bet area, said, “As many as 10 farmers of his village have collected nearly Rs 30,000 to bring back migrants from Rae Bareilly in UP. Travel expenses will also be shared by the labour.”BJP leader Narinder Sngh Malhi, who is also a farmer, said farmers in the Hambra area have arranged 11 private buses to bring farm labourers.“The migrant labour is expert in transplanting paddy under the conventional method. Due to a limited timeframe for transplantation, farmers depend on these labourers,” said Malhi.Anup Singh Grewal , a farmer from Hambra, who is busy booking train tickets for labourers, said, “Migrant farm labour is cheap and more efficient than the labour available in the region.”“Witnessing the exodus of migrants from Ludhiana, the local labour has also jacked up rates and demanding Rs 7,000 to 7,500 per acre for paddy transplantation, whereas migrants charge anything between Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 per acre,” said Grewal.Chief agricultural officer (CAO) Narinder Singh Benipal said rice transplantation is done over 255 hectares of land in the district. “The farmers can bring labourers, provided they abide by the health protocol of the government,” said Benipal.Farmer union leader BS Rajewal, who is against brining labourers from other states for transplanting paddy, said some farmers were illegally bringing labourers from the Ambala border area and not informing the health department about them.“First, we are snatching the livelihood of the local labourers during the times of pandemic and, second, we are also endangering our lives by bringing the labourers, who could be carrying symptoms of coronavirus,” said Rajewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-paddy-farmers-hiring-buses-booking-train-tickets-to-bring-farm-labour-from-up-bihar/story-7pYEHfcqwu5QFDAJEL2xwK.html
09-06-2020||City||Multani case: Former cop records statement in Mohali court||Former cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki, the whistle-blower in the alleged involvement of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, recorded his statement before the duty magistrate in the district court here on Tuesday.Pinky recorded his statement under Section 164 of CrPC.Morever, Saini was granted bail in anticipation of being nominated under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC by the court of additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal.Taking cognizance of the case proceedings, the complainant Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani, has moved an application before sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai seeking transfer of the case from the court of judge Goyal.Multani in his application has alleged that he fears unfair proceedings in the case because of which he has sought transfer of the case.The hearing on transfer of the case and further arguments on Pinki’s statement will come up on June 15.Earlier, Pinki had appeared before the special investigating team and recorded his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-case-former-cop-records-statement-in-mohali-court/story-QImlUVjkquwTR1ZZQ2AWdN.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to get India’s second megacity flood warning system on Friday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation may get the country’s second urban flood warning system this Friday, for evaluation in Mumbai.The system was jointly conceived by scientists from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, India Meteorological Department (IMD), and National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), Chennai; all under MoES along with BMC. It will provide early warnings for heavy rain in flood prone areas in Mumbai and enable the civic body to issue alerts for citizens who can then avoid such zones. It will also provide rainfall information, tide levels, storm surge, and issue alerts for affected low-lying areas, which should be avoided during natural disasters such as cyclones and extremely heavy rain events.The ministry of earth sciences (MoES) said the flood warning system would be made available to BMC on Friday. “This is will be the second such warning system for any city in India after Chennai and an important decision-making support system during flood incidents,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES. “It will not be made public but only for evaluation, testing and utilisation by BMC this monsoon, and made available to citizens from next year.”Rajeevan added this complex system would also calculate and provide information on increase in water levels across major rivers in the city, location-wise problem areas across all 24 wards, and waterlogging at slum pockets.“Over the past two years researchers have been studying updated information of Mumbai’s drainage system, high-resolution digital elevation maps for all wards, population at each ward, observations of low-lying areas etc based on updated data provided by BMC. Combined with this, information from 160 rain gauges [instruments to measure rainfall] will provide near real time weather information,” said Rajeevan.Dr. MV Ramana Murthy, director, NCCR, said using rainfall and inundation models through flooding maps, the system will be able to provide vulnerability and risk assessment well in advance. “While the basic principle of the system is similar to that shared with the Chennai municipal corporation, the methodology used to detect specific details will be different for Mumbai since parameters are different,” he said.Scientists said the warning system was crucial considering the dense urban settlements of the city. “We have witnessed a three-fold increase in extreme weather events over parts of central India and west coast, including Mumbai, over a 66-year-period (1950-2015). Considering the population density and infrastructure at risk due to extreme weather, Mumbai has to be the first target,” said Dr. Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, IITM Pune.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) will provide three- to six-hour Nowcast (immediate weather updates) as well as 72-hour early warning forecast as it has been doing. “This will be a robust system to monitor real-time weather event occurrences and timely warnings where the impact of storm surge and rising tides will also be accounted for while assessing risks,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.The first early warning system for Chennai was developed by professors Subimal Ghosh and Subhankar Karmakar of Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), following the 2015 floods that led to over 150 deaths. “Every monsoon there are at least three extreme weather events (with almost 200mm rain or more) in Mumbai leading to extreme difficulty for commuters. With this, citizens will have prior information on flooding hotspots, and have proper planning for public and private transportation systems. It is a complex system with multiple components. I am happy that the Chennai model will be replicated in Mumbai,” said Ghosh.Independent experts said the system’s first public test after operationalisation was likely to be in mid-June when active monsoon conditions are expected in the city. “Such early flood warning systems will be useful in Mumbai given the city’s large expanse and other factors such as population density, proximity to the sea and low elevation of areas. However, a big challenge will be in accurately issuing flood alerts (especially the flood duration) during bursts of intense rain showers that inundate the city,” said Akshay Deoras, meteorologist and PhD researcher at the department of meteorology, University of Reading. “Hourly weather forecasting in Mumbai is challenging during active monsoon conditions and weather models still have lots of limitations.”INSTALLATION OF 4 NEW DOPPLER RADARS PUSHED TO NEXT YEAROwing to delays in shipments from the United States of America (USA) due to the Covid-19 pandemic, four X-band Doppler radars will be installed in 2021. Originally, two radars were to be set up in Mumbai this year along with one each in Thane and Navi Mumbai. The radar provides long-range weather surveillance, detection and forecast for rainfall, cloud formation, thunderstorms and other weather conditions such as tropical storms with a range of up to 50-60km. “Orders were placed for the equipment, and we were informed they would be shipped by this time from USA. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire acquisition process has been delayed by a year,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, MoES. While one major radar located at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Colaba can carry out weather surveillance at distance of 300 km radius from its location, a second large radar planned in Goregaon is expected within a couple of months, said Rajeevan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-india-s-second-megacity-flood-warning-system-on-friday/story-8cvek2MLrMTrzZ4kPcJ6NJ.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Konkan needs help from both, state and central government, says Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said that Konkan is in a bad shape as it was badly affected by Cyclone Nisarga. The people here need immediate relief by both, the state and central government. Pawar said that he will also meet the authorities in Delhi to get all the necessary relief for the affected people at the earliest.Pawar is on a two-day tour to assess the situation in the wake of the damages caused in the region owing to Cyclone Nisarga. On Tuesday, he visited areas such as Mangaon, Mhasla, Diveagar of Raigad. He interacted with villagers to understand their issues and resolve them. He also held a meeting with local MLAs (members of legislative Assembly], members of parliament and senior officials from district administration to assess the damages and relief measures.“Farming and fishing are the two major source of livelihood for the people staying here. I found farmlands were damaged, mango and cashew orchards etc. have been destroyed, a huge number of trees, especially of coconut, have fallen, fishing boats and other equipment of the fishermen have been damaged. All this at a time when they were already sitting at home for more than two months due to the lockdown,” the NCP chief said during a press interaction.At many places, there is no power supply as electricity poles have fallen down. People are also not getting drinking water as pipelines have been damaged. Both need to be restored in the next five to seven days. People should also be provided with food grains, kerosene etc. Those who have already been distributed under Public Distribution System (PDS), should be provided with it again as the stock has been destroyed, Pawar said.“To provide immediate relief to the affected people, the process of conducting panchnama (damage assessment by the local authorities) should be completed as early as possible. I heard a team from central government is also coming to assess the damages. We will take the support of both the state and central government. We will also meet the concerned authorities in Delhi to provide relief to the affected people,” the veteran leader said.On Wednesday, the NCP chief would be visiting Ratnagiri district.On June 3, after the cyclone made landfall in Alibag; Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Thane and Palghar reported severe damages. On June 5, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray had visited Raigad. He has also announced an immediate relief package of ₹200 crore for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. In a review meeting held on June 7, Thackeray said Thane and Palghar did not suffer as much damage as compared to the other districts and relief packages for them will be declared after assessments.On Tuesday, Shiv Sena has declared to start a helpline for the affected people. Those affected can call on 1800228595 and 02224398366 between 11am and 6pm and share damage details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/konkan-needs-help-from-both-state-and-central-government-says-pawar/story-Gd9icHujncHpO3Fq4JQgaM.html
09-06-2020||City||Fire brigade rescues kids stuck in life for 2 hours||Three children were stuck in a society’s lift in Kalyan on Tuesday evening for two hours. They were safely rescued by the Kalyan fire brigade who broke the lift door with hydraulic cutter and rescued them safely.The members of Mohan Chedda Avenue society in Gandhi Chowk called the fire brigade at around 7pm after three children - Naman Jain, 12, Daksh Jain, 8, and Veerti Jain, 8 - were stuck in the lift on the third floor.Fire station in charge, Vinayak Lokhande, with his four-member team rushed to the spot. “The parents told us that children were stuck inside the lift on the third floor of the five-floor building. The technician called by the society could not open the door of the lift, neither could he start it. So, we decided to use a hydraulic cutter as children had panicked. We managed to cut the door in 10 minutes. The children were rescued safely,” said Lokhande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-brigade-rescues-kids-stuck-in-life-for-2-hours/story-id4zMBbyqtcyhRgxHlIn0L.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||State cabinet decides to increase compensation for Cyclone Nisarga affected persons||The state cabinet on Tuesday gave its in-principle approval for the revision in the applicable compensation for the losses in natural calamities like a cyclone. In the wake of the losses in the coastal districts of Maharashtra after Cyclone Nisarga’s landfall in Alibag, the state cabinet has decided to increase the compensation amount given to the citizens affected by the natural calamity. The cabinet has not decided the quantum of the increase. The relief and rehabilitation department is likely to chalk out a package including compensation for farmers and affected persons this week. According to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) norms, farmers get compensation ranging between ₹6800 and ₹18000 a hectare for the losses. The compensation for the repairs and construction of the houses ranges between ₹ 6000 and ₹ 95100.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced the immediate relief of ₹ 100 crore for Raigad and Rs 75 and ₹ 25 crore for Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg respectively. He has said that the relief package will be announced once the actual figures of the losses to the agriculture crops and the residential structures were accumulated by the authorities.“The issue of the compensation was discussed again in the state cabinet on Tuesday. The cabinet is unanimous about the need for increasing the amount of compensation given to the citizens. The proposal is expected to be prepared by the relief and rehabilitation department in a day or two,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. The state government is expected to announce the package in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-cabinet-decides-to-increase-compensation-for-cyclone-nisarga-affected-persons/story-ci47J7nBBP6VIL3EcNfNPJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two booked for robbing biker at gunpoint in Panchkula||Two unidentified men were booked on Monday for robbing a biker at gunpoint in Chandimandir. The victim has been identified as Suresh Kumar, a resident of Billa village, Chandimandir. He told police that he was going back home on his motorcycle after buying groceries on Sunday at around 8.30pm when he was stopped by two men on a bike. “The man who was riding the bike pointed a gun at me and his aide took my mobile phone and motorcycle. Then, they fled the spot,” Kumar told the police.A case has been registered under Section 392 (robbery) of Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-booked-for-robbing-biker-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula/story-nLMLR05rw9wQkz4O6LMrzK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Facing labour shortage, Labour shortage driving Haryana farmers to opt for subsidised crop diversification||Expecting shortage of labour for paddy transplantation, farmers in the state are showing interest in government’s incentive-based crop diversification scheme ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’.The scheme was launched with the aim to conserve ground water by making farmers shun the traditional water-guzzling paddy cultivation technique.As only a week is left before paddy transplantation kicks off officially, farmers are getting themselves registered for the cash subsidy of ₹7,000 provided for diversifying every acre with different crops.As per the official figures, nearly 48,500 farmers have registered themselves for crop diversification on about 1.40 lakh acres of land. They will replace paddy with maize, pulses, bajra, cotton and fruits.AGRI OFFICIALS TO CONDUCT PHYSICAL VERIFICATIONState agriculture department officials said while a huge number of registrations have been made, it can’t be stated for sure that they will actually go for crop diversifications, so verification will be conducted.“No doubt the farmers’ response is overwhelming, but it is too early to say that over 48,000 farmers have adopted the diversification. They have only registered themselves for the scheme. All the farmers will be verified physically before disbursement of the first installment of ₹2,000 per acre,” said a deputy director of the agriculture department.“The government is fully aware that the farmers may change their minds even after getting registered on the portal. This is why the incentive will be deposited into their bank accounts in two parts, and the second instalment of ₹5000 will be disbursed to them only after their crop is in the maturing stage,” said another official concerned with the project.LABOUR CRUNCH A BIG WORRYMost farmers are expecting an acute shortage of labour during the transplantation season as migrant workers will not be able to return by the end of this month.“Our nursery (paddy) will be ready for transplantation by June 15, but there is no confirmation from the labourers yet. We don’t know if they will reach by then or not,” said farmer Sunil Kumar of Gharaunda in Karnal district.“I have registered for the cash subsidy scheme and will sow other crops if I fail to transplant paddy on all 12 acres,” he added.‘READY TO PAY EXTRA FOR TRANSPLANTATION’Those who have registered for crop diversification are of the view that alternate crops are not remunerative like paddy and they were ready to pay extra to labourers for transplantation.“I have hired a worker for ₹3,000 per acre labour against the ₹2,200 paid last year. But I am happy that my crop will be transplanted on time,” said Rajesh Kumar, a farmer from Yamunanagar, adding that paddy is remunerative than the other crops as it gives assured income to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/facing-labour-shortage-labour-shortage-driving-haryana-farmers-to-opt-for-subsidised-crop-diversification/story-mRTEYXxhkrgzNZYJmjHW7I.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students take to social media against varsity’s plan to hold exams||Students of Panjab University took to social media on Tuesday to protest against the varsity’s plan to conduct semester examinations in July by using the hashtag #PUagainstexams,.They expressed their concern as the university inches closer to conducting the examinations by issuing a new question paper pattern for final semester examinations. The social media campaign started by the students to express their discontent over the varsity’s plans which garnered more than 5,000 tweets in just a few hours on Tuesday. The students demanded that exams should not be conducted this year just like many other educational institutions and they should be promoted on the basis of other criteria.Students have raised apprehensions as many have to travel back to the campus from different places for the examinations. “The safety of students should be paramount. We are the future of the nation. We cannot be test samples. Say no to exams. Think of students coming from Kerala, West Bengal, etc,” a student tweeted.“Conducting exams in such tense times is just sheer stupidity and students are well aware of the university’s preparedness! Stop risking students’ lives for exams,” said another student on twitter.PU had suspended classes in March in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and many students claimed that there was no proper online teaching and their syllabus is incomplete. However, the university said it is working on the minimum movement policy for the examinations.The university also issued revised SOPs for examinations on Monday. Besides social media campaigns, student organisations have submitted memorandums to the university expressing their displeasure. PU’s National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore seeking cancellation of exams at the varsity. Manoj Lubana of NSUI said, “The chances of Covid-19 spreading will be high as students have to travel from many states. So, we have requested them to cancel examinations promote students on the basis of their previous records.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-take-to-social-media-against-varsity-s-plan-to-hold-exams/story-N6ACBvnO8oeWtzqey76YeN.html
09-06-2020||City||Liquor cheaper in Delhi from Wednesday as corona cess removed||New Delhi: Liquor in Delhi will be cheaper from Wednesday as the excise department on Tuesday issued an order, withdrawing the 70% ‘special corona fee’ levied on the MRP of liquor. The order was issued after the Delhi cabinet led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday approved the roll-back of the cess.The “special corona fee” on the maximum retail price (MRP) of liquor bottles was imposed last month as the government, hit badly due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, looked to earn additional revenue.The government recently increased the value added tax (VAT) on all categories of liquor from 20% to 25% .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-cheaper-in-delhi-from-wednesday-as-corona-cess-removed/story-NABpfINa1m4VH5TmrNXokN.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||59 fresh infections in Punjab, tally reaches 2,795||AMRITSAR/LUDHIANA/Faridkot There is no let up in the surge in Covid-19 cases as 59 fresh infections were reported from across Punjab on Tuesday. Most cases, 17 each, were reported from Amritsar and Ludhiana districts, majority of them, officials say, community transmission infections.With this, Punjab’s patient tally has gone up to 2,795 and the virus has claimed 56 lives in the state.Seventeen people—13 from Amritsar, three from Pathankot and one from Tarn Taran—were tested positive for Covid-19 in Majha region on Tuesday, health officials said.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “The district reported 13 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Out of 13, six are fresh cases of community transmission and five are close contacts of those already infected. Two asymptomatic people, whose samples were taken during random sampling, also tested positive.”In Ludhiana, 17 people tested positive of Covid-19 on Tuesday, including three patients from Jalandhar and two from Malerkotla. Among the patients is a two-year-old girl whose had travelled to Gurugram in the recent past.As many as 13 members of an extended family of Kotkapura town in Faridkot also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said they all are contacts of a patient. “They were admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot,” he said.“The local transmission has begun in the Kotkapura sub-division and we suspect more cases in the coming days,” said a health official.Sangrur reported five cases, while four people tested positive for the virus in Patiala.From the Doaba region, three cases were reported, one on Jalandhar and two in SBS Nagar districts.3 judges, 5 court staffers quarantined in JalandharThree judges, five court staff members of district and sessions court, Jalandhar, and an advocate will be home quarantined for 14 days after an undertrial who was produced in the court on June 5 and June 7 tested positive for Covid-19.Patient gives birthA 23-year-old Covid-19 patient gave birth to a boy at Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday.A resident of Salempur village in Mohali district, the patient was admitted to the isolation centre on June 1.Medical superintendent Dr SPS Goraya said, “A caesarean surgery was performed. The boy is healthy and his nasal swab has been sent for test,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/59-fresh-infections-in-punjab-tally-reaches-2-795/story-m6VZFTMDMQSiU4jWnn7wEN.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||One-third of wheat Punjab procured is of low quality||Procured under relaxed specifications, at least 33% of a total of 127 lakh tonne wheat lifted in Punjab this rabi season is vulnerable to faster damage as the grain is either shriveled or has lost its lustre. What is the bigger cause of worry for the state food and civil supplies department, state procurement agencies, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) as well as the storage agencies is the fact that most of this wheat, or URS grain as it is called, is stored in the open, making it even more vulnerable to the vagaries of weather.Also, 33 lakh tonne URS wheat of the last year is stored in the state godowns, taking the total low-quality stored grain to 75 lakh tonne.The movement of URS grain will be decided in a meeting scheduled on Wednesday. What can be seen as a relief for the state agencies is the fact that of the 75 lakh tonne URS wheat, 80% has less than 10% damage.But the movement of foodgrain from Punjab that picked momentum in April has now come down to half.Of the 260 lakh tonne grain stored in Punjab warehouses, 180 lakh tonne is -wheat and 80 lakh tone is rice.“Nearly 115 lakh tonne is stored in covered and plinth (CAP) area with only tarpaulin sheets overhead to protect the grain. The grain is likely to get damaged quickly,” said an officer of state food and civil supplies department.With the grain storage space in the state full to the brim, the food and civil supplies department has nearly three months to move the stock to other states as paddy will start arriving after that kharif crop harvest.“We want to move 75 lakh tonne URS grain out of our godowns on priority as it can’t be preserved for long. But the pace at which the grain is moving out is slow,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-third-of-wheat-punjab-procured-is-of-low-quality/story-sJFuVz7NU5ZD0k5egM9nqM.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Death toll reaches double-digit in GB Nagar, total count nears 700-mark||With the death of a 40-year-old male cancer patient with the Covid-19 infection, on Tuesday morning, the death toll due to the coronavirus in Gautam Budh Nagar district rose to 10. The cancer patient, a resident of Sector 75, was tested Covid-19 positive by a private laboratory on June 5 and admitted at a private hospital the same day. Authorities are yet to determine how he contracted the disease.Health officials said that the immediate cause of death was refractory shock with bilateral pneumonia, with cardio-respiratory failure.GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. Deepak Ohri said that the case of a 68-year-old male Covid-19 patient, a resident of sector 82, who died the same day is being audited. “Death audit of the deceased is being conducted to determine the cause and circumstances leading to death. The report of his Covid-19 samples are yet to come from National Institute of Biology (NIB),” he said.The CMO said that with 38 new positive cases on Tuesday, the overall tally of cases in the district went up to 691. Apart from these figures, 54 others have been reported cross-notified to other districts and states. He said that 423 patients have been discharged from different hospitals. “The district now has 258 active cases,” he said.He said that health camps were organised in 12 sensitive places in the district on Monday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 656 patients were screened today and 14 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of 54 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said that while 16 of them are from Delhi, one patient each from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have also been found in the GB Nagar district. “While nine patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 24 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.Over concerns that Noida was not admitting patients from other states, district magistrate Suhas LY said that all private and government hospitals were asked to ensure that all coming to the emergency and other wards were treated. “If any hospital has any difficulty in treating patients, they can refer them to hospitals with better healthcare facilities. But, before referring the patients, that hospital will have to properly co-ordinate with the referred hospital so that the patients don not suffer. However, the standard protocol for Covid-19 will be followed at every step by all these hospitals,” he said.The DM also said that the director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, has been assigned to train about Covid-19 protocols to all the doctors of these hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/death-toll-reaches-double-digit-in-gb-nagar-total-count-nears-700-mark/story-kqY6d1ht4tVevNxqvz8idM.html
09-06-2020||City||2 constables among nine injured in two encounters in Greater Noida||Nine people, including two police constables, were injured in two separate encounters in Badalpur and Dadri area respectively in a span 24 hours, police said.In the first incident, six suspected criminals who belong to an inter-state gang were arrested after they were injured in an encounter at the Jarcha road on Tuesday, the police said. The suspects, wanted by the police in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for looting vehicles, were identified as Firoz, Yusuf, Mohammad Naseem, Asif, Gulam, and Alam.“The suspects would target trucks parked on the roadside and then steal the tires and rims. Last month, they were involved in two incidents in Dadri and one in Badalpur last month. In the wee hours on Tuesday, the suspects were in a truck, and when asked to stop by a police team they tried to flee. They also fired at the police team chasing them and were injured in the cross-firing. Two of our constables, Ankit and Nitin, were also injured,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 3.Police officers said the suspects have several cases; lodged against them in UP and Uttarakhand.“Firoz has at least 18 cases, including those involving gangster act, against him, while others have also been involved in various incidents. We recovered a truck from them along with 10 stolen tires, four countrymade pistols, four hydraulic jacks, and five iron rods and other tools used in the robberies,” said Singh.In the second incident, police officers were tipped about two men with a criminal history traveling on a motorcycle without a number plate in Badalpur late Monday night. The police had set up check posts to intercept them.“The suspects fired on a police team as they tried to flee. One of them, Arshad, was injured, while the other person managed to flee. A search is on for him. Arshad is wanted in a loot, kidnapping, and murder case from Muzaffarnagar . We found a countrymade pistol on him and recovered the stolen motorcycle,” said Harish Chander, DCP, zone 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-constables-among-nine-injured-in-two-encounters-in-greater-noida/story-xa3Im0EabRE1c2igIei4tK.html
09-06-2020||City||Noida starts cleaning drains amid Covid-19 pandemic||NOIDA: The Noida authority has started desilting drains in order to keep the city clean during rainy season.Cleaning of drains has become more important amid the Covid-19 pandemic as the authority has a challenge to help the health department prevent the spread of infection.There are 75 main drains and 44 small drains across Noida. The authority has hired contractors to desilt 68 out of 75 main drains and the work is in full swing, officials said. The authority will hire contractors for other drains soon as it has fixed June 30 as deadline to desilt all big and small drains, the officials said, adding that Noida has 300-km total drain length if all small and big drains’ length is put together. “We have directed the staff to expedite the work of de-silting so that it gets completed on time. We have made sure that the workers engaged in the job use all safety gear,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority. Maheshwari is also conducting inspections at the site to get the work done as per deadline.The authority has decided to ensure that the staff engaged in the desilting work wear masks and follow all social distancing norms to stay safe in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority has also directed the contractors that they should first desilt some of the biggest drains, including Harola drain, Jhundpura drain, NSEZ drain, and Sector 105 drain, among others, said the officials.Every year, the Noida authority faces a huge challenge in cleaning and desilting city’s drains before the monsoon.“We want to better the cleaning work also in view of the Covid-19 pandemic because water logging will take place if drains are not desilted properly. And water logging will further affect the cleaning condition of the city crucial to contain the spread of Covid-19,” said another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-starts-cleaning-drains-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-LFuoq1FUXcwFBD2f03qG5L.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||168 parents lodge complaint with fee regulatory body against Chandigarh school||As many as 168 parents of students from Saupin’s School, Sector 32, lodged a complaint with the fee regulatory body on Tuesday following which some parents met members of the body.In the written complaint to the education department, parents alleged that there was “non-compliance with the mandatory uploading of balance sheets detailing their income and expenditure accounts, charging excessive fee; indulging in profiteering and commercialisation of education”.The complaint also states, “The school has already made a norm of charging a consolidated quarterly fee without disclosing the several heads for which it is being charged thus keeping parents in the dark about how the fee payments are being utilised.”According to the order of the UT administration released on June 3, schools can only charge tuition fee without any fee hike. However, parents alleged that Saupin’s School has merged all other charges including maintenance fee, computer fee and annual fee into the tuition fee.ABS Siddhu, director-principal of Saupin’s School said, “There is a concerted effort by a certain group of parents across the city who have decided to not pay school fees under any circumstances. While we sympathise entirely with parents who have been hit financially amid the Covid-19 lockdown, we refuse to be intimidated by these kinds of motivated complaints.”Director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “I am yet to go through the complaint and will examine the situation after that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/168-parents-lodge-complaint-with-fee-regulatory-body-against-chandigarh-school/story-Bi7U3u3cG4bC1plEHPaAyO.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police registered 139 FIRs in immigration fraud: Haryana minister||Haryana Police have registered 139 first information reports (FIRs) against travel agents accused of facilitating illegal migration and duping people, home minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday.The police have also arrested 11 people and seized a car and cash amounting to ₹10.52 lakh from their possession.Vij said that immigration fraud and ‘kabootarbazi’ (human trafficking) will be eradicated from the state. A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to question fraudsters who allegedly duped youngsters on the pretext of sending them abroad. The move comes after over 70 illegal migrants from Haryana were deported by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a US law enforcement agency tasked to remove illegal migrants from the American soil.IG, Karnal range and SIT chief, Bharti Arora said they are taking strict and prompt action in this regard. “The police have arrested 11 persons from various districts after conducting raids. Among them, Jagtar alias Jaggi has been arrested from Kaithal district and ₹10, 000 cash along with a car were recovered from his possession. Somnath of Ismailabad has been arrested in two separate cases and ₹7.50 lakh cash was recovered from his possession,’’ she said. Arora said that Rajkumar alias Raju, a resident of Dhand in Kaithal was arrested along with ₹1.37 lakh while Jagdish alias Jaggi of Sitamai, Karnal has been arrested with ₹70,000.Similarly, in a case registered at Baldev Nagar, Ambala, Labh Singh alias Kaka, resident of Patiala, Ravindra of Jundla, Deepak Narwal of Madlauda, Anil alias Mahaveer of Madhuban, Hardeep Singh of Kabulpur Khera, Assandh, Rajendra of Assandh and Om Prakash of Israna were arrested with ₹85,000 cash. She said that in Gharaunda, Nigdu, Indri and Assandh, four cases have also been registered on the complaints of the victims and investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-registered-139-firs-in-immigration-fraud-haryana-minister/story-Um4HsTCSnUq1WDXRcDTrKK.html
09-06-2020||Noida||SUV rams police post, one arrested||A 24-year-old man was arrested by the Sector 39 police for allegedly losing control while speeding in his SUV and crashing into a local police post, damaging the structure. No police personnel was injured in the incident.According to the police, the incident took place around 9.30pm in the Sadarpur area.“Two men were in the Scorpio, which rammed the Sadarpur police post. The driver lost control of the vehicle. The SUV damaged the structure. There was damage to the front portion of the vehicle and its tyres as well,” Shailesh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station, said.He said that the suspects did not seem to be under the influence of alcohol but were speeding and lost control of the vehicle, thereby crashing into the police post.One of the suspects, Laveesh Yadav, the driver, was arrested at the spot, while the second one is on the run. However, the police said that both the men are locals and they will nab him soon.“Luckily, no police personnel was injured in the incident. The police post in-charge and other staff had been called to the police station barely five minutes before the incident. Even the suspects did not sustain any injuries,” Tomar said.The duo was booked under sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.Yadav was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/suv-rams-police-post-one-arrested/story-2kyrjJ36uq7wMw9oWO01yK.html
09-06-2020||City||DM issues directions to collect balance sheets of schools in Ghaziabad||To assess the financial condition of private schools in the district, the Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) on Tuesday directed the district inspector of schools (DIOS) to collect the balance sheets of the schoolsThe move comes after the DM held a meeting with parents’ associations on Tuesday. During the meeting, parents had raised issues regarding online classes and their increased expenses.“Schools are holding online classes at a time that is usually meant for annual summer breaks. As a result of these classes, some schools are trying to make the administration believe that their expenses are rising and we fear the schools might levy an extra charge on the parents later. We have requested the district magistrate to call for the financial statements of the schools in order to know if they have surplus funds to pay to their staff or not,” said Seema Tyagi, president, Ghaziabad parents’ association.“In fact, it is the expenses incurred by parents for their children’s education that have increased as they had to make arrangements for smartphones, laptops, and internet connection among others,” she added.The parents’ association members also requested the district officials to direct that schools to prescribe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books which are priced cheaper. Representatives of different schools had met the district magistrate on Monday and said their expenses are on the rise due to online classes. They also said they are also facing difficulties in paying salaries to their staff.“The district magistrate has directed that schools should mention all the problems discussed during the meeting in written communication. The DM has also directed that schools should be asked to produce their balance sheets.If they fail to do so we can approach the respective education board and also the income tax department,” said DIOS Ravi Dutt.Officials said issues raised by both sides will be looked into.During the meeting on Monday, school representatives also told the officials that they are not charging any hiked fees and only taking fees applicable for session 2019-20.Earlier in May, the state government had directed schools to not charge transport fees for the period the schools remain shut during the lockdown. It also said that schools shall not increase their fees for the academic year 2020-21, and should be charging fees on a monthly basis instead of a quarterly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dm-issues-directions-to-collect-balance-sheets-of-schools-in-ghaziabad/story-hIE7NB2fBGvQRaMoACooXJ.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Noida restaurants decide to stay closed due to strict restrictions||Bearing heavy financial losses and anticipating a long recovery time for the economy, Noida’s standalone fine-dine restaurants decided to remain shut despite permission to operate under strict restrictions.High rentals, operation costs and investments, the curfew time that clashes with their peak sale hours, downsized seating capacity and a sense of fear among the customers in wake of rising numbers of Covid-19 positive cases are issues that discouraged them, restaurant owners and their associations said.On Tuesday, restaurants remained shut in the sector 18 market and other markets in Noida. Those in shopping malls too were are waiting for the right time to reopen. Some of them were hoping to renegotiate rent agreements with the landlords.According to the Noida Chapter of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), a few restaurants in the city have already decided to close down.“Operation cost includes salaries, rentals, electricity and gas, and food cost. As a restaurant owner I don’t see even partial recovery in these times. People are scared to come out, and given the current curfew timings of 9pm, we will have to start winding up from 8pm taking last order at 7pm. So there is no use,” said Varun Khera, head NRAI, Noida chapter who owns Desi Vibes restaurant in sector 18. “Three restaurants have already closed down and one is thinking of ending the business. We cannot share the names, but we at association are trying to convince them otherwise. These are tough times for this industry,” According to the restaurant owners, a restaurant in sector-18 pays a rent between ₹5 lakh to ₹6.5 lakh a month, and bears an operation cost of ₹40,000 to ₹50,000 (excluding rentals) per day, something they don’t see they can meet in the present scenario.“Every restaurant that I know of had to incur a loss of stock worth ₹2.5 to 3 lakh when they shut on March 20, five days before the nationwide lockdown. All food stock, beverages were wasted. Now to operate again, we will have to invest at least ₹3 lakh, something we don’t see returning at all. Customers are scared and even if they come, the peak hours are already compromised,” said Rishabh Proothi, owner of Garam Dharam, Noida.He said that he will wait till July to observe the market and resume operations only after his landlord comes to an understanding on the rent. “In some cities like Meerut, restaurant owners have asked the landlords to share their profits till the market stabilises instead of charging rent,” he said. “Being a franchisee based restaurant, I also have to pay royalty. Even if I start operations, I won’t be able to pay proper salaries to the staff. In my opinion, till a cure doesn’t come out, I don’t think restaurants will get back to normal. Families would want to take any risk.” A few restaurant owners even fear closing down if the business went as usual.“Main revenue comes from liquor, parties and dinner, and none of these are possible in the current scenario. So far, we had no meeting with our landlords yet. We did not pay rent for the month of April and May, and it was decided that once the business restarts we will talk about the rentals, we hope that some compromise is reached. I fear, if it continues like this for another two months, we may have to close the business,” said Ashish Sakhuja, Patiala Kitchen, sector 18.“Currently the future of restaurant business in Noida depends on landlords. If they give us some rebate, we might just kickback in coming months,” adds Desi Vibes’s Khera.According to Naresh Madan, director of restaurant chain Imperfecto that has two branches in Noida and elsewhere in Delhi and Gurugam, they expect only 10 percent return to their daily operation cost. “Right now we have lot of things to settle with the landlords. We don’t know what exactly they want from us, and we are hoping to come up for a mutually benefiting agreement, We have apprised them that the customers are not coming so let’s see. We are really hopeful of some intervention from the government in terms of rebate in taxes, the future of restaurant industry is in perils right now,” said Naresh Madan. “If we operate now, we expect not to get anything more than 10% of the operation cost, which we cannot afford. So till a vaccine doesn’t come, we may take at least 12 to 18 months to get back to pre-covid era and that’s us being optimistic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-restaurants-decide-to-stay-closed-due-to-strict-restrictions/story-3FTiTdnIOyLkNC8WVKlfcO.html
09-06-2020||City||Haryana schools, colleges to reopen after August 15: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the schools and colleges across the state will reopen after August 15. Khattar, while interacting with mediapersons in Fatehabad, said his government was mulling opening colleges and schools for students of classes 9 to 12 after August 15. He said students of nursery to Class 8 will be allowed to attend school after August 31. “The students in their final year of college will have to appear for their exams in July, while others will be promoted to the next classes on the basis of average marks obtained in their last semester,” the CM added. Khattar was on a visit to Ratia in Fatehabad, where he interacted with farmers and apprised them of advantages of crop diversification. “We have decided to encourage farmers to grow crops other than paddy to save groundwater. Many farmers have planted different crops on 55,000 hectare of paddy land against our target of 1 lakh hectare, which will be met by the end of June,” he added.On a question about Sonali Phogat thrashing Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, Khattar said police were probing the case and strict action will be taken against the erring party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-schools-colleges-to-reopen-after-august-15-khattar/story-MumZvDXjxbf7xCiFfvn7PM.html
09-06-2020||City||Punjab fails to implement legislation on lifts and escalators||Despite high court directions to affix safety certificates in all the lifts installed in housing societies of Punjab, the state has neither complied with the order nor implemented the ‘Lifts and Escalators Act’ drafted by the power department.Residents living in multi-storied housing units complain that in the absence of a legislation, there is no redressal mechanism for their issues related to lifts.The provisions of such an Act ensure the smooth functioning of lifts, including installation, periodical inspections, issuing of safety certificates, deputing operators and uninterrupted power supply to run the lifts and grievance redressal.Most state governments have either adopted the Bombay Lift Act (1939) and Bombay Lift Rules (1958) or an amended form of the law as per their own needs. In 2009, even the Haryana government had enacted its own rules based on the Bombay Lift Act.In 2018, a contempt petition was filed in the Punjab and Haryana High court by the residents of Ashta Apartment Phase-2, Zirakpur, after the builder had failed to maintain its lifts. Following this, the HC had directed the Zirakpur municipal council and local government to affix safety certificates in the individual l lifts issued by the authority concerned.Ashtha Apartments resident Gulshan Rai said in the absence of a relevant legislation, residents cannot complain to any authority about the condition of lifts. In most housing societies, builders have made provisions of single lifts, which at times stop working and fail to serve their purpose. Residents are facing a lot of problems in availing this facility as the generators installed for running the lifts also go kaput at times, he rued.Punjab chief electrical inspector Arunjit Singh Sidhu revealed that the power department has submitted a draft of the ‘Lifts and Escalators Act’ to the local bodies and housing departments for their suggestions and feedback. We are hoping it will be implemented soon, he said.Chairman of Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab chapter, Sanjay Goyal, said since there are so many housing societies in the state, such an Act is the need of the hour for the safety of residents. The importance of a lift Act was felt way back in 1939 and that was when the Bombay Lift Act was promulgated, yet it is strange that Punjab has not enacted one, he said.Responding to the petition, the HC had in February 2019 observed, “It is shocking that despite the stand taken before this court that the lifts were completely repaired and functional now, the same have not been opened up for the residents on account of the order passed on September 2018, which did not bar the builder from getting the same verified and checked from the executive officer of Zirakpur municipal council.” It appears that the same has been done only to harass the residents, the court had held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-fails-to-implement-legislation-on-lifts-and-escalators/story-SpOhQT88iR8CLMEz6PEnoJ.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA sets-up control room for monsoon||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has established a 24*7 control room for tackling monsoon-related issues in Mumbai. The control room will function from June 8 to October 15, 2020. The control room can be reached out on 022-26591241 and +91-8657402090.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-sets-up-control-room-for-monsoon/story-EstGYRPFJon0NVxa7ULhKN.html
09-06-2020||City||Covid-19 cases rise in Ghaziabad with economy opening up and increased testing, say health officials||With the resumption of economic activities and increased sample collection for testing, the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid1-19) have surged in Ghaziabad in the last few days and may cross 1,000 this month at the current rate, health officials said.The district health department said it has now increased sample collection to 200-250 samples per day. In May, the department was collecting 125-150 samples daily, while it was collecting 70-75 samples per day in April, officials said.“With the available resources, we can collect nearly 750 samples every day, but with no government labs in the district we have limited the sample collection for now. The rate of cases testing positive with an increase in the number of samples being collected, but more positive cases are also being reported because of opening up of economic activities,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).According to the health department figures, until June 9, at least 12,160 sampled were collected in the district of which 527 cases have tested positive so far. Until March 30, one out of nearly 30 samples tested positive on an average in the district. The figure showed some improvement with one case out of 44 samples testing positive up to April 30. The first case in Ghaziabad was reported on March 5.Until May 31, a total of 9,984 samples were collected out of which 305 cases tested positive. One case was reported positive out of every 33 samples until then. However, samples are testing positive at a faster rate now. At the end of June 9, each of the 527 Covid-19 positive cases has tested positive against 23 samples collected on an average.The CMO said samples were turning positive the slowest in the month of April when almost all economic activities were at a standstill. Between April 1 and April 30, one out of every 45 samples tested positive on an average, while one out of every 30 samples tested positive between in the month of May when the economy had started opening up gradually.The figure worsened in June when every one positive case emerged out of nearly 10 samples between June 1 and June 9.Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad are increasing at a rapid rate. After the first case in March, the figure slowly reached 50 cases after about 48 days on April 22. The next 50 cases were reported a span of about 13 days on May 5. The next 50 cases (total case count 150) were reported within 10 days, while the district crossed the 200-mark on May 21 in just another six days.The next 100 cases were reported within just 10 days with the district crossing the 300-mark on May 31. The next 100 cases emerged in a span of just six days with the district crossing 400-mark on June 6. Within a span of two days, the district breached the 500-mark on June 8. As the cases rise, testing samples remains an uphill task, said officials. “Testing samples is also a major issue as we have no government labs in Ghaziabad, and have to depend on laboratories in Noida and Meerut. Now, we have received on TruNat testing machine which can speed up the testing of samples in emergency cases and give us results within one hour. The machine which can teste 25 50 30 samples every day has been installed at MMG Hospital. The machine will primarily be used for testing in cases where suspected patients require emergency treatment,” Dr Gupta said.THREE COVID-DEATHS Three Covid-19 patients succumbed to the disease on Tuesday taking the death toll in the district to 14, with as many as 25 more people testing positive for the infection. Out of total of 527 cases, the district has 197 active cases so far.“One of the casualties include a 28-year-old man, possibly a migrant worker from Faizabad, who tested positive in Ghaziabad and died at Meerut. A 40-year-old man also died at our L3 category hospital. A 46-year-old man from Shalimar Garden is the third casualty,” said Dr NK Gupta.The 25 new cases on Tuesday include five cases from Khoda, two from Vijay Nagar and one each from Indirapuram and Crossings Republik among other localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-rise-in-ghaziabad-with-economy-opening-up-and-increased-testing-say-health-officials/story-AtyQs0X2ttiAz7tLJomHaP.html
09-06-2020||City||Eight ventilators to be installed at Ambala’s civil hospitals||The eight ventilators donated by Maruti Suzuki under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) project to the Ambala health department, will be the first to be installed in the district’s civil hospitals.Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Out of these eight basic ventilators, five will be installed at the civil hospital in cantonment and three at the one in city. We were waiting for the staff that can operate them and they will be functional within a week.”“Looking at the history of infected patients coming to our hospitals, I don’t think we will need to keep any patient on ventilator support as oxygen beds are enough to deal with serious cases. Also, we are going to get six more ventilators from Haryana government soon,” he added.Currently, there are 83 ventilators in private and military hospitals in the district that are ready for the health department if the situation worsens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-ventilators-to-be-installed-at-ambala-s-civil-hospitals/story-7TLrRimgFWQ0r0TTDd01HP.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||6 succumb to virus in Haryana, case count goes past 5,000||355 INFECTIONS Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat remain biggest contributor to the state’s tally Six coronavirus patients in Haryana succumbed to the respiratory illness, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the state to 45 on Tuesday. While two deaths each were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad districts, one patient each from Sonepat and Rohtak districts died.The state on Tuesday recorded 355 fresh Covid-19 cases, which pushed the Haryana’s tally of infections to 5,209. The number of total active cases was 3,357, according to the medical bulletin of health department.There were 45 critically ill patients, 15 of whom required ventilator support, in the state on Tuesday.Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat, the three national capital region (NCR) districts together registered 243 fresh cases to remain the largest contributor to the Covid-19 tally.While Gurugram saw 164 new cases, 41 infections were detected in Faridabad and 38 in Sonepat. On Tuesday, Gurugram district had 1,678 active cases, followed by Faridabad (603) and Sonepat (284).Among other districts, Rohtak registered 28 fresh cases, Rewari (15), Palwal (13), Jind (12), Hisar (9), Bhiwani and Panchkula (7 each), Yamunanagar (5), Mahendergarh (4), Ambala, Kurukshetra and Karnal (3 each), Panipat, Fatehabad and Jhajjar (1 each). Nuh, Kaithal, Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri did not report any fresh case on Tuesday.Though the medical bulletin mentioned limited cases, Karnal administration said five people were tested positive for the virus, taking the number of infected persons to 108 in the district. Two of them belonged to other states, said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, adding that the three local patients and their family members have been quarantined. Ambala district also crossed the 100-mark with 16 new infections.A 70-year-old woman was found infected in Kurukshetra. The district has logged 56 coronavirus cases so far. Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said the woman belonged to Ladwa and contracted the disease from two of her infected family members.NINE-MONTH-OLD BOY AMONG 5 DADRI PATIENTSIn Rohtak, 28 contacts of infected persons were tested positive, while a 20-year-old woman and her nine-month-old son from Rawaldhi village were among the carriers detected in Dadri. Fifteen people tested positive in Sonepat and one in Jhajjar on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-case-count-goes-past-5-000/story-QYIMt1S16imh0UtR6HS8lN.html
09-06-2020||City||17 motorcycles impounded; challans issued to bikers for stunts||Gurugram: Traffic police on Monday night impounded 17 high-performance sports motorcycles after the police received a complaint that a group of motorcyclists were allegedly performing stunts and driving rashly on Golf Course Road near Sector 53. The police said the motorcyclists were part of a bikers group from Delhi-NCR. According to the police, the incident was reported around 8pm when some passersby informed the traffic police that many motorcyclists were creating a ruckus and performing dangerous stunts on sports bikes. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, and SHO of Sector 53 police station reached the spot, following which challans were issued to the offenders for rash and negligent driving, and their motorcycles were impounded. Chander Mohan, DCP, traffic, said, “The impounded motorcycles included high-end sports bikes, such as Suzuki Hayabusa, Harley Davidson and Triumph. We received information that a group of motorcyclists from Delhi, Noida and Gurugram was performing stunts and endangering public safety. The bikes were impounded and challans were issued to violators. There is zero tolerance for people indulging in such acts, which could lead to accidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-motorcycles-impounded-challans-issued-to-bikers-for-stunts/story-2ZFX9jZ1DtLU13QQM6XgVM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||18 IAS, 7 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||Haryana government on Tuesday issued transfer and posting orders of 18 IAS and seven HCS officers. Among those transferred is director general, secondary education, Amneet P Kumar, who has been posted as director general, medical education and research, replacing DK Behera, who was posted as managing director, Hafed.Panchkula municipal commissioner Sumedha Kataria has been posted as chief administrator, Haryana state agricultural marketing board, replacing J Ganesan, who was posted as director, secondary education. Karnal Smart City CEO Rajiv Mehta was posted as chief vigilance officer, HSVP and urban estates, Haryana. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has been given the additional charge of CEO, Karnal Smart City. Faridabad additional deputy commissioner Ram Kumar Singh was posted as Mahendergarh deputy commissioner.Faridabad HSVP administrator Pradeep Dahiya was given the additional charge of Faridabad additional deputy commissioner. Kaithal additional deputy commissioner Mahavir Singh was posted as Panchkula municipal corporation commissioner. Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Jagdish Sharma was posted as Sonepat municipal corporation commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-ias-7-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana/story-0aMoGgEYnmtTJTtxTduDXL.html
09-06-2020||City||Sub-inspector, deputed in security detail of union minister, kidnapped and robbed at gunpoint||Gurugram Three armed men allegedly kidnapped a Delhi police sub-inspector, deputed in the security detail of a Union minister in Delhi, and robbed his car at gunpoint on Monday evening in Rajpura village in Pataudi area. The police said the sub-inspector was assaulted, handcuffed and blindfolded during the ordeal, which ended when the robbers dropped him in a field in Jhajjar and fled with his SUV. The police have registered a case under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Pataudi police station. Several crime teams from the Gurugram Police are conducting a probe to trace the accused trio. According to the police, the incident took place around 6.15pm when Rishi Raj Singh, a resident of Kosli, Rewari, was on his way to Delhi for his duty in his SUV. The police said he had reached near Rajpura village in Pataudi when a car, in which three persons were seated, pointed towards his car tyre. In the police complaint, Singh said that he assumed that there was some tyre issue and stopped the car. “As I rolled down the windows, three armed men alighted from the other car and sat in my car. They hit me with the butt of a pistol. I was pushed to the rear seat of the car and they tied my hands behind my back. They turned the car towards Palhawas, Jhajjar and, after crossing a flyover, they blindfolded me. After about 20 minutes, they dropped in a field and fled with the car,” said Singh in the FIR. The victim said that he untied himself and a passerby informed him that he was in village Khudan in Jhajjar, following which he informed his family and the police. The accused men also stole the police official’s wallet containing ₹1,500 cash, his police identity card, PAN card, driving licence, Aadhar card, ATM card and a mobile phone. The police said the victim sustained minor bruises on his face.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The accused men are yet to be arrested and the police are checking footage in CCTVs in the area to trace them. The victim was deputed in the security detail of a Union minister in Delhi. He was not wearing his uniform at the time of the incident and was on his way to Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sub-inspector-deputed-in-security-detail-of-union-minister-kidnapped-and-robbed-at-gunpoint/story-iTz340ybGtJ5XBX3ReaN1N.html
09-06-2020||Gurugram||GMDA, NHAI to conduct a joint study for a proposed underpass at Vatika Chowk||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be jointly initiating a technical study for constructing an underpass at the heavily congested Vatika Chowk, said GMDA officials on Tuesday.Vatika Chowk is one of the most congested junctions in the city, as the traffic from the major road networks in the area — such as the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), Golf Course Extension Road, the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, Sohna Road or National Highway 248A,which connects Gurugram and Alwar — converge at the junction. During peak traffic hours, it can take commuters more than 25-40 minutes to cross the stretch.Earlier in March this year, it was decided during a review meeting of the existing traffic congestion at Vatika Chowk that an underpass needs to be constructed at the junction, said VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA. He said that last week, he had a telephonic conversation with a senior NHAI official regarding the matter, after which they both decided that a technical study would be jointly initiated by the two authorities for not only analysing the existing design flaws at the junction but to also come up with a design plan for an underpass at Vatika Chowk to addresses these issues. “We want the NHAI to construct an underpass or to make a provision for it as we anticipate traffic condition to worsen at the junction. The NHAI has probably not planned the junction properly and the same was discussed during the GMDA meeting. Both the parties agreed that proper planning needs to take place. For this, a technical committee has been constituted having both NHAI and GMDA officials to look at the best possible ways to go forward. Based on its report we will initiate the next step,” said Kundu.Kundu said that currently, the review of NHAI’s existing design of Vatika Chowk is being taken into consideration to see possible amendments that can be executed to make traffic at the junction more streamlined and easy to disperse.As per NHAI officials who are privy to the matter, they are looking to design the underpass as a bidirectional one, with each carriageway having two lanes and carrying traffic between Golf Course Extension Road and SPR, which will help commuters from both sides bypass Sohna Road entirely. They are projecting the cost of such an underpass to be around ₹60 crore. “GMDA has made a request to NHAI for taking up this underpass. I have sent the feasibility recommendation to the NHAI headquarters. A final decision is yet to be taken by the headquarters on it. We will take the next course of action based on their response,” said Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI.As per NHAI officials, the possible construction of the underpass at Vatika Chowk is supplementary to the under-construction Sohna elevated road corridor between Sohna and Rajiv Chowk. The 21-kilometre signal-free corridor is expected to reduce travel time between Alwar and Gurugram by an hour and is expected to come up by 2022. It currently takes commuters three hours to cover the 120-kilometre stretch between the two cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-nhai-to-conduct-a-joint-study-for-a-proposed-underpass-at-vatika-chowk/story-Jc07F1sjnWtTv0RTeVIQpN.html
09-06-2020||Gurugram||Police bust gang that honey trapped city real estate agents, 2 held||Two men were arrested from Gadoli Khurd village in Gurugram’s sector 10A on Monday for their alleged involvement in honey trapping several real estate agents in the city and Delhi, the police said.With the arrests, police said they discovered a gang with at least two other members who they have identified, including a woman, who allegedly targeted businessmen and extorted lakhs of rupees by threatening to implicate them in false cases of sexual assault. The other members of the gang are yet to be arrested, said police.Police identified the suspects by their names as 30-year-old Manjeet alias Gulli and 29-year-old Robin. They were arrested earlier too for similar cases and were out on bail.The suspects had details of more than 10 real estate agents, said police. They allegedly visited their target’s offices often and offered to help them in their business during the countrywide lockdown that was enforced from March 25 to contain Covid-19. They allegedly took the woman, a friend of Manjeet’s, along.The woman allegedly caught their target on video, which would be used to allegedly blackmail them.Police said Manjeet was the kingpin of the gang and had been in operation for the last three months.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (Crime), said the gang had extorted more than ₹10 lakh from several men. The most recent victim was a 32-year-old real estate agent from whom they extorted nearly ₹20,000. “We received a complaint from a man who works out of his own office in his village. He showed the WhatsApp messages to us following which we formed a team headed by the inspector of crime investigation unit 53 that laid a trap. Within a day, enough evidence was collected and the two men were caught red-handed while making calls from their residence and were arrested,” Sangwan said.According to the police, Manjeet told the woman to gain their victim’s trust and invite them to her rented apartment for drinks in Sector 10A. Once there, she would make videos of them with her to later blackmail them.“The gang would allegedly threaten the men that they would file cases of sexual assault against them if they did not pay them the money. Out of fear that their identities would be exposed, no one would approach the police,” said Sangwan, adding that raids were on to arrest the others in the gang.A case under sections 384 (extortion) , 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation ), and 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 10 A police station on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-bust-gang-that-honey-trapped-city-real-estate-agents-2-held/story-KuwmL4ZjUctHIof94HOiBM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong president to decide who will lead the party in 2022 polls: Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said people and party leaders want chief minister Amarinder Singh to lead the Congress in the 2022 state assembly polls, but the final decision will be taken by Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Jakhar said there was a strong sentiment among the people of Punjab, and Congress MLAs and leaders that Amarinder should lead the party’s campaign in the next elections. “Capt has also stated his intention to contest the 2022 assembly elections. It is a welcome move,” he said in his first reaction to the chief minister’s statement.Amarinder, who earlier called the 2017 battle his last election, had at a press conference via video-conferencing on Friday expressed his wish to contest the next assembly elections due in March 2022. The CM said he decided to continue in electoral politics on the persuasion of his party colleagues.‘PURSUE CONG AGENDA, NOT PERSONAL’On Congress leader Partap Singh Bajwa’s advice to Amarinder to step down and make way for others, Jakhar said that as a party MP, Bajwa should behave responsibly. “If he is talking about brotherly advice, I think brothers should talk among themselves rather than going public. These kind of public utterances demoralise the party,” he said. The Punjab Congress chief said his advice to the party leaders in general will be to work for the agenda of the Congress and not pursue personal agenda. Bajwa has been increasingly critical of the state government, particularly the chief minister, in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-president-to-decide-who-will-lead-the-party-in-2022-polls-jakhar/story-mccW6vBRZCs9C44g5zgt8O.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP urges Longowal to step down over post in Akali Dal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership on Tuesday demanded resignation of SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal after he was nominated as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee member. At a press conference here, Talwandi Sabo legislator Baljinder Kaur charged the Akali leadership with using religion for their political gains and said the SAD should be derecognised as a political party. “Longowal was handpicked on Monday for the top decision-making body of the SAD. He must quit as the head of a religious body after taking a political plunge. The Election Commission of India should also take note that a sitting chief of a religious body has been nominated for a political post,” said Kaur, also a national executive member of AAP.AAP legislator from Bathinda rural segment Rupinder Kaur Ruby said the Badal family has been controlling the SGPC, which is evident from the induction of Longowal into SAD. She said the Badal family should clarify its stand on the statement of Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on the formation of Khalistan. “The statement appears to be carefully issued at the behest of the Badal clan. AAP condemns any statement that may affect communal harmony,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-urges-longowal-to-step-down-over-post-in-akali-dal/story-qaayuwSLio3IdtYdUDQKFI.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||19-year-old killed after truck crashes into him on WEH||A 19-year-old man was killed after a truck hit him on the Western Express Highway near Vile Parle on Monday evening. The truck driver did not stop and fled from the accident spot. Vile Parle police are looking out for the accused. According to police officials, the accident happened when deceased Gitesh More was on his way home with his father and brother in a car, and a taxi driver while overtaking touched their car. Gitesh and his father stepped out to check if the taxi driver had left any dent on the car, and a speeding truck hit him. Gitesh along with his brother had gone to pick his father from his office at Nariman Point.Gitesh’s father, who works with the Indian Postal Services and stays at PNT colony in Andheri (East), and his brother rushed him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. Rajendra Kane, senior police inspector at Vile Parle police station, said “An FIR has been registered a case against the truck driver under sections 304 (A), 279 of IPC and relevance sections of Motor vehicle act. We are looking for the truck driver.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/19-year-old-killed-after-truck-crashes-into-him-on-weh/story-OZ3j5vjB2vCFBWE6WETn8M.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI directed to develop new Sikh circuit, says Harsimrat||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday said the Union road transport and highways ministry has issued directions to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to develop new expressway connectivity via Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran up to Amritsar to create a new Sikh circuit covering five religious shrines as part of the proposed Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway.Harsimrat Badal said that she had received a communication from Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari in this regard. “The highways minister had assured me that he had got the entire issue examined and now a new Greenfield alignment will be developed via Nakodar to cover all the Sikh shrines,” she said. She thanked the highways minister for correcting the alignment submitted by the Congress government which proposed using the present highway between Kartarpur and Amritsar as part of the expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nhai-directed-to-develop-new-sikh-circuit-says-harsimrat/story-wPnmlJTOyEsLyuHL7Uac8J.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder approves ₹ 200 cr for ongoing road, bridge projects||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sanctioned an additional ₹200 crore for completing on priority all ongoing projects involving the construction of roads and bridges in the state in the current and next fiscal. The CM issued the directions during a video conferencing meeting of the empowered committee of cabinet on key projects. The meeting was attended by the finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and public works department minister Vijay Inder Singla among others. Amarinder said the allocation will give a big boost to the ongoing projects, which were budgeted earlier at a cost of ₹854 crore.Underlining the need for timely completion of the national highway projects in the state, he directed the officers to focus on expediting the process of forest clearance and land acquisition, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-approves-200-cr-for-ongoing-road-bridge-projects/story-8noEShyn1xS9Zf0LD3SeUI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD seeks ₹3,000 per acre compensation for farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday demanded that the Congress government should compensate farmers to the tune of ₹ 3,000 per acre for the extra cost which will be incurred by them on paddy transplantation.The SAD core committee passed a resolution to this effect at its meeting presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The state government should take on the responsibility of all power, water and sewerage bills levied during the lockdown period and pay the same to the utilities from the disaster management fund, it demanded.The core committee took into account the crisis in the farming sector due to unavailability of labour due to which the farmers’ transplantation costs have more than doubled. “In case the government does not step in and give compensation of Rs 3,000 per acre to all paddy growers, the agrarian crisis in the state will deepen,” according to a party release.The committee also demanded that the government pay the power, water and sewerage bills for the entire three-month period of the lockdown from the State Disaster Management Fund. The meeting also passed resolutions demanding the Congress government give a complete account of the ₹5,600 crore revenue loss incurred by the excise department.It sought prosecution of Congress leaders Madan Lal Jalalpur and Hardyal Singh Kamboj for their alleged links with those running an illegal distillery-cum-bottling plant. Another decision was to bring all these issues to the notice of Governor VP Singh Badnore on June 11 and demand an inquiry into the liquor, seed and ration scams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-seeks-3-000-per-acre-compensation-for-farmers/story-EDYKUvK7wIek0BgkpllTEJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Labour crunch hits work on BSF barracks at Attari, deadline extended||The exodus of labourers to their native states due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak has resulted in a delay in the construction of barracks for the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) in Attari near Amritsar.The ₹33-crore project aimed at strengthening the border’s security has already missed two deadlines — December 2019 and March 2020.The flats in the four-storey building will be for jawans, while officials will be housed in flats in the double-storey building, LPAI officials said. A dormitory is also being built for BSF women personnel. The foundation stone of the project was laid in January 2019 by the then Union home minister Rajnath Singh. Currently, the BSF troops responsible for guarding the ICP and the joint check post (JCP) at Attari are housed in BSF’s Khasa headquarters, around 15 kilometers from the Attari-Wagah border. After the construction of the residential complexes, it will be convenient for the troopers to do their duty without any hassle, and they will remain available at the border anytime.The ICP facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and movement of passengers from India to the neighbouring country and vice-a-versa through the land border. The JCP is popular for beating the retreat ceremony performed jointly by the Indian and Pakistani security forces every evening. “Now we expect the project’s completion till October as we have somehow managed to arrange around two dozen labourers. Till now, 70% work has been completed,” said Sukhdev Singh, Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) manager at the ICP.Earlier, the LPAI officials had said the project was delayed due to the tension on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labour-crunch-hits-work-on-bsf-barracks-at-attari-deadline-extended/story-e4EQnw22ltQudxlp38v7vO.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have cloudy weather with chance of light rain||Amid cloudy weather, Chandigarh is likely to receive light rain till Friday. “A western disturbance is approaching the region. Chandigarh is likely to have cloudy weather. There is a slight change of drizzle on Wednesday and Thursday, while light to moderate rain can be expected on Friday,” said an India Meteorological Department official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 35.7°C on Monday to 37.6°C on Tuesday. Minimum temperature went up from 23.8°C to 25.9°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to go up, but is not expected to cross 40°C, remaining between 37 and 39 degrees, said the official. Minimum temperature is likely to remain between 26 and 29 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-cloudy-weather-with-chance-of-light-rain/story-yv7oB4obqfU1ve4YKXFmlM.html
09-06-2020||City||Provide real-time data on Covid-19, HC tells Delhi govt and Centre||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the Delhi government to update data in real-time on their mobile phone applications meant to disseminate information about availability of beds and other healthcare which is being provided to the patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to carry out testing as far as far as possible, subject to availability of testing kits with priority being given to the persons approaching for test on the recommendation of a doctor.The court’s directions to the authorities came while hearing a plea it had initiated itself on the basis of a video clip of a man who had to run from pillar to post to get his mother hospitalised after she tested Covid-19 positive.On Monday, a detailed order of which was uploaded on the Delhi High Court website on Tuesday, the bench said that if any committee is appointed by Delhi government, it will also take note of the fact that the mobile application of the government should have real-time data.Advocate Om Prakash, amicus curiae in the case said that the mobile application namely “Delhi Corona Mobile Application”, developed by Delhi government, is not being updated regularly. He also submitted that there is a mismatch of the facts and data released by the government and private hospitals in Delhi especially with regard to the availability of beds and ventilators.He also contended that some of the hospitals run by Centre and the Delhi government are not updating the dataAdvocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel (criminal), Delhi government and advocate Anuj Aggarwal, additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, told the court that told the capacity of 1031 helpline would be increased by adding more hunting lines so that more calls can be attended without any delay or waiting time.In an affidavit filed in the court, the Delhi government also told the court that much of the district-wise distribution data that Delhi receives from ICMR is incorrect, resulting in inordinate delay in the geo-station mapping carried out by authorities/agencies.“Thus, there is usually a delay caused in contacting the patient who has tested positive after he has received the lab-report and in the meantime patients tend to panic. The new helpline is aimed to cater to such patients only, especially during the first 24 to 36 hours, who have tested positive and are scared, yet clueless as to what should be their next course of action. The helpline would help them resolve issues pertaining to availability of ambulances and free medical consultation with a doctor,” the affidavit read.The government also said that they are adding more ambulances in the existing fleet. Following submissions from both sides, the court remarked, “it appears that there is a need of real time updation of the data by all hospitals including the Delhi government, the central government and private hospitals”.The bench asked both the authorities to file their replies with regards to the suggestion of the amicus curiae about availability of hospitals having multi speciality facilities for the corona patients.The matter would be now heard on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/provide-real-time-data-on-covid-19-hc-tells-delhi-govt-and-centre/story-BCTue0HPNyN2CPzd5bt1LK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt promises 8-hour power supply for paddy sowing||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday assured the state farmers of uninterrupted 8-hour power supply for the tubewells as well as regular water supply for sowing of paddy.In a message to the farmers a day before paddy sowing begins on Wednesday, Amarinder appealed to them to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols. He urged them to wear face masks, and diligently follow all health protocols advised by the authorities from time to time.He also expressed satisfaction at the initial results of the unique direct sowing method, for which the state government has provided machines to the farmers this season. The results have been encouraging, with paddy needing less water, he said, adding that the technique is also less labour-intensive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-promises-8-hour-power-supply-for-paddy-sowing/story-wbZYV061felztJbzlk6bPJ.html
09-06-2020||City||CPI (M) demands supply of gas cylinders in Theog’s backward panchayat||Theog legislator Rakesh Singha along with leaders of CPI (M) staged a protest outside DFC Office in Shimla on Tuesday, demanding supply of gas cylinders in Kotighat, a backward panchayat in Tehog subdivision.Around 70 cylinders were supplied to Kotighat after which the protest ended.Singha said Kothighat residents were asking for cylinders supply as they could not go out due to lockdown. He said that on May 30, he took up the matter with the Shimla DC and was assured that cylinders will be supplied.“When the promise was not met, I decided to protest,” he added.CPI (M) also demanded the state government to issue white paper of purchases made in health department during lockdown to improve healthcare in Himachal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-demands-supply-of-gas-cylinders-in-theog-s-backward-panchayat/story-pAmjLnGiMhBZEuhzPl46GO.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy sowing in Punjab: Panchayats pass resolutions fixing labour rates, govt terms move illegal||Panchayats in several districts of Punjab have passed resolutions fixing wages for farmhands for the paddy-sowing season as the demand for local labourers has increased in the wake of the return of migrant workers to their native states due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. Some have even threatened non-compliance with social boycott and fine ranging between ₹5,000 and ₹25,000. But the state rural development and panchayats department has termed the move as illegal, saying the village bodies are not entitled to pass orders determining the labour rates. Though the department does not have a conclusive figure, labour unions say at least 40% of the total 13,262 panchayats in Punjab, particularly in Patiala, Sangrur, Muktsar, Mansa, Moga, Ferozepur and Bathinda districts, have passed such resolutions. Paddy sowing will start in the state on Wednesday. ₹2,500-₹3,200 for sowing on one acreAs per the resolutions passed by the panchayats, farm labourers will be paid anywhere between ₹2,500 and ₹3,200 for sowing paddy on one acre. On the other hand, farmhands are demanding ₹4,000-₹4,500 for per acre.Sukhijit Kaur, sarpanch of Muktsar district’s Bhalayiana village, said, “The resolution has been passed for the first time due to labour shortage. It will help both farmers and labourers as the rates decided suit both the parties.” Also, they have been asked to work in their villages on priority.Rajdeep Kaur, sarpanch of Ghanauri Khurd village in Sangrur district’s Dhuri block, said the resolution was passed to avoid confusion while hiring labourers. “The decision to bar labourers from providing their services at other villages was taken to cope with the shortage of labour,” she said.Moga’s Singhawala panchayat decided to increase the fine to ₹50,000, besides banning entry of labourers from other areas.Beant Singh Sidhu, sarpanch of Gurusar village in Bathinda, said, “We have decided to let the farmers and labourers negotiate the final rates.” ‘We have right to seek wages as per work’Punjab Khet Majdoor Union general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala said, “More and more panchayats are doing this. We have all the right to demand wages as per the requirement of work. How can a panchayat force the labourers to work in their villages only?”“Last year, migrant labourers were paid ₹2,700-₹3,200 for sowing paddy on per acre, and now the panchayats are offering the same rates. Threatening workers with social boycott and hefty fines is unconstitutional,” Sewewala said. Kashmir Singh, a labour activist, said, “We are not bonded labourers. Moreover, the panchayats have no right to decide anyone’s earnings,” Singh said.Rural development and panchayats department director DPS Kharbanda said, “These resolutions are illegal and we will cancel them once they are tabled. I have instructed the district-level officials across the state to stop this practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-sowing-in-punjab-panchayats-pass-resolutions-fixing-labour-rates-govt-terms-move-illegal/story-SeO2DfQoDPjGiLy1RnojPK.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai reaches grim milestone of 50,000-plus Covid-19 cases||Ninety days after the first coronavirus positive patient was found in Mumbai, the number of cases in the country’s financial capital crossed 50,000 on Tuesday while the death toll reached 1,758.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release that 1,015 new coronavirus patients were detected on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases to 50,878.The death toll due to the pandemic in Maharashtra’s capital increased to 1,758 with 58 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours.904 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients in the city to 22,942.According to the BMC, the city has 26,178 active patients whereas 690 new suspected coroanvirus patients have been admitted at various hospitals.The first coronavirus patient was found in the city on March 11 and the first death due to Covid-19 was reported on March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-reaches-grim-milestone-of-50-000-plus-covid-19-cases/story-sw3lP9WVgH3xTh150fuk9M.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Candidates with cough, fever won’t be allowed to sit for PGIMER’s MD/MS entrance exam||Candidates suffering from fever or continuous sneezing and coughing will not be allowed to sit for MD (Doctor of Medicine) and MS (Master of Surgery) entrance examination of Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) scheduled to be held on June 21. The exam will be held at four centres -- Chandigarh, Delhi, Bengaluru and Kolkata.Candidates will have to download the Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones, which must show the candidates’ risk factor as “Safe” or “Low Risk”.The institute said it would not extend the entrance examination date further as the present batch is expected to pass out by the end of this month. “It is the compulsion of the institute to conduct the examination on the given date as the present batch is passing out on June 30, 2020 and patient-care at the hospital cannot be compromised at any cost,” a notice put out the registrar’s office stated.An official said that around 15,000 candidates have applied for 610 seats of MD and MS in the institute.The institute, in another notice, also said that all necessary precautions will be taken at the examination centres and the decision has been taken in view the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines which allow for intra and inter-state movement without any special pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/candidates-with-cough-fever-won-t-be-allowed-to-sit-for-pgimer-s-md-ms-entrance-exam/story-cmGp97NKMTCsHCWE7WGkoJ.html
09-06-2020||City||Pune reports 12 deaths, 143 +ve cases||Pune The city reported 12 deaths and 143 fresh Covid-19 cases as of Tuesday, taking the death toll to 403 and the number of positive cases to 8,205.Also, 119 people were declared cured and discharged on Monday, taking the count of such cases to 5,304.Of the 2,498 active cases in Pune, 189 are critical patients.Two deaths were reported from Sassoon General hospital: a 73-year-old male residing at Navi peth, Parvati, admitted on June 8 and declared dead on June 9; and a 72-year-old male residing at Nagpur chawl in Yerwada, admitted on June 3 and declared dead on June 9.Four deaths were reported at Deenanath Mageshkar hospital: a 70-year-old male residing at Kothrud, admitted on June 6 and reportedly died on June 8; a 78-year-old male residing at Parvati paytha, admitted on June 7 and died on June 8; a 69-year-old male, residing at Erandwane, Kothrud, admitted on June 2 and died on June 8; a 74-year-old male residing at Sahkar nagar admitted on May 27 and died on June 9.Four deaths were reported from the Bharati Vidyapeth hospital: a 45-year-old female residing at Bibwewadi, was admitted on June 7 and declared dead the same day. The swab report confirmed the infection late on Monday night. The second death is of a 60-year-old female residing at Parvati darshan, admitted on June 3 and declared dead on Tuesday. The patient had no reported comorbidity.The third death from the hospital is that of a 65-year -old female residing at Kondhwa, admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Tuesday. The fourth death is that of a 67-year- old female residing at Kranti Mitra mandal. The patient was admitted on June 2 and declared dead on Tuesday. A 64-year-old female was reported dead from Poona Hospital, residing at Sadashiv peth. The patient was admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Monday evening.A 75-year-old male from Parvati who was admitted to KEM on May 31 was declared dead on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-12-deaths-143-ve-cases/story-TRqy1RIZngMqoGWizlLflM.html
09-06-2020||City||Covid-19 patient in home quarantine in Delhi travels to home town in UP, case registered||New Delhi: A 26-year-old man who was tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and home quarantined at his rented home in northeast Delhi’s West Karawal Nagar last week was found missing when a police team went to check on him on Sunday, senior police officers said.When the police contacted the man, Ram Hari, on his mobile phone to know his whereabouts, he told them he had boarded an inter-state government bus and returned to his native home in Uttar Pradesh’s Maharajganj. A case has been registered against him for defying the government’s orders and the quarantine rule.“We registered a first information report (FIR) against the man for violating home quarantine rules. Further probe is underway,” said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya.When HT contacted Hari on his cellphone, he said his villagers did not allow him to enter the village and quarantined him at a local government hospital after they learnt that he was a Covid-19 patient. He alleged that he had no choice but to return to his village because his landlord, whose name he did not remember, forced him to leave the house.“My Covid-19 testing was done in the last week of May. I did not know that I was infected with the virus until some health officials came to my room and told me that my report came positive. They put a home quarantine notice outside the house and asked me to remain quarantined till further orders,” said Hari, who was working as a house-keeping staff at a private company in Delhi’s Daryaganj.Hari said he had come to Delhi for a job on March 16, just eight days before the nationwide lockdown was announced. He shifted to the west Karawal Nagar rented room in May. When his landlord learnt about his Covid-19 testing report and the home quarantine notice, he asked him to leave the room, Hari alleged.“I had nowhere to go and nobody was around to take care of me. I boarded a bus at Anand Vihar Bus terminal. My screening was done through a thermal scanner but they did not tell me my body temperature was high,” he said.A police officer privy to the case said they will look into Hari’s allegations.The case has been registered against him under section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, and Indian Penal Code’s Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-in-home-quarantine-in-delhi-travels-to-home-town-in-up-case-registered/story-FOA01H9x0lFMxSt9mRs2QM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lawyers protest, seek reopening of courts||Demanding resumption of courts, a section of advocates staged a protest at the Chandigarh district courts on Tuesday. Their list of demands included manual filing of cases, physical presence of advocates during arguments and access to their chambers. The courts have been closed since March 23, 2020, because of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Ravinder Singh Bassi, former president of the district bar association (DBA), wrote to the district and sessions judge, highlighting the financial hardships faced by the advocates during the lockdown. “Most advocates do not have access to their lawyer’s chamber due to which, working from home has become impossible. Most do not even know how to go about with e-filing of cases. The worst-hit are those advocated who live in rented accommodations as they have no money to pay the rent.”Current DBA president NK Nanda said, “I had a word with the district and sessions judge. There is nothing in his hands. The call on reopening of courts will be taken by a committee constituted by the HC for all the lower courts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.”He added, “Currently urgent matters, including bail and stay, can be filed manually. There was no need to protest. Moreover, the sessions judge has assured me that they would allow filing of all matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-lawyers-protest-seek-reopening-of-courts/story-ggKbua25xfudrAx4aMQ07N.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Two new pilots inducted to operate Air India One||With Boeing 777 aircraft for VVIP travel set to be delivered to Air India in September, the national carrier has stepped up the process to train pilots who will operate the Air India One fleet (VVIP flights). As part of this exercise, two more Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots joined Air India on Monday. Induction of two new pilots is in addition to four co-pilots from IAF who are currently undergoing training. Airline officials said of the four, two pilots have completed half their online training on the simulator and the remaining two have completed ground training as part of the overall training exercise. National carrier Air India had in May sought applications to fill vacancies for pilots in Air India One - the VVIP aircraft under IAF control. Around 40 Air India pilots had applied to fly the VVIP aircraft, which will carry dignitaries-president, vice president and prime minister of India. According to the terms and conditions mentioned in the circular issued by the executive director (ED) of operations on May 15, pilots will have to join duty and serve the aircraft on deputation for maximum two years and will continue to be on Air India’s payroll with deputation allowance of 10% of basic pay. The pilots on deputation will also be entitled to guaranteed 70 hours of flying allowance along with overtime. The national carrier will be training around six IAF pilots to fly two Boeing 777 (B777) aircraft called Air India One. Currently, the national carrier uses its Boeing 747, the double-decker aircraft to fly VVIPs. Air India did not comment on the developments related to the VVIP flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-new-pilots-inducted-to-operate-air-india-one/story-o2PnjLx15qVH2IpJrqkutJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six more test positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh; tally reaches 326||Six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Tuesday, taking the total in the Union territory to 326.Among the fresh cases is a four-year-old child whose father had tested positive for the disease earlier, a bulletin issued by the administration said here.A 43-year-old resident of sector 21, a 56-year-old resident of Bapu Dham colony, a 35-year-old resident of sector 16, a 28-year-old resident of Manimajra and a 42-year-old man of sector 18 are the other five new patients, it said.A total of 5,451 samples have been taken for testing so far and of these, 5,103 have tested negative, while reports in 24 cases are awaited, the bulletin said.There are 36 active cases in the city, while 285 patients have recovered, it added.Five patients have so far died of the virus, as per the bulletin.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking on Tuesday announced it would resume bus services on long routes in Punjab and Haryana with effect from June 10.These include services to Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Panipat, Rohtak, Yamuna Nagar, Jind and Sirsa.The buses will be operated with 50 per cent passenger occupancy, keeping in view the social distancing norms and as per guidelines issued by the Chandigarh Administration and the government of India, an official statement said.The UT Chandigarh administration said shops and commercial establishments would be allowed to open on all days of the week.“It must be ensured that all the provisions of the act/rules relating to employment, working conditions, rest interval, weekly off days and other restrictions are complied with,” an order by the Labour Department said.The opening and closing hours of these shops and commercial establishments will remain the same on all days of the week, it said.The decision to exempt shops and commercial establishments, covered under the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishment Act, 1958, for a period of three months was taken “to boost the economy”.“In view of corona outbreak and its adverse affect on the economy, there is need to boost up the economy by liberalisation of rules. Therefore, the Administrator, UT Chandigarh, in exercise of power conferred by section 28 of the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishment Act, 1958 as applicable to UT Chandigarh by virtue of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 is pleased to exempt all shops and commercial establishments covered under this Act of 1958 for a period of three months from the date of issue of notification,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-reaches-326/story-4ke5TSFyaMfONCZ3kO5fJK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, shops can remain open on all days in Chandigarh||The UT administration on Tuesday in order to give a boost to economic activity hit by the Covid-19 lockdown allowed shops and commercial establishments to remain open on all days.However, the odd-even formula applicable to congested markets will continue to remain in operation.Issuing orders under the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishment Act, UT administrator VPS Badnore made the exemption for three months, while directing the traders to ensure all provisions relating to employment, working conditions, rest interval and weekly offs are compiled with.Welcoming the decision, Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said: “This will help traders cover their rentals, salary and other expenses. But it should be optional to the trader to whether remain open on Sunday or not. We assure the administration that weekly off will be given to the staff. Traders will also take a weekly off on rotation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-shops-can-remain-open-on-all-days-in-chandigarh/story-Y42CGSL9VeYtPhrjR5RiFJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||With Sector 16, 18 and 21 residents among 6 fresh cases, Chandigarh fears community transmission||A four-year-old son of the Central Industrial Security Force constable found infected two days back is among six fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Chandigarh on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases has reached 326, of which 36 remain active.The fresh cases have been reported from Sector 16, 18 and 21 besides Daria village and Manimajra. With new cases surfacing from areas other than the Bapu Dham Colony containment zone, the UT administration has decided to examine whether the deadly virus has entered the community transmission stage in the city.The fresh cases include that of a 42-year-old man from Sector 18, who recently came in contact with a Himachal Pradesh resident who had returned from Delhi; a 28-year-old man from Subhash Nagar, Manimajra, who had returned from Gurugram on Sunday; and a 56-year-old woman from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony.The fifth case is of a 35-year-old man from Sector 16, who is the son of a medical store owner. Both the medical store owner and his wife have recent travel history to Sangrur, Punjab, and are symptomatic. The patient has three other family contacts besides six community contacts who are working in his father’s shop in Sector 16. In the sixth case — that of a 43-year-old medicine distributor who works in Panchkula and resides in Sector 21 — the source of infection is not known yet.As UT health officials are scrambling to trace the source of infection in non-containment zones, the risk of community transmission was discussed during the daily review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore on Tuesday. Community transmission is said to be taking place when the source of the contagion is not known, ie when it is not possible to trace the infection back to a carrier who has travelled to an affected area or through contact with a person who has the disease.Badnore asked the UT health secretary and doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to examine the density of infection among various patients in Chandigarh and compare the data with other states.The administrator also directed the health authorities to keep all hospitals and health centres in readiness for accommodating patients, in case there is a second surge, as the borders are open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-sector-16-18-and-21-residents-among-6-fresh-cases-chandigarh-fears-community-transmission/story-0QHuDvF5DbJAoYre6y3hUO.html
09-06-2020||City||Tarn Taran police seize 9kg heroin at Indo-Pak border, nab 2||The police on Tuesday recovered 9.12kg heroin hidden in a field situated across fence at border outpost (BoP) Kulwant in Patti sub-division here. Two persons have been arrested for smuggling the contraband.Police said the consignment, concealed in plastic bottles and smuggled from Pakistan side, was buried one-feet deep into the ground.The accused have been identified as Jagjit Singh alias Jagga (25) and Gursahib Singh alias Bhakki (27) of Dall village falling under Bhikhiwind sub-division.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said they had received a tip-off that the accused had ordered drugs from across the border. “We were also informed that a consignment of heroin had already been smuggled in and hidden in a field across the fence,” he said.A team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kamaljeet Singh recovered the heroin near pillar number 176. The consignment was buried one-feet deep and concealed in six plastic bottles, the DSP said, adding that after the heroin recovery, duo was arrested.The accused have been booked under sections 21-29-61-85 of the NDPS Act at the Sadar Patti police station.Earlier on May 28, the Tarn Taran police had recovered 8kg heroin that was also hidden in a field across the barbed fence at the border. This year, the district police have recovered 52kg heroin, including 37kg during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-police-seize-9kg-heroin-at-indo-pak-border-nab-2/story-S33uitOcevF6KdrvQBzs7M.html
09-06-2020||Jaipur||Mercury rises in Rajasthan, Sriganganagar hottest at 43.3 degrees Celsius||Several places in Rajasthan witnessed a rise in maximum temperature on Tuesday, and Sriganganagar turned out to be the hottest place in the state recording 43.3 degrees Celsius, a Meteorological (MeT) Department official said.Bikaner recorded 43.2 degree Celsius, followed by Churu (43), Jaisalmer (42.8), Barmer (41.7), Kota (41.3), Jaipur (41), and Jodhpur (40.7). Ajmer recorded a high of 39.6 degrees Celsius. Dabok received 0.55 mm rainfall on Tuesday and recorded a maximum of 38 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has forecast thunderstorm/ lightning accompanied with gusty winds (with 30-40 kmph speed) to occur at isolated places in east Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/mercury-rises-in-rajasthan-sriganganagar-hottest-at-43-3-degrees-celsius/story-mPsT5bZxT2m3OSdBykIenN.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Serum Institute investing USD 100 million on potential Covid-19 vaccine||Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, is investing USD 100 million on a potential Covid-19 vaccine being developed at Oxford University, according to a company official. The Pune-based company has partnered with AstraZeneca, a British biopharma giant, to ensure equitable supply of the AZD1222 vaccine doses to India as well as low-and-middle-income countries. “Our manufacturing facility is ready and we plan to start production in two months. We are spending more than USD 100 million for this facility. Till the trials are completed successfully for safety and efficacy, vaccines will not be distributed either in India or anywhere else in the world,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India (SII), said. “Having said that we will start making a few millions of doses and stockpiling it at personal risk,” added Poonawalla, while plying to a question on the firm’s plans to move ahead in terms of production of the doses. To a question on how much doses India is likely to get in the first phase and by when they would be available, he said that it is a bit early to comment on a specific number. “However, if the vaccine trials succeed, India will gain access to the doses as it will also be the requirement of the Government of India. And we are certain that everybody will respect if the substantial volumes go to India,” he added. Earlier, Poonawalla, on tie-up with the British drug major had said, “SII is delighted to partner with AstraZeneca in bringing this vaccine to India as well as low-and-middle-income countries.” Over the past 50 years, SII has built significant capability in vaccine manufacturing and supply globally. “We will work closely with AstraZeneca to ensure fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine in these countries.” Talking about SII’s endeavour to develop a vaccine with USA based firm Codagenix, Poonawalla recently said that at present, the firm is undergoing pre-clinical trials (animal trial phase) and hope to progress to the human trial phase by September/October. “The aim is to make the vaccine over the next 1.5-2 years to help combat the novel coronavirus. With the combined efforts of our partner Codagenix, we are optimistic that we will be able to provide a viable and effective vaccine for mass use,” he had said. Besides, Oxford and Codagenix, the firm is also working with Austria’s Themis and other two vaccine candidates. At least half a dozen attempts at creating a vaccine against coronavirus are on globally and the efforts at Oxford are considered one of the most promising. A vaccine will be a radical intervention which can arrest the loss of lives due to the infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/serum-institute-investing-usd-100-million-on-potential-covid-19-vaccine/story-UeMx7ryEmzqjTOZZtJ1ryK.html
09-06-2020||City||Cong demands 70% beds be reserved for Covid patients, asks NHRC to intervene||New Delhi: Senior Delhi Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) seeking directions to the Delhi government and Centre to ensure that 70% of all available beds in city hospitals be reserved for Covid-19 patients.Maken alleged that even though the number of cases was rising in the national capital every day, only 8% of the total 57,194 available hospital beds in Delhi were being utilised for Covid-19 patients. Making a representation before the NHRC, Maken said people are “running from hospital to hospital for admission”, but are being turned away due to a “shortage of beds”. He said Delhi has robust healthcare infrastructure, with over 57,000 beds as well as central government hospitals to share the patient load.“It is extremely painful to see that only 12% of Delhi government hospital beds, 8% beds in central government institutions and 7% of private hospital beds are currently occupied and used to treat Covid patients. Moreover, in the case of Delhi government hospitals, around 70% of dedicated beds are vacant,” the former union minister said.He also claimed that the state government was not testing “as aggressively as it should”. His representation stated that 3,700 tests were conducted on Monday, as per the day’s government health bulletin, much less than the 7,649 tests conducted on May 29, and the lowest since May 15. “Despite the fact that Delhi’s recovery rate is among the lowest in the country, on June 4, eight labs were given notices to close for ‘over-testing’ by the government. These eight labs were testing about 4,000 patients per day. This means that we are now testing at least 4,000 fewer patients,” Maken said.Other recommendations included ways to expedite cremations, the introduction of norms to test suspects after their death, and strict inclusion of areas under containment zones based on the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-demands-70-beds-be-reserved-for-covid-patients-asks-nhrc-to-intervene/story-DrxB58h1cZKl8RvNLmLy4H.html
09-06-2020||City||West Delhi restaurant owner, three others arrested for organising party||New Delhi: The owner and manager of a West Delhi restaurant and two others have been arrested for organising a get-together which was attended by 38 people on Monday in violation of the restrictions on social gatherings under the national lockdown rules enforced to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The restaurant located in Vishan Enclave on Najafgarh Road had opened on Monday after remaining shut during the lockdown. Senior officers said that hukkah was also being served in the party, which also is an offence under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act. All the four accused were later released on bail, police said.Delhi government has allowed restaurants to resume operations Monday (June 8) onwards while ensuring social distancing and following the safety guidelines. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said in order to ensure zero violation of the safety guidelines issued during the Covid-19 pandemic, a police team that was conducting patrolling on Monday at Najafgarh Road, spotted some activity in Qubitos Restaurant in Vishan Enclave.“During checking it was found that a party was going on. There were a total of 38 people in the party and hukkah was also being served at the restaurant,” the DCP said. Because it was a violation of the lockdown, a case under IPC sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) was registered and four men were arrested, Purohit said.“The arrested men include the owner of restaurant Akshay Chhadha, 37, a resident of DLF Capital Green, Moti Nagar, his manager Manoj Kapoor, 29, from Basai Darapur, Delhi, the party organizer Manaan Majid, 27, who lives in Mustafabad and one Mohammed Asif 25, from Kirari,” the DCP said.The four were also booked under section four of COTPA (Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act) for smoking in any public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/west-delhi-restaurant-owner-three-others-arrested-for-organising-party/story-RYKuyk7ol3B2HNfuQ9sXWJ.html
09-06-2020||Lucknow||Shivpal writes to Akhilesh, talks of new political alternative||Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav’s move of writing an ‘official’ letter with a ‘personal touch’ to Samajwadi Party (SP) national president and his nephew Akhilesh Yadav has once again renewed the oft-repeated political speculation about a possible political patch up between the two. Shivpal, on his official letterhead as the MLA of Jaswant Nagar, wrote a letter of thanks to Akhilesh in response to the SP’s move of withdrawing its plea seeking his disqualification as the member of the UP Legislative Assembly.Although as per the date on the letter, Shivpal wrote the letter to Akhilesh on May 29— a day after UP Assembly speaker HN Dixit allowed the withdrawal of the SP’s plea filed by senior SP leader and also the leader of opposition in UP Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary on September 4, 2019—the message became public now. Shivpal addressed Akhilesh as ‘Dear’ and the ‘National President of Samajwadi Party’ and signed off as ‘With love, yours Shivpal Yadav’.In the message to Akhilesh, Shivpal says: “On your insistence, the legislative assembly speaker has returned the plea that had sought cancellation of my assembly membership. A million thanks for reposing faith. This certainly is not a mere political incident, but because of such a clear, constructive, and positive approach of yours it would also lead to the emergence of a new political alternative under your leadership.” With the withdrawal of the plea, Shivpal would indisputably stay an MLA from Jaswant Nagar assembly seat. Shivpal and Akhilesh Yadav had fallen out in August 2016. Akhilesh became the national president of SP in January 2017. Completely sidelined in the party, Shivpal Yadav had floated the PSP-L before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and contested against SP’s official candidate and the then sitting MP Akshay Yadav from Firozabad. However, both lost as the BJP wrested the seat from the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shivpal-writes-to-akhilesh-talks-of-new-political-alternative/story-XBzHZomUWymxMOnuFJ5GDO.html
09-06-2020||City||Himachal CM for time-bound completion of development works||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday directed the state government officials to ensure time-bound completion of various developmental works.Any delay in the execution results in cost escalation as well as deprives the common masses of benefits, he said while presiding over the review meeting of ‘Budget Assurances for 2020-21’.Jai Ram said work on various power projects, particularly 111 MW Sawara Kuddu and 180 MW Holi-Bajoli, should be expedited.He said ₹6947-crore Renuka hydro project has been declared nationally important and would be completed by the end of financial year.The chief minister said the government has launched Mukhya Mantri Swablamban Yojna to promote local entrepreneurship and create self-employment opportunities for the youth.Over 1.80 lakh Himachalis who have returned to the state amid the coronavirus pandemic may get benefitted from this scheme.He also stressed the effective implementation of Swaran Jayanti Poshahaar Yojna by providing nutritious food and supplements to children and women.To promote dairy farming, the state government is trying to provide the best veterinary services and has also increased the procurement price of milk by ₹2/liter to benefit the farmers, he said.To conserve the rich cultural heritage of the state and boost the economy, Jai Ram said efforts should be made to promote rural handicrafts and handloom products.He said the Covid-19 pandemic has forced policymakers to re-shape health strategies by providing specialised healthcare facilities.The CM revealed that his government was according top priority to road infrastructure and time-bound completion of ongoing projects. He also stressed on the need to explore possibilities of alternative modes of transportation.Endeavours should be made for skill development of the youth to make them more employable and ready for starting their own ventures, he said.Chief secretary Anil Khachi assured the CM that all-out efforts would be made to complete all the projects within the stipulated period. Various senior officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-for-time-bound-completion-of-development-works/story-yPfizHpMpo3EWTwxEgmPKO.html
09-06-2020||City||4 Covid-19 deaths in J&K; 61 fresh cases||Four persons died due to Covid-19 and 61 tested positive for it, taking the total number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 4,346.The number of cases reported daily has dropped below 100 after 17 days.Officials said that the new cases were reported in both Jammu and Kashmir. “Sixty-one new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported since Monday— 17 from Jammu division and 44 from Kashmir division,” said a statement by the administration.Among the new cases, 27 persons were found to have a travel history. “Also, three Covid-19 deaths have been reported from Kashmir division,” the statement said. The statement did not confirm the fourth death.A 70-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Qazigund, suffering from pneumonia, died at Government Medical College, Anantnag, a 50-year-old auto driver lost his life to the disease at Srinagar’s Chest Diseases Hospital. On Monday evening, a 70-year-old woman from Baramulla, with bilateral pneumonia, died at SMHS Hospital.The fourth patient, a 32-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Kulgam who was admitted at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar on June 5 died at the hospital today,” said medical superintendent of SKIMS Dr Farooq Jan.With this, the death toll in the region reached 49—44 in the Kashmir division and five in the Jammu division.Fresh cases were reported in all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 3407.The highest jump in Kashmir was in Srinagar with 13 new cases while the rest of the districts saw a single-digit increase. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in six of the 10 districts taking the division tally to 939. Most of the districts in the division reported a single-digit increase.Moreover, 182 more corona patients recovered on Tuesday and were discharged from UT hospitals. “Twenty-nine persons were discharged from Jammu division and 153 from Kashmir division,” the government statement said.So far, 1,506 out of the total 4,346 patients have recovered, 1,265 of those are from Kashmir and 241 are from the Jammu division.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 2,099 and 693 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-covid-19-deaths-in-j-k-61-fresh-cases/story-RYMlDl6EzPaADwK5pdK8ZO.html
09-06-2020||City||NDMC employee dies, fourth Covid death in council||New Delhi: The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) recorded fourth death due to Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday.The deceased was deployed as a shift in charge at an 11 KV electricity sub-station at Harishchandra Mathur lane in Lutyens’ Delhi. According to NDMC officials, he had tested Covid-19 positive on May 28.“The deceased was a resident of Rohini. He had fever symptoms for some time. He was admitted to LNJP hospital where he died of Covid-19 on Tuesday,” an NDMC official said.In the last two months, 57 employees of NDMC have tested Covid-19 positive. Out these 57, four have recovered and four have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ndmc-employee-dies-fourth-covid-death-in-council/story-Rs2XGY97mv0LdCOwOlGfsL.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 90,000-mark with 2,259 cases||2,259 new coronavirus patients were found in Maharashtra on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases to 90,787, a health official said.The death toll due to the pandemic reached 3,289 with 120 deaths being reported during the day, he added. 1,663 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery, taking the total of recovered patients to 42,638, the official said. Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 90,787, new cases 2,259, deaths 3,289, discharged 42,638, active cases 44,849, people tested so far 5,77,819.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-90-000-mark-with-2-259-cases/story-YwQrl56JfJiRNwr1kHssiK.html
09-06-2020||City||AAP cries foul as Sangrur Women College stops BA admission||The Akal Degree College for Women here has decided to stop admissions to its BA course for the academic session 2020-21, triggering furore among the Aam Aadmi Party, student unions and dalit outfits in the district.Leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema wrote to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday seeking the state government’s immediate intervention.“Over 40% students here are from the SC community and the rest are from economically weaker sections of the society. But the college management wants to gradually shut operations, and the CM is not paying heed to the issue. The college has been run by grants from the UGC for decades, but now the management wants to start a school in its place,” said Cheema.As per information, Akal Degree College for Women was established in 1970 and there were 460 girl students in seven different streams, including BA, BCA, BCOM, BVOC, and MSC IT but, of these, 289 students were enrolled in the three-year BA course in 2019-20.“The college management is trying to convert the institute into a profitable business but the entire infrastructure was built with government funds. AAP will oppose this decision and would hold a protest against the move,” the LOP added.Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) activists termed the decision ‘anti-women’ and announced to intensify agitation against the management.“We will hold meetings with parents who want to admit their daughters in the college and will not allow the management to shut down the college,” said Sukhdeep Singh, district chief of PSU.Mukesh Malaudh, president of Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC), a dalit outfit, said the college is a ray of hope for girls from the poor sections and the committee will mobilise people in villages to build a struggle to save the college.Akal Group of Colleges chairman Karanvir Singh Sibia said the degree college was facing huge losses and could not afford more economic burden.“The enrolment in BA-1 has been decreasing. We have written to Punjabi University, Patiala, to stop admissions at the entry point. The final decision will be taken by the director of public instructions, but the college will not be closed,” added Sibia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-cries-foul-as-sangrur-women-college-stops-ba-admission/story-O5hicCkqkPhwTBhGd0GhDP.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||At least 696 teams formed in Punjab’s Jalandhar to check home quarantine violation||As many as 696 teams have been constituted here to keep a check on people violating home quarantine guidelines, officials said on Tuesday. People who are coming from outside and are symptomatic are put in home quarantine to curb the spread of Covid-19, they said. To ensure that these people do not endanger the lives of others by violating the quarantine protocol, the civil and the police administration have decided to take strict action against the offenders, the officials said. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, in an official release, said 696 teams of the civil and the police administration have been constituted to keep a vigil on the people who are home-quarantined in the district.  He said 202 teams have been constituted at Shahkot, 232 in Phillaur, 150 in Nakodar, 41 in Jalandhar I and 71 in Jalandhar II. Sharma said the teams have been directed to take strict punitive action against those violating the home quarantine guidelines.  The deputy commissioner said those violating the norms would be booked under provisions of law besides being fined for it. He solicited support of the people to keep an eye over any violation of the home quarantine protocol||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-least-696-teams-formed-in-punjab-s-jalandhar-to-check-home-quarantine-violation/story-o4kVTyNoHCnhdv9u4IdQyH.html
09-06-2020||City||Punjab farmers go for direct seeding of paddy, cover 7 lakh hectares under water-saving technology||Amid the shortage of migrant farm labourers and higher charges demanded by locally available workers, farmers in the state have shown significant interest in the direct seeding of rice (DSR).As per information, nearly 7 lakh hectares of land have been mechanically cultivated till Tuesday, moving away from the traditional practice of sowing nursery and then transplanting the same.While DSR started from June 1, the conventional rice transplantation in puddled fields will commence from Wednesday.Raja Singh, a farmer from Bathinda’s Kahan Singh Wala village, said his expense has decreased significantly after adopting the mechanised sowing.“I opted DSR to overcome the problem of shortage of farm workers. My cost input per acre with mechanised sowing was just ₹800 for the hired seed driller. Last year, I paid about ₹3,200 per acre for manual sowing. Paddy seeds have already germinated in the field,” said Raja, who owns 32 acres of land.Another farmer from Muktsar’s Smalsar village, Diljinder Singh, said as the migrant workers are unable to reach Punjab for the sowing this season, the locally available farmers have started demanding up to ₹5,000 per acre.“Farmers are unable to meet the steep increase in labour cost. But DSR is not only highly cost-effective, it also save water and electricity as opposed to the conventional method,” he said.A progressive farmer from Kotshamir in Bathinda, Sandeep Singh, said his 11-year long experience of DSR has been very encouraging. “I am able to save up to ₹4,500 per acre with DSR by way of cost-cutting on labour and water. Yield per acre is also good. In the current situation where labour availability is a challenge, DSR is a good alternative for paddy farmers,” he said.Bathinda chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh Sidhu said the district has seen direct sowing on 22,000-hectare area since June 1. “We expect the figure to grow further in the next fortnight,” he added.State agriculture secretary KS Pannu said the department had set the target to bring 5 lakh hectares under the DSR system.“We have already exceeded 7-lakh hectare area, with 4,000 specialised DSR machines purchased by farmers. Also, scores of wheat sowing machines have been modified by farmers to sow paddy. Our engineering department is also guiding farmers on how to modify the machines by spending as little as only ₹1,000 per machine,” said Pannu.Principal agronomist of Punjab Agriculture University Dr MS Bhullar revealed that the field inputs on adoption of DSR are encouraging.“It is for the first time that farmers across the state have expressed their interest in the technology that is less time-consuming and not at all labour-intensive. They should consult farm experts in case of any problems faced with the mechanised sowing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-go-for-direct-seeding-of-paddy-cover-7-lakh-hectares-under-water-saving-technology/story-QCPpLbah5hS9Mcq5bRqJML.html
09-06-2020||Kolkata||Endangered helmeted curassow birds seized at Indo-Bangla border in south Bengal||Eight helmeted curassows – an endangered species of bird found in South America – were seized by the Border Security Force (BSF) from along the Indo-Bangla border in south Bengal on Tuesday while they were being smuggled into India.The accused persons, however, managed to flee when they saw patrolling teams of the BSF, leaving behind two wooden boxes.“There were at least eight helmeted curassows birds in two boxes. These are exotic and endangered species. Earlier too we have seized helmeted curassows,” said Satosh Kumar Singh, deputy commandant of BSF’s south Bengal frontier.According to the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, helmeted curassows are endangered species and are found in the forests of Columbia and Venezuela. It is estimated that less than 3000 mature individuals can be found. Their population is one the decline because of habitat loss and hunting.BSF officials said that they are in touch with officials of the state forest department and the birds would be handed over to officials from Alipore Zoo in Kolkata.“We believe they are smuggled into India to be kept as pets,” said a senior BSF officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/endangered-helmeted-curassow-birds-seized-at-indo-bangla-border-in-south-bengal/story-DtgAdcHFOh9n35J0UKfNeJ.html
09-06-2020||City||CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami urges J&K L-G to scrap SRO 202||The former legislator of the CPI(M), MY Tarigami on Tuesday wrote a letter to the lieutenant governor GC Murmu and urged him to scrap controversial SRO 202.“The Jammu and Kashmir administration’s decision to make new appointments in various government departments under discriminatory SRO-202 has once again disappointed thousands of job aspirants in the region. Already there was huge uncertainty among job aspirants in J&K due to the new domicile rules. The SRO-202 has increased it further,” stated Tarigami in his letter.“Employment opportunities in Jammu and Kashmir are already far and few. With new domicile rules and SRO-202, the educated youth in the region will feel suffocated and nowhere to go. The SRO 202, issued by the general administration department (GAD) on June 30, 2015, prescribes that a person shall be on probation of five years, and during this period, the appointee shall be entitled to only the basic pay and not any of the allowances. It is discriminatory and denies due increment to employees who are appointed into the government service,” he added.The move since its implementation has been facing opposition from both government employees as well as the youth in J&K. CPI(M) has been opposing this SRO as it has a detrimental effect on the service of the appointees and can lead to paying anomaly in the future. Already the Law Commission headed by Justice (retired) M K Hanjura had recommended reduction in probation period from five to two years under SRO-202.“I urge the J&K administration to look into the matter and withdraw this discriminatory SRO so that the newly appointed employees of Jammu and Kashmir administration are not placed at the disadvantageous position,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-leader-my-tarigami-urges-j-k-l-g-to-scrap-sro-202/story-l0b81HTZEPSd9i1vwLLvlJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures increase in Haryana, Punjab but remain below normal||The maximum temperatures in Haryana and Punjab rose by a few notches on Tuesday but the mercury settled near or below the normal limits at most places.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 37.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, according to the Meteorological Department here.In Haryana, Ambala’s maximum settled at 39.3 degrees Celsius, which was within the normal limits, while Karnal recorded a high of 37.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.Hisar had a hot day at 42 degrees Celsius but it was within the normal limits.Narnaul, which received light rainfall during the day, registered a high of 33.5 degrees Celsius, nine notches below normal.Ludhiana in Punjab registered a maximum of 38.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while Patiala recorded a high of 38.7 degrees Celsius, also a notch below normal limits.Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maximum-temperatures-increase-in-haryana-punjab-but-remain-below-normal/story-XRVmADIespqp1Dbzk9LlkO.html
09-06-2020||City||HPBOSE result: Kangra’s Tanu tops Class 10 with 98.71% marks||Girls outshined boys in the Class 10 result declared by Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBOSE) here on Tuesday.The top position was clinched by Tanu of Ishan Public School in Har Samloti, Kangra, who scored 98.71% marks.HPBOSE chairman Suresh Kumar Soni said total 1,04,323 candidates appeared in the exam, of which 70,571 passed and 5,617 got compartment.The overall pass percentage is 68.11%, an increase of 7.32% from previous year’s 60.79%, he added.He said the evaluation process was delayed due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Soni revealed that 37 students made it to the top-10, and 23 of them are girls. The pass percentage of girls is 71.5% while that of boys is 64.9%, he said.The second position was bagged by Kshitiz Sharma of New Gurukul Public School, Gopal Nagar, Hamirpur who secured 98.57% marks.Vansh Gupta of Glory Public School, Bilaspur; Shagun Rana of Ishan Public School, Har Samloti, Kangra and Anisha Sharma of Government High School, Pantehra, Bilsapur, all stood third with 98.43% marks.Shreya Sharma of Minerva Senior Secondary School, Ghumarwin, came fourth with 98.29% score.Ansh Bhardwaj of The New Era School, Chhatri, Kangra; Vanshika of Amar Shanti School, Khundia, Kangra; Karun Kumar of Government School, Holi, Chamba; Shagun Sharma of Minerva Public School, Ghumarwin, Bilaspur; Laila of DAV Public School, Manali; and Nisha of SV School, Ramnagar, Mandi, all clinched the 5th spot by scoring 98.14% marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hpbose-result-kumari-tanu-tops-class-10-with-98-71-marks/story-50gLSjf7kk5XWcYobKHjnO.html
09-06-2020||City||Kharar man tests positive for Covid-19; Mohali district count reaches 137||A 30-year-old resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking Mohali district’s count of confirmed cases to 137. Of these, only 22 remain active.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the man had visited the civil hospital with mild symptoms and was sampled. After infection was confirmed, he was shifted him to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.Meanwhile, a Sector 77 couple was discharged from the Banur hospital, taking the number of recoveries to 112. Three people have succumbed to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-mohali-district-count-reaches-137/story-sOqpI16HfrH9buh6mmNTYN.html
09-06-2020||City||40-year-old cop dies of Covid in Palghar||A 40-year-old constable succumbed to Covid-19, on Tuesday morning in a Nalla Sopara hospital. The deceased was attached to Waliv police station in Vasai.Sachin Navadkar, police sub-inspector and public relations officer, Palghar police said, “He was admitted on June 1 to a civic hospital in Bhayander, but as his condition worsened, he was shifted to a Nalla Sopara hospital, said Navadkar.The constable had joined the force in 2003 and had completed 17 years of service. This is the first recorded death of police personnel in Palghar district, while till date around 33 personnel including two officers have tested positive, said Navadkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-in-palghar/story-xsaj772mf9M27s9HV4k7ZP.html
09-06-2020||City||Cong sarpanch killed by terrorists: Kin, political leaders seek protection for Kashmiri Pandits||A day after sarpanch and Congress leader Ajay Pandita alias Bharti was shot dead by terrorists in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, his kin and many political leaders raised demands of protection for Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley.The slain leader was cremated in Jammu earlier on Tuesday. Bharti was the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in the Larkipora area.“We won’t leave Kashmir but I urge the government to create a regiment of the Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley,” said Vijay Pandita, brother of the deceased.“He loved his roots and always extended a helping hand to the needy. After becoming a sarpanch he had decided to work for the welfare of Muslims,” he added.Bharti’s father Dwarika Nath Pandita said, “We came to Kashmir in 1996. At that time, Ajay was around 21-year-old. He used to say that Kashmir is our home. Some anti-nationals are behind his killing.”Calling it a cowardly act, Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu condemned the killing and said that those behind the killing are enemies of humanity. “Attack on any public representative is an attack on democracy,” he said.In December last year, Bharti had told the media that there was a threat to his life and had repeatedly asked for security.Dr Mahesh Kaul, a prominent writer on Kashmir and a community leader, said, “The killing of Ajay is another example of this jihadi paramilitary society to continue the genocide of Kashmiri Pandits and the Indian state keeps on buying the half separatist theory of secularism via Kashmiriyat (“Cash-miriyat).”All Parties Migrant Coordination Committee (APMCC) leader Vinod Pandit said, “We condemn the killing of Ajay Pandita. He was always under threat for being a Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch. A probe is needed in the matter.”Meanwhile, Congress questioned lapses to provide security to the slain leader. Senior leaders of the JKPCC have questioned the government’s failure to provide adequate security to Bharti, despite him being an elected representative and leader of a minority community residing in one of the most vulnerable areas in Kashmir.All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC) also condemned the killing and said that such cowardly attacks will not deter them from strengthening the democracy at the grassroots level in the UT.The AJKPC reiterated its demand for security to its members and advocated adequate compensation to family of the deceased.“Pandita was the vice-president of the AJKPC and played a great role in strengthening the organisation. His killing is an attack on democracy and a direct fallout of the frustration among terror ranks due to back-to-back successful operations which resulted in killing of nine militants in the past two days in Shopian,” said AJKPC president Anil Sharma.Meanwhile, the AJKPC has demanded adequate security for the elected sarpanches and panches.In last panchyat elections held in December 2018, a total of 22,214 panches and 3,459 sarpanches were elected of total 33,592 panch and 4,290 sarpanch constituencies.Hizbul Mujahideen involved in killing of sarpanch: Cops Police have claimed that militants of Hizbul Mujahideen were involved in the killing of Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti in Anantnag.J&K DGP Dilbag Singh said the sarpanch was killed by Hizbul Mujahideen militants.Police said unidentified gunmen had attacked Bharti at his orchard on Monday afternoon.Locals said Bharti’s family had migrated from south Kashmir in early ’90s but he had returned a couple of years back and contested the panchayat polls.State BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur asked the L-G administration to provide security to all sarpanches and panches.“We have been demanding security since long. So far, nothing has been done. We urge police to provide security to the leaders,” he said.Thakur said militants are not happy with development, adding that culprits involved in Pandita’s killing will be taken to task soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-sarpanch-killed-by-terrorists-cremated-in-jammu/story-X7MXghfjEjRvTixq29mBoM.html
09-06-2020||Pune||PMC to regularise 7,000 properties in Bibwewadi, asks residents to pay transfer fee||The standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved the pending proposal of transfer of properties in Bibwewadi. According to PMC, the move will benefit at least 7,000 residents who can now regularise their properties by paying a transfer fee to the civic body.Many residents of Bibwewadi otta area sold or rented out their properties under PMC limits to new owners, but had not been able to transfer the property legally. PMC has okayed regularisation of 7,000 properties by paying transfer fee. For residential properties, owners have to pay a transfer fee of Rs75,000 to the municipal corporation and it is Rs1.5 lakh for commercial properties.Hemant Rasne, PMC standing committee chairman, said, “The transfer fee will help PMC collect revenue. The proposal had been pending for many years. Now, PMC has decided to regularise these properties which are already occupied.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-regularise-7-000-properties-in-bibwewadi-asks-residents-to-pay-transfer-fee/story-cxr5liLBUc5AIsxiYwnzzL.html
09-06-2020||City||Two men with travel history among 5 Covid-19 cases in Panchkula; district count climbs to 41||Five people tested positive for coronavirus disease on Tuesday, taking Panchkula district’s total count of confirmed cases to 41.The district reported its first case on March 21 and was on the road to recovery when it witnessed a spike in the past one week, with 15 cases surfacing within seven days. All these cases remain active.Two men, aged 23 and 51, and a woman, aged 48, are among the fresh cases. Residents of Sector 21, they were in contact with a positive patient.The other two are a 45-year-old man from Sector 6 and a 42-year-old man from Sector 17. “Both of them have travel history,” said Dr Rajiv Narwal, nodal officer, Covid-19. “While the Sector 17 resident had returned from Hyderabad on June 5, the man from Sector 6 had recently returned from Delhi on Jan Shatabdi.”Looking at the spike in cases, the Panchkula health department has decided to take samples of every resident returning from red zone areas, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-with-travel-history-among-5-covid-19-cases-in-panchkula-district-count-climbs-to-41/story-KlqbybffkjwVZj1vZD6OiM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||2012 NRI kidnapping case: HC turns life sentence into 10-year jail for six convicts||Dropping the ransom charges against six persons convicted in an NRI kidnapping case, the Punjab and Haryana high court has reduced their punishment from life sentence to 10-year jail term. The case dates back to April 2012 when Canadian NRI Navneet Singh Chatha, who was visiting the city and residing in Sector 18, was kidnapped and taken to a farm house in Kurukshetra.As per the prosecution, the convicts made the victim call his brother in Canada and ask for Rs 1 crore citing a land deal. Navneet made the call but dropped a hint due to which his brother got suspicious and informed the police from Canada. The victim used to call his brother “Ginnu” or “Garry” but on the fateful day, he addressed him by his full name Gurneet Singh Chatha and asked for the money. A UT crime branch team had rescued the NRI within 24 hours of kidnapping, after conducting a raid in which exchange of fire also took place. The police had arrested six persons, identified as Pradeep Malik, 31, Sanjeev Kumar alias Soni, 36, Anil Kumar, 37, Ajit Singh, 28, Nitin, 28, and Sukhdev, 38, on charges of kidnapping, robbery and wrongful confinement. All the convicts hail from different districts of Haryana. They were convicted by the trial court and awarded life sentence in September 2016.‘NO EVIDENCE’The high court bench of justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Archana Puri, while modifying the trial court order, observed that there is absolutely no evidence of ransom calls made to the NRI’s brother in Canada even as mobile numbers of all the accused were recovered. “In the light of the same, phono-connectivity as asserted (by prosecution), does not stand established. Consequently, the demand of ransom amount, as such does not stand proved,” the bench said while dropping the charges of ransom demand. Kidnapping entails a jail term of 10 years but for demanding ransom upon kidnap, a person can be awarded a life or even death sentence. On the kidnapping charges, the bench said the abduction stands amply established, even though the victim had property-dealing interaction with one of the accused and had voluntarily gone with him in a car. The other accused had joined in later and threatened the NRI with a gun and taken to Kurukshetra, where he was confined in a room in a farmhouse. The UT police had also recovered Rs 12.5 lakh, 300 Canadian dollars, a Honda Accord car robbed from the victim, and a Maruti Swift Dzire car robbed from a person in Panchkula. The victim had appeared through video conferencing, claiming threat to his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2012-nri-kidnapping-case-hc-turns-life-sentence-into-10-year-jail-for-six-convicts/story-uZntEt7iWF9z5AVuuG3K2L.html
09-06-2020||City||Health dept scam: HP education minister challenges Congress to file chargesheet||Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday challenged the Congress to issue a written chargesheet regarding the recent health department scam, stating that the state government will act on it.Addressing a press conference here, Bhardwaj said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur immediately took action as soon as the scam came to light.He said that Jai Ram was voted as best performing CM, but Congress leaders are busy politicising the matter and tarnishing the state government’s reputation through baseless allegations.He also hit out at former chief minister Virbhadra Singh saying that many CBI cases against him were still pending and asked whether the Congress had forgotten that in the Vakamulla Chandershekhar case, the CBI had raided Singh’s home.Bhardwaj said the state government has been done exceptional work during the pandemic. Even after the lockdown, no cases were reported in Himachal and many patients had been cured. “Though Covid-19 cases in the state increased when Himachal residents returned from other states, it was the state government’s responsibility to bring them back,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-dept-scam-hp-education-minister-challenges-congress-to-file-chargesheet/story-Dbjoa2PbJ0jD9X8wTleciI.html
09-06-2020||City||Pune keeps Covid on pregnant pause with aggressive testing, strict delivery protocol||PUNE Three months into the pandemic in Pune and city obstetricians claim there is evidence of any case in the city where the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the Covid-19 infection is transmitted from an infected pregnant woman to her new-born child.Dr Madhuri Rokade, resident medical officer at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Sonawane hospital, said, “Our hospital was opened exclusively for Covid-19 positive women on May 2 and since then, we have had three deliveries.” “ICMR guidelines state that a pregnant woman must be tested for Covid-19 five days before the date of delivery. There have been reports in some studies globally that the infection could cause pre-term delivery, but no such incident has been recorded in Pune yet, however, it would be too soon to say it cannot happen,” Dr Rokade added.The civic body has been actively surveying pregnant women who are then followed up with, randomly, to check for any flu-like symptoms.The civic body has conducted door-to-door surveys in which 2,502 pregnant women in the city were identified in containment zones as of June 5. Of these 2,502 women, Hadapsar ward has 648, followed by Bhavani peth (378) and Aundh (233) – the three areas with the highest number of pregnant women. The PMC’s mobile swab collection van focuses on comorbid, pregnant and senior citizens, all of whom are tested for Covid-19.Dr Rokade details how strict care is taken to ensure safety of all involved in the delivery process.“We adhere to the strict guidelines of wearing PPEs at the time of delivery. The woman is given an N95 mask and every person, including the ward boy and sanitation staff, who enter the operation theatre is given a PPE kit. Since there is no proof that the virus enters the placenta the only source of infection from a mother to a baby are respiratory droplets, which is possible during breastfeeding. Once the baby is delivered we check the baby for infection on the fifth day and if the result is negative, the baby is handed over to a relative,” she said. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The civic body has taken four major steps which includes creating a separate hospital for Covid-19 positive pregnant woman which is the Sonawane hospital. We also started surveying pregnant woman across the city and focused on them by following up on symptoms and testing. We also have tied up with a private hospital to treat Covid-19 positive pregnant women. Finally, we have reserved maternity wards for non-Covid-19 pregnant women.”Dr Rajeshwari Pawar, obstetrician and gynaecologist, Motherhood hospital, said, “The fear of infection if mothers-to-be go to a multi-speciality hospital is more, since there is no guarantee that a person who comes to a hospital is not Covid-19 positive. Since maternity hospitals have pregnant women who have been tested and are found negative, there is some assurance. Also, all appointments are done in phases - be it delivery, vaccinations or routine check-ups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-keeps-covid-on-pregnant-pause-with-aggressive-testing-strict-delivery-protocol/story-vtzdahKKJPcOgYklQPzBaP.html
09-06-2020||City||Huge cache of arms recovered near LoC in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday claimed to have recovered a large stash of arms and ammunition near the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Keran sector.The police said that based on a reliable input a joint search operation was launched by Kupwara police and Army 6 Rashtriya Rifles in Keran village and forest areas along the Line of Control.Inspector-general of police, Vijay Kumar confirmed that during the combing operation large quantity of arms and ammunition were recovered from a weapons dump.The recoveries included five AK 47 rifles, 15 AK Mag, AK Rds - 443, two UBGL, 57 UBGL grenades, 9mm pistols, 9mm pistol mag 9mm pistol Rds, hand grenades and AK sling.“With this joint operation security forces deployed in Kupwara have successfully foiled the nefarious designs of Pakistan-based terror operatives to smuggle illegal weapons into the valley and spread terrorism,” Kumar said.The police have registered a case and taken up further investigation.Meanwhile, an overground worker of LeT Irfan Ahmad Wani of Shatlu Rafiabad Baramulla was arrested by a joint party of SOG Baramulla, 52 RR and 53 CRPF at Kralhar Baramulla and a Chinese pistol 1 magazine and four Rds and mobile phone were recovered from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/huge-cache-of-arms-recovered-near-loc-in-kashmir/story-1WOp0cVj2Rk2cZP5PMcRRL.html
09-06-2020||City||Sena corporator succumbs to Covid-19||A Shiv Sena corporator from Bhayander and leader of the Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC), Harishchandra Aamgavkar, 50, succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday morning. Aamgavkar was undergoing treatment at Vedant Hospital, Thane. His wife and brother, who also contracted the virus, recovered from the virus, last week. However, his mother who had tested positive is under treatment in the hospital.Aamgavkar was earlier admitted to the Themba Civic Hospital in Bhayander and later shifted to the Thane hospital. Aamgavkar had a blood pressure problem. He took all the necessary precautions like wearing a mask and maintaining social distance, while attending meetings, said an MBMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sena-corporator-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-dGqIOTwXkJbEm2AoQgadxN.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs Arnab Goswami to remain present at police station on June 10||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami to attend NM Joshi Marg police station on June 10 for interrogation with regards to the two FIRs registered against him in NM Joshi Marg police station as well as Pydhonie Police Station. Goswami had filed petitions in the Bombay high court seeking quashing of the FIRs against him in the two police stations. The court has posted the petitions for hearing Friday. The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Riyaz Chagla while hearing the criminal writ petition of Arnab Goswami filed through advocate Madhavi Doshi seeking various reliefs included quashing of the two FIR’s filed against him on April 22 and May 2 with regards to the reporting of the April 14 protest of migrants at Bandra station. Senior counsel Harish Salve for Goswami submitted that multiple FIRs had been filed across the country for the same incidents, and as per a Supreme Court order multiple FIRs in different states for the same incident were not sustainable, hence the FIR filed against Goswami should be quashed. While referring to section 153 under which Goswami has been booked, Salve submitted that no offence was made out under the section. He also said that as Pydhonie police station was in a containment zone, Goswami should be exempted from reporting there on June 10. However, senior counsel Kapil Sibal who appeared for the state of Maharashtra along with public prosecutor Deepak Thakare and additional public prosecutor SR Shinde submitted that the allegations made against Goswami in the FIRs were sensitive in nature hence he should be asked to attend the police station to enable them to complete their investigations. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed Goswami to attend NM Joshi Marg police station on June 10, instead of Pydhonie police station and asked the Pydhonie police to conduct its interrogation there instead. The court also restrained the police from arresting Goswami and posted the matter for hearing on Friday June 12.When advocate Doshi was contacted she refused to speak.Goswami has been accused of instigating hatred against the Muslim community while anchoring a programme on the protests by migrants outside Bandra Station. The FIR at Pydhonie police station has stated that Goswami during the programme had targeted the mosque outside the station though it had nothing to do in the gathering of migrants.ere. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here.Start story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here. Story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-arnab-goswami-to-remain-present-at-police-station-on-june-10/story-18FZ5TnEMKW93Fho318YVL.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal education minister dares Congress to submit chargesheet on health ‘scam’||Education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday called the Congress’ allegations of the government being involved in a health scam baseless. “The allegations of fiscal irregularities in the purchase of ventilators are totally baseless,” Bhardwaj said: “Instead of making frivolous allegations and issuing anonymous letters the Congress should submit a chargesheet.”Bhardwaj said the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government’s tenure had been full of remarkable achievements and providing clean, transparent and sensitive governance were its primary feats. “Afraid of the government’s growing popularity, the Congress is levelling baseless charges against the BJP regime,” said Bhardwaj.“During their term,” the education minister said, “Congress leaders were probed by the CBI and other investigative agencies and had to face charges in court.”He said the government had filed an FIR against the anonymous people who had levelled charges of corruption in the ventilator purchase.The education minister said the allegation that the government had purchased ventilators worth ₹3.5 lakh for ₹10.29 lakh had been found to be false.“In fact, the government has not made any such purchase. There are several panels of officers at the directorate level in the health department which oversee the purchase of medical equipment,” he said.These committees look into every aspect including pricing before making a purchase. The purchases made by other states are also studied.“The ₹3.5 lakh ventilators spoken of in the anonymous letter is a demonstration unit which is given to the dealer and cannot be sold,” he said, confirming that the actual price of ventilators was ₹10.3 lakh.As far as purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits is concerned, there was nothing irregular about it, he said. The health department bought 14,500 PPE kits on April 21 and spent ₹1.84 crore.After the supply of PPE kits from HLL became smooth, the purchase was stopped.“After an audiotape surfaced in which an officer of health department was heard seeking bribe, the matter was immediately handed over to vigilance bureau,” said Bhardwaj.Similarly, the government took swift action in the sanitiser purchase scam.The government’s actions reflect its zero-tolerance policy against corruption, said Bhardwaj, cautioning the opposition party to refrain from playing petty politics in times of pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-education-minister-dares-congress-to-submit-chargesheet-on-health-scam/story-G91EBawdxIczWZUNHjJilM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana health minister Anil Vij slips at home, fractures left thigh bone||Ambala: Haryana health minister Anil Vij, 67, fractured his left thigh bone after a fall at his residence in Ambala cantonment’s Shastri Colony on Tuesday afternoon.Sources said that he was taken to an orthopaedician at a hospital in the cantonment’s Mahesh Nagar area where he was given initial treatment. He was then referred to a private hospital in Mohali.Ambala cantonment deputy superintendent of police Ram Kumar said, “The minister has been referred to Max Hospital in Mohali for surgery of his left thigh. He left in an ambulance from the Ambala hospital at 4pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-slips-at-home-fractures-left-thigh-bone/story-ilQr9K7DdusqBDTPMasTAI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||HP Police headquarters sealed, DGP Sanjay Kundu in self-quarantine||The Himachal Pradesh police headquarters in Shimla has been sealed for 48 hours from Tuesday after a visitor, who called on director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu a week ago, tested positive for Covid-19 and died.Kundu has ben tested neagtive for the virus but will remain in home quarantine.The man had visited Kundu in office on June 1 to felicitate him after he took charge as the state DGP following the retirement of Sita Ram Mardi.“The person tested positive for coronavirus infection in Delhi and passed away on June 9,” police spokesman and superintendent of police Kushal Sharma said in a release.The police department is following the protocol issued by the Union health ministry and sealing the areas he visited.All officers who had come in contact with the infected person were medically examined and tested negative. They have gone into self quarantine. A team of doctors was at the police headquarters on Tuesday morning to take swab samples of 20 police personnel.“All those who have been examined will remain in self quarantine,” Sharma said.Nearly 200 police personnel work at the headquarters that also houses the offices of the additional director general, law and order; additional DGP and IG, armed police and training; IG, headquarters, SP, cyber crime, and SP, law and order.Total 28 of the 29 samples taken from police headquarters for Covid-19 testing, including that of director general of police Sanjay Kundu, have reported negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-police-headquarters-sealed-dgp-sanjay-kundu-in-self-quarantine/story-kC2xAF477DlO0SCKif16TK.html
09-06-2020||Pune||PMC collects 2,100 samples for Covid-19 testing within 24 hours||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) collected at least 2,100 samples for testing of Covid-19 within 24 hours, since Sunday evening.The total number of samples collected for testing in Pune is 60,798.Also, 13 Covid-19-related deaths were recorded on Monday, taking the death toll in the city to 391; 181 fresh positive cases were recorded taking the count of progressive positive cases to 8,062.Of the 2,486 active cases in the city, 204 are critical patients.The number of those cured and discharged is 5,185, of which 166 were discharged on Monday. Two deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, including a 65-year-old male residing at Chandanagar. The patient was admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Sunday. A 64-year-old male was reported dead from the hospital, residing in the Camp area. The patient was admitted on May 25 and declared dead on Monday. Three deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital, including a 65-year-old female residing at Parvati. The patient was admitted on May 28 and declared dead on Monday. A 69-year-old female from Kharadi was admitted on June 1 and declared dead on Monday. The third death reported is that of a 70-year-old female residing at Yerwada. The patient was admitted on June 4 and declared dead on Sunday. Three deaths were reported from the Bharati Vidyapeth hospital: a 30-year-old male residing at Gokhale nagar. The patient was admitted on May 27 and was declared dead on Monday; a 70-year-old female residing at Dhankawadi admitted on June 4, declared dead on Monday; and a 35-year-old male residing at Ambedkar vasahat admitted on June 5, declared dead on Monday. Three deaths were reported from KEM: a 78-year-old male residing at Nana peth admitted on May 12 and declared dead on Sunday; a 67-year-old female residing at Nana peth admitted on May 24 and declared dead on Monday; and a 60-year-old male from Ghorpadi who was admitted to the hospital on June 3 and declared dead on Sunday. A 70-year-old male declared dead at Jehangir Hospital was living at Market Yard. The patient was admitted on June 6 and declared dead on Monday. A 72-year-old male was reported dead from Noble Hospital, residing at Kondhwa. The patient was admitted on May 28 and declared dead on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-collects-2-100-samples-for-covid-19-testing-within-24-hours/story-C28Dw0jmcphgU7HI7PKjpJ.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Rear Admiral Atul Anand assumes charge at NDA, Khadakwasla||Rear Admiral Atul Anand has taken charge as the deputy commandant and chief instructor of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla from Rear Admiral SK Grewal.Anand is a second generation armed forces officer whose father is also an alumnus of the NDA (13th course). Commissioned in 1988 in the executive branch of the Indian Navy, the flag officer is a specialist in navigation and direction. The admiral is an alumnus of the NDA (71st course), Defence Services Command and Staff College, Bangladesh and National Defence College, New Delhi. He has also attended the prestigious advance security cooperation course at the Asia-Pacific centre for security studies, Hawaii, USA.A recipient of the Vishisht Seva Medal, the Admiral has commanded Indian Naval Ships Torpedo Recovery Vessel A72, Missile Boat INS Chatak, Corvette INS Khukri and the Destroyer INS Mumbai. INS Chatak was awarded the Unit Citation and thereafter INS Mumbai was adjudged as the Best Ship of Western Fleet during his Command. He also served as Direction Officer of the Sea Harrier Squadron INAS 300 and Executive Officer of the Destroyer INS Delhi. His important staff appointments include Joint Director Staff Requirements ,Directing Staff at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Director Naval Operations, Director Naval Intelligence (Operations), Principal Director Naval Operations and Principal Director Strategy, Concepts and Transformation. Prior to this appointment, he served as the Assistant Chief of Naval Staff (Foreign Cooperation and Intelligence) at IHQ MoD(Navy), New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rear-admiral-atul-anand-assumes-charge-at-nda-khadakwasla/story-W4kr7H4JrFCZoNu0MP5YcO.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Anandnagar residents damage Pune police vehicles to protest against containment; case registered||A case of rioting and attack on public servants has been registered at the Chinchwad police station after some residents of Anandnagar slum in Chinchwad damaged police vehicles and broke the tin containment seal on Monday afternoon.“The case is against at least 50 people, but it is a flexible number. We are analysing the footage, videos and images, to identify the perpetrators,” said senior police inspector Ravindra Jadhav of the Chinchwad police station.According to the police, the crowd broke open the containment seals made of tin and charged at the police shelter built outside the containment zone. The two-wheelers parked by the police officials were pushed into gutters and chairs were thrown while stones were allegedly pelted by the residents, according to the police.“Five police vehicles were destroyed. Their argument was that the area had been retained as a containment zone even though the lockdown is being lifted elsewhere. They wanted to go to work,” said police inspector (crime) Vishwajeet Khule of the Chinchwad police station who was present at the spot. The area has been a containment zone for four weeks and has four grocery shops open. A similar skirmish was reported from the area two weeks ago, according to police officials. A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant), rioting along with relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/anandnagar-residents-damage-pune-police-vehicles-to-protest-against-containment-case-registered/story-9q2X5jPrOuJrbqfHZMcIbL.html
09-06-2020||Kolkata||No end to commuters’ woes in Bengal as limited number of buses hit streets||Commuters in the city and other parts of West Bengal faced a harrowing time reaching workplaces on the second consecutive day of “Unlock 1” on Tuesday with public transport yet to pick up pace in the state, even as most offices and business establishments resumed normal operations.Private bus operators claimed that the number of vehicles operated in Kolkata and its suburbs on Tuesday marginally increased compared to the day before, as 30 per cent of the fleet hit roads.Other modes of public transport such as metro rail and local trains are yet to recommence operations.Shopping malls and restaurants, among other establishments, reopened in Bengal on Monday after a gap of over two months with the state government allowing further relaxations as part of “Unlock-1”, the first phase of a calibrated exit from the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown.Bus operators’ associations said that drivers and helpers experienced hiccups in some pockets, where a large number of people were waiting to board buses.“In some areas, buses ran with a handful of passengers, while in others, people stood in hordes to board the vehicles. We are chalking out a strategy to maintain frequency as per demand,” general secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, Tapan Banerjee, said.Long queues were witnessed at various places in south and north Kolkata, including Jadavpur, Garia, Hazra, Exide Crossing, Shyambazar and Dunlop, as commuters complained that they had been waiting for at least an hour on an average to get buses to their destination.Rahul Chatterjee, the general secretary of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity, however, said the rush of passengers was somewhat less than what it was on Monday.Buses operators have been told not to carry passengers in excess of their seating capacity by the state government, but the rule was openly flouted in several parts of the city and other districts of West Bengal, as people, tired of waiting in queues, got on to vehicles by force.State transport undertaking buses were seen plying on the streets in the morning, but with hundreds of commuters waiting, these were not enough to clear the rush.Taxis, app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws were also available across the city on the second day of “Unlock 1”.Many people rode motorcycles and bicycles to work to avoid crowds.As one of them put it, “It is safer to cycle to work than take the risk of travelling in a crowded bus in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.” Footfall at shopping malls were low in the morning, but store owners said the turnout was expected to increase later in the day.All major shopping complexes in the city, including South City, City Centre I and II, Acropolis, threw open their doors on Monday, barring the Forum Mall, which said it would do so next week.Visitors are allowed at the malls between 11 am and 8 pm. Children below 10 years of age and senior citizens above 65 years, however, have been barred from entering the malls for now, as they are considered vulnerable to the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-end-to-commuters-woes-in-bengal-as-limited-number-of-buses-hit-streets/story-aJKW3Da1RiyrWhzAplibuJ.html
09-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally rises to 1,330||The number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has risen to 1,330 with 187 new infections reported, the state government said on Tuesday.In a bulletin, the state government said 187 Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday, the highest single-day spike in coronavirus infection since the outbreak of the pandemic on March 31, taking the state’s tally to 1,330.On Monday night, a bulletin had said that the state has reported the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 147 infections.Of the total 1,330 Covid-19 cases, the number of active cases was 804 as 519 people have recovered from the disease and seven people have died of the infection, it said.Three deaths were reported from Ranchi district three, and one each from Bokaro, Giridih, Koderma and Simdega About five lakh migrants have returned to Jharkhand since May 1. At least 1,066 migrants have tested positive for Covid-19, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-1-330/story-siSelqAS2ytKOPfduMPPIK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eight new ventilators to be installed at Ambala civil hospitals, six more to arrive||The eight ventilators that had arrived at Ambala last month are set to be installed at civil hospitals, the civil surgeon said on Tuesday.The ventilators were donated by Maruti Suzuki as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) project.Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Of these eight basic ventilators, we will install five at civil hospitals in cantonment and three in the city. We were waiting for staff who could operate the ventilators. They are expected to start functioning within the week.”“So far, oxygen beds have been enough to deal with serious patients. We are expecting six more ventilators from the Haryana government,” Dr Kuldeep said.At present, there are 83 ventilators at private and military hospitals in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-new-ventilators-to-be-installed-at-ambala-civil-hospitals-six-more-to-arrive/story-oany1oObFYRUKUJxAvwAMI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Home guard, couple arrested with 936g cannabis in Mandi||Three persons, including a home guard, have been arrested in Mandi with 936 grams of cannabis.The accused, Mahesh Kumar, who was posted as a homeguard at City Police Station in Mandi and was on leave, and SukhRam and Lata Devi, a couple, are all residents of Sarkaghat, Mandi.The accused were travelling to Mandi from Kullu when they were stopped for checking near Bhiuli. During the checking, police recovered cannabis from the accused and immediately arrested them.The accused were presented in court on Tuesday and have been sent to a four-day remand.Mandi superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Sharma confirmed the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/home-guard-couple-arrested-with-936g-cannabis-in-mandi/story-mtbBqyAKJPHQisMDNtrobM.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31: Manish Sisodia||Delhi is likely to have over five lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate the infected patients, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, a day after L-G Anil Baijal revoked the AAP government’s order to reserve beds in Delhi government hospitals for its residents.“Till June 15, there will be 44,000 COVID-19 cases and we would need 6,600 beds. “We would hit one lakh cases and would require 15,000 beds by June 30. “Till July 15, the cases would mount to 2.5 lakh and we would require 33,000 beds and till July 31, there will be 5.5 lakh cases and we would need 80,000 beds,” Sisodia told reporters after a meeting that was called to discuss if there was community transmission of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Watch | Covid: Sisodia says 88,000 beds needed by July end, slams Delhi LG Baijal The meeting was chaired by Baijal, who is the head of the State Disaster Management Authority, and attended by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and officials of the central government among others. If the cases kept doubling in every 12-13 days in the coming days, there will be shortage of beds and Delhiites will bear the brunt, the Delhi deputy CM said, using this as the justification for his government’s order on hospital beds.“This is the reason the Delhi cabinet had decided to reserve the beds only for the city residents but it was overturned by the L-G. Now, who will take the responsibility if the cases keep on increasing and the beds are full?” he asked.The Lt Governor, who is also the Chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, had in his order on Monday said that “treatment should not be denied to any patient on grounds of being a non-resident”.Talking about the Baijal’s order, Sisodia told reporters that the L-G is refusing to reconsider his decision.“The L-G refuses to reconsider his decision to overrule Delhi government’s order reserving state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites,” he said. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that of the new cases being reported in the city, nearly 50% are those with unknown source of infection.Delhi’s L-G Anil Baijal has called a meeting of political parties on Tuesday afternoon to discuss the prevailing situation due to Covid-19. The national capital is among the worst-affected in the country with nearly 30,000 Covid-19 cases till date, as per the Union health ministry figures. (With inputs from IANS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-expected-to-have-5-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-july-31-manish-sisodia/story-iqs6E8Df2QEEnOegn9ectL.html
09-06-2020||City||24 test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal; state’s count climbs to 445||Twenty-four people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 445.Eight cases were reported from Sirmaur, six from Kangra, five from Una, two from Bilaspur and one each from Hamirpur and Mandi.EIGHT TEST POSITIVE IN PHARMA UNIT AT KALA AMBEight cases have been reported at a pharmaceutical manufacturing unit located in Kala Amb of Sirmaur.They include owner of Orison Pharmaceutical International, his son and wife, the chief executive officer and three employees.Siramur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said 41 samples were sent for testing to the Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli, on Monday, of which 33 tested negative.Pruthi said seven out of eight patients were in Haryana and the Sirmaur administration had informed the authorities of the state.The patient who is in Himachal has been shifted to a Covid-care centre. The pharma unit was sealed after one of its employees tested positive for Covid-19 on June 5.SIX CASES IN KANGRASix cases have been reported in Kangra, the most populous district of the state. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that among the patients is a 31year-old man who returned from Delhi. Other 25-yearold man travelled back from Ludhiana. The third patient a 29-year-old man came from Chandigarh.Apart from it, three more Delhi returned men aged 51, 41 and 40 have tested positive, said Prajapati adding that all were under institutional quarantine. Five cases were reported from Una late evening.One case each has been reported from Mandi and Hamirpur.184 ACTIVE CASESSo far, Himachal has recorded 437 cases of which 245 have recovered while five, including three men and two women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.There are 184 active cases in the state. Twenty-one patients recovered today and the overall recovery rate is around 50%.The second wave of Covid-19 cases hit Himachal on May 4. Since then, 405 people have tested positive for the virus. As many as 115 cases have been recorded in June month.So far, eleven of the total twelve districts in the state are affected by Covid-19. The tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti is the only Covid-free district.Hamirpur is the worst-hit district with 124 cases followed by Kangra with 115 cases. A total of 54 cases have been reported in Una, 34 in Solan, 32 in Chamba, 24 in Bilaspur, 22 in Mandi, 20 in Sirmaur 13 in Shimla, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-test-positive-at-sirmaur-pharma-unit-himachal-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-429/story-oIQ75m0jshRSKJUrWQL7ML.html
09-06-2020||Kolkata||‘Take a minute’: Mamata Banerjee’s nephew jabs Shah ahead of Bengal address||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) took a jibe at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruling in the Centre on Tuesday morning, minutes before union home minister Amit Shah was scheduled to address the people of Bengal through social media from the party’s central office in New Delhi.“Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?” Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s youth wing chief, tweeted on Tuesday morning.TMC has continually targeted the Centre over alleged lack of planning before announcing the lockdown. They also blamed the centre for the plight of the migrant workers and also for the recent spike in Covid-19 cases all over the country.This is the first time that the Trinamool Congress brought forth the issue of the recent tensions along the international borders with China.The Centre and the state government had locked horns in April and May over alleged Covid-19 data fudging by the state government and the state’s alleged reluctance in bringing back the migrant workers.Leaders of the BJP Bengal unit hoped that apart from describing the second Narendra Modi government’s successes in the past one year, Shah will also highlight how the state government mishandled the pandemic along with causing distress to the migrant workers.After Shah stung the state government on issues related to political violence, corruption, politics of appeasement, politicisation of people’s welfare and other administrative failures, Abhishek Banerjee wrote in another tweet, “As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - “When are the Chinese EXITING our territory” #BengalRejectsAmitShah.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/take-a-minute-mamata-banerjee-s-nephew-jabs-shah-ahead-of-bengal-address/story-aAVKBC1c9lG5ZdRsXyVANL.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||House gutted in Shimla’s Theog, no casualties||Four families were rendered homeless after a three-storey wooden ancestral house was gutted in Kaling village in Theog here on Monday. No loss of life was reported.The house belonged to Layak Ram, Kishori Lal, Ramesh Chand and Shiv Ram.The people inside the house escaped and called the police and fire department. The fire was after a few hours with the help of local residents.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Theog Kulwinder Singh said the cause of fire was being ascertained and an estimated loss of Rs 20 lakh has been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/house-gutted-in-shimla-s-theog-no-casualties/story-aRUfO35mgIr89M3eEEVyNO.html
09-06-2020||Travel||Uttarakhand gets Gairsain as its summer capital after Governor gives her assent||The hill town of Gairsain in the hill district of Chamoli officially became the summer capital of Uttarakhand after the state Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent to it on Monday, said officials. The information was shared by the state government in its notification stating “The Governor is hereby pleased to give her assent for declaration of Bhararisen (Gairsain) in district Chamoli as the summer capital of Uttarakhand state.” The notification has come after three months of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in a surprise move in his budgetary speech during budget session on March 4 in Gairsain, declared the hill town located about 260 kms away from Dehradun as the summer capital of Uttarakhand. Expressing happiness on the development, Rawat said “It is a moment of great joy that the public sentiments of all the Uttarakhand residents in the and those living outside the state, is now a reality. We fulfilled our promise which we have made in our vision document during 2017 elections.”Rawat while terming the decision an important one for the people of hilly areas said, “It would have long-term effect on the development of state. Those living in remote hilly areas will have great convenience now for their various works related to administration.”The CM also informed that government is working on a detailed plan for the development of infrastructure in Gairsain. “We are also working on increasing the connectivity to Gairsain from major cities of the state,” he said. Gairsain as the state’s capital has been a hot political issue between both present ruling BJP and Opposition Congress for long. Even during the movement of statehood for Uttarakhand also, people had demanded Gairsain as the state capital claiming that it is located in the hills and is convenient for people of both Garhwal and Kumaon divisions to access.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/travel/uttarakhand-gets-gairsain-as-its-summer-capital-after-governor-gives-her-assent/story-tK6nb6XZG7aeSeF9GFXwnO.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||3.9 magnitude earthquake rattles Jammu & Kashmir||An earthquake of magnitude 3.9 on the Richter scale hit Jammu & Kashmir at 8.16 am on Tuesday.J&K’s disaster management department said the epicentre of the earthquake was 14 kilometres north of Srinagar.“An earthquake of magnitude 3.9 hit the UT at 8.16am, with epicentre at 34.21N, 74.85E, located 7 km south-east of Ganderbal and 14 km north of Srinagar,” said the department.No casualty has been reported so far due to the quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-9-magnitude-earthquake-rattles-jammu-kashmir/story-k83BPzJLbYGee9nxAOAT7O.html
09-06-2020||Lucknow||Unlock 1: UP government asks districts to ensure guidelines are followed||The Uttar Pradesh chief secretary on Monday directed district and police officials to hold meetings with owners of malls and restaurants to ensure government’s guideline are followed as the lockdown restrictions are further eased. Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari also ordered that the congestion on the Noida-Delhi border should be streamlined and vehicle passes should be arranged. At a high-level meeting, Tiwari asked officials to ensure people wear face masks and follow social distancing, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said.Officials have been instructed to contact brick kiln owners in every district to ensure that no due of any labourer is pending, Awasthi said,. Till now, 1,633 trains have arrived in the state bringing home 22.14 lakh migrants from other states, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials that all migrant workers and labourers belonging to Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Odisha still present at state’s brick kilns should be sent homes immediately by coordinating with the kiln owners all over the state.The additional chief secretary said action was taken against the people belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat in the past, but now almost all of them have been released. People against whom cases were filed will be released on the direction of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unlock-1-up-government-asks-districts-to-ensure-guidelines-are-followed/story-iMREciqWgufRV7kUW0xxTO.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Annual Darbar move: Offices in Jammu to close on June 26, reopen in Srinagar on July 6||Darbar move offices will formally open in Srinagar, the summer capital, next month, as per an order issued on Monday night. Offices in Jammu will close on June 26 and reopen in Srinagar on July 6. Ordinarily, the offices open in the month of May, however this year due to the Covid-19 crisis, the annual darbar move was delayed.“In continuation to previous orders and in view of the extent and spread of Covid-19 in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the Darbar move offices for the summer session will formally open at Srinagar on July 6. 2020 (Monday) at 9:30am,” reads the order.The order states that offices observing a five-day week will close in Jammu on June 26 (Friday) after the office hours and the offices observing a six-day week shall close on June 2(Saturday) after office hours to facilitate packing of records and equipment.As per a government spokesperson the civil secretariat will continue to function at both Jammu and Srinagar and the move employees shall work on “as is where is” basis, which means Kashmir-based staff shall work from the Srinagar Secretariat and Jammu-based staff shall work from the Jammu Secretariat. “The move offices outside the Civil Secretariat shall also continue to remain functional both at Jammu as well as Srinagar. All departments will function from both locations, for which the administrative secretaries will make necessary arrangements, especially at the senior staff level, to ensure functionality in their respective departments, both at Jammu and Srinagar,” the spokesperson said. The Civil Secretariat Treasury and J&K Bank Moving Branch at the Civil Secretariat shall be functional at both the places within the Civil Secretariats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/offices-in-jammu-to-close-on-june-26-re-open-in-srinagar-on-july-6-as-part-of-annual-darbar-move/story-w8KMxgvLsk4qqYne3h6NwI.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||No community transmission of Covid-19, say Centre’s officials: Delhi govt||There is no community spread of coronavirus in Delhi, which has seen an exponential increase in the number of cases over the past week, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said quoting officials from the Centre after a meeting with State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday.“Officials from Centre say no community transmission of Covid-19 virus in Delhi,” said Sisodia.The meeting was chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who is also chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.Sisodia, who attended the meeting as CM Arvind Kejriwal was unwell and in self-isolation, said the city-state will see 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July-end and said the government will need 80,000 bed by that time to cater to the patients. The deputy CM, however, provided no explanation as to how he arrived at the said numbers. The lieutenant governor has refused to reconsider his decision to overrule the Delhi government’s order reserving state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites, the deputy chief minister said.Sounding a note of caution, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, before the meeting, said of the new cases being reported in the city, nearly 50 per cent are those in which the source of infection is not known.When asked if Delhi has reached community transmission level as far as coronavirus infection is concerned, Jain said declaration on this is made by the Centre.“Epidemiologically, community transmission is third stage of the infection... In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, nearly half of the cases, the source of infection is not known,” he said.Delhi’s L-G Anil Baijal has called for an all-party meeting at 3 pm today to discuss the present situation of Covid-19 in Delhi and measures to contain the spread of the same.The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the Covid-19 cases in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-s-officials-say-no-community-transmission-of-covid-19-in-delhi-manish-sisodia/story-myrggATlMDu9OcHaxu7ZZO.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal undergoes test for Covid-19||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday underwent a test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after he developed a sore throat and mild fever on Sunday.At present, the fever of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor has come down and his throat pain is also decreasing, news agency ANI reported.Kejriwal, 51, on Sunday complained of fever and cancelled all of his meetings thereafter. He isolated himself at home.An AAP spokesperson said that Kejriwal consulted a doctor over the phone, who suggested that he get tested by Tuesday if the symptoms did not subside.On Sunday, Kejriwal briefed the media through a webcast on allowing shopping malls, restaurants and places of religious worship in the city to reopen.Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia represented Kejriwal at the state disaster management authority’s meeting on Tuesday to look into the possibility of community transmission of Covid-19 in Delhi and healthcare strategies.Sisodia said after the meeting that officers of central government were present at the meeting and they said that there is no community spread in Delhi.On Sunday morning, Kejriwal held a cabinet meeting at his official residence which was attended by many ministers, including Sisodia, Environment Minister Gopal Rai, Health Minister Satyendar Jain, officials said. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev was also present during the meeting. After the cabinet meeting, Kejriwal cancelled all his official engagements, officials said.The national capital has 29,943 Covid cases, the country’s third highest tally after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-undergoes-test-for-covid-19/story-0BPsQBIu7gvEm4P508PmeL.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab panchayats pass resolutions to fix labourers’ wages; threaten dissenters with social boycott, hefty fines||With demand for local labourers increasing as the paddy season draws closer, panchayats in Punjab have started issuing ‘diktats’ to finalise wages for sowing paddy. Some have also threatened dissenters with social boycott and hefty penalties. The paddy season will commence from June 10. As per the resolutions passed by the panchayats, farm labourers will be paid Rs 2,500-Rs 3,200 per acre for sowing paddy. Labourers have also been barred from moving out of village for work.Sukhijit Kaur, sarpanch of Muktsar’s Bhalayiana village, said, “Such a resolution has been passed for the first time due to labour shortage. It will help both farmers and labourers as the rates decided suit both parties.” The acute shortage of labour due to mass exodus of the migrant labourers from state during lockdown has driven up the rates of local labour. Labourers are demanding Rs 4,000-4,500 per acre, which is a steep increase from last year’s Rs 2,800 per acre.Farmers and labourers are at loggerheads with the latter demanding higher wages, and the former reluctant to oblige.THREATS ISSUED However, some resolutions passed by villages, especially in the southern districts of Punjab, primarily Bathinda, Muktsar, Sangrur and Patiala, are threatening in nature. A few panchayats have proposed socially boycotting labourers should they demand more wages than the stipulated rates.Though the department of rural development does not yet have the exact number of panchayats that have passed such orders, officials say villages are increasingly following the trend.The panchayat of Ghanauri Khurd village in Dhuri block of Sangrur district went so far to direct the labourers to carry their own utensils for tea and lunch. Similar directions were issued in the resolution passed by Kharayal village of the Sangrur district. Ghanauri Khurd village sarpanch Rajdeep Kaur said the resolution had been passed so as to avoid confusion while hiring labourers.“The decision to bar labourers from providing their services at other villages was taken to cope with shortage of labour,” she said.RS 5,000-RS 25,000 FINES TO BE IMPOSED The resolutions have also stipulated a fine ranging between Rs 5,000-Rs 25,000, which will be imposed in case either party violates the panchayats’ directions.Moga’s Singhawala village has decided to increase the fine to Rs 50,000, besides banning entry of labourers from other areas.‘UNEASY CALM PREVAILS’Bhinder Singh, the husband of Bathinda’s Jeeda village sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur, said an uneasy calm prevails among farmers and labourers as the local labourers were demanding exorbitant. “The resolutions have been passed so that farmers are not burdened and labourers are not underpaid,” he said.Meanwhile, Gurusar village sarpanch Beant Singh Sidhu said they had dropped the idea of fixing labour prices after drafting a detailed resolution.“We have decided to let farmers and labourers negotiate the final prices and other terms and conditions,” he said. RESOLUTIONS UNACCEPTABLE, SAY LABOUR UNIONSThe resolutions have not gone down well with labour unions.Punjab Khet Majdoor Union general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala said the resolutions were illegitimate.“We have all the right to demand wages as per the requirement of work. How can a village panchayat force labourers to work in the village only?” he asked.“Last year, migrant labourers were paid Rs 2,700-3,200 for sowing paddy per acre, and now panchayats are offering the same rates to us,” Sewewala said.Panchayats are threatening social boycott and hefty fines, which is unconstitutional, he said. Kashmir Singh, a labour activist and Punjab executive member of the Communist party of India, said village panchayats should immediately roll back their resolutions.“We are not bonded labour and should be included in decision making. Moreover, the panchayat has no right to decide anybody’s earnings,” Singh said.DEPARTMENT SAYS RESOLUTIONS ARE ILLEGAL Punjab rural development and panchayats department director of DPS Kharbanda said, “Gram panchayats are not entitled to pass orders determining the wages of labourers. These resolutions are illegal and we will cancel all such resolutions once they are tabled.”“I have already instructed district-level officials across the state to check and stop such practices,” he said.The agriculture department has estimated that around 12.5 lakh labourers will be required to sow paddy in 30 days. Most labour available in villages belong to dalit communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-panchayats-pass-resolutions-to-fix-labourers-wages-threaten-dissenters-with-social-boycott-hefty-fines/story-0mqWRvVsqi94UJ4lFeiAGK.html
09-06-2020||Today's||Obituary to an ordinary day in extraordinary times||Time, it seems, has no future. Homo sapiens suddenly woke up to a new reality after Circa 2020 dawned. One fine day, something happened just like in science fiction and the trajectory of time, and life, changed. Hence, this obituary to the disappearance of an ordinary day.But how does one write an obituary to a day? How does one weave a eulogy of a time gone forever? Time is rapidly diminishing all around us and we humans with the largest brain are at our wits’ end as an uncertain future awaits us.What were we really thinking in our longer, richer lives? Did we just stop one day to stare at the small hands begging, while we sat complaining in an air-conditioned car? Why am I asking difficult questions? Because I’m a singular being trying to pluck the courage and write an obituary to times gone by.The great expectations attitude post-industrial revolution made human beings think life as 50-year investment bonds. We had no time on a beautiful ordinary day to think where we were going. The haves and have-nots were in a rush to eke out a life of desires.But now, the ordinary day is dead. Our socio-political system may have to be buried with respect to the ordinary day. Authoritarian regimes and even democracies can morph into centralised governing bodies as we face more tragedies, deaths, loss of jobs and a sense of fierce uncertainty of another day. Our months could seem like centuries as we may face dehumanisation in the race to survive. Want will test us to the extreme.As I wish the ordinary day goodbye, I also want to bury my bias and wrong sense of social distribution of the earth’s resources. I want the grave to accommodate my acceptance of huge inequalities in my earthly journey. I hang my head in shame that I let my voice, however small, diminish and disappear as I was too busy living the ordinary day. I became a slave to my lifestyle.How many of the vulnerable and unfortunate were eliminated as it became normal? This century has witnessed the death of free speech and the freedom to dissent with the political system. No wonder our imagination stumbles beyond 2020.History and time have changed in the last century. Two world wars; and if that was not enough, we armed ourselves with nuclear weapons. No one thought that we were self-sabotaging and destructing our beautiful “home” known as earth in the cosmos. A small warm home with a sun, a moon, water to drink and air to breathe sufficed but greed was in our genes. Adam and Eve’s progeny could not resist messing up. Somehow, everything has changed with the demise of the ordinary day. Millions walking home remind me of the fallacy of life. In its place, I don’t know if time will have a future for us. The era of hugs and wearing lipstick will come back to us, but when? Holding hands just for the heck of it; coffee at the crowded Indian Coffee House and the ruthless rhythm of living a life. The symphony of chaos but with your sad demise ordinary day, the new day being touted to us has a horrible cold name. It’s distance. What will we morph into in two years and maybe in a decade? Till then, rest in peace my friend. We will all miss you. Get nostalgic and reminisce. Is there time for us and a future in time? There are honestly no answers.The writer is a Kapurthala-based farmer and freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/obituary-to-an-ordinary-day-in-extraordinary-times/story-aPjFlvv9UAqQfjBP51CodL.html
09-06-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rises to 251; cases cross 11,000-mark||The coronavirus death toll in Rajasthan reached 251 on Tuesday, while the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 11,000-mark after 144 more people tested positive for the pathogen, officials said. Five more deaths due to coronavirus were recorded in the state, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Jodhpur and Ajmer, while one patient from another state succumbed to coronavirus, the officials said. With 144 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in the state rose to 11,020, they said. The fresh cases include 61 from Jaipur, 30 from Bharatpur, 11 from Alwar, eight from Jodhpur, seven from Churu, six from Kota, five from Sikar, four from Barmer, three from Dausa, two from Jalore and Jhalawar, and one each from Bikaner, Dungarpur, Sriganganagar and Swai Madhopur, and one patient from another state. Jaipur has reported a maximum of 2,321 coronavirus cases and 117 deaths followed by Jodhpur which recorded 1,887 cases and 24 deaths. At present, there are 2,587 active cases in the state and a total of 7,779 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-death-toll-in-rajasthan-rises-to-251-cases-cross-11-000-mark/story-0PsFvX3ut6AirKt6q2V2WM.html
09-06-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP CM Yogi Adityanath visits districts for reality check||After monitoring the Coronavirus situation from Lucknow for over two months and interacting with officials through video conferencing, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has now started stepping out for a reality check.On Sunday, the chief minister visited Basti and Gorakhpur and then went to Azamgarh and Varanasi on Monday.During his visits, he not only reviewed the progress of developmental projects in these districts but also checked out the status of treatment in local hospitals. He also interacted with patients.In Varanasi, Yogi Adityanath launched the facility of e-Rudrabhishek at the Kashi Vishwanath temple (KVT), late on Monday evening and offered prayers.Chief executive officer of KVT, Vishal Singh, said that this ritual would be performed with the help of tablets by a batch of eight priests who are being trained to perform e-Rudrabhishek.The chief minister also reviewed the progress of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project.He inaugurated TriNet machines for Covid-19 testing at non-Covid-19 hospitals including SPG divisional hospital in Varanasi and the district hospital in Azamgarh to enable seamless health services for the patients suffering from other ailments.Yogi Adityanath held a brief meeting with BJP leaders in all these districts and took the feedback of the work done by the government during the Covid-19 crisis.According to a senior government official, the chief minister decided to make a reality check in the district after he received complaints about medical facilities in some districts.The government spokesman said that the chief minister was likely to make more such visits in the coming days to assess the status of development projects, including roads, and services in the medical and health sectors.“He will also review the jobs being provided to migrant labourers in various districts,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-visits-districts-for-reality-check/story-MBjZWQBFeebP87QyTCA1BI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Head constable killed, two cops injured after man opens fire at police team in Punjab’s Moga||Moga: A head constable was killed and two policemen were injured when a resident of Khosa Pando in Moga district opened fire at a police team that reached the village on getting a complaint about a firing incident early on Tuesday.The accused, Gurwinder Singh, tried to flee after firing at the policemen and taking his mother hostage but was later arrested. He sustained bullet injuries and was admitted to the civil hospital in Moga.Senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill said that Gurwinder had a fight with his uncle and burned their wheat straw after which his uncle lodged a complaint at the local police station on Monday night. “When the duty officer visited the village, Gurwinder misbehaved with him and later climbed his house’s roof and opened fire in the air with his father’s licensed 12-bore rifle,” he said.When a special team, comprising staff of the crime investigation agency (CIA), Moga, reached the spot, the accused opened fire at it also, killing head constable Jagmohan Singh on the spot. Inspector Tirlochan Singh and head constable Ridham Singh were injured. They were rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, where their condition is stable.A deputy superintendent of police and an SP reached the spot soon after with their teams when the accused opened fire yet again and tried to flee after taking his mother at gunpoint. He sustained bullet injuries while fleeing and called an ambulance that took him to the civil hospital where he was later arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-constable-killed-two-cops-injured-after-man-opens-fire-at-police-team-in-punjab-s-moga/story-0YX4LO1YU0eEgoHYKMyfjO.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G calls meeting of political parties to discuss Covid-19 situation||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has called on Tuesday afternoon a meeting with all political parties over the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital.The development comes a day after the L-G, who is the chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), scrapped the Delhi government’s order reserving a chunk of the hospital beds in the city, except those managed by the Centre, for Covid-19-positive residents of the national capital,. Instead, he directed auhorities in the NCT of Delhi to ensure that treatment is not denied to any patient on grounds “of being a non-resident of the national capital”.Reacting to the Baijal’s order, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet that the “L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi.”“The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all,” he said in a tweet shortly after the orders were issued on Monday evening.The national capital is among the worst-affected in the country, adding 1,007 new Covid-19 cases on Monday which took its tally to 29,943. According to a government bulletin, there were 62 deaths of which 17 were in the 24 hours between Saturday and Sunday. In all, 874 people have now succumbed to the illness in the national capital. The number of tests carried out in this period was 3,700, sharply down from the 6,000-6,500 tests a day seen at the beginning of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-calls-meeting-of-political-parties-to-discuss-covid-19-situation/story-yu66E4es2kdmQDhY3aBGAM.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Full Circle in Khan Market shuts its 20-year old legacy as it suffers collateral amid the coronavirus pandemic||Late on Sunday evening, as the city prepared to tuck into a good night’s sleep, Full Circle Book Store announced that it will be closing the shutters at its Khan Market outlet, bringing down the curtains on a 20-year old legacy. “It came down to the basic fact that we could not afford the rent. We tried to negotiate with our landlord, but he didn’t agree to any sort of relief at all,” says Priyanka Malhotra, director, Full Circle Bookstore. It was not an easy time, but their other landlords — in Greater Kailash and Nizamuddin outlets — were more accommodating. “Quite a few shops are leaving Khan Market. It comes down to the math, unfortunately. We were not earning anything for the past three months. The losses are in lakhs,” she says.   As we close our doors in Khan Market, we would like to THANK each and everyone for their support, love and affection for Full Circle and Cafe Turtle. We would not have created this legacy without YOU. A special thank you to @kanishka.gupta.754 and @arunavasinha for giving us a voice to share our special journey..... @scroll_inA post shared by  Full Circle & Cafe Turtle (@fullcircleandcafeturtle) on Jun 7, 2020 at 8:02am PDTThe bookstore, with its winding staircase leading to the warmly-lit first floor full of shelves with enchanting titles, the corner landing opening to the iconic Café Turtle, was known as much for its turquoise and green interiors as for its old-world hospitality. They now plan to open the bookstore in Meharchand Market with an additional bookshop dedicated solely to children’s books. Café Turtle will also make a comeback. “We will wait a month or two because we need to understand the (new) guidelines of operating a kitchen. Food is a different thing; it requires far more engagement and there is a lot of tactile involvement,” she says. The bookstore will open any time within the coming week. “We already have the team and the stock; it’s just a question of doing up the store our way. Until the café opens, we plan to have a coffee machine in the bookshop so that it remains alive in some way,” she elaborates.Read: Good news for Capital’s bookworms: Bookstores will deliver to your doorstep amid lockdown 3.0The journey, which began with her mother Poonam Malhotra in the year 1998, has come a full circle, with the daughter now at the helm of things as the bookstore undergoes a journey of its own. “We started in Santushti. I was in college and would be there during my summer holidays. It was another world. People would browse, review books — it was a slower kind of world,” she reminisces. When the move came, her parents, and a couple of friends, set up the café, painted the walls.In the beginning, her mother would bake from home and this continued even at the Khan Market store. It was the early 2000s. Café culture was something people saw on American sitcoms or heard of from their NRI relatives. Commercial coffee chains were yet to mushroom. “You either had a five-star hotel to go for a cup of coffee, or a dhaba — it was that extreme. My mother thought how nice would it be to have a cup of coffee and read a book, but where does one do that here? That’s how it all came about,” she says.   You don’t need a special occasion to treat yourself to cake! Head over to Café Turtle and enjoy a scrumptious range of baked goods to satiate those taste buds. #BakedGoodness #Cakes #CafeTurtle . . . #food #foodie #foodstagram #bake #baked #cake #cakery #bakery #love #happy #yummy #treat #sweet #dessert #sweetdelicacies #cafe #delhi #delhigram #fullcircle #fullcircleandcafeturtleA post shared by  Full Circle & Cafe Turtle (@fullcircleandcafeturtle) on Sep 18, 2019 at 4:56am PDTThe bookstore and the family grew in a symbiotic relationship. Each grew into the other, merging to create a space that went beyond the physical. “We have a gem of a team and they have been with us for ages. It’s really something special that’s been created,” she says.For many, the tryst with a bookstore is nothing short of an experiential journey. A journey taken across worlds, under a cozy nook we claim our own. A bookstore, then, ceased to be a mere physical entity. It would become a keeper of secrets, stolen glances and lost loves. “Full circle evokes a sense of wholeness, a coming back to oneself. It’s where you want to come home to comfort,” she says.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/full-circle-in-khan-market-shuts-its-20-year-old-legacy-as-it-suffers-collateral-amid-the-coronavirus-pandemic/story-KdO3CLSACMjZ0jv4ubS3cL.html
09-06-2020||Bhopal||Old man tied to hospital bed in Madhya Pradesh; hospital sealed, registration suspended||Madhya Pradesh police on Monday arrested the manager of a private hospital named City Hospital in the state’s Shajapur district, 211 kilometres west of Bhopal, on a charge of wrongful confinement of an 80-year-old man. The elderly man was allegedly tied to the hospital bed on non-payment of the hospital bill of Rs 11,270 three days ago, the police said.The charges levelled against the hospital by patient Laxminarayan Dangi, a resident of Ranara village in Rajgarh district, and his daughter Sheelabai were found legit by the district administration after which and an FIR was lodged with Kotwali police station. The patient had filed a complaint under section 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), police officials said.Dangi and his daughter had alleged that the hospital staff tied his legs and hands to the hospital bed when they failed to clear the final bill of the hospital to the tune of Rs 11,270 before Dangi was to be discharged from the hospital on Friday.As a video of the patient tied to the bed went viral on social media, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took note of the incident and assured strict action. An inquiry was instituted by district collector Dinesh Jain on Saturday night.Shajapur district collector Dinesh Jain said, “Prima facie charges against the hospital staff were found true, hence the FIR against the manager of the hospital Nitesh Sharma under section 342 of IPC has been filed. The hospital was sealed and its registration has been suspended. There was no patient admitted to the hospital at the time of the sealing of the hospital. The outpatient department (OPD)’s patients were moved to the district hospital.”The collector further added, “The hospital management in its defence said that they had tied the patient to the bed to administer medicines to him as he was having convulsions. But during the inquiry, it was found that the way the patient had been tied didn’t appear to be the case as the hospital management presented. Also, the hospital management’s logic didn’t appear to be convincing because the patient was admitted to the hospital on June 1 but was tied to the bed on June 5. If he was having convulsions he could have been tied earlier too. However, a final decision on the hospital will be taken later after due proceedings.”Kotwali police station in-charge Ajit Tiwari said, “Nitesh Sharma, the manager of the hospital who is a resident of Shajapur has been arrested. Since the crime committed under section 342 of the IPC is bailable, he was released on bail from the police station.”Despite efforts, owner of the hospital Dr Varun Bajaj could not be reached for his comments. He didn’t take phone calls and didn’t respond to text messages.(With input from Sunil Verma in Shajapur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/old-man-tied-to-hospital-bed-in-madhya-pradesh-hospital-sealed-registration-suspended/story-aY1sVmbheztlBViMwx7afK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP meets tomorrow to counter Oppn charge on health scam, reach consensus on state unit chief||The Himachal Pradesh BJP legistlature party will meet in Shimla on Wednesday to decide on the successor of Rajeev Bindal, who resigned as state unit chief after his name surfaced in the health department scam recently.Convened by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, the meeting at the government-run Peterhoff Hotel will chalk out the government and party’s strategy to neutralise opposition Congress’s escalating attack in the scam.Thakur, who heads the legislature party, also holds the health portfolio.The department came under a cloud last month when the then director, health services, Dr Ajay Kumar Gupta was caught on audio tape demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from Prithvi Singh, the representative of a supplier of personal protective equipment (PPE) for the state’s corona frontline workers. The scam led to state BJP chief Rajeev Bindal stepping down on moral grounds due to his proximity with Dr Gupta and to ensure a fair probe.CONGRESS SHARPENS ATTACKThe development gave the opposition Congress a tool to hit out at the ruling party and demand a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that too at a time when then state government is grappling to contain the spread of coronavirus.“State BJP president Rajeev Bindal resigned after Dr Gupta’s arrest in the health scam. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is at the helm, should have quit before Bindal. The government should clarify on the circumstances that led to Bindal’s quitting,” said leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri.After attending the party’s virtual rally at the state BJP office, Deep Kamal, members of the legislature party are expected to come up with a consensus candidate to take over as state Bharatiya Janata Party chief.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and the chief minister will address BJP workers virtually amid the Covid-19 pandemic.State BJP chief spokesman Randhir Sharma, the chief minister’s political adviser and party general secretary Trilok Jamwal, Sundernagar legislator Rakesh Jamwal, Kangra Co-operative Bank chairman Rajeev Bhardwaj and party general secretary Ram Singh are frontrunners for the post.TWO CABINET BERTHS VACANTThe party is expected to discuss the cabinet expansion since two berths are vacant after food minister Kishan Kapoor was elected to the Lok Sabha and power minister Anil Sharma quit before last year’s parliamentary elections. The Congress had allotted the party ticket to his son Asheray Sharma from Mandi.The names of Nurpur legislator Rakesh Pathania and Paonta Sahib MLA Sukhram Chaudhary are doing the rounds for inclusion in the cabinet.Intra-party squabbles have also become a cause of concern for the ruling party with supporters of former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal stepping up activities in the politically sensitive Kangra district. Former irrigation and public health minister Ravinder Singh Ravi, Kangra Lok Sabha member Kishan Kapoor, former legislator Sanay Chaudhary and party leaders Ranvir Singh Nikka, Nirmal Singh, and Ghanshyam Sharma held closed-door meetings in Dharamshala recently much to the discomfort of Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-bjp-meets-tomorrow-to-counter-oppn-charge-on-health-scam-reach-consensus-on-state-unit-chief/story-gCl405bhh6rNDifzusGpBI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man sets family ablaze in Rohtak; wife, three-year-old daughter killed||A man allegedly burnt his wife and three-year-old daughter alive in Khokhra court area late on Monday night, police said.The accused, Rajesh, 30, a truck driver, allegedly poured oil on his wife Manju Devi, 28, and two daughters and set them alight. While his wife and elder daughter were killed, his younger daughter survived. The two-year-old has sustained serious burn injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-burns-wife-three-year-old-daughter-alive-in-rohtak/story-kSMuZCD1fFfuN8Y5WyZiQK.html
09-06-2020||Ranchi||55 migrant workers fly home to Jharkhand from Leh||A flight carrying 55 migrant workers reached Ranchi from Leh on Monday morning, with Jharkhand ministers Mithilesh Thakur and Badal Patralekh greeting the returnees on their arrival at the airport. An official statement by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had on Sunday said 208 migrant workers of Jharkhand would be airlifted from Leh in four batches this week. “Doosra jatha hawai marg se Ranchi pahunch gaya, un sab ko Johar (the second batch has reached Ranchi by air, salutations to them),” a CMO release quoted Soren as having said. According to the state government norms, all 55 migrant workers will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. The first batch of 60 migrant workers reached Ranchi from Leh via Delhi on May 29. The returnees, all residents of the state’s Santhal Pargana region, were sent home in sanitised buses. Soren had earlier thanked Ladakh Deputy Commissioner, officials of the Border Road Organisation, low-cost carriers Spice Jet, Indigo, Air Asia, and some local non-governmental organisations for their collective effort in sending the migrant workers home to Jharkhand from Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/55-migrant-workers-fly-home-to-jharkhand-from-leh/story-eYaxAzT8bxUvAvQSD69ccI.html
09-06-2020||Ranchi||Migrants to get 20% wage hike, other benefits after Jharkhand-BRO agreement||The Jharkhand government and the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have reached an agreement to ensure that labourers of the state get prescribed wages and healthcare, accident, travel allowance and housing benefits, an official statement said here on Monday.A total of 11,815 labourers from the Santhal Pargana region of the state will get an opportunity to work for the BRO with full benefits after a written agreement was reached between the authorities of BRO and the state government, it said.The deliberations from the two sides began after migrant workers, who had returned to Jharkhand from Leh on May 29, apprised Chief Minister Hemant Soren of their exploitation, vis--vis minimum wages, when Soren had been to the Birsa Munda Airport to welcome the first batch of 60 returnees, the statement, issued by the Chief Ministers Office (CMO), said.The migrants had alleged that the contractors and middlemen used to pay them less then the minimum wages prescribed by the BRO.The contractors also used to keep their ATM cards and withdraw one-third of the wages when they returned home, the migrants alleged before the chief minister.“After coming to know from the labourers about the exploitation that they were not even getting minimum wages, the chief minister set up a special team which deliberated with the BRO authorities. “After days of deliberations, a written agreement under the Inter-State Labour Act, 1979, Workmen Compensation Act, 1923 has been reached, which will enable the labourer to get benefits like prescribed wages, healthcare, accident, transport, housing benefits,” it said.Following the agreement, the state government has given permission to the BRO to engage labourers who will now get wages with a 20 per cent hike, which will be deposited in their accounts.With the signing of the agreement, the role of middlemen has ended, the statement said.“National security is the highest priority for us.Alongside we give equal priority to the rights of our labourers working in the service of the nation in border areas. The state government is always ready to cooperate with the Defence Ministry,” the statement quoted the chief minister as saying.Thousands of workers from the Santhal Pargana region of the state have been going to Leh-Ladakh since 1970s for construction works, particularly roads on difficult terrains and peaks, it said.The workers, “through the local networkers of the BRO” go in two batches every year --in April/May and return in September and another goes in October/November and return in February, the statement said. “But this time the migrant workers were stranded due to the lockdown and they approached the call centres (set up by Jharkhand) and CMO,” following which the state government took initiatives to bring them back.The second batch of 55 migrants reached on Monday morning and three more batches are scheduled to fly back this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/migrants-to-get-20-per-cent-wage-hike-other-benefits-after-jharkhand-bro-agreement/story-QPpFgEem5XOzB98fwRfX4J.html
09-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s Covid-19 deaths cross 400-mark but fatality rate improves||Even as West Bengal’s death toll due to coronavirus disease Covid-19 has crossed the 400-mark, its fatality rate has improved.With nine more deaths reported on Monday, the state’s death count now stands at 405, according to the state health department bulletin released on Monday night. Of the 405 deaths, 266 or 65.6% had co-morbid conditions.The last time the state had given data for comorbidity in the deaths of Covid-19 patients was on April 30, when the state attributed 72 of the 105 deaths, or 68.5%, to comorbidity.The fatality rate due to Covid-19 in the state has, however, significantly improved. On April 30, the state’s death rate stood at 10.19%, with 105 deaths among 1,030 Covid-19 positive patients. As on June 8, the state’s death rate stood at 4.7%, with 405 deaths among the total 8,613 persons testing positive for the coronavirus infection.This, however, is still higher than the national average. India’s fatality rate stood at 2.8% as of Monday morning, with 7,200 deaths reported against 256,611 persons testing positive for the disease.Only four states have recorded more deaths than Bengal, as of June 8 -- Maharashtra (3169), Gujarat (1,280), Delhi (874) and Madhya Pradesh (414). While Maharashtra has a mortality rate of 3.57% and Delhi has it as 2.91%, Madhya Pradesh’s mortality rate due to Covid-19 is at 4.29% and Gujarat at 6.22%. Among the districts, Kolkata reported a much higher fatality rate at 9% – nearly double Bengal’s average. The capital city accounted for 260 deaths against 2,886 persons testing positive. Kolkata and its neighbouring districts of Howrah and North 24-Parganas have long been the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in Bengal, until a couple of weeks ago when migrant workers returning to the rural districts started testing positive in their dozens. “The death rate is low in the districts, first because most of the cases are new ones and secondly because most of the migrant workers are asymptomatic patients. In Kolkata, symptomatic patients made a large majority,” said a health department official while explaining Kolkata’s high death rate.Government officials also said a higher percentage of deaths in private Covid-19 hospitals has been noticed and it has been decided that a ‘death audit committee’ will look into such cases.As per the health department data, death rate has been lower among men, at 4.48%, whereas for women it stood at 5.4%. There is also a huge gap in death rate between the age groups of 1-45 years and above 45 years.The death rate is lowest among 16-30 age groups – at .17%. It is also low in the 1-16 age group at .69% and at 1.67% for the 30-45 age group. However, the rate is very high at 21.07% for those aged above 75. It stands at 15.39% for the age group of 60-75 and at 7.03% for the 40-60 age group..Bengal’s discharge rate stood at 40.2%, with 3,465 persons discharged from hospitals following recovery.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government on Monday extended lockdown restrictions in containment zones till June 30 in line with the Union home ministry’s guidelines. The restrictions were earlier in force till June 15.However, there would be certain relaxations outside the containment zones, where only essential services are allowed. A government order on extending lockdown said 25 people can attend marriages, funerals and places of worship at a time. The number was previously fixed at 10.“Norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Any violation in compliance of norms of physical distancing, health hygiene protocol and wearing of masks shall attract penal action as per law,” the Bengal government order said.“It is reiterated that movement of individuals shall remain prohibited between 9 pm to 5am, except for essential activities. District administration and local authorities shall issue appropriate orders in this regard and ensure strict compliance,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-s-covid-19-deaths-cross-400-mark-but-fatality-rate-improves/story-81xdMEW1pmkCdi62gDbs6I.html
09-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports highest single-day spike with 147 Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 1,290||Jharkhand on Monday reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after 147 people tested positive, taking the state’s tally to 1,290, according to a bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere are 764 active cases in the state, while 519 people have recovered from the disease, it said.Nearly 5 lakh people from outside have returned to Jharkhand since May 1 and there are 921 migrant workers among the state’s total Covid-19 cases, the bulletin added.Seven people have died of the disease -- three in Ranchi and one each in Bokaro, Giridih, Koderma and Simdega.A total of 113 Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-147-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-1-290/story-iQVHtknycSyu3lYjxqFuYK.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Bois locker room case: FIR filed after girl alleges harassment||The Delhi Police’s cyber cell has registered a case to probe the alleged harassment of a whistle-blower in the case involving an Instagram group of school students, who morphed and shared photographs of girls and women, officials said on Monday.“The girl lodged a complaint with the police on June 1 alleging that she has received threats on social media for bringing out in public the screenshots of the bois locker room. Based on her complaint, an FIR has been filed to track the accused,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity. Deputy police commissioner (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy confirmed the FIR has been registered. Police said the girl was one who initially shared screenshots from the ‘bois locker room’ group of students of several prominent schools in south Delhi and Noida that triggered an outrage.Police found that the group was used to share obscene messages and morphed pictures of girls. They have so far questioned the group’s administrator, who is a juvenile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bois-locker-room-case-fir-filed-after-girl-alleges-harassment/story-ov5YYiDnug6FZs4Lx6pclM.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s decisions on Covid-19 were legally untenable: Opposition||The opposition parties on Monday welcomed lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal’s decision to overrule the state government’s order reserving hospital beds in the national capital exclusively for Delhi residents and stopping the testing of asymptomatic contacts of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.Both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress said the government’s order was “legally untenable”. They said it was just a diversionary tactic by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to shift focus from his government’s alleged failure to augment healthcare infrastructure. The Aam Aadmi Party hit back, accusing the BJP of playing dirty politics and putting pressure on the L-G to pass such an order.Welcoming the L-G’s decision, BJP MP from New Delhi Meenakshi Lekhi said, “India is a union of states. The Delhi government’s order was legally untenable, as it was in violation of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. How can any state deny a person from another state access to medical care?”The Congress, which ran the city government for 15 years before AAP wrested power from it in 2014, said the government reserved the beds knowing fully well that the decision had no firm legal footing. Former Delhi MP Ajay Maken said, “The Delhi high court in 2018 had ruled against the government’s decision to reserve a certain number of beds in GTB hospital for Delhi residents only. Kejriwal can’t be oblivious to it. This was just an attempt to divert people’s attention from his government’s failure to augment the medical facility.” Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the decision to stop testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients was against the Centre’s guidelines. “Testing is crucial right now to prevent the spread of the disease. But this government is arbitrarily taking decisions and putting people’s lives at risk,” he said. Lekhi came down heavily on AAP on the issue of discrepancy in data about hospital beds, according to the Delhi Corona app, launched by the Delhi government itself. She said the five Ts (testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork and tracking) that Kejriwal said were essential for fighting Covid-19 are missing today.“Is this the time to mislead people? These are human lives; they are not some lab rats or insects on which you can conduct experiments,” the national BJP spokesperson said.The Delhi government had recently ordered that 20% of the total bed strength in private hospitals be reserved for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-decisions-on-covid-19-were-legally-untenable-opposition/story-Ow4sEusBDMl7L14B0GqHSO.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sweet sorrows in the times of corona||There is nothing exceptional about the sunrise views during these lockdown days. And yet, he is seeing them with new eyes. And perhaps also with a pang in the heart.Because the one who would care for sunrises “and other little things of life” is no longer by his side—for the time.“She is in Delhi, I’m here in Gurugram,” says Tarun Tahiliani from the isolation of his two-room home in Sector 23. He is chatting on WhatsApp video, the pictures are taken through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter.In the BC (Before Corona) era, when it wasn’t risky at all to move through the city, and as risk-free and casual to cross through the Gurugram-Delhi border, Mr Tahiliani would often meet his friend, who lives in Delhi. In his early 30s, he works in a travel company, and she too has a day job, he says.Over the seasons, the two friends have had their share of conflicts. “We have some fundamental differences in approach to life,” Mr Tahiliani notes amiably. “I have an easy-going attitude, while she reacts passionately to every big and small thing that comes her way.”To her, for instance, the morning means the shades of sunrise, and a propensity to gaze upon the freshness of flowers. To him, the morning means getting up, rustling out the breakfast and dressing up for office.These past few weeks when it was impossible to meet her in person, due to the lockdown caused by the pandemic, all he wanted was to be close to her, somehow. He says he would see her in his heart’s eyes, fiddling around in his empty apartment. “She would be looking into the mirror, getting ready for the day ahead... while I would be in the kitchen, pouring naariyal paani (coconut water) into her favourite pink-coloured glass.”Illusions apart, the fact is she isn’t here. We are amid a raging pandemic that is refusing to slow down. And though now one might move about with the lifting of lockdown, the danger of catching the infection stays.So, in order to have something of her tangible self in his immediate world, Mr Tahiliani has been trying to do the very things he never really cared for but which he knows she cares about. “I’m now more attentive to the sunrise.” Which certainly is easy these days because now, like so many others, he has been working from home and doesn’t have to face a hectic morning filled up with anxieties about the office commute.He has also started to carry out daily rituals that, he knows, she must be following in her Delhi residence. “I’m regularly watering the plants in the porch, I have kept water vessels outside for the thirsty birds, and when I go out to get groceries, I try to feed the area’s stray dogs.”It’s been more than two months since the two friends were together—their last meeting was the day before the Prime Minister imposed the junta curfew on 22 March. “We parted on 21.03.” This is the date that has all the three numbers—1,2, and 3—they think belong to the secret world of their friendship. “We both find anything with these numbers occurring in any permutation or combination as a good omen.”Stranded alone in his small house for so many days, Mr Tahiliani says he is realising afresh the importance of an embrace from a loved one. “Everything will be fine, once I hug her again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-sweet-sorrows-in-the-times-of-corona/story-CmSC0eRA6OVcmXRRjENnDO.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Researchers in India find evidence of Covid-19 genes in sewage||In what may be first evidence from India of the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in sewage, the Indian Institute of Technology-Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) has found non-infectious genes of the coronavirus in wastewater samples collected from untreated sewage in an outlet in Ahmedabad. Researchers said their finding highlights the need to introduce wastewater-based surveillance across the country to detect, monitor and control the spread of Covid-19 as well as identify potential hotspots before clinical diagnosis. Till date, Australia, Netherlands, France and United States have reported molecular detection of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in wastewater in scientific literature. In April, IIT-Gn joined a global consortium of 51 premier universities and research institutes to undertake surveillance of sewage water to help determine and quantify excretion of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, in an effort to build an early warning system for Covid-19.“Wastewater is an important source to monitor the presence and progress of the infection because the virus leaves the body of not only those who are symptomatic but also asymptomatic individuals through excretion,” said IIT-Gn professor Manish Kumar, who is leading the ongoing investigation. “Our result, which is in all likelihood the first from India, explicitly illustrates the variation of Sars-Cov-2 gene during the lockdown period, ie May 8 and May 27. Our finding effectively substantiates the ability of wastewater surveillance to enormously supplement testing individuals who are infected or incubating that virus which causes Covid-19.” Kumar will send the first set of findings of to an international scientific journal for peer review by the end of this week.  Also Watch | Covid ‘situation worsening’, says WHO as global cases cross 70 lakh-markStudies have shown Sars-Cov-2 is not infectious in wastewater. Additionally, temperature is an important environmental factor affecting the virus’s survival in water. For the analysis, Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) assisted the IIT-Gn team collect wastewater samples on May 8 and May 27, and each 100 millilitre sample was concentrated several times to extract genetic material for RTPCR, a technique that amplifies a targeted fragment of gene. “We extracted virus RNA [ribonucleic acid], amplified the dead genetic material and found all samples deterministically showed the presence of the three genes [ORF1ab, S and N genes] of the coronavirus,” said Kumar.The team, which includes post-doctoral fellow Arbind Kumar Patel, also found a clear effect of increase in Covid-19 patients in Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, on the results of RTPCR. “The temporal difference in the results from the samples collected on the two days and tested with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction are so explicit that WBE surveillance must be implemented in every city with analytical capabilities,” said Kumar.Wastewater-based epidemiology has been used in the developing world, including India, to monitor spread of rotavirus that causes polio, as well as globally to trace the presence illicit drugs. “Similarly, testing waste or sewage water that contains the excreta of 1,000 or 10,000 people for the presence of novel coronavirus, even if non-viable, will indicate if the health of the entire local community is good or deteriorating, and not just that of an individual,” said Kumar. “Since testing everyone is not feasible for our country with its huge population and the virus is going to be around for a long time, the government must include wastewater-based epidemiology surveillance for better understanding of the curve of the pandemic,” he said. With testing protocol modified and ascertained by combined team of Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) and IIT-Gn, results of wastewater samples can be out within a day and therefore, tests may be undertaken every day. The researchers said in cities like Mumbai and Delhi, monitoring sewage treatment plants daily may give the government a lead time before the infection peaks in a community.Rakesh Kumar, director, CSIR-National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute, said wastewater-based surveillance is a complex process in India where the situation can change quickly and consequently, the virus load would also greatly vary. “This method will also require massive amounts of sampling. Looking at the volume of water in India, it will be a much more difficult task, and therefore it has its own challenges to use this as a surveillance tool in Indian conditions,” he said. “Source-based interventions are need of the hour and may provide a possible robust way to address the way.” Chaitanya G Joshi, director of GBRC, said, “It was very difficult to analyse the genes from the wastewater samples. However, we are happy with the outcome which has great societal importance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scientists-find-evidence-of-covid-19-genetic-material-in-ahmedabad-sewage/story-p8Gs9I1hQPxshtTnPNylHJ.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Not enough public space in Mumbai to follow social distancing||As the lockdown eases in Mumbai after 70 days, green areas and public spaces have seen overcrowding, offering a grim reminder that the city has precious little open space. According to Development Plan (DP) 2034, just 3% — or 15.37 square kilometres (sqkm) — of Mumbai comprises open space. With a total area of 458.28 sqkm and a population of 12 million people, this means 1.24 square metres (sqm) of accessible open space for each person in the city. A recent paper by Sayli Udas Mankikar of Observer Research Foundation (ORF) placed Mumbai just ahead of Chennai (0.81 sqm per capita), but far below Delhi (21.52 sqm per capita) and Bengaluru (17.32 sqm per capita). Mumbai also fared poorly in international comparisons — New York City has 26.4 sqm per capita while London has 31.68 sqm per capita. Pankaj Joshi, executive director, Urban Design Research Institute, said the recommended per person open space requirement is 10-12 sqm. “Lack of open spaces in Mumbai is a long-term problem which is now staring at us. In such a situation, citizens must exercise self-regulation,” Joshi said.Photographs of crowded public areas, like Marine Drive, have raised concerns of accelerating the spread of Covid-19. Mankikar said residential societies can identify community spaces in and around their premises as alternatives. “A building’s terrace or a green space near a building, community halls can be looked at by citizens who have the option. We have to also look at staggered timings at all public spaces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-enough-public-space-in-mumbai-to-follow-social-distancing/story-4Z6SZelX1S9tHzilgoukRL.html
09-06-2020||City||Restricted entry for lawyers at sessions court in Mumbai leads to chaos||Mumbai sessions court witnessed a lot of chaos on Monday, after it reopened partially after the lockdown. The pandemonium forced the principal judge to leave his chamber and pacify the lawyers and assure them that no adverse order would be passed in case they miss the hearing.According to the lawyers who went to attend the hearing, there was confusion owing to restricted entries, even for the lawyers. Only those lawyers who had their cases listed were allowed inside the court. Ever since the lockdown was announced, security checking has been made strict for lawyers since the lockdown was announced in March.“The chaos began after 11am, as many lawyers turned up in the court. The security staff allowed only those who had their cases listed, while the rest were not permitted. This caused delay and chaos in the court premises,” criminal lawyer Anjali Patil said.Considering the situation, noted criminal lawyer Sudeep Pasbola, who represents Sheena Bora murder accused Indrani, wrote to principal judge over the chaos, calling for better management at the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restricted-entry-for-lawyers-at-sessions-court-in-mumbai-leads-to-chaos/story-DpoP62oIR5U0gCTH2wG2jI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University changes question paper pattern for 2020||The examination branch of the Panjab University on Monday issued guidelines that in view of the pandemic, a new question paper pattern had been framed for the upcoming final semester examinations in July.The new guidelines that will supersede the existing ones state that students will not have to attempt questions on a unit basis and the duration of the examination will be two hours. All questions will carry equal marks and the questions will cover all syllabus. This year, the students of BA, BSc, BCom, BBA, BCA and all other undergraduate and honors courses will have to attempt only four questions including the compulsory ones. In the previous paper pattern, students had to attempt all questions.The students of all professional courses that include MBA, engineering, law, hotel management, science, pharmacy, and those in postgraduate courses will have to attempt any four questions including the compulsory ones. However, for Hindi elective (BA), any three questions out of the first four questions are to be attempted.Chairperson of physics department professor Navdeep Goyal said, “This will make question papers easy to attempt for the students. The pattern has been simplified and now students can attempt any four questions in the question paper.”EXAMINATION OF EXIT CLASSES IN FIRST PHASEDean of university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said, “For the conduct of examinations, a plan for minimum movement of students is being worked out. The semester examinations for the exit classes (UG and PG) will be conducted in the first phase, after the reassessment of situation by the authorities. Reasonable and sufficient notice of examination will be given to the candidates.”The PU-CET (PG) entrance test will be conducted on July 27 and 28 this year.MORE CHOICE TO STUDENTSPU controller of examinations Parvinder Singh said, “The pattern of paper has been changed so as to give a wider choice to the students, keeping in mind that full syllabus was not covered.”President, NSUI, Nikhil Narmeta said, “Finally the university has released guidelines without mentioning when the exams for terminal students are to be held. They must not include the entire syllabus for the exam as not many students were able to access online classes and our demand still remains the same: conducting exams in this crisis is not possible so promote all students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-changes-question-paper-pattern-for-2020/story-K1upAQwNPLf3dUefU7PHfL.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, doctor’s consent will be necessary for physical consultation at PGIMER||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is planning to make prior consent by doctors through tele-consultation necessary for physical consultation in the outpatient departments (OPD).After the institute shut down OPDs post the coronavirus pandemic, the institute had launched tele-consultation services for patients seeking advice.PGIMER spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar said that the institute’s new OPD model could be an example for other hospitals to follow.On Monday alone, PGIMER received close to 800 calls for tele-consultations services and those requiring more medical attention were given slots for physical examination. “The service has picked up. The number of people calling for our services is gradually increasing. We are working on making it a permanent process for the future,” Dr Kumar said.Dr GD Puri, dean, academics, said the tele-consultation service was a hassle-free approach for a tertiary care institute like PGIMER. “It is beneficial for patients as well as doctors. A patient does not need to be present here and will be called only if there is a need for a physical examination,” he said.He added that patients with referrals from the other hospitals will not need to go through this process. However, struggling with the huge rush of patients at the emergency ward, PGIMER has asked hospitals under the jurisdiction of Chandigarh health department to seek consent before referring patients to the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-doctor-s-consent-will-be-necessary-for-physical-consultation-at-pgimer/story-i754A4LHlwyhBVjbUmYKPJ.html
09-06-2020||City||7 cops posted at Mumbai Police headquarters test positive for Covid-19||Seven police personnel posted at the Mumbai Police’s headquarters have been tested positive for Covid-19. As a precautionary measure, more than 20 personnel, including the additional commissioner of police (crime branch), have been home quarantined. “All those who have been tested positive are asymptomatic are admitted to hospital. Their condition is fine,” a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who did not wish to be named.The police has said that contact tracing in this case is difficult, as the personnel had been on bandobast duty for Shramik trains and came across thousands of people. Till Monday evening, the total number of active cases in Mumbai Police stands at 1,035, even as 813 personnel have already been recovered. For the first time since the lockdown was imposed, the active cases in Mumbai Police came down by 79 from the 1,774 cases reported on Saturday. The total death toll stands at 21, said Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. 58-year-old ASI, due to retire this month, diesA 58-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) working with the Dombivli government railway police (GRP) died due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The personnel was to retire on June 30.“He had diabetes and could have stayed home but we had a manpower crunch. He had been posted at Bhiwandi station, and may have developed the infection due to the Shramik train rush. On May 27, the personnel fell ill and his test report came positive on May 29. He was rushed to the hospital the same day and he was put on ventilator soon after being admitted,” said, Satish Pawar, senior police inspector of Dombivli GRP.“Even though those policemen who are aged above 55 years can choose to stay home, the ASI reported to work of his own wish, so we allowed him to work,” said Ravindra Sengaokar, Mumbai GRP commissioner. 19 booked, 9 arrested for lockdown violationsThe Mumbai Police on Sunday registered 11 first information reports (FIRs) against 19 people and arrested nine accused for lockdown violations. Four FIRs each have been filed against those gathering in public and not wearing masks. The remaining three are against shops for operating without permission. A maximum of six FIRs are from west region, four FIRs from central region and one from east region. 34 deaths in state police, 1,437 infected Thirty-four deaths have been reported in Maharashtra Police, of which 21 are from Mumbai Police, three from Nashik Rural, two each from Pune, Thane, Mumbai GRP and one each from Solapur City, Solapur Rural, Jalgaon and Mumbai anti-terrorism squad (ATS). Meanwhile, the active Covid-19 cases in the state police stand at 1,437, of which the majority (1,241) of the infected are constables or ASI-rank personnel, while 196 are officers. (with inputs by Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-cops-posted-at-mumbai-police-headquarters-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-zrdXOIzIMVNxJY2HUBiFnJ.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 11 Covid fatalities, 406 new cases||Haryana on Monday reported 11 coronavirus deaths, including five from the worst-hit Gurugram district, as 406 fresh cases pushed the total number of infections in the state closer to the 5,000-mark.Of the remaining fatalities, two were from Sonepat and one each from Jind, Rohtak, Karnal and Rewari. The cumulative number of positive cases on Monday reached 4,854 and the number of active cases was 3,115. Thirty-nine persons in the state have so far succumbed to Covid-19. With a combined tally of 340 fresh cases, national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram and Faridabad were again the biggest contributors to the state’s tally of coronavirus cases accounting for 83% of new infections. While Gurugram saw 243 cases, Faridabad registered 97 infections. The active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram increased to 1,577, which are more than 50% of the total such cases across 22 districts. Rohtak witnessed 15 new cases followed by Sonepat (13), Ambala (8), Karnal (6), Palwal and Sirsa (5 each), Jind (3), Bhiwani, Hisar, Panipat and Jhajjar (two each), and Panchkula, Kaithal and Fatehabad (one each). Six districts — Nuh, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Charkhi Dadri, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar — did not report any new infection on Monday.Cop, five others test positive in KarnalIn Karnal, a cop posted at the district headquarters was among six coronavirus patients. Karnal SP Surender Singh Bhoria said the head constable was found infected during a random sampling Though the medical bulletin didn’t mention them, two persons were tested positive in Kurukshetra. In Hisar, a 42-year-old man from Hansi, who was undergoing treatment at Agroha medical college, died of Covid-19 on Sunday, civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Kumar said. Also, 59 new cases were reported from various areas in Sonepat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-reports-11-covid-fatalities-406-new-cases/story-4KNRQE4QfEVwEqVtd9vV9M.html
09-06-2020||City||Illegal mining in Mohali’s Dera Bassi: 3 JCBs seized||The police on Monday seized three JCB machines from Bhankharpur village in Dera Bassi after MLA NK Sharma alerted them about illegal mining going on here. Sharma, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal leader, went live on Facebook and alleged that illegal mining was going on in Dera Bassi at the behest of Congress leaders.Sharma said that when he reached the spot, one of the drivers fled with the JCB machine while three others left their machines behind and fled. Assistant sub-inspector Satinder Singh said that the JCBs had been seized and appropriate action will be taken against the illegal miners.Meanwhile, Congress leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon rubbished the allegations and said, “A case should be registered against the guilty. As far as personal allegations are concerned, I challenge them to get an inquiry done from any investigating agency and if an iota of evidence is found, I will quit politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-mining-in-mohali-s-dera-bassi-3-jcbs-seized/story-oQQBRwGCXUMGGmYKC9847I.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Places of worship open to tentative response in Punjab, caution dominant sentiment||Amritsar/Ludhiana Gathering at places of worship resumed, but with a tentative touch, in the state on Monday. At the Golden Temple, Amritsar, which had remained open even during the lockdown, following all mandated precautions, the footfall was not as per expectation, said an official of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), on the condition of anonymity. The serving of ‘karah parsad’ and langar continued, defying government guidelines, with administrative officials evasive on the issue. Though no official count was kept, sources said around 30% of the normal footfall of around 1 lakh a day was witnessed during the day. Sukhbir Singh, manager of Golden Temple’s langar ghar, said the number of devotees was nearly double the figure seen during the lockdown. “During lockdown, there were two-three rows of devotees partaking of langar in the community kitchen. Today, up to five rows were filled at times,” he said, adding, “People are not coming out of homes due to covid-19.” At Durgiana Temple, the footfall remained low. “The number is disappointing. We expected more,” said temple committee president Ramesh Sharma. Here too, parsad and langar was served in defiance of guidelines, with authorities claiming to follow extreme precaution. Token system, distancing followed in Ludhiana In place of ‘parsad’ and holy water (‘charanamrit’), priests were armed with sanitisers and infrared thermometers and blessed devotees from a distance in Ludhiana. At the majority of places, the sanctum sanctorum was locked to prevent people from touching idols or sacred books. Circles were marked at Jama Masjid in Field Gunj to ensure social distancing. Shahi Imam Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi said, “We have to maintain distancing today, so that we can embrace each other tomorrow.”‘Karah parsad’ continued to be served in gurdwaras across the city. President of Dukh Niwaran Gurdwara near Jagraon Bridge in Field Gunj, Pritpal Singh Pali said, “We are following government guidelines, while maintaining the rehat maryada (religious code of conduct) of the Sikh faith. There is minimal human contact involved in preparing ‘karah parsad’. Those distributing ‘parsad’ are also wearing mask and gloves and using a ladle to serve.” The management of Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon Bridge has introduced token system to limit entry to 20 devotees at a time. Sanjay Mahindru, general secretary of the temple trust, said, at least 250 devotees visited the temple on Monday. On a normal day, the number goes up to 5,000 and 15,000 on Tuesdays. Most devotees bowed their heads on the main gates instead of going inside temples. Pouring of water or milk on ‘Shivlings’ was prohibited. Shri Nav Durga Mandir, Sarabha Nagar, saw only seven devotees from 6am to 8am. Devotees were not allowed to bring ‘parsad’, flowers and milk from outside, and entered empty-handed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/places-of-worship-open-to-tentative-response-in-punjab-caution-dominant-sentiment/story-e6f7MvO4EZLkEV2nDBPUGO.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 hotspots, Worli, Dharavi now see decline in new cases||Worli and Dharavi, which emerged as the two major Covid-19 hotspots of the city in the beginning of the outbreak, are now witnessing a decline in the number of average daily cases and surge in doubling rate, giving hope to authorities. Worli reported an average of 60 cases in May, which has come down to 35-40 in June. In Dharavi, the average new cases have come down from 47 in May to 27 in June. The growth rates of Worli and Dharavi has come down to 1.9% and 1.7%, respectively, which are among the lowest in the city. The doubling rate of Dharavi has gone up to 44 days, while it takes 38 days for cases to double in Worli. The two areas have also reported a recovery rate of 50%. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward, that covers Dharavi, said, “We have separated suspected patients from the community on a timely basis, conducted screenings and aggressive testing and organised fever camps. We have identified people who were using common toilets and home quarantined them also.” Dharavi has reported 1, 924 cases and 71 deaths. On Monday, 12 positive cases were reported in the area.Dighavkar claimed that of the 1,924 cases, around 70% had been already quarantined by the BMC. “I don’t think that there will be a rise in the numbers after this as we are continuously screening more and more people and ensuring isolation of most of the people. We will keep doing that until there are zero cases in Dharavi.”Meanwhile, with 42 cases reported on Monday, the total cases in G south ward, which consists of Worli, has gone up to 2,390. The final death toll figures are yet to be updated. Initially, Worli was among the worst-hit areas in the city, with cases escalating speedily on a daily basis. Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of G South ward, said, “Densely-populated slums such as Jijamata Nagar and Worli-Koliwada had the maximum cases being reported every day, but as of today, these slums have nil or minimal cases. We only focused not only on recovery but also on prevention.” BMC claims to have screened 87, 000 people in Worli and put 4, 500 residents in institutional quarantine. Ughade also attributed the decline in cases to people’s participation. Dr Om Srivastav, one of the doctors who are a part of the task force appointed by the state to bring down the mortality rate, said, “We will have to wait and see what kind of numbers come in the next two or three weeks. If residents continue to follow what they have been doing in the past eight weeks, such as wearing masks, sanitising hands and following social distancing norms, then we should be able to manage to flatten the curve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/earlier-mumbai-s-covid-19-hotspots-worli-and-dharavi-s-cases-now-see-fall/story-BUKNcHQPwxyVmAhcpD4H1O.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Take prior permission before initiating any fresh project: UT admn tells Chandigarh MC||The municipal corporation will now have to take prior approval of the UT administration before undertaking any new development work in the city.The condition was laid down by the administration on Monday while approving MC’s revised estimates for 2019-20 and the budget estimates for 2020-2021.A total of ₹67 crore have been made available to the MC for carrying out capital or new development works in the city for the current financial year. In the budget approval letter to the MC, the administration directed, “₹67 crore are expected to be available with the MC for development works, so MC should identify capital/revenue works to this extent only and submit the details of such projects before actually undertaking any.”“Many of the development works are going to suffer because of paucity of funds this year. No new project is likely to be started. Works like changing of the defunct storm and sewerage lines, and even works under the ward development funds are likely to be adversely impacted this year,” said a senior MC official requesting anonymity.‘SET PRIORITIES’The MC has also been directed to prioritise new development works and plan accordingly the spending of ₹67 crore available for them. Capital works already started in the earlier years need to be given priority for completion in this financial year before undertaking any other capital work, the administration has further directed.The new administration order, however, will have no impact on road re-carpeting work in the city. “Road re-carpeting will be made possible because of a special grant that the UT had issued in March. Work on last year’s pending road re-carpeting project has started. This financial year’s road re-carpeting work will start after monsoon,” said the official.In March this year, the UT administration had approved a special grant of ₹132 crore for the MC to help complete its pending projects, including broken roads.‘GENERATE MORE INTERNAL FUNDS’Even as the lockdown has aggravated the financial difficulties of an already cash-starved MC, the administration has asked the civic body to “improve the resource generation at its own level by adopting various measures.”“The corporation is in no position to make funds available for capital works planned for this fiscal. Our internal resources have depleted due to the lockdown,” said the official.NO 20% CUT IN MC SPENDINGThe UT administration has decided against levying a 20% cut in the committed grant for the MC in the first quarter. The central government had asked all departments to cutback on their first quarter spending by 20% in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. The administration has said it will instead absorb the 20% cut at its own level and ensure the MC gets 100% grant approved by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/take-prior-permission-before-initiating-any-fresh-project-ut-admn-tells-chandigarh-mc/story-oahpm8HbL0KcttAtz36PFP.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s coronavirus cases cross 50,000-mark; toll touches 1,702||The city on Monday crossed the grim milestone of 50,000 Covid-19 cases, and even reported the highest number of deaths (64) recorded in a single day so far. With 1,311 new cases, the count has gone up to 50,085 and the toll is 1,702. The number of cases is likely to see a surge in the coming week, as the city partially opened up in a three-phased plan that concluded on Monday. Of the 50,085, 26,345 or 52.6% of the cases are active. Of the 64 deaths, 43 patients had co-morbidities. Forty-four patients were men and 20 women; three deaths were of people below 40 years of age, 38 were above 60 years, and 23 between 40 and 60 years. The city’s mortality rate is 3.39%. It has a recovery rate of 43.9%, as 22,032 people have recovered and have been discharged. The doubling rate – time taken for the number of cases to double – for the city is 23 days. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 2,29,899 tests, with a percentage positivity of 21.11.BMC on June 2 issued a circular in tandem with Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again plan to kickstart the city and its economy post a 2.5-month-long lockdown. As per this plan, gardens and parks are open for joggers and morning walkers, between 5am and 7am, shops are open with restrictions on timings, private offices are working to 10% of their capacity with the remaining staff working from home, taxis and autoriskshaws are plying essential workers, and BEST bus services have resumed.BMC officials said easing these restrictions will bring more people on the streets, who will interact with each other, and lead to a spike. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani (who is in charge of health) said, “Our recovery rate is close to 50%. Although the number of total Covid-19 cases has crossed 50,000, our recovery rate is equally high.” Regarding the 64 deaths recorded in a single day, Kakani said, “We are analysing the death rate closely. We are strictly following the protocols suggested by the task force to reduce deaths.” Regarding a surge post staggered unlock plan, Kakani said, “We cannot call it surge. The number of cases may rise. We can say next 10 days are crucial for us and we need to analyse the trend carefully now. But we have augmented the bed capacity to handle it.” There are currently 775 containment zones in the city in slums and chawls, and 4,071 buildings have been sealed. The civic body has traced 9,47,424 risk contacts of patients, of which 2,36,068 are high-risk contacts. A total of 28,486 people are in institutional quarantine centres, as risk contacts. Of the risk contacts, 18,765 are suspected to be Covid-19 patients. Om Shrivastav, a senior city-based doctor part of the task force appointed by the Maharashtra government in April to bring down mortality, said, “We will know more in the coming few days. Our health infrastructure is ready. We will have to see what the burden on the public health system will be. We are doing the best we can do in these circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-coronavirus-cases-cross-50-000-mark-toll-touches-1-702/story-mLYGFQ2C24nzdHp0XVXGoK.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar to visit cyclone-hit districts of Maharashtra on Tuesday, Wednesday||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar will visit Raigad districts on June 9 and Ratnagiri district on June 10 to assess the situation in the wake of the damages caused in the region owing to Cyclone Nisarga. “He is likely to visit the most-affected areas such as Mangaon, Mhasla, Shrivardhan, Harihareshwar and Dapoli. He will also be holding a meeting of local MLAs [Members of Legislative Assembly], Members of Parliament and senior officials from district administration to assess the damages and relief measures,” a senior NCP leader, who did not wish to be named, said. On June 3, after the cyclone made landfall in Alibag, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Thane and Palghar reported severe damages. On June 5, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray also visited Raigad and announced an immediate relief package of ₹200 crore for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. In a review meeting held on June 7, Thackeray said Thane and Palghar did not suffer as much damage as compared to the other districts and relief packages for them will be declared after assessments.The CM also directed for change in the current norms to assess the damages to provide relief to those affected. He said the existing norms are old and directed the officials to propose new ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-to-visit-cyclone-hit-districts-of-maharashtra-on-tuesday-wednesday/story-3pzH0O7sWQD30IrvqwNQpI.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lukewarm response from devotees as places of worship open doors after 2 months in Chandigarh||A lukewarm response was seen from devotees as religious places in the city opened their doors for the first time since the lockdown was imposed on March 24. Manager of the Sector-34 gurdwara, Amarjeet Singh, said, “On normal days, we have around 100 devotees here but on Monday, only around 10 persons turned up. The Gugamari temple in Sector 20 also received only a few regulars for their morning pooja.Kishori Lal, a member of the temple’s management committee, said, “We are expecting more people to come on Tuesday to offer prayers to Lord Hanuman but it’s easier to manage a smaller crowd.”Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Shimla and Chandigarh Diocese, said there won’t be any congregations but devotees are welcome to come and offer prayers individually from 7.30am onwards. Maulana Imran, head of the Manimajra mosque, said, “Today, we read the namaz without the ceremonial dari as a safety precaution against the virus. Around 20 devotees had come in to offer prayers.”MANSA DEVI TEMPLE OPENS ON TRIAL BASISThe gates of the Mansa Devi Temple were thrown open on Monday to check the feasibility of online issuance of passes. On Monday, around 400 devotees had registered themselves and till 4pm, around 150 had visited the temple. “The temple will open from Tuesday and around 4,500 persons will be allowed per day.At Nada Sahib gurdwara, all caution was thrown to wind as devotees were seen roaming around without masks and one person was found offering prasad without wearing any gloves.The gurdwara had not been even closed during lockdown. An official from the gurdwara said: “At any given point, there are 10-20 people inside the gurdwara. We keep making announcements, asking people to maintain social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lukewarm-response-from-devotees-as-places-of-worship-open-doors-after-2-months-in-chandigarh/story-3p1W7MeuHiTJbKuRvyLIVP.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Donation has dipped by 90%: Pingwalwara society||All-India Pingalwara Charitable Society (AIPCS), which provides shelter to 1,600-odd destitute and disabled persons in its six branches across Punjab, is struggling to keep up its good work, with donations drying up due to the lockdown, imposed in view of covid-19.Donation, its major source of sustenance, has dropped 90% from the average Rs 3 crore a month it received before the pandemic struck, the society says. Contribution from abroad formed 80% of the donations; this has stopped. “Our society relies totally on donations, which have stopped almost completely. Few people are donating, but the amount is negligible compared to what we need. Earlier, on average we got Rs 3 crore a month,” said Inderjit Kaur, president, AIPCS.She added, “For the past nearly three months, we have using our savings to run the society. With a daily average expense of Rs 6.5 lakh that increases if patients are to be treated, our savings will exhaust soon. We have not laid-off any of the 861 staff and not cut salaries. We, however, have issued an appeal to them to donate from their salaries.” She added that with religious processions not allowed this year, they were not able to collect donations from NRI patrons in Canada, US and England as well. “During religious processions in these countries in 2019, we had collected around $60,000 (around Rs 42 lakh),” she claimed, adding an additional difficulty for the society was the increased cost of treatment in view of covid-19, as they had to provide medical equipment as well.She added local residents continued to support them with wheat and rice, but an appeal to donate on its online portal had not yielded much result. Chief administrator of the society, Col Darshan Singh Bawa said, “Donation from abroad, which was 80% of the total has dried up. Our donation boxes in gurdwaras are empty as there is hardly any footfall.” The society also runs special schools for deaf and dumb children. Its main branch, a three-storey building, is situated near Amritsar bus stand, comprising a female ward, children’s ward, rehabilitation centre, printing press, dispensary, medical lab, dental centre and a common kitchen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/donation-has-dipped-by-90-pingwalwara-society/story-c3yDjzl0Ti6G53uG7UvAJI.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: ED raids 5 premises of Cox and Kings, claims firm defaulted on ₹3,642-crore payment||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday raided five premises belonging to senior management of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG), in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering probe. The agency has claimed that the firm defaulted on loan payments worth ₹3,642 crore.HT tried to contact CKG for their response over ED’s allegations, but till the time of going to the press, the firm did not respond to calls and messages.On March 8, ED arrested Yes Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor, who is currently in judicial custody. The agency has been scanning the transactions made by the bank to its borrowers.“During investigation, irregularities were also noticed in relation to the loan sanctioned to CKG. The Group had created multiple layer of onshore and offshore subsidiary across the globe through which the monies were siphoned off,” ED said in a statement on Monday afternoon.The travel company was sent to bankruptcy court last year in October, after it defaulted on payments to the bank.“Malvern Travel Limited, UK [United Kingdom] (an entity of CKG) was having outstanding of ₹493 crore which submitted the forged bank statement of RBS [Royal Bank of Scotland] Bank, UK; State Bank of India, UK, and forged end-use certificates of BDO LLP ( statuary auditor of the UK-based entity) to avail the said loan from Yes Bank. This forgery was pointed out by KPMG which is the administrator of this UK-based entity,” the statement added.The agency has alleged falsification of records. “In relation to Cox & Kings Limited (CKL), the company forged its consolidated financials by forging the balance sheets of the overseas subsidiaries. The same was informed to BSE [Bombay Stock Exchange]/NSE [National Stock Exchange] by the resolution professional in writing. The statutory auditor of the Prometheon Enterprise Limited, UK (PEL – a subsidiary of CKG) was Raffingers UK LLP and the financials of PEL were sent to India by fictitious domain name impersonating the current officials of Raffingers UK LLP. For this, Raffingers UK LLP filed a criminal complaint to the National Crime Agency, UK,” it added.After CKL’s default came into light, the lenders appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for forensic audit but the accused firm’s management did not cooperate, the ED alleged. However, based on the limited data available with them, PWC – which conducted the audit – confirmed the falsification of accounts, overstating of the sales figures and understating of the debt figures and fictitious transactions. PWC reported that from financial year 2015 to 2019, ₹3,908 crore were made to 15 fictitious customers, ED stated.“Majority of collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity) was not found in the bank statements. Another 147 sets of customers are also suspicious and not existent, as per PWC report. As per the report, CKL diverted ₹1,100 crore to Alok Industries Ltd without any approval of board,” ED’s statement said.According to the agency, CKG sold Holiday Break Education Limited (HBEL), UK, a subsidiary of CKG, for ₹4,387 crore and instead of discharging the liability of bank, the entity siphoned off majority of the money, from which US$15.34 million was transferred to Kuber Investment Mauritius Pvt Ltd, which was controlled by one of the members of the senior management, whose premise was raided by ED on Monday.From Ezeego, ₹150 crore were diverted to Redkite Capital Private Limited which was promoted by two other members of the management. This fund diverted to Redkite was used to buy the controlling stake in Tourism Finance Corporation Of India Ltd, a listed non-banking financial company (NBFC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-ed-raids-5-premises-of-cox-and-kings-claims-firm-defaulted-on-3-642-crore-payment/story-Rsm9vrIqIGtCI2dZtawE9N.html
09-06-2020||City||Malls in Ludhiana get tepid response on first day; cinemas, gaming areas remain closed||Malls in the city opened gates for visitors after over two months on Monday, but received a tepid response on the first day. While cinemas and gaming areas remained closed, eateries opened only for take-away as dine-in has not been allowed by the government. With heavy security at entry points of malls for screening visitors, passes were also being issued at the entry of a few malls for restricting gatherings inside the malls. Visitors were not being allowed to enter the malls till they downloaded the COVA application in their mobile phones.At the Pavilion Mall, the security staff had kept 150 passes out of which only 97 were issued by afternoon. Similarly, passes were also being issued at the entry of the MBD Mall to keep a check on the number of visitors entering the mall at a given time.While a few stores were still closed in the malls on the Ferozepur Road, the staff members of other stores said that the situation would come to be normal in the coming days. They said they were already expecting low response on the first day as operations were also allowed till 7pm only.Gaurav, a staff member of a clothing store in the Wave Mall, said, “We were expecting low response on the first day. But, customers kept on trickling in till the last moment. Business is not the same as the buying capacity of people has also reduced. We are following all the guidelines issued by the government and hope that everything will come to normal soon.”A visitor to the MBD Neopolis Mall, Gurdeep Singh, said, “My wife wears clothes of a particular brand and we were waiting for the malls to open . However, things have changed and we also restricted any unnecessary movement in the mall.”Meanwhile, deputy commissioner of police (DCP-headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary also conducted a meeting with representatives of various malls in the city and directed them to follow all the guidelines issued by the government.MBD NEOPOLIS MALL SECURITY STAFF STAGE PROTESTExpressing resentment over their salaries not paid for the past three months (March, April, May), the outsourced security staff of the MBD Neopolis Mall staged a protest around 8 am on Monday.A security guard, requesting anonymity, alleged that there are around 70 security guards working in the mall and they have not been paid salary for the last three months. The outsourcing contractor rued that he has not been paid by the mall management, due to which he has not been able to pay salaries to staff. The protest was lifted around 10 am after getting the assurance that the salaries would be credited in their accounts soon.The mall authorities, however, claimed that it was an internal matter of the outsourcing company and the mall management has nothing to do with it as the security staff has been outsourced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malls-in-ludhiana-get-tepid-response-on-first-day-cinemas-gaming-areas-remain-closed/story-yVSU26ZDc9u5sMT1oZntyM.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||2 days after suspected gas leak, no source detected||Two days after suspected gas leak complaints were received by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said it has not been able to find the source of the suspected leak. The MFB is also considering taking help from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) for the same. It was earlier suspected that the leak was from a private factory in Govandi, however, MFB said that it could not establish the source. The Congress party has demanded a proper investigation into the incident, considering it was reported for the second time in less than a year.BMC’s disaster management control room, on Saturday night, received over nine complaints from residents of Chembur, Mankhurd, Ghatkopar (East), Ghatkopar (West), Powai, Andheri, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli about a foul pungent odour, giving rise to the suspicions of a gas leak. However, no source for the same is established yet.P Rahangdale, chief fire officer of MFB said, “The suspicion of a leak from a private factory in Govandi is ruled out as we have not found any source. Also, we have not been able to find the source of the gas leak, for which complaints were received.”Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC said, “There should be a proper investigation on the gas leak complaints considering such complaints were received for the second time in less than one year. Also, there should be a dedicated team in the BMC to detect gas leaks.”Earlier, a similar gas leak complaint was filed in September 2019, however, the source of the gas leak was detected. The BMC’s disaster management department had received around 37 complaints from over 15 locations, followed by over 50 complaints by MFB and few complaints by the Mumbai Police. Post the incident, the BMC had set up a committee to identify the source of the smell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-days-after-suspected-gas-leak-no-source-detected/story-8NHQPKkHee85l3U7PuhIkK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dine-ins off to slow start in Chandigarh||Cautious residents sticked to takeaways and home deliveries even as several restaurants in Chandigarh resumed dine-in services from Monday, following the administration’s nod. Pal Dhaba in Sector 28, which normally sees a huge rush, saw virtually no dine-in customers today. Eatery owner, Amit Pal Singh, said, “The number of takeaway orders and home delivery requests were far more than dine-in customers. I suspect this is because people are still wary of stepping out.” Sindhi Sweets proprietor Neeraj Bajaj, too, saw a lukewarm response. “I have outlets in Sectors 8, 17, 33 and 32. We received the best response in Sector 17, but there is still a long way to go,” he said.The eateries in Sector 10, meanwhile, received a comparatively better response. Jannat Chadha, proprietor of Cafe JC’s, said that they had a promising start and their restaurant is now equipped with safety screen guards to ensure social distancing.Hotels too got off to a slow start. Proprietor of Hotel Aroma in Sector 22, Manmohan Singh Kohli said that they didn’t expect the sales to be very high on the first day. “The important thing was to get started. We are hoping the sales will improve by this weekend.”Meanwhile at Elante, movie theatres and restaurants remained closed and third floor of the mall wore a deserted look. Though other stores, such as those dealing in clothes, remained open, the mall saw hardly 10% of its normal footfall. The business remained slow too. Manager of the Westside store in the mall, Shah Nawaz, said, “We used to get between 2,000 to 3,000 customers a day but on Monday, we got only around 100 customers.” Store manager of Zara, Pavneet Kaur, said they have started a new policy to allow only 20 inside the store at a time.Meanwhile, the impasse between restaurant owners and the Elante Mall regarding their rent agreements still remains unresolved.In Panchkula, restaurant and hotel owners are still waiting for the administration to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs). “We are yet to receive the SOPs but we plan to resume services by June 11,” said Rohit Sharma, owner of Bisaat restaurant and Chugli cafe in Sector 5, Panchkula. The few restaurants that have already resumed operations also wore a deserted look.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dine-ins-off-to-slow-start-in-chandigarh/story-JSd27t9duAQfXQuAOnZlTP.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||CM unhappy with banks over crop loan disbursement||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday expressed his displeasure over the approach by the banks on sanctioning crop loans to farmers and said he doesn’t want to listen any more complaints that the farmers are not getting loans from the banks. Thackeray held a meeting with ministers and senior officials from state cooperation, agriculture, food and civil supplies, and others to review preparations for kharif season. A senior official, who attended the meeting, said Thackeray was annoyed to know that nationalised banks disbursed only 7% crop loans to farmers against the target set for this fiscal year.Thackeray told the officials he would also be speaking to the heads of State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Maharashtra for smooth disbursement of crop loans so that farmers won’t have to face hardships.“To provide crop loans to farmers at the earliest, the nationalised banks should communicate orders of the state government to all their branches. I don’t want to listen to any more complaints from farmers that they are not getting crop loans,” Thackeray said in the meeting, according to officials. Thackeray was informed that nationalised banks have disbursed ₹2,300 crore, which comes to 7%, and district central cooperative banks have sanctioned ₹6,250 crore as crop loans, 46% of the target determined for this year. It was found that nationalised banks have refused to sanction loans to over 11.12 lakh farmers who were eligible to get benefit under state-run loan waiver scheme — Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Shetkari Karj Mukti Yojana — but could not get it as the state government is facing financial crisis owing to Covid-19 lockdown and it has expressed its inability to pay amount to the banks at present, said a senior official requesting anonymity. “This is despite the state government order issued on May 22 to provide fresh credit to defaulting farmers who are eligible under the loan waiver scheme, as the state takes guarantee to pay their loan amount with interest against the delay,” he said.The state government needs ₹8,100 crore to write off the debts.The loan waiver scheme promises to write off loans with an outstanding of up to ₹2 lakh for farmers from April 1, 2015 to September 30, 2019. The state has transferred ₹12,000 crore in the bank accounts of over 19 lakh beneficiaries so far, and the other 11.12 lakh beneficiaries are yet to get the benefit.For this fiscal year, the state has set the target for disbursement of crop loan of ₹45,785 crore to farmers. Of these, nationalised banks were expected to sanction ₹32,262 crore and district central cooperative banks were expected to disburse ₹13,524 crore.Thackeray further directed that there should not be any shortage of seeds and warned that those found selling bogus seeds will face strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-unhappy-with-banks-over-crop-loan-disbursement/story-Ons4aoTirryvMVJjv3sXJK.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: CM asks state officials to accelerate cyclone mitigation project||In the aftermath of the devastation caused by Cylone Nisarga in the coastal districts of Maharashtra, especially Raigad, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked state officials to accelerate works on the World Bank-funded National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project (NCRMP) on a war footing. The 2015 project includes construction of underground power cables, building multiple hurricane-resistant shelters, strengthening houses and creating an early-warning dissemination system. As per the state records, works worth ₹203.77 crore are already in progress in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Palghar. The total project cost is about ₹398 crores. “Apart from underground cables which the chief minister has stressed on, the state is looking at setting up 30 shelters, rebuilding damaged houses using concrete slabs, and installing lighting arresters in areas prone to frequent power-outages,” a state official said. Around 11 shelters have been built under the project so far. Thackeray undertook a review meeting with officials from the state disaster management department and relief and rehabilitation units on Monday. Cyclone Nisarga made a landfall in Raigad district last Wednesday damaging lakhs of houses, trees, and electric poles. Power and water supply has also been hit in many parts of the coastal districts. In 2015, the World Bank approved funds for implementing phase-2 of the NCRMP to “reduce vulnerability to cyclone and other hydro-meteorological hazards of coastal communities in the states of Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, and West Bengal.” In Phase-1, works were undertaken in the states of Odisha and West Bengal, the World Bank website states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-cm-asks-state-officials-to-accelerate-cyclone-mitigation-project/story-IKrMxc0DzIKil7wZfz5wKL.html
09-06-2020||City||3 arrested for killing Ghansoli civil contractor||Rabale police on Monday arrested three men in connection with the murder of a Ghansoli-based civil contractor Pravin Tayde who was shot dead over business rivalry, said police. The police have identified Jayesh Patil, 37, a civil contractor, as the main accused who allegedly conspired with accomplices Santosh Dora alias Guddu, 22, and Devendra Mali, 22. Inspector Girish Gore of Ghansoli police station said as Tayde was getting more contracts Patil got irked and decided to carry out the crime. “We are probing to establish for how long they were planning the murder,” he said. The incident took place on Thursday, when Tayde was riding his scooters with his friend Dattatrey Jognand in Talavli village. Patil arrived there with Dora and Mali in an Alto car, and upon spotting Tayde, Dora walked up to him and shot him in the face, said police. Mali also allegedly fired in Tayde’s direction from the car but failed. As the trio were trying to escape in their car, Jognand tried to stop them but Patil rammed the car into him which smashed the windshield, said police. “Knowing that the damaged vehicle would raise suspicion, the men abandoned the car at Varisht Chowk in Koparkhairane and boarded an auto for Kalyan. However, as they hopped from Thane, to Lonavala and then to Kamshet, they ran out of money,” said a police source.Meanwhile, with the help of CCTV footage and eye-witness accounts, the police recovered Patil’s car on Saturday while a police team chased the trio to Kamshet but failed to nab them.A police officer said following a tip-off that Patil and Dora would be arriving near National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) in Kharghar to collect money, the police nabbed them.“We recovered two pistols and six live cartridges from their possession and later nabbed their third accomplice. They have been booked on charges of murder,” said Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector at Ghansoli police station.All three accused have petty cases of assaults against them. Police are probing where they procured the weapon from and are likely to make more arrests in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-arrested-for-killing-ghansoli-civil-contractor/story-KBA1Jj2PiCKqShKxdChFHO.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||A first under FEO Act: Court nod for confiscation of Nirav’s assets||A special court on Monday ordered the confiscation of the properties of diamantaire Nirav Modi, the main accused in the ₹23,780-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, under the Fugitive Economic Offenders’ (FEO) Act, 2018.The confiscation order against Nirav, who is lodged at a London prison while his extradition proceedings are pending, is the first under the two-year-old act.Special judge VC Barde ordered for the confiscation of the properties within a month, but exempted assets mortgaged and hypothecated with PNB and its consortium, Andhra Bank and Oriental Bank of India. Barde’s order will allow the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to confiscate properties of Modi, after which the money will be deposited with the Central government.The order also sees that the banks will be at liberty to file their claims with ED and tribunal authorities for their rights over properties.ED had listed properties, valued at ₹1,396.07 crore, which it claimed was purchased or owned by Nirav using proceeds of crime, for confiscation. However, in the order passed on Monday, the court has also made specific mention on the paintings seized by the income tax (I-T) department. The court has directed ED to attach the paintings within a month and proceed to confiscate them.Nirav was declared FEO under the new law on December 5, 2019, after which the court began the process towards confiscation of his properties. The court refused to permit Nirav to intervene in the process, but allowed banks to be heard.While declaring Nirav as FEO, Barde had observed that Nirav left the country under suspicious circumstances to “dodge the penal consequences of the acts he has done or committed while in India till the year 2017”.“It can be gathered that as on date when the respondent left the country, that is on January 1, 2018, he was in know of the fact of due dates of payments (to the bank) which was November 25, 2018, and left the country therefore in suspicion circumstances,” observed the court in the order passed on Thursday.Nirav had contended that he could not return to India as he was arrested in UK. They had also pleaded to keep the proceedings in abeyance. The court rejected their plea and noted that Modi was arrested by the UK police on March 19, 2019, after a long time subsequent to the filing of ED’s application under the FEO Act. The court held that there was ample time for him to return to India before his arrest in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/a-first-under-feo-act-court-nod-for-confiscation-of-nirav-s-assets/story-5sA7lNRY89W0t5FGkivLPM.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||FIR against ex-DGP Saini: Punjab Police question CBI move to weed out record in court||The Punjab Police has questioned the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) move to weed out record of a 1991 case of alleged abduction and fake encounter of Balwant Singh Multani, involving former state Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini. Multani, who worked as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), was picked up, allegedly, by two police officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security were killed. Later, the police claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police in Punjab and his whereabouts, since then, are not known.On Monday, the state police filed an application before a Chandigarh court, submitting that in 2016, the Punjab and Haryana high court had returned a status report in the case in sealed cover to the investigating agency. The application added that the status report also included the documents, which the police are now seeking in the wake of an FIR registered against Saini and seven others for alleged kidnapping, causing disappearance and wrongful confinement in Mohali on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, last month. A Mohali court has granted bail to Saini. The state police have also questioned as to how the record was weeded out within four years of the CBI getting it from the high court.On Saturday, the CBI had told the court that it had returned the documents to the departments concerned or the same were weeded out as per policy, which mandates it to keep records for five years only. The agency’s response had come on an application moved by the state police, seeking documents of the preliminary probe, when the CBI was investigating the disappearance of Multani in 2007. The CBI had probed the matter on a direction from the high court. The probe, however, was closed in view of the Supreme Court quashing the high court order in 2011. The matter will now be taken up on Thursday by the court of the special magistrate, Ravish Kaushik, when the CBI is to respond to the issues that the state police has raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fir-against-ex-dgp-saini-punjab-police-question-cbi-move-to-weed-out-record-in-court/story-cxjh74ujx6LTKw0qwbbagK.html
09-06-2020||City||Nilje ROB on Kalyan-Shilphata road to be closed from June 15||Nilje Railway over-bridge (ROB) over Diva-Panvel railway route, part of the busy Kalyan-Shilphata stretch, will be shut for repair works from midnight June 15, traffic police officers said on Monday.A safety audit of the 50-year-old bridge was carried out by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), which stated the structure of the bridge is unsafe and should be closed immediately. It was said that in view of the safety of the railway as well as road traffic, it is suggested that the ROB be immediately shut for road traffic.Central Railway (CR) had in May decided to shut the bridge and informed the concerned officials of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the traffic police. On June 5, the traffic police released a notification on closing the bridge and mentioned that the raffic would be diverted to the parallel new bridge.After a part of the Andheri’s Gokhale bridge collapsed on July 3, 2018, both the Central and Western Railway appointed a team of experts from IIT-B to inspect 445 bridges that cross the railway tracks in the city.“After the Andheri ROB incident, the railway had undertaken the audit of all ROBs. This (Nilje) ROB has been declared unsafe, based on which we have decided to shut it. The bridge will be completely shut for all vehicles from June 15,”said a CR official requesting anonymity.The 21-km-long Kalyan-Shilphata route, which connects Kalyan-Dombivli-Bhiwandi-Thane to Navi Mumbai, is a vital link and sees a major congestion during peak hours. The traffic police department said the closure of Nilje bridge would lead to increase in the congestion.“If the bridge is shut, the entire load will be on the parallel bridge. We will have to deploy more traffic cops to man the traffic. The congestion will be more,” said a traffic police from Kalyan (East) traffic unit.Followed by the decision to close the bridge, MLA Raju Patil appealed to MSRDC to repair the bridge and make it open to small vehicles during monsoon to ease traffic congestion.“The Patripool bridge on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch has already been dismantled and a new bridge it yet come up, Durgadi bridge on this stretch is narrow. If this third bridge is also shut for traffic, then commuters will have to face lot of trouble during monsoon.”An MSRDC official requesting anonymity said, “There is a plan to build a new bridge after dismantling this unsafe bridge. Repairing the bridge and allowing small vehicles has not been considered yet. We have received a demand to repair the bridge and open for small vehicles which will be discussed with higher authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nilje-rob-on-kalyan-shilphata-road-to-be-closed-from-june-15/story-s8xrF31gB67DYU17mSPckK.html
09-06-2020||Mumbai||Matang leader moves HC seeking regulation of MLC nominations||Matang community leader Diliprao Agale has moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking to regulate the Governor’s power to nominate members of the legislative Council (MLC). The Matang community is a scheduled caste in Maharashtra.In his petition, filed through advocate SB Talekar, the 58-year-old social worker has sought a declaration that clauses 3(e) and 5 of Article 171 of the Constitution are beyond the legal powers of Article 14 and the rule of law.Article 171(3)(e) empowers the Governor to nominate members on the legislative Council and Article 171(5) requires that the persons to be appointed have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, arts, cooperative movement, and social service. Article 14 prevents states from denying any person equality before the law.“No doubt enough guidance is provided as to the qualification or eligibility criteria of the nominated members,” stated the petition, adding, “However, there is nothing prescribing the mode and manner to nominate members on the state legislative Council.”Agale has complained that there are no parameters and tests in place to select the candidates for nomination.The Maharashtra legislative Council has 78 members, of which 66 are elected and the remaining 12 are nominated by the Governor.Agale’s petition stated that all proposals for the nomination of members on legislative Councils, under the Maharashtra Government Rules of Business, are required to be submitted to the chief minister, and the Governor nominates the members based on recommendations made by the chief minister.He further complained that no scrutiny is done to ascertain that the person recommended for nomination fulfills the essential requirements, or if he had incurred disqualification, as contemplated by Article 191.Besides, the persons to be nominated by the Governor are not required to make disclosures of their wealth and criminal past, if any, as is required in elections to the state and Central legislature.Therefore, according to Agale, the power to nominate becomes unfair, arbitrary, and discriminatory, as it is open to the chief minister to pick and choose persons to be nominated as per their whims and fancies.The power conferred on the Governor is thus, not only arbitrary but has no place in a polity governed by the rule of law. It is also a violation of the mandate of equality enshrined in Article 14, the petition stated.The actions of the chief minister, the Council of ministers or the Governor has to be fair, impartial, and based on the realistic assessment as to whether the person to be nominated has the required special knowledge or practical experience, by following due procedure, it added.The social worker mentioned that he was also aggrieved by the fact that there are thousands of individuals who meet the requirements for such nomination, but only those who are “close to the centres of power or those who enjoy the confidence of those in power” are considered for nomination on the Council.“The selection is done either on party lines or depending on who is close to or in the good books of the chief minister or high command of the party in power,” the petition stated. “Barring a few exceptions, most of those nominated were either active politicians or persons affiliated or associated with the party in power, or individuals enjoying political patronage,” it added.Agale has submitted that unless the concerns expressed by some members of the Constituent Assembly – that the nominations would be made on political lines rather than merit – are addressed and remedied promptly, the same will continue to perpetuate a corrupt system.Besides, he also complained about the disparity within scheduled castes in Maharashtra as regards the representation of various communities, contending that the major benefit of the reservation provided for the category is taken by the predominant Magar community, although their population is more or less the same.The petition will come up for hearing on June 16 before a division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Surendra Tavade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/matang-leader-moves-hc-seeking-regulation-of-mlc-nominations/story-ApkYv06fwDEe2hHgvR1t2N.html
09-06-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: Man quizzed by CID kills self||Kasa resident Vinus Dharma Dhangada, 32, who was among the villagers questioned by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in connection with Palghar lynching case, killed himself on Saturday evening. While the Dhangada, a farmer from Divshi-Chinchpada, was questioned by the state CID recently, he was not suspected of playing a role in the lynching incident wherein 3 people were killed by a mob, said assistant police inspector Siddhawa Jaybhaye of Kasa police station. “We do not know the motive as no note was found from the spot. We have registered a case of accidental death and the post-mortem report is awaited,” she said. The police will question the relatives after the funeral rites are over.So far, around 160 accused have been arrested and are in police custody in connection with the Palghar lynching case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-man-quizzed-by-cid-kills-self/story-wWZTqLrruAnHbWn13tkVBP.html
09-06-2020||City||Former MLA, associates booked for celebrating a birthday on expressway||The Gautam Budh Nagar police booked a former MLA from Debai along with 15 to 20 of his associates for allegedly a birthday, violating lockdown norms, on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) on Sunday evening.The incident took around 4.30 pm when a PRV(police response vehicle) team patrolling the area witnessed the episode, the police said.According to the police personnel who had filed the complaint in the case, former member of legislative assembly from Samajwadi party, Bhagwan Sharma, was present at the EPE for an associate’s birthday celebrations. Sharma is a resident of Gijhor village under Sector 24 police jurisdiction and is currently associated with Rashtriya Lok Dal.“He was present on the side of the expressway going from Sirsa toll to Dadri, opposite village Rampur Fatehpur. There were 15 to 20 other people with them who were celebrating someone’s birthday, while at least eight or nine vehicles had been parked on the side of the road. They were dispersed by the patrolling PRV,” stated the police complaint.The complaint further said Sharma and his associates violated all social distancing norms during the celebrations. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against them under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officers said the matter is under investigation while all his associates are being identified.“Several factors such as how long they had been there for are a part of the ongoing investigation. The offences are bailable and due action is being taken,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.The police said that Sharma and his associates were violating section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrpC) which has been implemented in the district till June 30 and prohibits the gathering of more than five people.Sharma, however, said he was not on the EPE to celebrate a birthday. “My mother-in-law had passed away, and I was on my way to Bulandshahr. The people with me were acquaintances from a nearby village who had come to see me. It wasn’t even my birthday,” the former MLA said.Gautam Budh Nagar police has so far arrested more than 7,000 people and registered nearly 2,000 cases against violations of the lockdown under CrPC section 188.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-mla-associates-booked-for-celebrating-a-birthday-on-expressway/story-8TOIKsLvSYTh2IZinyVb3J.html
09-06-2020||City||Ludhiana farmer, accomplice attack farm officers for asking him not to transplant paddy before June 10||A farmer and his accomplice attacked two officials, including a woman, of the agriculture department with a hoe and injured them at Bonkar Gujjran village on Monday. Two officials fled from the spot to avoid attack. The assaulters also damaged the vehicle of the officials.The officials had gone to the village to stop the farmer from transplanting paddy before the official deadline of June 10 for sowing paddy in Punjab.The injured officials have been identified as Husandeep Singh Brar, agriculture development officer (ADO), Mattewara, and Nidhi Chaudhary, ADO, Khwajke. They have been admitted to the civil hospital in Samrala. On being informed, the Koomkalan police have initiated investigation after reaching the spot. The accused managed to escape.ADO Husandeep Singh Brar said a team of agriculture officials, led by block agriculture officer Jatinderpal Singh, had gone to stop farmer Gurpreet Singh Gill from transplanting paddy in his fields before June 10.He added that as they went to his fields, the farmer, along with his accomplice, attacked them with a hoe. The accused also vandalised their car. The farmer had already transplanted paddy in 2 acres of his land. he said.ADO Nidhi Chaudhary said they went the village to counsel him not to transplant paddy before June 10, but the farmer called his accomplice and assaulted them with a hoe. She added that block development officer Jatinderpal Singh and agriculture sub-inspector Charanjit Singh run away from the spot to save themselves.Jaswinder Singh Brar, officiating president, Agriculture Officers Association, Punjab, demanded stern action against the accused. He said if the farmer is not arrested and a case of attempt to murder not lodged against him, the entire agriculture department field staff in Punjab will go on strike from Tuesday.Inspector Paramjit Singh, SHO at the Koomkalan police station, said the police will lodge an FIR against the farmer after recording the statement of agriculture officers. He added the police have been conducting raids for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmer-accomplice-attack-farm-officers-for-asking-him-not-to-transplant-paddy-before-june-10/story-giX10gGiHCIlj2oKNJVABP.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||After a brief lull, Punjab sees spike in Covid cases again||Punjab witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases after a partial relief for some days, with 403 more people testing positive and eight persons succumbing to the infection since June 1. In past two three days only, the state recorded over 200 cases against 202 cases between May 20 and May 29. Of the patients found positive since June 1, around one-third (33%) are those who came from outside the state or returned to India from abroad in special flights. “The main reason behind this surge is that people have started taking things lightly. Also, they are not caring two hoots about the social-distancing norms,” state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said.28,785 PEOPLE TESTED IN 5 DAYSExperts believe that another reason behind the surge in cases was due to increase in testing as an average 6,000 people were tested daily in the past five days. Targeted sampling has increased in Punjab, say health officials, adding that patients are checked at all 214 flu corners in civil and sub-divisional hospitals. So far, the state health department has conducted 1,29,821 tests, of which 28,785 were done between June 4 and 8. “This is another reason why more cases are surfacing. We are planning to test 9,000 people daily,” said a senior health official. Also, only 60 patients (nearly 2%) of the total number of people infected in Punjab so far have shown acute symptoms after they contracted the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-a-brief-lull-punjab-sees-spike-in-covid-cases-again/story-spX1Qv1YotnjZiukefnumK.html
09-06-2020||City||All courts now functional in Gautam Budh Nagar||All courts in the Gautam Budh Nagar district have resumed operations from Monday.“Earlier only four courts were functioning virtually through video conferencing. Today, all courts including upper and lower courts started their operations. Some physical courts also functioned on Monday where the judge and advocates wore masks throughout the proceedings. Only four advocates were allowed at a time in the court. Social distance and social distancing norms were followed. Other courts functioned virtually. Judges can decide whether to hear cases in physical court or virtual court,” Minakshi Sinha, secretary, district legal services authority (DLSA) said on Monday.Gautam Budh Nagar district bar association president Sanjeev Verma said, “Proceedings in sessions courts were carried out via virtual courts. Majority of lower courts functioned normally while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines and maintaining social distancing.”“Further the High Court has directed not to take strict legal action against petitioners who could not come for hearing on their respective hearing date. Currently, only advocates are being allowed inside the courts and petitioners are being called if absolutely necessary,” said Verma. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) on Monday also started hearings through video conferencing from the Rera office in Greater Noida. UP-Rera member Balvinder Kumar heard 73 cases through video conferencing on Monday. Kumar was conducting hearings from home earlier. “Today, I a conducted virtual hearing for 54 cases of bench 2, and 19 cases of bench 3. In eight cases of bench 3, orders have been reserved,” said Kumar, who is the presiding officer of bench 2.Meanwhile, complainants and builder representatives have welcomed the virtual hearing system. UP-Rera chairman, Rajive Kumar, said, “We have received over 100 feedback forms for virtual court hearing. According to most of the forms,virtual hearing system is a positive step.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-courts-now-functional-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-ofDluSEwb2gZLCQU4lSVVN.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Places of worship reopen, people refrain from visiting||Several places of worship in the district opened their doors to the public on Monday, nearly 80 days after they first closed on March 19. However, there didn’t seem to be too much footfall on Day One.According to government guidelines, all places of worship that reopen will have to ensure that they thermally screen devotees, sanitise the premises and that devotees follow social distancing norms. The places of worship cannot allow over five people inside at a time, or let footwear cluster. The guidelines also specifically allow only asymptomatic people to visit these places.Religious places in the district, except for those in containment zones, opened up on Monday morning.“Everything went smoothly. We followed all the government guidelines. There weren’t too many visitors in the morning. We allowed only five people inside at a time. We are not restarting the langar for now. We have asked all devotees to remove their footwear in their vehicles only,” Gurpreet Singh, part of the management of the Sector 18 gurudwara, said.Most of these places have marked the floor to ensure that visitors follow the norms of social distancing.“We have shaved off two hours from our earlier timings. Nearly 40-50 people came today, most of whom were families, which is less than the regular number of visitors, but things will pick up gradually. We held a havan first and then opened our doors to the public. Even Member of Parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma came to offer his prayers. We are ensuring that people wear masks. We are also cleaning the premises regularly,” Sanjay Bali, general secretary, Sanatan Dharam temple, said.Churches in the district will not open their doors up till the end of this month. The Iskcon temple in Sector 33 also didn’t reopen on Monday. Its board will decide when to open up later this week.The police said that there was no law and order situation nor was any place shut for violating guidelines.“We had met with representatives of all religions, who had assured us they will follow all guidelines. Senior officials also visited a few places. No one reported any incident. For now, even the public is refraining from going out and there are no problems,” Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said.Most mosques under the Sector 20 jurisdiction, including the Jama Masjid, did not reopen on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/places-of-worship-reopen-people-refrain-from-visiting/story-KUBng4WgjAga9MilbGT79I.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Delhi opens borders, commuters face Monday rush||Heavy traffic jams continued to persist during peak hours at the Delhi-Noida borders on Monday as the national capital lifted all restrictions on interstate travel.Entry into Noida from Delhi was regulated by Gautam Budh Nagar district administration and only people with passes were allowed to cross the border.The Delhi government had on May 31 announced that it will seal its borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for seven days to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection.“The situation is terrible in the evenings. Noida police have set up barricades blocking the access for free movement of vehicles. The policemen just stand there without much checking. In the evening, traffic starts crawling from the Kalindi Kunj bridge itself. It is a daily struggle now,” said Vivek Krishna, who travels to Delhi’s Jasola for work from Greater Noida west daily.Some commuters also alleged that getting into Noida during evening and morning peak hours was much more difficult than getting into Delhi.“Even when Delhi had sealed the borders, movement into the capital was not an issue. But getting into Noida is a harrowing task everyday. Crossing DND takes more than 30 minutes. Today, the traffic was terrible during peak hours at Kalindi Kunj, so I turned back and then entered Noida via DND around 9.30am . A few of my colleagues came around noon and their experience was better. Peak hour traffic is a menace with Noida continuing with its border checking,” said Amrinder Singh, who travels from Faridabad to Noida daily for work.Commuters said there was clarity and some felt that restrictions would be lifted from June 8. However, Noida — which had sealed its borders with Delhi in April — continues to maintain a status quo.“The MHA guidelines have permitted interstate travel but Noida continues to keep the border sealed. This creates confusion for people travelling across the borders. Even the Supreme Court has now intervened. So hopefully the situation will change ,” said a commuter, on condition of anonymity.On Monday, to ease rush hour traffic Noida police had opened six lanes of the DND. According to regulations, only people with administrative passes and those providing essential services are allowed to travel across the border.Barricades placed by Delhi police at the Noida gate were also manned by the Gautam Budh Nagar district police on Monday morning.“This was done to ensure that people don’t go to Delhi without valid reasons and then don’t create chaos in the evening while returning. There are no changes in the regulations and until any further orders, the border will continue to be sealed,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Officials had claimed that traffic volume had gone down after Delhi sealed the borders last week. However, peak hour rush continues to be a problem.In an order of the district administration from May 31, it had been clarified that the border will remain sealed until further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-opens-borders-commuters-face-monday-rush/story-0PQFyb4nm0FCqRdfBf881N.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Noida shopping malls open for business, but only a few visitors turn up||After the government permitted the reopening of shopping malls from Monday, a few of them opened for business in the city after being shut for over 70 days, owing to the nationwide lockdown from March 25 on account of Covid-19 pandemic. All necessary precautions to combat the pandemic were taken and marshals deployed to ensure social distancing among visitors.In Noida, while most of the major shopping malls, including DLF Mall of India and Great India Place at Sector 18 and Logix at City Centre remained close, a few such as the Gaur City Mall at Greater Noida West, Shopprix at Sector 61 and Wave Mall in Sector 18 opened on Monday.The malls, especially food courts, however, wore a deserted look with only very strolling around. Mall managers were hopeful that business will pick up within a week. For now, they said they are focused on building trust among customers. A number of shops in these malls were also closed and so were dine-in restaurants. Only fast-food and eatery chains were open for business but these too saw thin attendance.Compulsory hand sanitisation and temperature screening were seen at the entry gates of malls and all malls followed the ‘no mask no entry’ policy strictly. Extra staff were deployed on the premises to ensure social distancing among visitors.“We hope that in the coming months, visitors will start coming like they used to. Obviously, people are scared and wary due to the pandemic, so what we are doing is building up their trust in us. We had started preparations for reopening a few days back, including cleaning the mall, sanitising all spaces and training our staff in accordance with the norms given by the government. As a precautionary measure, we have also restricted entry of elderly people over 65 years of age and children below 10 years,” Vikas Tyagi, vice-president, Supertech Shopprix mall in Sector 61, said.At Gaur City Mall in Greater Noida West, the staff had deployed ‘Covid marshals’ to ensure that people keep their masks on and don’t hold hands.“These marshals will ensure people maintain the social distancing. Our main aim is to ensure that people start trusting that malls are a safe space, and towards that end, we are taking all safety precaution,” the mall manager at Gaur City Mall said, without wishing to reveal his name. Of a total of 150 shops at Gaur Mall, more than half remained closed. “All the store owners had been given a presentation on the standards that they will have to adhere to, including sanitising hands of every customer. Since this is the first day, we are happy to see even the thin attendance and are hopeful that things will get back to normal within a week,” the manager said. With posters reading ‘this toilet had been sanitised’ and ‘ dos and dont’s, the malls have also pasted stickers on elevators to ensure social distancing.Meanwhile a few shopping malls stated that they are not yet prepared and will take a week’s time to make all necessary arrangements to ensure public safety.“We are not ready yet to open and are taking all necessary preparations. It will take at least a week or so to restart operations,” Shamim Anwar, PRO, Great India Place (GIP) in Sector 18, said.The Logix mall at Noida City Centre said it will start operations from Tuesday.The state government’s standard operating procedure (SOPs) ask the malls to ensure social distancing, mandatory thermal screening, masks, staggered entries and operations of food courts at 50% seating capacity. Mall managers have been advised to have an isolation room to keep any worker or visitor showing symptoms of Covid-19, till medical help arrives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-shopping-malls-open-for-business-but-only-a-few-visitors-turn-up/story-YTpvbnigwzujtfQRhaC83J.html
09-06-2020||Noida||Noida: Private hospitals to keep track of cross notified Covid-19 positive cases||Alarmed with the rising coronavirus (Covid-19) disease positive cases in the district due to patients coming from other neighbouring districts and Delhi, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has decided to keep a tab on private hospitals. Since the testing in the district is easier than in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Meerut, many patients give the addresses and phone numbers of their relatives living in Gautam Budh Nagar to get their tests done, officials said. As a result of this influx of patients from other places, the number of cases has been increasing. On June 1, the state health department had stated in a report that in the last 20 days, source of infections of 42% of all the Covid-19 positive cases in the district has been tracked to Delhi. District magistrate Suhas LY has said that private hospitals have been asked to check properly the medical records of the patients coming from other states and districts to Noida. “We can’t ask any hospital for stopping the treatment of patients. But at the same time, we can’t risk the lives of our residents. Before coming for treatment of coronavirus from various places to the Noida district, the patients must have the proper letter of reference from competent health officials of their respective places,” he said.The DM further said that this scrutiny will not only smoothen the process of contact tracing, but will also reduce the number of patients being cross-notified to other places. “If we do not put a check on such cases, it will put an unnecessary burden on us. We have limited beds in our Covid-19 facilities in different hospitals for Gautam Budh Nagar residents. If those seats are occupied by others, what will we do for our own people,” he said.Of the total positive cases in the district on June 7, while 41 patients who tested Covid-positive were from Gautam Budh Nagar, 48 patients who tested Covid-positive were from other places, including 15 from Delhi and 7 from Ghaziabad.The DM also said that the Delhi-Noida border will continue to remain sealed and only essential services, having requisite documentation, will be allowed to move. Stating that the rising number of Covid-19 cases is a reason for the step, he said that after consultation and consent of health and police departments, it was decided in public interest that status quo shall be maintained with respect to inter-state borders. “As far as the Supreme Court’s instructions on Thursday regarding easing inter-state movement at all borders of the National Capital Region (NCR) is concerned, we are waiting for the fresh guidelines from the state headquarters and we’ll certainly follow them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-private-hospitals-to-keep-track-of-cross-notified-covid-19-positive-cases/story-2000rStPRxVaIVujQGYPAK.html
09-06-2020||Gurugram||One killed, two injured in accident||A 44-year-old man died while his two friends were injured when their car rammed several poles in Dhankot village on Sunday evening. The police have registered a case against the car driver, who is recuperating at a hospital. According to the police, the deceased man has been identified as Jaswant Singh, a resident of Dhankot. The police said that around 7.20pm, Singh and his friends, Kartar and Anil, were on their way to Farrukhnagar from Dhankot. The police said Anil was driving the car, which suddenly veered into a non-motorable road at a high speed, and after about 300 metres, collided with some metal poles on a field. The airbags of the car deployed on impact and the car flipped on its side. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the victim was seated in the co-driver’s seat and succumbed to injuries on the spot. “Anil, who was driving the car, and Kartar, who was seated in the rear, suffered injuries and were taken to Civil Hospital for treatment. Their condition is stable. In his statement, Kartar said that Anil was speeding and despite their repeated requests, he did not slow down the car, resulting in the crash. A case has been registered against Anil,” the police officer said. A case was registered against him under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304 A (death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at the Rajendra Park police station, the police said. In another incident, a 44-year-old woman was killed after a car allegedly hit her near Narsinghpur on National Highway 48 on Monday morning. The police said the incident took place around 7.30am when the victim, Nirmala Devi, was walking to her office. The police said the car, allegedly driven at a high speed, hit her and she fell. The driver abandoned the vehicle and escaped from the area. With the help of the police and passersby, she was rushed to a private hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. The police said the woman was from Bihar and had been staying in Khandsa village. The abandoned car has been confiscated and the police are trying to trace the driver with the help of regional transport authority officials. A case has been registered at the Sector 37 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-killed-two-injured-in-accident/story-j7f68FxTD4omXEoXhrdZdP.html
09-06-2020||Gurugram||Restaurants closed even as state issues reopening guidelines||Many restaurants in the city decided not to resume their dine-in facilities on Monday, a day after the government allowed them to reopen and released guidelines restricting the number of guests to only 50% of the total capacity. The government has not allowed the reopening of bars in restaurants.Though takeaway services through aggregators have been operational—food chains are open for this purpose in Sector 29, Sohna Road, Golf Course Road and Cyber Hub—restaurants wore a deserted look on Monday. Inderjeet Banga, the owner of Prankster and Pirates of Grill, and chapter head of Gurugram National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said that reopening restaurants for dine-in services will not make any commercial sense with restrictions on serving liquor and timings. “It is not possible for the industry to resume business with just one day’s notice. We have to keep in mind the social distancing and new hygiene norms and make preparations accordingly,” he said.The restaurant owners said that it was too early to resume operations as most people are likely to only prefer eating at home given the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Satya Mohanty, a restaurant owner, said that they are keeping the restaurant closed to safeguard the health of employees and visitors. “With the increasing number of cases in the city, it is safe to not open the outlets until the situation is under control,” he said.There are about 300 pubs, bars and restaurants, and about 25 hotels wherein liquor is available as part of dine-in services in Gurugram. All these establishments have been shut since March 22, the Janata Curfew day, since the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a lockdown. The industry is seeking the government’s help to tide over their burgeoning losses.Pushpendra Yadav, director, Quaff microbrewery, said that the government should make it viable for them to reopen after the lockdown. “We expect revenue sharing-based rent, reduced excise fees, credit tax input and reduction in maintenance and electricity rates. All stakeholders need to walk hand-in-hand to come out of this unprecedented situation,” he said.Ishan Grover, a consultant brewer, said that in Haryana, microbreweries have received no relief from the government. “Our cost of operating is too high. Bengaluru, on the other hand, can manage because the state government has allowed the takeaway of beer in 2litre bottles from microbreweries,” he said.The excise officials said that unless the bars are reopened, they will play no role in monitoring the restaurants. “The bars are still closed and no one has permission to serve liquor in their outlets. If anyone is found violating the lockdown norms, strict action will be taken against them,” HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/restaurants-closed-even-as-state-issues-reopening-guidelines/story-sayWOLZVed2OrSxjq0wdLO.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Few beds left for Covid-19 patients in Delhi even as govt app shows 50% availability||Most hospitals in the city – both public and private – do not have beds left for patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), especially those with severe infection in need of oxygen or ventilator support.Yet, even as people with Covid-19 struggle to find free beds in hospitals, the Delhi government app shows that nearly half of the 8,821 beds available in the city are vacant. As per the app, 4,487 beds are occupied.Only two of the 15 private hospitals across Delhi that HT called said they had beds readily available. One of the hospitals – Saroj Superspeciality hospital in Rohini – informed that they had started admitting Covid-19 patients only from Monday. Saroj hist social media stardom Monday after a circular issued by the hospital saying the minimum bill for a patient, irrespective of duration of treatment, would be Rs 3 lakh, going up to Rs 8 lakh for an intensive care unit bed. The hospital said it was an old circular. When HT called the hospital reception and asked for Covid-19 charges, the hospital said an advance of R 1.5 lakh would be required.Batra hospital in Mehrauli said only one bed was available. However the app, last updated Sunday afternoon, showed there were 11 vacant beds.Two other hospitals, Holy Family in Okhla and Park hospital in Vishnu Garden said all their beds with ventilator or oxygen support were occupied. One of the hospitals had 14 beds and the other 22 beds, according to the ‘Delhi Corona’ app.And NKS hospital in Gulabi Bagh and Primus hospital in Chanakyapuri said they would call whenever a bed became available.Primus hospital called back within a couple of hours asking for the patient ID .Two hospitals Max hospital in Saket and Sir Ganga Ram hospital could not be reached and the rest said they were out of beds. At government hospitalsHT also got in touch with five big government hospitals to see whether they had beds available for Covid-19 patients. Only the two Delhi government-run hospitals – Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur – said that the patient could be brought immediately to the hospital emergency.The person manning the phone at Lok Nayak, however, said “Please bring your patient here only if they are critical. The hospital admits only severe cases and if the patient is fine, they will be asked to go back.”Lok Nayak hospital is the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in Delhi with 2,000 beds, which is followed by 1,500 beds in GTB hospital. Currently, there are 900 Covid-19 patients admitted to Lok Nayak hospital and 178 in GTB, which was designated as a Covid-19 hospital only on May 30.Government guidelines mandate that only those with severe disease -- an elevated respiratory rate of 30 or more (normal is 12 to 20 for an adult) or oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%) -- would be admitted. Safdarjung hospital advised that the situation of beds was very dynamic, only a few are available at any given time. “You have to come here with the patient and check whether it is available. The app does not always show it accurately,” said the person manning the phone at central-government-run Safdarjung hospital. The app showed three beds were available at the hospital.At All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the screening centre said, “Please do not bring your patient here. All the beds are full, it would be better if you try going to other hospitals. Do not go to Ram Manohar Lohia as their beds are also full. You should try Lok Nayak or GTB hospital.” According to the Delhi Corona app there were 145 beds available at AIIMS Delhi.At RML hospital, the operator said: “Please come with all the patient details and meet the medical superintendent. There are no beds available currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-beds-at-most-delhi-hospitals-yet-govt-app-shows-availability/story-mLSBIAfH54is3OTvCQIR9O.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi will revert to ICMR guidelines, asymptomatic contacts will be tested||With lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Monday reversing the Delhi government’s restrictions on testing for Covid-19, the tests for confirming the viral disease in the national capital will now be done on the parameters set by the country’s apex health research body – the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On June 2, the Delhi government had released its own testing strategy, deviating from the strategy laid down by ICMR.There were nine categories of people who need to be tested, according to the ICMR guidelines. These include asymptomatic direct contacts (those living in the same house or working in close proximity to a positive person) who are to be tested between Day 5 and Day 10 of coming in contact with the infected person.Delhi government had tightened this criterion to exclude asymptomatic direct contacts who weren’t aged or had no co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and/or cancer.Monday’s order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), of which L-G Baijal is the chairman, said, “In order to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is essential to conduct a thorough contact tracing of affected persons, and as such, the ICMR strategy for Covid-19 testing should be followed without any deviation.”“Any deviation from the ICMR guidelines can result in inadequate contact tracing of affected individuals and can result in further spread of Covid-19 in Delhi,” the order further said.A person at one the laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests said on condition of anonymity, “Asymptomatic direct contacts must be tested as they are very likely to have the infection. What if the husband tests positive, and the wife is asymptomatic? As per Delhi government rules, she cannot be tested and may pass on the infection to others, who may become severely ill. Even the WHO says testing is the way to defeat the infection.”Earlier, in an interview with HT, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria had said the testing threshold had to be lowered so that even if there is a slight suspicion that a person is infected, then (s)he should be able to get tested.The other categories set by ICMR for testing are – all symptomatic individuals with a history of international travel in the last 14 days; all symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases; all symptomatic healthcare/ frontline workers; all patients of severe acute respiratory infection; all symptomatic people within the hotspots or containment zones; all hospitalised patients who develop influenza-like illness; all symptomatic migrants within seven days of illness; and those in need of emergency procedure.Here, symptomatic means people with fever of more than 100°F, cough, and respiratory infection.“The testing strategies of ICMR so far have been based on the assumption that there was no community transmission. However, once there is community transmission, there is no point in contact tracing. Then, the strategy should change to testing all people clinically diagnosed to have Covid-19 to confirm the infection,” Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said.“Had the Delhi government removed the other restrictions -- symptomatic people have to be tested only if they have a travel history or only those residing in hotspots -- and tested all symptomatic patients, I would have called Delhi’s testing strategy more forward and similar to those in developed countries where there is community transmission of the infection. The country as a whole now needs to rethink the testing strategy,” Dr John said.NO COVID TESTS IN DELHI FOR SECOND DAYSeveral private laboratories did not collect Covid-19 samples for the second day on Monday. Of the 10 private laboratories that HT called on Monday, four didn’t answer, while five said they were not providing the service “temporarily”. One lab had a token system in place—patients had to come early morning to give their samples on a first-come-first-served basis.HT had reported on Sunday that most private laboratories in Delhi had either capped the number of people they test a day or were not collecting samples, making it difficult for patients to get tested for Covid-19.The labs that have temporarily stopped collecting samples include City X-Ray and Scan Clinic in Tilak Nagar, and Lifeline Laboratory in Green Park (which is at capacity and cannot test any more samples until it clears the backlog). Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute said it could collect samples only if the Conquest laboratory, the firm to which it had outsourced Covid-19 testing, was ready to test.The government banned eight labs from testing on June 5 for not following protocols, and, according to health minister Satyendar Jain, taking too long to report results. These include Dr Lal Pathlabs, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Prognosis laboratory, SRL reference laboratory, Fortis Hospital, Star Imaging Path laboratory, Pathkind labs and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The ICMR now recognises 23 private laboratories for Covid-19 testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-will-now-revert-to-icmr-guidelines-for-testing-even-asymptomatic-direct-contacts-will-be-tested/story-AObQKBiVbacVlS8Q472ulN.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||L-G’s order will pose a new challenge for people of Delhi, says Kejriwal||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which leads the ruling coalition at the Centre, of pressuring the L-G into overturning the Delhi government’s decision. He questioned if the BJP would take responsibility for the loss of lives of Delhi residents for non-availability of hospital beds.The BJP hit back, calling the Delhi government’s decision insensitive.Kejriwal said in a tweet on Monday: ““The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all.” The L-G office did not comment.On Sunday, the Delhi government had ordered that beds in hospitals under it and private hospitals – barring those that conduct specialised surgeries in the fields of organ transplant, oncology and neurology – should be reserved for people of Delhi, even as it opened the city’s borders with neighbouring states. Hospitals under the central government were open for all.As proof of residence, the government had prepared a list of documents, including passport, Aadhaar card, voters’ card, drivers’ licence, electricity, gas and water bills, bank passbook, post office current account, among few others with a valid Delhi address.But on Monday, the L-G overturned the Delhi government’s decision, saying the government’s order did not conform with the “right to health”, which is an “integral part of Right to Life” under Article 21 of the Constitution.In a press briefing held hours after the L-G’s order, Sisodia said: “The BJP in the central government should rather coordinate with states rather than creating obstructions and not indulge in politics over the coronavirus pandemic. Delhi government had drafted a well-planned strategy regarding hospital beds. But the BJP pressured the L-G into overturning the government’s order. What if all beds in Delhi get occupied within 2-3 days by patients from other states and that leads to the death of a Delhi resident who fails to avail a hospital bed, who will take the responsibility?”“States ruled by BJP have failed in Covid management. In states such as Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, scams over PPE are being reported. But still, they are hell-bent on politicising the issue. I demand that the central government rolls back the decision (referring to L-G’s order) and invest time and efforts in the management of the pandemic instead of politics. State governments followed the central lockdown. Now, when states take a call on healthcare infrastructure management, the central government should respect that and cooperate,” Sisodia said.In response to Sisodia’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “The government’s decision was insensitive. The L-G has done the right thing by overruling it. In this hour of crisis, AAP should refrain from indulging in politics and focus on improving facilities for people. Their decision to stop testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 positive patients was against ICMR and Centre’s guidelines. As for treatment, we shouldn’t deny treatment to anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-s-order-will-pose-a-new-challenge-for-people-of-delhi-says-kejriwal/story-SnPm2f7g88Q05vv6s0pp5O.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt suspects community spread, may change strategy to combat Covid-19||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Monday hinted at the drafting of a strategy for Covid-19 management in Delhi in the light of a possible community spread, even as city health minister Satyendar Jain estimated that the capital is likely to witness more than 56,000 fresh Covid-19 cases by the end of the next two weeks.In a video press briefing on Monday, Sisodia said the state disaster management authority’s (SDMA) meeting with health experts, chaired by lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, is scheduled for Tuesday. Sisodia will represent the government in the meeting as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal went into home isolation on Monday evening after experiencing mild fever and sore throat.“Tuesday’s meeting will help us (Delhi government) ascertain if Delhi has entered the community spread stage of Covid-19. Our entire strategy to deal with the pandemic may change with that,” Sisodia said.Later in the day, Jain said the current doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is 14 days. So the national capital, as per that estimation, is likely to see over 56,000 cases by the end of the next two weeks.Jain cited the government’s health bulletin issued on Sunday – when the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812.“The expert committee, which was set up by us earlier, has said the doubling rate is 14-15 days and currently the city has recorded 28,936 cases in total. So by the end of the next two weeks, it is estimated to rise to 56,000,” the minister told reporters.The Delhi government has so far appointed two five-member expert committees for guiding government policy on Covid-19 management. While the first committee, headed by Dr S K Sarin, helps the government in multiple aspects, the second one, headed by Dr Mahesh Verma, is guiding the government specifically in its healthcare augmentation plan after the city recorded 1,000 fresh cases a day for the first time on May 28. The Delhi government has issued an order to constitute a district core team for containing the spread of Covid-19 in the four districts—North West, Central, West and North—where a surge in the number of cases is being reported.In the past one week, Delhi has recorded more than 1,200 fresh cases a day on average, health department records showed.Asked about the Delhi government’s decision on Sunday to reserve beds only for residents of the city, Jain said, “Delhi and Mumbai are big metro cities which are facing the brunt of the virus. A lot of outsiders come to these cities, and had flights been grounded earlier, the infection would not have spread so much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1,000 cases are being reported every day in Delhi, city residents would need more space in hospitals.”The government’s decision, however, was overturned by the L-G on Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-suspects-community-spread-may-change-strategy-to-combat-pandemic/story-ihYiGYQ6uVVl0189gr7ldJ.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Malls, restaurants back in business after 3 months, but most patrons keep away||Delhi’s popular malls and favourite eateries Monday opened its doors for business -- after remaining shut for nearly three months owing to the nationwide lockdown on account of Covid-19 -- albeit with a thin customer turnout.Some of the restaurants, which before the lockdown had a long wait list with patrons cooling their heels outside their doors for a table, on Monday were largely empty with only a few customers walking in. Most establishments were geared up to the challenge of functioning amid the pandemic but with precautions. Floor-markings to ensure social distancing graced most restaurants, while staff members were fully decked in masks, gloves, face shields and protective covering.Sarvana Bhavan, a much favoured chain specialising in south Indian food with two outlets in central Delhi’s Connaught Place, started its services Monday, with all its staff members wearing masks and gloves. Even though the management has planned to allow seating on alternate tables, the low number of customers ensured ample space among the few customers.“Usually by noon, we would have at least 25-30 people waiting outside for a table. For the first time since we opened in Delhi,we had an almost empty restaurant at lunchtime. These are peculiar times and, maybe, business will pick up in a few days,” Saravana Bhavan’s Janpath outlet manager said, without giving his name.Another popular eatery in south Delhi’s Defence Colony, the 30-year-old Swagath Restaurant, also threw open its doors to diners. Anil Verma, the restaurant’s operations head, said business was resumed taking all precautionary measures such as frequent sanitisation of dining area and rearrangement of the seating plan.“We are following all norms laid out by the government. The cutlery and aprons are thoroughly sanitised and we are ensuring a 1.5-metre distance between tables,” Verma said.In malls too, visitors had to go through an elaborate sanitisation and screening exercise before entry. In south Delhi’s Select Citywalk mall, apart from screening visitors for temperature, automated hand sanitising machines have been installed at all corners for use by shoppers. Foot pedals have been installed for dispensing the sanitising liquid, so that contact with the bottle is nil.Many high-end brands selling clothing, apparel, watches and perfumes, which were operating in smaller spaces, have made arrangements of dedicated entry and exit routes, and rules of not touching the items on sale. “All shops are open but we did not get many shoppers today (Monday),” said a mall official.Fifty-three-year-old Tarun Sakhiya, a resident of Saket, was seen walking around the Select Citywalk mall with his wife, both wearing face shields and masks. He said the mall was their favourite haunt before the Covid-19 pandemic struck and they were excited to see it open on Monday after a long gap.“There is definitely uncertainty and fear among everyone now, but we need to accept that this is how life will be with this new virus. Our children don’t stay with us and we have been cooped up inside our house for so long that we needed this outing,” Sakhiya said.In Vasant Kunj’s Ambiance Mall, the footfall picked up towards evening, with a few families and couples seen walking around.“We are taking all precautions and for how long can one stay home. Offices and public transport have started then what is the point keeping malls closed?” Anumegha Roy, a 26-year-old resident of Vasant Kunj Block B, said.Some shopping malls remained closed on Monday to make the arrangements mandated by the government. DLF Shopping Malls said they will reopen their gates in a phased manner through the week. “We will take this week to open up our malls across Delhi and NCR, in a phased manner. All arrangements will be made to ensure the safety of shoppers,” a statement by the DLF read. Some restaurants also stayed closed as their proprietors were uncertain of the effect of opening their doors to public, especially when the Covid-19 cases were at an all-time high. Several iconic eateries such as Old Delhi’s Karim’s and Moti Mahal, Connaught Place’s Embassy Restaurant and the United Coffee House, and Khan Market’s Big Chill, chose to remain closed for the time being.“There are so many things that are beyond our control now. We can sanitise our staff and clean our premises but the carelessness of one person can shut the business off again. We are trying to work out a plan and we will take a few days before resuming operations,” Sunil Malhotra of Embassy Restaurant said.Popular restaurants in hotspot Nizamuddin West, such as Ghalib Kebab Corner and Al Quresh Restaurant continued to provide only takeaway and home delivery services.The members of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) said more businesses are likely to open in the coming days.“Restaurants are working out the nitty-gritty of reopening. There is no use in hurrying with this,” Anurag Katriar, president, NRAI, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/malls-restaurants-back-in-business-after-3-months-but-most-patrons-keep-away/story-OxzvNyoQCdKh0UNY8fAYwN.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s worshippers follow social distancing norms to keep Covid-19 away||Places of worship opened in the national capital on Monday with a new set of new rules, measures and markers to ensure strict adherence to social distancing as the city has reported around 1,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since May 28. At various places, devotees were being allowed in only after thermal screening. Separate entry and exit paths were made, markers were painted on the floor to guide people so that social distancing is observed. Even though people kept pouring in at several temples and gurdwaras across the city, no place of worship reported a massive gathering despite opening after a hiatus of nearly two and a half months.Neha Gupta, 28, who lives in East Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, visited the Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place on Monday. “Every year on my birthday, I would start my day by offering prayers at the Marghat Mandir at Kashmere Gate. But since it was not open today, we came to the Hanuman Mandir. It was the best gift that I could receive on this day,” said Gupta, who had come along with her husband.The temple, which otherwise sees long queues on select days of the week, had a few people coming in. The devotees had to cross through a sanitising tunnel to climb up the stairs to reach the main hall. The temple bells were covered with a cloth, the steel barriers before the deities where devotees would usually bow down. were also out of bound for the people.Actor-turned politician and former Delhi-BJP chief Manoj Tiwari also visited the temple on Monday. A video of a man dressed as lord Hanuman dancing outside the temple was also widely shared on the social media. Suresh Sharma, the temple mahant (main priest), said, “We had requested Ram Chandra, a devotee, who dresses up as the deity on every Hanuman Jayanti and does ‘seva’ at the temple to come down today, as the temple had opened after over two months. We have taken all precautions to maintain contactless praying. Not more than four people were allowed in at a time. We are expecting more people on Tuesday, an important day for the devotees of lord Hanuman.” At the nearby Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, placards hung across railings with messages urging people to maintain distance and use had sanitiser. The entry to the gurdwara was through a sanitising tunnel. Outside the main hall, the sevadars poured sanitiser on the hands of the devotees. The langar (community feast) services within the premises have been suspended for a while.Anuj Khanna, 33, used his lunch break to come down from his workplace nearby to visit the gurdwara. “I used to come here every Sunday. When I saw the news that places of worship are opening up, I couldn’t wait to come out to pray for my father, who has not been keeping well,” said Khanna.Gurpreet Singh Bicky, in-charge of the arrangements at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, said, “We have deployed 60-70 sevadars all around the gurdwara to manage the devotees coming in and ensure that there is no violation of norms. Not many people came in today but we are prepared to deal with even larger numbers” Some of the institutions such as the Sacred Heart Cathedral in central Delhi and Akshardham Temple, among others, though remained shut.Shashi Toppo, 24, had come all the way in a bus from Najafgarh to pray at the Valenkanni Church at Khan Market. “I used to come to the church every Saturday. I didn’t want to wait till the end of the week and thought to offer prayers for my family,” she said. At the church, the candle lighting stand outside did not have any devotees, wooden benches were placed to maintain distance from the altar while the holy water was not being given.At Old Delhi’s Jama Masjid, prayers for only three times --- zuhr, asr and maghrib --- were opened for the public. People were not being allowed for the remaining two -- fajr and ishaa -- in view of the night curfew timings. While fajr is offered early in the morning (around 4.30am), ishaa is performed in the night (around 9pm). A team of police guarded the main entrance to the mosque. “The gates are opened only around the time of the namaz to avoid crowding. People are requested to come after doing wuzu (ablution) at home so that time could be saved. Upon entry, hand sanitiser is being administered. Devotees will now have to on alternate blocks on the floor. Around 150-200 people offered namaz on the first day,” said a person associated with the Shahi Imam’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/places-of-worship-with-rules-to-keep-covid-away/story-oYYx4MUeYNfbDPrbftnx0O.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||East Delhi municipality adds two more crematoriums for Covid-19 victims||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday dedicated two more of its crematoriums for bodies of victims of Covid-19 confirmed and suspected cases .Municipal officials said that the two new additional crematoriums assigned for Covid-19 cremations are the ones located in Seemapuri and Ghazipur. The move comes after North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday asked the east Delhi municipality to identify additional crematoriums for Covid-19 related bodies in its jurisdiction in order to reduce the load on Nigambodh Ghat.According to civic body officials, as many as 748 cremations of Covid-19 positive and suspected victims were conducted at Nigambodh Ghat between March 14 and June 7. Out of 748 funerals, 556 were done through CNG furnaces while 192 cremations were done on wood pyres .The request to east Delhi was made after north corporation standing committee chairman Jai Prakash, along with the civic body’s health department officials, conducted an inspection of Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, near Kashmere Gate, on Monday. The inspection was conducted after complaints of irregularities and delays in the cremation of Covid-19 bodies. Nigam Bodh Ghat crematorium is among the largest facilities designated for the funeral of bodies of victims that test positive for the virus in the city.Prakash said that due to the infection spreading rapidly, there was a lot of pressure on Nigambodh Ghat. “We have urged the east and south Delhi municipal corporations to ensure arrangements of additional cremation grounds in their jurisdiction. The east municipality has designated Gazipur and Seemapuri crematoriums for the purpose. This will reduce some pressure on Nigambodh Ghat,” Prakash said.North Corporation is the nodal agency looking after the cremation of bodies of Covid-19 positive and suspected cases.Till now, only Karkardooma cremation ground was designated for funeral of Covid-19 related bodies. But now with the addition of Ghazipur and Seemapuri, there will be at least three cremation grounds available in east Delhi.Civic officials said that with the inclusion of the two cremation grounds, the total number of Covid-19 dedicated crematoriums, burial ground and cemeteries in the city will stand at 13.Out of these, only Nigambodh Ghat and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums are equipped with CNG-based funeral facility. “Only wood pyre based funerals will be conducted at newly added Ghazipur and Seemapuri crematoriums,” a senior civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/east-delhi-municipality-adds-two-more-crematoriums-for-covid-19-victims/story-K3N4GhDI0riWEllxgUCf7O.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Jamia committee, ‘mob led by women’ among accused in cop’s murder case||The Delhi Police on Monday filed four chargesheets in cases related to the communal riots which took place in northeast Delhi in February this year, including for the murder of their head constable Rattan Lal. These are the first chargesheets to be filed in the four respective cases.In the chargesheet in the Rattan Lal murder case, the police have said: “the north-east riots were not impromptu but were conspired with an intent to create communal strife, to malign the image of the country under the garb of democratically opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)”.“Investigation has revealed that the protest site (where Lal was killed) was managed by the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC),” the police said in the above chargesheet.The JCC, meanwhile, denied all charges, saying the allegations are baseless. “These are concocted stories and baseless allegations levied by the police. The JCC was only looking after the Jamia protest site. Locals were running protests elsewhere in the capital and JCC had no involvement in it,” said a JCC member, requesting anonymity.The other three charge sheets were filed in two murder cases – of Shahid, 25, who was found dead on February 24 and Maruf Ali on February 25 – and one chargesheet was filed in Ajay Goswami’s attempt-to-murder case.With these four new ones, a total of 85 charge sheets were filed til Monday in a total of 752 cases pertaining to the communal riots.Head constable Rattan Lal’s murder caseAccording to the police, on February 24 a mob “led by women” allegedly attacked the police team, which was being led by deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Kumar Sharma at Wazirpur Road in Chand Bagh, where a sit-in protest was being held since mid-January. The DCP was severely injured and had been recovering in a city hospital; He was discharged around April and joined duty only last month. The police stated in the chargesheet that on February 23, the protesters had attempted to take out “an illegal march” to Rajghat but were stopped by the police. Subsequently, they sat on the main Wazirabad Road and disrupted traffic for hours. “On the same night, a secret meeting was held and the people were directed to prepare and arm themselves for the next day,” the police have said in the chargesheet.Police said in the chargesheet that on February 24, DCP Sharma found one Salim Munna at Wazirabad Road, Chand Bagh making an inflammatory speech and tried to dissuade him. Suddenly, a mob led by women fiercely attacked the police party, it said. “The mob indulged in rioting, causing massive loss to public and private property, and attacking the police party. Head constable was shot dead while many police personnel....were critically injured,” the police have said in the chargesheet. During the same time, an investigator, asking not to be named, told HT that the rioters barged into the nearby Saptrishi building and resorted to “indiscriminate firing and stone pelting.”“Later, the body of one of the rioters Shahid, 25, was found with a gunshot injury on the rooftop of the building. The bullet had pierced his body in a downward direction, suggesting that he was shot by someone who was firing from the rooftop itself,” said the investigator, asking not to be named. According to senior officials of the crime branch privy to the prove, 17 people were arrested and have been charged in the head constable’s murder case, while six have been arrested and charged in Shahid’s murder case. Officials said they more people may be arrested and named in the supplementary chargesheet, depending on the further probeAccording to the chargesheet in the Rattan Lal case, “the sit-in protest was used as a springboard to propel riots.” The ensuing riots snowballed into fierce rioting in various pockets of the north-east district. Initially, one community remained aggressive on February 24, which was followed by violent reaction from the other community the next day, the statement said.The chargesheet in Rattan Lal murder case, running into 925 pages, mentioning 164 witnesses, was submitted before a duty magistrate in a Delhi court, which fixed June 22 as the next date of hearing in all the four cases.Ajay Goswami attempt-to-murder case: On February 25, a bullet hit Goswami on his back outside Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain’s house, from the terrace of which many people were allegedly firing indiscriminately. Goswami named two people – Gulfam and Tanvir – as the prime suspects and they, along with six others, including Tahir Hussain and his brother Shah Alam, were arrested in the case.Police said in the charge sheet that in January, Hussain asked Gulfam to prepare for a “big riot” and also gave him Rs 15,000 to “purchase fresh ammunition” for his licensed weapon. Before his arrest, Hussain had denied the police’s allegations and said that he was a victim and not a suspect. He had said this was a political conspiracy. On January 31, Gulfam purchased 100 rounds and he already had about 100 rounds stored with him, the police statement added. “Gulfam fired most of the 200 rounds on February 25 at the other party. When he finished, only seven bullets had remained with him,” another officer associated with the probe, asking not to be named said, quoting the chargesheet.Hussain has already been charged in two other riots-cases, including the murder of Intelligence Bureau official Ankit Sharma.Police said they have also charged six persons for the murder of Maruf Ali on February 25. Ali was standing with his neighbour Shamshad in Subhash Mohalla, north Ghonda, when a mob raising slogans in support of CAA resorted to firing and stone pelting. Ali was shot dead while Shamshad suffered a gunshot wound in the abdomen.At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured during the violence which rocked parts of northeast Delhi in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-jamia-committee-mob-led-by-women-among-accused-in-cop-s-murder-case/story-ISNjVwwG4p8Tn7Fjb2QHtN.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt backs power discoms’ demand for loan from the Centre||The Delhi government has written to the Union ministry of home affairs to grant loans worth Rs 6,350 crore to the three private distribution companies under the Centre’s special loan scheme for discoms. While the demand to get a share from the Centre’s Rs 90,000 crore package as loans was raised by the discoms, the Delhi government backed their request, stating that the liquidation money would help the government recover outstanding dues of Rs 15,595.27 crores - which the power distribution companies owe to the Delhi government’s generation firms. But to avail the Centre scheme, a state guarantee is required for the loan to be granted, which is not possible in Delhi’s case because it is a Union Territory. As per government documents, discom BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd (BRPL) has sought a loan of Rs 3,050 crore, BSES Yamuna Power Ltd (BYPL) of Rs 2,300 crore and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd of Rs 1000 crore. “Since Delhi can’t be a guarantor, we have requested the Centre to give the state guarantee on behalf of the Delhi government. The loan is strictly to pay off the dues of power generating and transmission companies. So, it will help clear the dues which discoms owe to the two power generating units IPGCL and PPCL, and the Delhi Transmission Limited, the transmission company - all owned by the Delhi government,” said a senior government official. In her letter to the MHA, Delhi’s power secretary Padmini Singhla wrote: “Due to power purchase costs and a significant drop in collection efficiencies from consumers following the Covid-19 outbreak, the sector will require liquidity infusion for sustenance. Delhi discoms have requested a loan from PFC under the proposed liquidity injection package of Rs 90,000 crores for meeting the liquidity crunch due to the impact of Covid-19.”Singhla’s letter also stated that the power distribution companies of Delhi “are one of the best performing companies” in the power sector with their aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses below 12%. Delhi had successfully met an all time peak demand of 7409 MW in July, 2019, it stated. Till lockdown 3.0 that lasted for two months, industries, shops and other commercial activities were shut, which meant low electricity consumption and lower revenue for the discoms. These activities were allowed to open only in the fourth phase of the lockdown which started from May 18. On April 26, HT had reported that the first month of the lockdown had not only decreased Delhi’s daily average power demand by 35% over the previous year, but it also turned out to be a period with the lowest average electricity consumption in the Capital over the last 11 years at least. Delhi was among the first cities to impose a lockdown which came into effect from March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-backs-power-discoms-demand-for-loan-from-the-centre/story-mv4BlZbZZKEZPWc5cqKFpN.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Lockdown’s supply kings in Pune now viewed as high-risk vendors; PMC says will act soon||Housing societies in Pune are increasingly worried that vegetable vendors who set up small kiosks outside the society gates to ensure supply during the lockdown, are now a possible Covid-19 risk.During the lockdown, small vegetable vendors set up stalls in front of large housing societies in non- containment areas.These vendors have now become regulars, with society residents complaining of no social distancing or preventive measures being maintained.Local residents HT spoke to in Kothrud, Bavdhan, Sahakarnagar and Katraj, all had the same complaints. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) says action will be taken “soon”.“We are identifying societies facing these problems and soon action will be taken against all the vendors who are selling vegetables outside these societies,” said Madhav Jagtap, anti- encroachment department head, PMC“Since the last two-and-a-half months, we have allowed these people to do business. However, now, social distancing is not followed and we don’t know from which zones these people are coming. I want PMC to take quick action,” said Dilip Shinde, a resident of Pune-Satara road.“Our society will be giving them one more week as we don’t want them to suffer in lockdown financially, but from next week, we have planned to stop them completely. They can do their business somewhere else,” said Deepti Mirdhe, a resident of Shivshakti Society near Chavannagar Arch near Padmavati, who asked not to be named.“We have stopped trucks coming into our society. Trucks used to come on alternate days, like fruits one day, vegetables the next; but now, we visit shops outside our society,” said Abhishek Shah, a resident of Rohan Leher society, in Baner.Vendor speak“Selling vegetables near housing societies helps as we know how much quantity is to be carried from our homes. It avoids unnecessary wastage. I hope societies allow us to continue. Once the situation is normal, we will return to the wholesale markets,” said Santosh Patil, who sells vegetables at Shivshakti Society, near Chavannagar Arch, Padmavati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-s-supply-kings-now-viewed-as-high-risk-vendors-pmc-says-will-act-soon/story-6lUWE6i79HY9idPCHLrrSK.html
09-06-2020||Pune||70 Covid-19 positive cases in Bopodi taint Aundh-Baner’s green zone status||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday sealed survey numbers 24, 25, 26 in Bopodi where at least 70 residents have tested positive for Covid-19.These Bopodi areas fall under the Aundh-Baner ward office, earlier a green zone.Regional ward officer Jaydeep Pawar confirmed that 70 people were found to be Covid-19 positive in the area, after which the decision was taken to seal the affected areas, all with a high population density. “We even shut the vegetable and fish markets in these areas. The Covid-19 positive cases are not in housing societies,” he said. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The PMC and state government has adopted the micro-containment zone policy where areas which have positive cases will be shut and the areas where Covid-19 cases have not emerged will remain open.”Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Parshuram Wadekar said appeals have been made to citizens to take necessary precautions despite the city exiting its lockdown.“Covid-19 has finally entered our locality. We are appealing to senior citizens and high-risk patients to do a check-up, but people are not coming forward. We also requested the municipal administration to close all the internal roads,” Wadekar said. NCP leader Shrikant Patil said, “As Covid-19 patients emerged in the locality, people panicked; but all the 70 cases are not in one area and are scattered in various localities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-covid-19-positive-cases-in-bopodi-taint-aundh-baner-s-green-zone-status/story-03kVEAmioFn08YIWEpDb7J.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Private offices in Pune play it safe as 10% staff resumes work||Many private offices began buzzing with activity on Monday with the Maharashtra government allowing offices to function with 10 per cent staff under the second phase of the Covid-19 unlock strategy.There was a heavy rush of vehicles on the roads during the morning hours with cars and two wheelers headed to various private offices.In Vimannagar and Kharadi, snack centres and kiosks were seen getting back to business as people resumed work. However, the PMC patrol teams asked them to shut shop due to the increasing rush. Employees who attended office from 9am to 5.30 pm expressed that severe restrictions were in place unlike the open atmosphere in the past.Ashish Shahpure who works at an IT company in Yerawada said, “We had to undergo thermal screening before entering the building. Despite the virus being at large, employees reported to work as they fear they might lose their jobs. We believe that the working conditions will be relaxed in the days to come.” Shahpure returned to his residence in Baner at 6.30 pm.Makarand Patil, an administrative officer who works at a private broadband company at NIBM road said, “I came to attend the office after two-and-a-half months and things have changed completely. My office has kept strict anti Covid measures in place. Precautionary steps will help us tide over this crisis,” he said.MCCIA director general Prashant Girbane said he was happy that finally the economic activities were ramping up. He said every organisation must invest in an IEC (Information, Education and Communication) campaign to keep the employees aware and awakened to the risks from Covid-19.Milind Patange, vice-president, sales, VTP Realty, said while their construction activities and sales site offices were closed during the lockdown, with the relaxation, the sales site offices have started operations with minimum strength. “We are following all the government norms like mandatory use of masks, temperature checks of each and every employee, visitors and labourers at the main gate, he said.”Niharika Singh, a resident of Vishrantwadi, who works in a transport logistics firm in Lohegaon said, “I worked from 10 am to 5.30 pm. Working was very different than what it was previously. Many restrictions were in place and we were not allowed to mingle closely. Our office has also asked us to mandatorily download Arogya Setu app.”Nitin Kulkarni, chief operating officer at Harbinger Group said employees had slowly started resuming office. “While doing so, both companies and employees need to take care of a few things. Companies need to ensure that they have created the right infrastructure and processes to ensure physical distancing and hygiene. Employees must follow the rules laid down by the company in terms of physical distancing and personal hygiene. In the coming months, companies need to open up their offices in a gradual fashion and encourage remote working for as long as possible, ” he said.Private offices have been advised by the government to ensure that employees use the sanitisers on entering the office, conduct meetings with clients or vendors strictly on appointment basis; hold internal meetings while keeping the social distancing norms with just three-four members in the meeting room; have lunch on individual tables and not in a group. Handwash in the bathrooms, cleaning of washrooms and seating areas at regular intervals and sanitizers on every table have also been advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-offices-play-it-safe-as-10-staff-resume-work/story-CpkMvGK4TAjfeaeGmFtwkK.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Two masked men break into nine shops in Pune, Rs 54,000 stolen||Pune: Nine shops in Baner, Pune were broken into and cash worth Rs 54,000 was stolen by two masked men in the intervening night of June 6 and 7, 2020. The two men arrived at the shopping complex on a two-wheeler motorbike and were dressed in raincoat, cap, gloves, while their faces were covered. The duo forced themselves into nine shops of a single complex by opening the shutter locks, and upon entry opening the cash counters. “It is a complex of shops. There is CCTV coverage in the area. We have formed a team that is investigating the case,” said senior police inspector Anil Shewale of Chaturshringi police station.The nine shops that were broken into include Ramesh mini market, Go colours, Sunshinde Hosiery, Allen Solly, Shoe express, Poonam collection, Asian paints, Baskin Robbins, and Gokul sweets.Cash worth Rs 27,000 was stolen from Ramesh mini market. A case under Sections 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station against the two. Police sub-inspector M Jadhav of Chaturshringi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-masked-men-break-into-nine-baner-shops-rs-54-000-stolen/story-Y7ZniSDIPLDXFsjoownydM.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Central team lauds Pune’s fight against coronavirus spread||PUNE Central government team headed by Kunal Kumar, joint secretary of housing and urban affairs, Government of India, visited the Pune city on Monday and took the review of Covid-19 situation.The team which is on a two-day tour included two other members-Dr Arvind Kushwaha, and Dr Sitikanta Banerjee, both additional professors at AIIMS.The team visited the Naidu hospital and took review of hospital arrangements and medical facilities. They also visited Sassoon hospital and held a meeting with doctors and dean.Kumar who is heading the team served as the municipal commissioner in Pune for three and half years. He said, “All agencies are coordinating well in Pune, but it is important to bring down the death ratio in the city. The administration should impose strict lockdown in containment zones.”Later during the day the team took a review of the Dhole Patil ward, which is one of the containment zones in the city. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officers the central team visited the mobile ambulance and mass screening covid testing bus.In the afternoon the central team visited the director of health services and discussed the health situation in the city.In the evening the central team visited the Council Hall where it met all the top officials including divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar and all the IAS officers in the city.On Tuesday the team will visit the Smart city control room and hold a video conference with various district collectors in western Maharashtra. Team will submit its report to the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-visits-naidu-sasson-hospitals/story-iK0YHhhc8vNQ38pv1mQy6O.html
09-06-2020||Pune||As migrants leave, construction community to train, engage local youth from nearby areas in Pune||Now that the lockdown is opening up and to ensure building and construction work resumes the builder community is making all efforts to engage labourers and jobless youths from nearby areas in and around Pune.The exodus of the migrant workers began when the Shramik trains began their service. “More than 80 per cent of the construction workers left for their villages,” said Bharat Agarwal, committee member, National Real Estate Developments Council, (Naredco), Pune. “Up until then we did our best to keep them on our sites, providing them with food and daily necessities,” he added.“Though work hasn’t started in full force since we have to have all our raw materials ready and some suppliers are in areas where transportation is presently not possible, we are keen that we have our workforce ready,” said Agarwal.“When we witnessed this large exodus we realised that it is important to have our workers from nearby areas in Pune. To do that we have launched a training programme where we aim to train our rural youth in different skills like masonry, plumbing, electrician, among others,” said Agarwal.“In any case, we have been doing that over the years all over India. But now our focus is going to be on the men and women from in and around Pune,” he said. To recruit jobless youth from the villages around Pune Naredco has tied up with Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh that has a large network in a majority of the talukas in Maharashtra.Chandrakant (Anna) Dhumal, president, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Maharashtra, said, “We have always focused on the well being of our contractor workers and we have our presence in more than 70 per cent of all the talukas in Maharashtra as well as India. We have set up help desks in every taluka that aims to help them with legal and other issues that the members may have.”“When Naredco informed us of their intention we have now sent out a circular to all the help desks with their offer,” he said.“We think it’s a great idea since in my estimate every taluka has at least 5,000 to 10,000 youths who are jobless. We will put out this offer where they can get training in various constructions fields like electricians, plumbers, tiling, POP work among others and then get employed,” said Dhumal.“Our aim will be to find people who live close to the sites so that they can visit their homes easily during times of family crisis or in the two to three months of farming. But in case that is not possible then they can stay on-site,” he said.Despite the construction industry employing on contract workers that the Sangh is not in favour of, Dhumal feels that “They will at least learn a skill. And with that skill, they can find employment easily on other projects or even become entrepreneurs if they so choose. It is a good thing for our young men and women.”For Naredco this is a long term plan. Says Agarwal, “The training modules are from one month to three, but we are in no hurry as such. If we can get at least 40 per cent of our workers from near Pune we are happy. At least you don’t get stranded like we are now.”Credai to get back workers from hometownsAs construction activity chugs back to normal Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai), Pune plans to get back their workers from their hometowns, even as the efforts to train local youth will begin. JP Shroff who heads Kushal (the wing that skills construction workers and is part of Skill India), said, “We have put out advertisements in the local papers soliciting young men and women from Pune to come train with us.”While that may take some time the builders will need immediate hands on the deck. “To do that we have initiated talks with our other chapters across the country like Credai Patna, Credai Bhubhaneshwar among others to see how they can help us bring back our workers. We are collaborating with them to see how many are willing to come back and what we need to do to help them return and give them a job guarantee,” said Shroff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-migrants-leave-construction-community-to-train-engage-local-youth-from-nearby-areas-in-pune/story-iQ3E5fR3rHsByl85BjprSJ.html
09-06-2020||Pune||No home isolation of Covid-positive patients in Pune, says PMC chief||Contrary to directives from the state and central governments, Pune will not allow Covid-19 positive patients to quarantine at home.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief Shekhar Gaikwad, on Monday, said the civic body has enough facilities to house Covid-19 patients and therefore, positive patients will be admitted to these centres only.“The PMC has a bed capacity of 10,000 in the city. Though the total number of Covid-19 positive patients has reached 8000, the actual number of active patients taking treatment is 2,484. Even the medical and paramedical staff is enough. Considering this, PMC expects Covid-19 positive patients to take treatment at these centres,” Gaikwad said.A health department officer, speaking anonymously, said, “Of the Covid-19 positive patients, 90 per cent are from slum areas. It would not be possible to allow home isolation in slums. As far as Pune is concerned, there are enough beds and institutional isolation is better.”The central and state government guidelines state, individuals who test positive for Covid-19, but with mild or no symptoms can be isolated at home if appropriate facilities are available.As per these guidelines Covid-19 patients are to be admitted to hospitals in a three-tier treatment system, according to the symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-home-isolation-of-covid-positive-patients-in-pune-says-pmc-chief/story-8Xyr3GZYgRBrf6HZf200KP.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Decline in active Covid-19 cases in Pune is heartening||At the end of last week, the total number of Covid-19 progressive positive cases in Pune stood at 7,722 and the number of deaths due to the disease at 372.From a series of five lockdowns which stretched for a little over two months, we are now in the midst of a phased unlocking. In the non-containment areas, people have stepped out for their morning and evening walks; all kinds of shops have opened up and there is a determined revival of economic activity. From this week onwards, people from Pune are likely to be allowed into the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal areas where many people go to work in the industrial areas.All of this is bound to increase the number of positive cases and that is what the headlines are going to reflect, day in and day out. At the same time, there is some heartening news too.Also Watch | Maharashtra’s covid cases go past China’s total tally, over 7 million cases worldwide For a good 12 days, from May 25 to June 5, the number of active cases has hovered in the 2,100-2,400 range. Active cases refer to patients who have not recovered from the disease and are undergoing treatment.In fact, from a high of almost 80% active cases against overall positive cases as of April 28, the number of active cases has dropped to less than one-third as of June 5.Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) data indicates that on April 28, there were 1,057 active cases (79%) among a total of 1339 positive cases. As of June 5, the number of active cases was 2,402 (32%) in a total of 7,447 positive cases. Pune measures very well on this parameter as compared to the state and national figures. As against Pune’s 32.25% active cases, Maharashtra stands at 52.63% and the national average is 51.36% as of June 5. Although the number of positive cases is rising, the doubling of positive cases is now 15 days as against 11 days one month ago and about one week during April 16-24.The mortality rate as of May 8 had dropped from a high of 9 per cent to 5.8 and stood at 4.96 per cent as of June 5. This was a positive sign for Pune given that the fatality rate in Mumbai and Ahmedabad was much higher said data analyst Sahil Deo. As of June 6, the fatality rate in Gujarat stood at 6.2% and West Bengal, 5.2%.The other positive trend is the sharp decline in positive cases in Bhavani Peth ward which has slipped to the third position with 865 positive cases as of June 5, after being the worst-affected ward ever since the pandemic hit Pune. As of June 5, Dhole-Patil Road ward is now the worst-affected with 1,560 positive cases, followed by Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori with 935 cases and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada with 646 cases. In terms of active cases, Bhavani Peth’s performance has been still better, having gone far below to the 10th position with just 121 active cases as of June 5.These are heartening developments for Pune even as the situation demands greater focus on the worrisome hotspots. As Mission Begin Again gathers speed with further relaxation in the Covid-19 (coronavirus) restrictions on public movement, we will need to be extra vigilant in guarding ourselves against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-decline-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-pune-is-heartening/story-8LwrTBXVunLH2lRIixRkuN.html
09-06-2020||Pune||Collector prohibits tourists from visiting Khadakwasla, Bhushi dam and other monsoon destinations||This year Punekars will not be able to enjoy rains at their favourite destinations, as Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram has ordered to ban entry to all tourist places frequented by people during monsoon season, in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic.The district collector issued the order, on Sunday, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.As per the order, the entry of people has been restricted to Bhushi dam and Lonavla area in Maval taluka, Mulshi dam and Tamhini ghat in Mulshi taluka, Khadakwasla dam in Haveli taluka, Malshej ghat in Junnar taluka, Bhatghar dam, fort area in Bhor taluka, Panshet dam and other areas in Velhe taluka, Bhimashankar in Ambegaon taluka and other tourist places.These places attract large number of tourists on the weekend in monsoon season. To control crowd, Lonavla police also have to deal with hard times in handling the public. In the past, there have been many cases were people have lost their lives due sudden rise in water level.“If people are found violating the order, an offence under Section 188 will be registered against them,” said Ram.After issuing the order, Ram also tweeted clarifying that one is allowed visit Maval and Mulshi but movement to the dam is restricted. “We have prohibited only visiting dams in Maval and Mulshi Talukas. There are no restrictions in going to these talukas including Lonawala and other places for necessary works as per the guidelines,” tweeted Ram.Sanjay Jadhav who enjoys an outing at Mulshi dam every monsoon, said “Keeping in mind Covid threat, it is good that government has issued an order. Pune people frequent these places in monsoon and now ban will restrict them.”Another regular trekker, Kiran Shinde supported the collector order. “People generally trek or visit dams in groups and there is no social distance at all between group members. I will miss the fun but in current situation we should not take any risk, he said.”This decision will hit hard to vendors who put on stalls of tea, wadapav at the dams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-no-visiting-dam-catchment-areas-pune-authorities-tell-people/story-71KkEnCmusk4Y5PNUCCsRN.html
09-06-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out in computer lab at Delhi college, none injured||A fire broke out in the computer lab of Delhi University’s Ram Lal Anand College on Monday, a Delhi Fire Services (DFS) official said.The pictures showed huge red fireballs leaping from the window frames and a thick black smoke spiralling out.The fire services received a call about the blaze at 11.40 am and four fire tenders were rushed to the college located in the South Campus. The fire was brought under control by 12.25 pm, said officials.No one was injured in the incident, the official said. Rakesh Gupta, principal of the college, said the fire gutted the statistics computer lab.“There were about 38-40 computers in the lab that were gutted in the fire. It was today that the lab was opened by a staffer for cleaning purpose. The fire was triggered due to short circuit in the air-conditioner,” he was quoted as saying by Press Trust of India.According to the Centre’s Unlock 1 guidelines, a decision on the opening of schools, colleges, educational, coaching and training institutions will be taken in the month of July after consultations with state and Union territories. State Government or UT administrations have been advised to hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-incident-reported-at-delhi-college-firefighters-at-the-spot/story-kQTMGmfTT8U9Zwe1EjF4TK.html
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Khanna doctor couple’s six contacts test positive||As many as 18 persons, including six contacts of the Khanna-based doctor couple who tested positive last week, were found infected with Covid-19 on Monday, taking Ludhiana’s tally to 298. Their contacts include, a 54-year-old male doctor and a 54-year-old female doctor. Their maids, both aged 19, have also tested positive for the virus. A 47-year-old man from Khanna and a 29-year-old woman from Bijli village, who had come in contact with the doctor couple, also tested positive. The six patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of Khanna civil hospital, said Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer of Khanna civil hospital said. Further contact tracing of these persons is underway, he added.OMAXE RESIDENT’S HUSBAND, DAUGHTER TOO TEST POSITIVEThe 35-year-old husband and one-year-old daughter of a Omaxe Royal resident have also tested positive. They had got themselves tested after the woman’s test results came on Sunday. Besides, two NRIs, aged 28 and 25, who recently returned from Kuwait, have also tested positive.TWO MORE CASES FROM CHHAWANI MOHALLAA 42-year-old woman and her 13-year-old daughter from Chhawani Mohalla, who are contacts Pritpal Singh, who died of Covid-19 on May 29, have also tested positive today. With this, the total count of positive patients from Chhawani Mohalla has reached 18.The other patients include a 32-year-old man residing in Islamganj area, a 48-year-old man from Vishwakarma Colony, a 30-year-old undertrial lodged in Borstal jail, a 30-year-old man from Dashmesh Nagar and a 40-year-old man from Vivek Dham on Noorwala Road.The district currently has 123 active cases. As many as 165 patients have been cured so far, say health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-one-year-old-daughter-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-dID0sshyzSbTJGPcW8dUbO.html
09-06-2020||World||US government offers $25 billion in Covid-19 relief to some hospitals||The US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) said on Tuesday it would distribute about $25 billion to hospitals that have not previously received relief funds as they grapple with a rise in Covid-19 cases.The agency said it would provide about $15 billion of the total to hospitals serving patients covered by federal Medicaid program for low-income individuals and children’s health insurance program, and $10 billion to safety net hospitals that treat patients regardless of their insurance status.The US government has earmarked $175 billion for hospitals and medical providers to meet the increased expenses from rising Covid-19 cases and cover lost revenues due to suspension of medical procedures and routine visits.The largest for-profit US hospital chains such as HCA Healthcare Inc and Tenet Healthcare Corp appear to be benefiting disproportionately from the relief funds, while smaller hospitals struggle to stay afloat as they await aid, Reuters reported on Tuesday.The latest funding would include hospitals that did not receive aid from the government’s initial payout of $50 billion, the agency said.“HHS is using funds from Congress, secured by President Trump, to provide new targeted help for America’s safety-net providers and clinicians who treat millions of Medicaid beneficiaries,” HHS Secretary Alex Azar said in a statement.HHS has been under media scrutiny for its prior relief fund allocation and the bar has moved higher on the new distributions, wrote Stephens analyst Scott Fidel.Safety net hospitals will receive between $5 million and $50 million, which will be sent directly to the hospitals via direct deposit. The fund distribution would occur this week, according to the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-government-offers-25-billion-in-covid-19-relief-to-some-hospitals/story-Y401gm9r5byncJOUnYcaUK.html
09-06-2020||World||Indian women 25% less likely to own mobile phones: Oxford||Mobile phones are empowering women in various countries but gender inequalities in access continue: women in India are 25 per cent likely to own mobile phones, compared to men, according to data compiled by experts at the University of Oxford.The data and a related study, published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, show that access to mobile phones is associated with lower gender inequalities, enhanced contraceptive use and lower maternal and child mortality.Although these effects are global, the link between mobile phone access and the social development indicators is stronger in the developing world, says the study’s co-author Ridhi Kashyap, professor in the Department of Sociology.She said: “Significant gender inequalities in mobile phone access still exist across the world, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. This study highlights the urgent need to address these inequalities to be able to realise the empowering potential of the technology”.The study’s findings, Kashyap adds, are “highly relevant” in Indian context, where women often face greater barriers to accessing information important for their health, accessing economic and financial resources, as well as communication networks relevant for their well-being.Besides the 25% gender gap in India, the data suggests that when women in the country have access to mobile phones, it is often also likely to be shared, and when women are able to use these devices is curtailed.According to the study, women who own a mobile phone are better informed about sexual and reproductive health services and empowered to make independent decisions. The study looked at the relationship between mobile access and multiple indicators linked to global sustainable development in more than 200 countries between 1993 and 2017.The study’s lead author Valentina Rotondi says: “Our findings highlight the importance of investing in cheaper and equitable access to mobile connectivity, enabling independent mobile ownership, and focusing on ICT skill development, especially among women”.“These measures can forge a promising pathway for attaining sustainable development. Our study provides large-scale empirical evidence for the words pronounced in 2003 by Nobel Peace Laureate Muhammad Yunus…that the quickest way to get out of poverty right now is to have a mobile telephone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-women-25-less-likely-to-own-mobile-phones-oxford/story-CJsgJzhvjzcdekB9g7nrMO.html
09-06-2020||World||Bodies of 20 African migrants recovered off Tunisia||The bodies of about 20 migrants from sub-Saharan Africa were recovered Tuesday from waters off Tunisia, a legal official said, as a search was launched for 30 others.Mourad Turki, spokesman for a court in the Mediterranean city of Sfax, told AFP that fishermen spotted the bodies in waters nearby and alerted the authorities.The coast guard recovered the bodies and a search was launched with divers.Other migrants had told authorities the victims were probably passengers on a boat that set off for Italy last Thursday night with 53 people on board.Illegal crossings from Tunisia to Europe jumped by more than 150 percent in January to April compared to the same period last year, according to the UN’s refugee agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bodies-of-20-african-migrants-recovered-off-tunisia/story-gKB0IT5j57F2zmRwvHYTjP.html
09-06-2020||World||UK drops plan to get all young children in school by summer||The British government on Tuesday ditched plans to have all primary school children in England return to the classroom before the summer vacation after schools voiced worries about their ability to meet coronavirus social distancing requirements.Education Secretary Gavin Williamson admitted that the goal for approximately 5 million primary schoolchildren from age 4 to 11 wasn’t possible, given constraints related to classroom sizes, the need for social distancing and inadequate numbers of teachers.“We believe this cautious, phased return is the most sensible course of action to take,” Williamson told lawmakers when announcing the change.However, he said the government would like to see schools that “have the capacity” bring back more pupils before the summer break in July.Although many of England’s primary schools have been open this entire spring for the children of key workers — including health care professionals, delivery drivers and journalists — the Conservative government had planned to give all younger pupils the chance to return following months of home learning.Last week, the very youngest schoolchildren were allowed to return as well as those in their final year of primary school who are due to make the transition to secondary school in September. The plan was that all others would return in stages.Williamson said just over 50% of primary schools reopened to more children last week and that this increased to more than 70% by Monday.“The ‘ambition’ to bring back all primary year groups for a month before the end of the summer term was a case of the government over-promising something that wasn’t deliverable,’’ said Geoff Barton, general-secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders.Williamson said secondary schools would still provide face-to-face support for some children from next week, and that exams will go ahead next year.The U.K., which has the world’s second-highest virus-related death toll behind the U.S. at just under 40,900, is generally seeing lockdown restrictions ease.The government confirmed Tuesday that all nonessential shops in England, such as department stores and electronics retailers, can reopen Monday provided they conduct a Covid-19 risk assessment and can maintain social distancing guidelines so the people inside stay at least two meters (6 1/2 feet) apart.Getting Covid-ready is difficult, as English schools have found out.The government wants class sizes capped at 15 so that social distancing rules can be followed. Given the small size of many U.K. classrooms, many schools have had to limit teaching groups to just 10 children.Schools have introduced staggered starting and ending times to make sure there’s as little crossover as possible between children, and playgrounds have been divided into sections so groups don’t mix.In addition, many schools are having children eat packed lunches at their desks or outside in playgrounds, and insist on a change of clothes every day. Some have abandoned uniform requirements. Schools have also introduced regular cleaning of the classrooms both during and after the school day, in addition to a weekly deep cleaning. One-way walking systems have also been put into place around school buildings to limit interactions between groups.These are profound changes to the way schools operate and there are mounting concerns that the impact will reverberate into the next school year, which begins in September.“Government now needs to provide urgent clarity on the anticipated constraints that schools may face in September, so that schools and parents can start to look ahead and plan with greater understanding of the possible disruption,” said Paul Whiteman, general secretary of school leaders’ union NAHT.Amid all the confusion, there are worries over the educational and emotional damage on children whose schooling has been interrupted for so long.Elsewhere in the U.K., Scotland and Northern Ireland have said schools won’t be reopening until August, while Wales is making plans to welcome students back later this month.Conservative lawmaker Robert Halfon, chairman of the Commons Education Committee, urged the government to reconsider and warned of an “epidemic of educational poverty.”“Why is it that we can turn a blind eye to thousands of demonstrators, campaign for pubs and garden centers to open, yet it is so hard to reopen our schools?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-drops-plan-to-get-all-young-children-in-school-by-summer/story-u1BfW9QiLPvXJt7fOhonSI.html
09-06-2020||World||George Floyd to be laid to rest in a grave next to his mother’s today||George Floyd, whose death under the knee of a police officer sparked countrywide protests forcing the United States to confront persisting racial inequities once again, will be laid to rest in a grave next to his mother’s at a private funeral in Houston, his hometown, on Tuesday.Floyd’s body was taken to Houston for day-long viewing on Monday after similar viewings in Minneapolis - where he was killed two weeks ago and North Carolina.Floyd’s family was to be joined at the funeral service by families of other African American victims of police actions, such Eric Garner of New York (2014), Breana Taylor of Texas (2020) and Michael Brown of Missouri (2014).Joe Biden, the former vice-president and the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, met with the family on Monday.Floyd Mayweather, the boxing legend, is paying for the funeral services, the Floyd family has said. Floyd’s last words — “I can’t breathe” — became a rallying cry for antiracism protestors in the United States and around the world in London, Paris, Berlin, Rio de Janeiro, Japan, Sweden, Australia, New Zealand, Kenya, Zimbabwe, South Africa, despite the deadly Covid-19 pandemic.Protests have continued int he United States, but first steps are also being taken towards addressing the problem of continuing racism in US law enforcement.Congressional Democrats introduced a sweeping legislation on Monday to ban the use of chokeholds, a technique officers are known to use to subdue suspects, end no-knock warrants and create a national data base of police misconduct to prevent tainted officers from finding employment elsewhere.Demand has been growing also for curtailing police funding and powers and in the most consequential of moves yet, the city council of Minneapolis has vowed to disband the Minneapolis Police Department and replace it with community-based safety model, details of which remain sketchy.President Donald Trump has defended the police saying “99.9%” of them are “great, great people” and went on question the motives of a 75-year-old demonstrator pushed to the ground and left bleeding by officers in Buffalo.He assured law enforcement representatives from across the country at a roundtable Monday there “won’t be defunding, there won’t be dismantling of our police”.The president conceded there are some “bad actors” among the police and “sometimes you’ll see some horrible things, like we witnessed recently” referring to the Floyd killing” but offered a broad defense saying “99 -- I say 99.9, but let’s go with 99 percent of them are great, great people”.On Tuesday morning, he tweeted in defense of the police of Buffalo, New York, where two officers have been fired and charged for pushing a 75-year-old man to the ground and left him bleeding on the ground. “Buffalo protester shoved by Police could be an ANTIFA provocateur,” the president tweeted, claiming he “was pushed away after appearing to scan police communications in order to black out the equipment”.The president presented no evidence to back that up and said “I watched, he fell harder than was pushed. Was aiming scanner. Could be a set up?” sparking another round of outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-to-be-laid-to-rest-in-a-grave-next-to-his-mother-s-today/story-61MkjY2eev6Ob29PjA7DEN.html
09-06-2020||World||103-yr-old man is walking marathon in his garden to raise funds for Covid research||A 103-year-old Belgian doctor is walking a marathon around his garden in daily stages to raise money for research into the new coronavirus, inspired by a centenarian who became a hero in Britain for clocking up the charity miles with a walking frame.Alfons Leempoels, a retired general practitioner, started his 42.2 km (26.2 miles) journey in the municipality of Rotselaar, north-east of Brussels, on June 1 and plans to complete it on June 30.Every day he walks 10 laps of 145 metres (159 yards); three in the morning, three at noon and four in the evening. To avoid losing count, he throws a stick into a bowl every time he completes a lap.Leempoels said the idea came to him when he saw World War Two veteran Tom Moore, 100, strike a chord in Britain by raising the equivalent of more than $40 million for the country’s health service by walking around his garden.“My children said that I can walk at least as well as Tom Moore and on top of that I am 103 years old,” he told Reuters.“So they suggested that maybe I should do something. My granddaughter had just run a marathon and as a joke I said: I will run a marathon.”Leempoels hopes to raise funds for the hospital attached to the nearby university of Leuven, where researchers are working to find a cure for Covid-19.So far he has raised just over 6,000 euros, according to Marlies Vanderbruggen of Leuven University, and has covered about one third of the distance of a marathon.Leempoels recalls people falling sick during the 1957-58 Asian flu pandemic, but recovering much more quickly than those affected by the novel coronavirus in recent months.“As a doctor you feel touched by this and that’s why I was happy now that I might be able to contribute something to fight the coronavirus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/103-year-old-belgian-doctor-is-walking-marathon-around-his-garden-to-raise-funds-for-covid-research/story-UsrNrBpCrE2SyiuHQxVS7L.html
09-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter: I hear you but don’t break law, PM Boris tells protestors||Citing the cabinet-level appointments of Rishi Sunak and Priti Patel, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday highlighted the strides made by Britain on diversity in recent decades, but told Black Lives Matter (BLM) protestors not to break the law.Johnson delivered a message on the issue after the statue of 17th century slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down in Bristol on Sunday, amidst growing calls to remove statues of other slave traders and of East India Company colonialist Robert Clive.Four offices in the UK government are considered ‘Great Offices of State’: prime minister, chancellor, home secretary and foreign secretary. Johnson appointed Sunak as the chancellor and Patel as the home secretary.He said: “Yes, I am proud to lead the most ethnically diverse government in the history of this country, with two of the four great offices of state held by a man and a woman of Indian origin…This country has made huge strides”.“But we must also frankly acknowledge that there is so much more to do…And so I say yes, you are right, we are all right, to say Black Lives Matter; and to all those who have chosen to protest peacefully and who have insisted on social distancing – I say, yes of course I hear you, and I understand”.“But I must also say that we are in a time of national trial, when for months this whole country has come together to fight a deadly plague…So no, I will not support those who flout the rules on social distancing…and no, I will not support or indulge those who break the law, or attack the police, or desecrate public monuments”. he said.Referring to demands to remove statues of controversial figures installed across the UK over centuries and decades, Johnson said if those who want to change the urban landscape of the country, they can stand for election, or vote for someone who will. Pulling down Colston’s statue has revived the demand to remove the statue of imperialist Cecil Rhodes in Oxford. Thousands have signed a petition to remove Clive’s statue in Shropshire, while others want the stature of 19th century slave trader Thomas Picton in Wales to be pulled down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-i-hear-you-but-don-t-break-law-pm-boris-tells-protestors/story-KRop3zZM0NAr7nQsFmmidL.html
09-06-2020||World||Eiffel Tower to reopen to public on June 25||The Eiffel Tower, one of the most visited sites in Paris, will reopen to the public on June 25 more than three months after shuttering in France’s coronavirus lockdown, its operators said Tuesday.The 10-tonne metal landmark will emerge from its longest closure since World War II with limited visitor numbers at first, and face masks mandatory for all over the age of 11, said the Eiffel Tower website.“At first, only visits by the stairs will be available,” and not by elevator, it said, as a means of ensuring a safe distance between people to limit infection risk.“To ensure that ascending and descending visitors do not meet in the stairs, ascent will take place from the East pillar and descent by the West pillar,” added the website, with a limited number of visitors per floor at a time.The top level will remain closed for now, “since the lifts taking visitors from second to top floor are small. It might re-open during the summer.”The statement said ground markings will be put in place to ensure people keep their distance from one another, with “daily cleaning and disinfection of public spaces at the tower.”The monument, completed in 1889, receives about seven million visitors every year, about three-quarters of them from abroad, according to the tower website.The tourism industry of France, one of the world’s most visited countries, has taken a hard hit under a lockdown to halt the Covid-19 pandemic, with hotels, restaurants, museums, and theatres closed.These included some of the French capital’s most famous landmarks such as the Louvre museum, due to reopen on July 6, and the Palace of Versailles which opened Saturday.“The re-opening date of our online ticket office will be soon communicated,” said the Eiffel website.“We strongly encourage our visitors to opt for online ticket purchase, in order to avoid the wait at the Tower’s ticket offices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eiffel-tower-to-reopen-to-public-on-june-25/story-mXkTQFhnwLTq7fEoaAxo8K.html
09-06-2020||World||Nepal’s lawmakers back amendment to give legal support to new map||Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday discussed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new political map that shows Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory amid widespread backing for the move from lawmakers.The move is expected to aggravate a diplomatic row between Nepal and India, which erupted after Kathmandu protested against the opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border by New Delhi last month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the Indian side has said the road is completely within its territory.The amendment, which requires a two-thirds majority in both houses of Nepal’s Parliament, is certain to be passed as all key parties, including the opposition Nepali Congress and Madhes-based parties, have backed it.Also read: The costs of anti-Indian nationalism in Nepal | HT EditorialThe move in Parliament followed after several efforts by Kathmandu to hold talks with New Delhi on the border row. People familiar with developments said Nepal last formally contacted India early in May for talks to resolve the issue.There was no formal word from Indian officials on Tuesday’s development in Nepal.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told Parliament that the new road to Lipulekh had “undermined” the country’s sovereignty.Nepal’s border begins at Limpiyadhura, the origin of the river Kali, and the border with India is determined by the Treaty of Sugauli of 1816, he said. India, he added, had acknowledged in 1997 that the borders at Kalapani and Susta were “unresolved”.Gyawali also said Nepal was still awaiting a response from India on holding talks to resolve the border row that has strained bilateral relations. He told The Associated Press on Tuesday that requests for talks were made last November and December, and again in May.Also read: Decoding the India-Nepal dispute | Opinion“We have expressed time and again that Nepal wants to sit at the table to resolve this problem,” he said. “We are waiting for formal negotiations so that these two countries with...a very unique type of partnership can develop a more inspiring relationship that reflects the requirements of the 21st century.”In Parliament, Janata Samajbadi Party leader Rajendra Shrestha said there should be no compromise on an issue involving national sovereignty and integrity. Nepali Congress’ chief whip Bal Krishna Khand said his party had already decided to back the amendment. However, Khand also said the government should expedite efforts for a diplomatic dialogue with India.After the issue flared up, the government of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli issued a new political map on May 20 that showed Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani as Nepalese territory.Nepal’s parliamentarians now have three days to register changes to the amendment, following which it will be presented for a vote in the two houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-legally-support-new-map-nepal-s-lawmakers-discuss-amendment/story-SnXkv3CTNaTiqXHeH07ahI.html
09-06-2020||World||US employers laid-off 7.7 million workers in April||US employers laid-off 7.7 million workers in April — a sign of how deep the economic hole is as offices, restaurants, stores and schools are re-opening after being shuttered because of the coronavirus.The Labor Department also said in a Tuesday report that job openings plummeted and hiring all but disappeared in April. The number of available jobs fell 16% from March to 5 million. Hires declined 31% to 3.5 million.The grim April — which followed an bleaker March with 11.5 million layoffs — suggests that the economy could take time to recover nearly a decade’s worth of gains that vanished in two months. Hiring did rebound in May as 2.5 million jobs were added on net, the government said Friday. But those gains appeared to reflect temporarily laid-off employees returning to work and increases in people with part-time jobs, rather than an economy at full throttle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-employers-laid-off-7-7-million-workers-in-april/story-aBSW0HIVaBHwksr7BIwl2L.html
09-06-2020||World||Donald Trump lashes out at 75-year-old protester shoved, hurt by police||President Donald Trump alleged without substantiation that an elderly protester who was shoved to the ground and seriously injured by police in Buffalo, New York, was a “provocateur” who exaggerated his fall.Trump’s tweet Tuesday came after the injury last week of protester Martin Gugino, 75, who has been identified as an activist and a member of the Western New York Peace Center. Video showed him approach police and speak to them before being pushed.Gugino fell backward to the ground and was motionless afterward, bleeding from his head. WGRZ-TV reports he was still hospitalized. Two officers have been suspended and charged with assault, and have pleaded not guilty.The president said it “could be a set up” and claimed he believed Gugino was attempting to tamper with police equipment by scanning it. He cited a report from a fringe conservative media agency.Trump has regularly downplayed the protests sparked by the death of George Floyd. He criticized the death of Floyd and the actions of the officers involved, but has otherwise generally praised the actions of police in protests this month. Floyd’s funeral will be held in Houston on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-lashes-out-at-75-year-old-protester-shoved-hurt-by-police/story-mHMdPonQebscaqV9kxSyIK.html
09-06-2020||World||Pak authorities retrieve landing gear, part of cockpit of crashed PIA plane||Pakistani authorities on Tuesday retrieved the landing gear and parts of the cockpit of the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) aircraft that crashed in a residential area in Karachi last month.The PIA plane, with 99 people on board, crashed in Model Colony near Jinnah International Airport Karachi on May 22, killing 97 people (89 passengers and eight crew members). Two passengers miraculously survived.“We have retrieved the landing and parts of the cockpit from the crash site and transferred it to the airport,” a PIA official told PTI.He said the plane’s engine will be retrieved by Wednesday.He said the team, comprising Air Force, Civil Aviation Authority, the PIA and Karachi Port Trust officials, used a crane weighing 70 tonnes to retrieve the remaining parts of the crashed plane. The cockpit voice recorder (CVR) and flight data recorder (FDR) of the Airbus A-320 have already been retrieved from the crash site and sent to France to download the data.The French Air Safety Organisation has successfully downloaded the data and sent its report to the Pakistan government. The government will make a preliminary report about the crash public on June 22.The four-member investigation team’s main focus so far has been on the first failed landing and go-around (re-take off) of the ill-fated PK-8303 flight.Some retired and serving pilots have raised eyebrows about the role of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) following the publication of the communication between the pilot of the plane and the air traffic controller.“The four-member team of investigators headed by Air Commodore Usman Ghani has recorded the statements of the air traffic controllers concerned and the runway inspection team. The controllers in question have been stopped from working until the fixing of responsibility for the crash.So far the investigators have collected evidence -- runway pictures, aircraft parts, records of communication between controllers and pilot, recording by the radar, and other related materials. The investigators are mandated to spot and fix responsibility for violations in the aviation procedures and suggest a remedy to avoid a repeat.According to a former air traffic controller, the aircraft was kept with ‘approach controllers’ all the time as per the procedure.“The pilot did not call tower frequency at any time during the flight and was in contact with the ATC till he crashed. The role of co-pilot will come to fore through the material stored in the voice recorder.” The controller says the pilot did not report any emergency after he tried to land the first time. He was told that at 3,500ft he was a bit high on approach so he may descend to 2,000ft or so in a circle, but he said he was comfortable and continued straight on.“Once the pilot realised that he could not make a proper landing, he went around from a very low height, more than scraping the runway and in the process, the engines were damaged,” he said.“ATC gave him clearance to come back and land on any runway and stopped all traffic for him. The plane had already damaged its engines, and it crashed a mile short of the runway,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-authorities-retrieve-landing-gear-part-of-cockpit-of-crashed-pia-plane/story-nfSNZdk3JyqtJtA6iTOxAJ.html
09-06-2020||World||AstraZeneca wins fresh US backing in race for Covid-19 treatment||AstraZeneca has secured support from the U.S. government to advance the development of antibody-based Covid-19 treatments as the British drugmaker ramps up efforts beyond its potential vaccine to combat the global health crisis. The company said on Tuesday it had signed a second set of deals with authorities in the United states backing its development of a monoclonal antibody treatment against the coronavirus. It declined to disclose details of the agreement but said it had agreed terms with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) to move two Covid-19 antibody therapies it has licensed from researchers into clinical studies in the next two months.Companies and governments are scrambling to bring a solution for the illness caused by the new coronavirus to market as soon as possible, and many in the medical community believe antibody-based therapies hold great potential.The United States has already secured 300 million doses of AstraZeneca’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine, AZD1222, and Defense Secretary Mark Esper vowed last month that the U.S. military and other parts of the government would work with the private sector to produce a vaccine at scale by year-end.AstraZeneca said it has licensed six monoclonal antibody candidates from Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee. Two of those six prospective proteins will be tested as a combination approach for Covid-19. Antibodies are generated in the body to fight off infection. Monoclonal antibodies mimic natural antibodies and can be isolated and manufactured in large quantities to treat diseases in patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-wins-fresh-us-backing-in-race-for-covid-19-treatment/story-Rsez0xvB889cPqt4vp76CL.html
09-06-2020||World||20 people detained for George Floyd protest outside US embassy in Sri Lanka||Sri Lankan police on Tuesday arrested 20 people who attempted to stage a protest outside the US Embassy here in support of African-American George Floyd, whose custodial killing stoked widespread protests in America and other countries over racial injustice.Floyd died in Minneapolis on May 25 after white police officer Derek Chauvin handcuffed and pinned him to the ground, and knelt on his neck for more than eight minutes while the 46-year-old from Houston gasped for breath.The arrested people were the activists of the Frontline Socialist Party. They had gathered around the vicinity of the US embassy here.The police said they had obtained a court order preventing the gathering of protesters near the US embassy.Police said the FSP activists were arrested for violating the quarantine regulations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Sri Lanka has recorded 1,857 Covid-19 cases. The government announced a lockdown in mid-March following the detection of the first Covid-19 positive case on March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/20-people-detained-for-george-floyd-protest-outside-us-embassy-in-sri-lanka/story-S1iWhQKR3WQoyD6rl4pHaM.html
09-06-2020||World||George Floyd, whose death sparked racial injustice movement, to be buried||The black man whose death has inspired a worldwide reckoning over racial injustice will be buried in Houston Tuesday, carried home in a horse-drawn carriage.George Floyd, who was 46 when he was killed, will be laid to rest next to his mother. On May 25, as a white Minneapolis officer pressed a knee on Floyd’s neck, the dying man cried out for his mother.His funeral will be private. Some 6,000 people attended a public memorial service was held Monday in Houston, where he grew up.Under a blazing Texas sun, mourners wearing T-shirts with Floyd’s picture or the words “I Can’t Breathe” — one of the other things he cried out repeatedly while pinned down by the police officer — waited for hours to pay their respects. Floyd’s body, dressed in a brown suit, lay in an open gold-colored casket.Also read: Bail set at $1 million for police officer charged with George Floyd’s murderShorty after the memorial ended, Floyd’s casket was placed in a hearse and escorted by police back to a funeral home.As the hearse drove away, 39-year-old Daniel Osarobo, a Houston resident who immigrated from Nigeria, could be heard saying, “Rest in power. Rest In Peace.”“I’ve been stopped by police. I understand the situation. I can only imagine,” said Osarobo, who works as an engineer in the oil and gas industry. “What if it was me? What if it was my brother? What if it was my sister? What if it was my son?” ALSO WATCH | Dwayne Johnson calls for justice amid protests in US over George Floyd’s deathThose were questions many black Americans have asked not just in recent weeks, but for decades.Floyd’s death sparked international protests and drew new attention to the treatment of African Americans in the U.S. by police and the criminal justice system. In the past two weeks, sweeping and previously unthinkable things have taken place: Confederate statues have been toppled, police departments around America have rethought the way they patrol minority neighborhoods, legislatures have debated use-of-force policies, and white, black and brown people have had uncomfortable, sometimes heated, discussions about race in a nation that is supposed to ensure equal opportunity for all.Also read | ‘It just hurts’: Thousands mourn George Floyd in Texas amid calls for reformCalls for “defunding the police” have cropped up in many communities, and people around the world have taken to the streets in solidarity, saying that reforms and dialogue must not stop with Floyd’s funeral.His death has also reshaped the presidential race. To be re-elected, President Donald Trump must rebound from one of the lowest points of his presidency, with recent polls showing that 8 in 10 Americans believe the country is headed in the wrong direction and even spiraling out of control. The president got a boost late last week with a better-than-expected jobs report, but he’s struggling to show consistent leadership on multiple fronts, including the nationwide protests against police brutality.Meanwhile, former Vice President Joe Biden met with Floyd’s family Monday, according to a photo posted on Twitter by the Rev. Al Sharpton. Biden will provide a video message for Floyd’s funeral service. Previous memorials have taken place in Minneapolis and Raeford, North Carolina, near where Floyd was born.The memorials have drawn the families of black victims in other high-profile killings whose names have become seared into America’s conversations on race — among them Eric Garner, Michael Brown, Ahmaud Arbery and Trayvon Martin.“It just hurts,” said Philonise Floyd, George Floyd’s brother, sobbing as he ticked off some of their names outside The Fountain of Praise church. “We will get justice. We will get it. We will not let this door close.”For 14 nights, hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets in protest of police brutality and racial inequality. Cities imposed curfews as some of the demonstrations were later marred by spasms of arson, assaults and smash-and-grab raids on businesses. More than 10,000 people have been arrested around the country, according to reports tracked by The Associated Press.But protests in recent days have been overwhelmingly peaceful — and over the weekend, several police departments appeared to retreat from aggressive tactics. Thousands of Los Angeles protesters arrested for violating curfew and other police orders will not be charged with a crime, prosecutors said Monday.Four Minneapolis officers were charged in connection with Floyd’s death, which was captured on video by bystanders, who begged police to stop hurting him.A Minnesota judge on Monday kept bail at $1.25 million for Derek Chauvin, the police officer charged with second-degree murder in Floyd’s death. Chauvin’s former co-workers, J Alexander Kueng, Thomas Lane and Tou Thao, are charged as accomplices.The 44-year-old Chauvin said almost nothing during the 11-minute hearing while appearing on closed-circuit television from a maximum-security prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-whose-death-sparked-racial-injustice-movement-to-be-buried/story-6FcmGeQboevO20nDatlSgJ.html
09-06-2020||World||People ‘starving’ in North Korea, 10 million need humanitarian aid, says UN Expert||A United Nations human rights expert voiced alarm on Tuesday at what he called “widespread food shortages and malnutrition” in North Korea, which have been exacerbated by a nearly five-month border closure with China and measures against COVID-19.Tomas Ojea Quintana, U.N. special rapporteur on human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), urged the U.N. Security Council to “reconsider sanctions” on the isolated country so as to ensure the flow of food supplies.“There have been reports of an increase of homeless people in large cities – including kotjebi (street children), and medicine prices have reportedly skyrocketed. An increasing number of families eat only twice a day, or eat only corn, and some are starving,” he said in a statement.Elisabeth Byrs, spokeswoman of the U.N.’s World Food Programme (WFP), told a Geneva news briefing that the humanitarian situation in North Korea “remains bleak”, with some 10 million, or 40% of the population, needing humanitarian aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-starving-in-north-korea-10-million-need-humanitarian-aid-says-un-expert/story-ksZ8OVlcaDzDSiu5LEuGpI.html
09-06-2020||World||Gilead’s remdesivir slows progression of Covid-19 in monkeys: Study||Gilead Sciences Inc’s antiviral drug, remdesivir, prevented lung disease in macaques infected with the new coronavirus, a study published in medical journal Nature said on Tuesday.In the study, macaques that received remdesivir did not show signs of respiratory disease and had reduced damage to the lungs, according to the study authors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gilead-s-remdesivir-slows-progression-of-covid-19-in-monkeys-study/story-U8h6GvMCxF0WFAXaDPhjgI.html
09-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter: Focus shifts to Oxford, slave-linked statues in London||London mayor Sadiq Khan on Tuesday ordered a review of statues in London linked to slave trade as the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement provided a spark for anti-racism protests and the removal of imperialist Cecil Rhodes’ statue in the University of Oxford.Rhodes was a controversial colonialist who donated large funds for education, including the Rhodes Scholarship, which has been awarded to several Indians over the decades. The 2016 ‘Rhodes Must Fall’ campaign called for removing his statue in Oriel College in Oxford, but campaigners plan to take to the streets again on Tuesday.Britain’s long history of colonialism and involvement in slave trade has been a subject of much debate, but protests in Bristol as part of the BLM movement led to the statue of a prominent 17th century slave trader, Edward Colston, being pulled down on Sunday.The slave trade from the 16th to 19th centuries was carried through several ports, including London, Liverpool and Bristol. The focus has also moved to East India Company colonialists such as Robert Clive, whose statue in Shropshire is now sought to be removed.Setting up a Commission for Diversity in the Public realm, Khan said: “Our capital’s diversity is our greatest strength, yet our statues, road names and public spaces reflect a bygone era. It is an uncomfortable truth that our nation and city owes a large part of its wealth to its role in the slave trade and while this is reflected in our public realm, the contribution of many of our communities to life in our capital has been wilfully ignored”.“This cannot continue. We must ensure that we celebrate the achievements and diversity of all in our city, and that we commemorate those who have made London what it is – that includes questioning which legacies are being celebrated”.“The Black Lives Matter protests have rightly brought this to the public’s attention, but it’s important that we take the right steps to work together to bring change and ensure that we can all be proud of our public landscape,” he added.Oxford vice-chancellor Louise Richardson, had opposed to the campaign to remove Rhodes’ statue in 2016, saying: “I don’t think we can take down every statue or memorial of somebody who has done something that is objectionable today.”“The American declaration of independence was written by slave owners who were still extraordinary men. The world is a complex place, history is complex; we should be aware of it,” she said.Anti-colonial, anti-racist campaigns have spread in other campuses and countries, including South Africa. In 2017, students at the School of Oriental and African Studies wanted the curriculum revised to drop ‘white’ figures such as Plato and Socrates, and replace them with Indian and non-western philosophers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-focus-shifts-to-oxford-slave-linked-statues-in-london/story-yn1xsRVsFt3h1E4Lgcy44N.html
09-06-2020||World||Iran will execute CIA agent involved in commander Soleimani’s killing||An Iranian citizen who provided information to US and Israeli intelligence services on the whereabouts of Iran’s slain top commander Qassem Soleimani will be executed soon, Iran’s judiciary said on Tuesday.On Jan. 3, a US drone strike in Iraq killed Soleimani, the head of Iran’s elite Quds Force. Washington blamed Soleimani for masterminding attacks by Iran-aligned militias on US forces in the region. “Mahmoud Mousavi-Majd, one of the spies for CIA and Mossad has been sentenced to death. He gave the whereabouts of martyr Soleimani to our enemies,” judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili said in a televised news conference. Following Soleimani’s killing Iran retaliated with a rocket attack on Iraq’s Ain al-Asad base where US forces were stationed on Jan. 8. No US troops were killed or faced immediate bodily injury, but hundreds were later diagnosed with traumatic brain injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-will-execute-cia-agent-involved-in-commander-soleimani-s-killing/story-W2RONfdGmTeREtbbfAYHlL.html
09-06-2020||World||Chinese fighter jets briefly entered airspace, says Taiwan’s defence ministry||Taipei, June 9, 2020 (AFP) - Chinese fighter jets briefly entered Taiwan’s airspace on Tuesday, forcing the island to scramble its own, Taipei said shortly after announcing plans for its largest annual live-fire military drill.The Taiwanese defence ministry said it broadcast warnings and “took active responses to dispel” multiple Chinese Su-30 fighters to the southwest of the island.“The military is fully monitoring sea and air conditions around the Taiwan Strait and takes active responsive measures to defend our territorial safety,” it said in a statement.The incursion came as the ministry announced that the “Han Kuang” live-fire drill would be held next month, including computer simulations and an exercise to defend against forces landing on the island. China has ramped up fighter flights and warship crossings near Taiwan or through the Taiwan Strait since President Tsai Ing-wen was first elected in 2016, as she has refused to acknowledge that the island is part of “one China”.Beijing claims Taiwan as part of its territory and has vowed to one day seize it, by force if necessary.Tsai lashed out at Beijing for “meaningless and unnecessary” military moves after a Chinese military jet in February briefly crossed the median line of the Taiwan Strait separating the two sides.It was the first major incursion since Tsai’s landslide re-election in January.Beijing also sent its new aircraft carrier, the Shandong, through the strait in December, shortly before Taiwan’s presidential election.In March last year, two Chinese J-11 fighter jets crossed over the line for the first time in years, prompting Taipei to accuse Beijing of violating a long-held tacit agreement in a “reckless and provocative” move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-fighter-jets-briefly-entered-airspace-says-taiwan-s-defence-ministry/story-Adkho3A0sMRMTgVihHRxPN.html
09-06-2020||World||Coronavirus may have been spreading in China since August 2019: Harvard research||The coronavirus might have been spreading in China as early as August last year, according to Harvard Medical School research based on satellite images of hospital travel patterns and search engine data, but China dismissed the report as “ridiculous”.The research used satellite imagery of hospital parking lots in Wuhan - where the disease was first identified in late 2019 - and data for symptom-related queries on search engines for things such as “cough” and “diarrhoea”.“Increased hospital traffic and symptom search data in Wuhan preceded the documented start of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in December 2019,” according to the research.“While we cannot confirm if the increased volume was directly related to the new virus, our evidence supports other recent work showing that emergence happened before identification at the Huanan Seafood market (in Wuhan).”“These findings also corroborate the hypothesis that the virus emerged naturally in southern China and was potentially already circulating at the time of the Wuhan cluster,” according to the research.It showed a steep increase in hospital car park occupancy in August 2019.“In August, we identify a unique increase in searches for diarrhoea which was neither seen in previous flu seasons or mirrored in the cough search data,” according to the research.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, asked about the research at a daily press briefing on Tuesday, dismissed the findings.“I think it is ridiculous, incredibly ridiculous, to come up with this conclusion based on superficial observations such as traffic volume,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-may-have-been-spreading-in-china-since-august-2019-harvard-research/story-GACiRNX8NcWBksDyKzQ5RP.html
09-06-2020||World||Bon Appetit’s top editor Adam Rapoport resigns over racially insensitive photo||The editor of popular food magazine Bon Appetit resigned after furore over a racially insensitive photo featuring him.The photo shows Adam Rapoport dressed in a Puerto Rican costume. He is seen wearing a large, heavy chain, a do-rag and a baseball cap.As soon as the photo surfaced on social media, it created controversy. Staffers at the magazine criticised Rapoport after the photo, of him and his wife, circulated on Twitter. In the screenshot, his wife tagged the photo “boricua,” a reference to Puerto Ricans, and called Rapoport “papi”.In an Instagram post, Rapoport said he was stepping down as editor “to reflect on the work that I need to do as a human being.” He said the photo was of an “extremely ill-conceived” Halloween costume 16 years ago. He acknowledged “blind spots” as an editor and said the magazine’s staff and readers deserved better leadership. A post shared by Adam Rapoport (@rapoport) on Jun 8, 2020 at 4:21pm PDTThe issue comes at a wrong time for Conde Nast-owned magazine which has been trying to tap into the anti-racial protests, saying recently that it will be highlighting more black-owned food businesses and “tackling more of the racial and political issues at the core of the food world.”This comes days after the Philadelphia Inquirer’s senior vice president and executive editor Stan Wischnowski stepped down. His resignation came after an uproar over the ‘Buildings Matter, Too’ headline lamenting damage to businesses amid turbulent protests over death of George Floyd. The protesters damaged buildings and other things while denouncing police brutality against people of colour.The Inquirer had apologised for a “horribly wrong” decision to use the headline on a column last week about looting and vandalism on the margins of protests.In its apology piece, The Inquirer that the headline “offensively riffed” on the Black Lives Matter movement. It called the error unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bon-appetit-s-top-editor-resigns-over-racially-insensitive-photo/story-0jOdzq5afQHiGRZrFN3awN.html
09-06-2020||World||After Wuhan, China conducts mass testing in the city of Mudanjiang||Mass nucleic acid testing on more than 7.84 lakh residents in a city in northeastern China close to the Russian and North Korean borders has revealed 19 asymptomatic carriers, local officials have said.The tests were carried out in a week between June 1 and June 8.The city of Mudanjiang in the Heilongjiang province, home to more than 2.5 million people, is the second city after the central Chinese city of Wuhan to carry out large-scale testing of residents to find silent spreaders and the incidence of Covid-19 disease in the population.More tests on the remaining population are likely to be carried out in the coming days. Thousands of medical workers have been deployed across the city to carry out the tests.Like in Wuhan, it is likely that medics in Mudanjiang are pooling swab samples to complete the tests in quick time.The large-scale testing in Mudanjiang was ordered after local health authorities found 15 carriers with no outward signs of the disease in the city.In Wuhan, 300 asymptomatic patients were found after more than 9.8 million residents were tested; the expenditure involved was around 900 million yuan ($126 million), which was borne by the Wuhan government.With the coronavirus outbreak now under control in China, health authorities are now focusing on wide testing to find out and isolate asymptomatic carriers and those who could have been exposed to the disease.The national health commission (NHC) said eight categories of people would have to be mandatorily tested for the disease to prevent a resurgence of the disease, which have infected more than 83000 and killed 4634 people in the country.The list comprises overseas returnees, medical workers, patients admitted in fever clinics, new patients admitted to hospitals and their contacts, close contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients, personnel deployed at epidemic control clinics at the border, prison staff and employees at facilities for senior citizens.The categorisation of vulnerable groups is aimed at preventing a rebound of the outbreak in China.It will help authorities to remain on guard against imported cases and have a monitoring system focussed on healthcare workers.Meanwhile, the large-scale nucleic acid testing in Wuhan revealed 300 asymptomatic carriers but none of the related throat swabs and sputum samples have cultivated coronavirus, the municipal health commission has said.Experts believe that the concentrations of coronavirus in the samples are extremely low or no pathogenic virus exists.“Personal belongings of the asymptomatic carriers such as toothbrushes, mugs, masks and towels have shown negative Covid-19 testing results in samples collected from the surfaces,” official news agency, Xinhua reported.A total of 1,174 close contacts of the 300 cases have also been tested negative for coronavirus, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-wuhan-china-conducts-mass-testing-in-the-city-of-mudanjiang/story-qcVbsu3mr7T7yczs4bPgtI.html
09-06-2020||World||President Trump says police forces will not be defunded, dismantled||US President Donald Trump has ruled out defunding or dismantling the police departments in the American cities, saying members of the force risk their own lives to protect others.Trump’s remark came on Monday amidst the growing demand from a section of the Americans to defund the police in the aftermath of the custodial death of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25. “We won’t be defunding our police, we won’t be dismantling our police. We won’t be disbanding our police, we won’t be ending our police force in a city. I guess you might have some cities that want to try but it’s going to be a very sad situation if they did because people are going to be protected,” Trump said during a White House round table with the law enforcement officials from across the country.Floyd, the 46-year-old victim from Houston, was handcuffed and pinned to the ground by the white police officer who kneeled on his neck as he gasped for breath on May 25 in Minneapolis. Floyd’s death triggered nationwide violent protests with a section of the protesters resorting to looting and rioting across the country, leaving behind a trail of destruction.In Minneapolis, Derek Chauvin, the police officer charged with the second-degree murder without intent, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, made his first court appearance. The court set him a bail of USD 1 million. The Democrats, opponents of President Trump and rights bodies have started demanding that the police be defunded in the wake of series of killings of African-Americans in the country.Trump outrightly rejected any such move. “These people do a tremendous job of protecting citizens of our country. ..But whether they were paid or not, that’s what they do. ….They protect people, risk their own lives for people they’ve never seen before, people in many cases they don’t know,” he said.Referring to the decline in crime rates as shown in the latest statistics, Trump said that the Police has done a fantastic job. “We have among the best numbers we’ve ever had in terms of recorded history certainly, but this has been a very strong year for less crime-let’s put it that way-less crime; and there’s a reason for less crime, that’s because we have great law enforcement,” Trump said, as he rejected the demands being made by his political opponents and rights bodies.“I am very proud of them. There won’t be defunding, there won’t be dismantling of our police and there are not going to be in the disbanding of our police. Our police have been letting us live in peace and we want to make sure we don’t have any bad actors in there,” Trump said.Earlier, the White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said that the President is appalled by the “Defund the Police” movement. “The fact that you have sitting congresswomen wanting to defund the police -- notably Rashida Tlaib; notably Biden advisor AOC, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez; former Clinton and Eric Holder spokesperson Brian Fallon wanting to defund our police across this country -- it is extraordinary,” she said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-trump-says-police-forces-will-not-be-defunded-dismantled/story-4ndQ7nxt0vooFX3gNarl8H.html
09-06-2020||World||Part of China’s Great Wall built to monitor civillian movement, not for war: Study||The northern segment of the Great Wall of China was built not to block invading armies but rather to monitor civilian movement, an Israeli archaeologist said Tuesday.When researchers fully mapped the Great Wall’s 740-kilometre (460-mile) Northern Line for the first time, their findings challenged previous assumptions.“Prior to our research, most people thought the wall’s purpose was to stop Genghis Khan’s army,” said Gideon Shelach-Lavi from Jerusalem’s Hebrew University, who led the two-year study.But the Northern Line, lying mostly in Mongolia, winds through valleys, is relatively low in height and close to paths, pointing to non-military functions.“Our conclusion is that it was more about monitoring or blocking the movement of people and livestock, maybe to tax them,” Shelach-Lavi said.He suggested people may have been seeking warmer southern pastures during a medieval cold spell. Construction of the Great Wall, which is split into sections that in total stretch for thousands of kilometres, first began in the third century BC and continued for centuries. The Northern Line, also known as “Genghis Khan’s Wall” in reference to the legendary Mongolian conqueror, was built between the 11th and 13th centuries with pounded earth and dotted with 72 structures in small clusters.Shelach-Lavi and his team of Israeli, Mongolian and American researchers used drones, high-resolution satellite images and traditional archaeological tools to map out the wall and find artefacts that helped pin down dates.According to Shelach-Lavi, whose findings from the ongoing study were published in the journal Antiquity, the Northern Line has been largely overlooked by contemporary scientists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/part-of-china-s-great-wall-built-to-monitor-civillian-movement-not-for-war-study/story-GQgtRXo8rOL5BSk18kxFxM.html
09-06-2020||World||US prosecutors spar with Prince Andrew in Epstein probe||US prosecutors and attorneys for Britain’s Prince Andrew sniped at one another across the Atlantic on Monday, each saying the other side was to blame for the duke’s failure to participate in the Jeffrey Epstein sex trafficking probe.Andrew’s lawyers said in a statement that he has offered three times this year to speak with US investigators after being assured that he “is not and has never been a ‘target’ of their criminal investigations into Epstein.”That offer, though, came with a request that “our co-operation and any interview arrangements would remain confidential,” said the firm Blackfords LLP in London.“Unfortunately, the DOJ has reacted to the first two offers by breaching their own confidentiality rules and claiming that the Duke has offered zero cooperation. In doing so, they are perhaps seeking publicity rather than accepting the assistance proffered,” the lawyers said.Hours later, the US attorney in Manhattan, Geoffrey S. Berman, issued a statement saying the prince had tried to “falsely portray himself to the public as eager and willing to cooperate” even as he repeatedly declined to schedule an interview.“If Prince Andrew is, in fact, serious about cooperating with the ongoing federal investigation, our doors remain open, and we await word of when we should expect him,” Berman said.Berman’s statement addressed only Prince Andrew’s willingness to be interviewed. It made no mention of the claims by his lawyers that the Department of Justice had advised them that Andrew is not a target of the investigation, or that they made any promise that whatever he told investigators would be confidential.Before Monday, Berman had said that Andrew has provided “zero cooperation” to American investigators.Epstein killed himself in a US jail last summer as he awaited trial on sex trafficking charges.One of the women who was sexually abused by Epstein as a teenager, Virginia Roberts Giuffre, has claimed that the financier flew her around the world on private planes to have sex with powerful men, and that she had sexual encounters with Andrew in London and New York, starting when she was 17.Andrew denies the allegation.The contrasting views of what is going on behind the scenes came after The Sun newspaper and other media organizations reported that the US Department of Justice had submitted a mutual legal assistance request to Britain’s Home Office. Such requests are used in criminal cases under a treaty and are generally used when material can’t be obtained on a police cooperation basis.US investigators are still examining potential criminality by Epstein’s associates. Multiple women have said the financier had helpers who recruited underage girls into a network of sexual servants.Andrew’s help is being sought as a witness, his lawyers said.“Far from our client acting above the law, as has been implied by press briefings in the US, he is being treated by a lower standard than might reasonably be expected for any other citizen,’’ Blackfords said. “Further, those same breaches of confidentiality by the DOJ have given the global media – and, therefore, the worldwide audience – an entirely misleading account of our discussions with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prosecutors-spar-with-prince-andrew-in-epstein-probe/story-yY1BuejhPsevws8Veyr2xL.html
09-06-2020||World||Canadian PM Trudeau defends decision to attend protest amid Covid-19 curbs||Amid criticism from opposition leaders, Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau has defended his presence at a ‘Black Lives Matter’ protest despite warning Canadians to avoid large gatherings and supporting restrictions on mass events across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Opposition leaders accused Trudeau of ‘hypocrisy’. Trudeau took a knee at that event on Parliament Hill in Ottawa in memory of African-American George Floyd, who died late last month after a Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee on his neck while he lay handcuffed on the ground, sparking off both peaceful protests and violent rioting in the United States.Opposition leader Andrew Scheer addressed the matter in Parliament on Monday and said he understood why some people were “upset and confused” at seeing Trudeau “completely ignore those types of health guidelines or recommendations.” Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam had warned against public protests and recommended virtual protests instead.Scheer also tweeted, “Trudeau: you cannot attend funerals, visit dying relatives, or attend church services Also Trudeau: it’s ok for me to attend mass public gatherings Do you think that’s fair?”He was backed by the leader of the Bloc Quebecois Yves-François Blanchet who described Trudeau’s presence at the protest as an avoidable publicity stunt, according to the outlet CBC News. It quoted him as saying, “That is not the best place for the prime minister, or for me, to be. We have other occasions, opportunities to speak but it is quite characteristic of this Prime Minister — working with symbols, symbolic gestures.”CBC also reported that around 4,000 people attended the rally and “few of them practised physical distancing” while some of the protestors did not wear masks, though Trudeau did. It also noted that Trudeau shook hands with some of the protestors “something public health officials have warned against.”Trudeau defended his action at his daily media briefing on the coronavirus crisis, saying the “right balance” was required between the right to protest and public health measures. He said he went to the rally to “show support and listen to what community leaders and Black Canadians are calling for.”Ottawa is in the province of Ontario, which along with Quebec, accounts for the vast majority of infections and fatalities in the country. Social gatherings in Ontario are capped at five persons, though that limit will be doubled on June 12. Over 7,800 deaths have been reported in total and more than 96000 persons infected so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-pm-trudeau-defends-decision-to-attend-protest-amid-covid-19-curbs/story-2wod0tMa14ho2WttnSDssJ.html
09-06-2020||World||University of Washington forecasts 145,000 US Covid-19 deaths by August||University of Washington researchers estimated on Monday that 145,728 people could die of Covid-19 in the United States by August, raising their grim forecast by more than 5,000 fatalities in a matter of days. On Friday, the widely cited Institute for Health Metrics and evaluation at the university projected 140,496 deaths by August from Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus. Researchers did not give a reason for the abrupt revision.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe new estimate came on the same day that Texas reported its highest number of hospitalizations so far in the pandemic and 22 US states showed at least a small uptick in the number of new confirmed cases, according to a count kept by Johns Hopkins University.Among the states with the sharpest increases were Michigan and Arizona, according to Johns Hopkins, while Virginia, Rhode Island and Nebraska showed the greatest decreases.Infectious disease experts have said that large street protests held in major US cities after the death of a black man, George Floyd, in Minneapolis police custody, could touch off a new outbreak of the disease. A total of more than 1.9 million cases of Covid-19, the respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus, have been reported in the United States, according to a Reuters tally, which has confirmed 110,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/university-of-washington-forecasts-145-000-us-covid-19-deaths-by-august/story-01nRnpdn9UqRv3phKFkYsL.html
09-06-2020||World||‘Be open, be hopeful’: Google CEO Sundar Pichai’s mantra for class of 2020||Google CEO Sundar Pichai wants today’s youth to “be open, hopeful and impatient” and has the faith that they have a “chance to change everything” as the world continues to grapple with the coronavirus pandemic.The advice was for the graduating class off 2020 who Pichai addressed on Sunday in a virtual ceremony, organised by Google’s video platform You Tube. The event was called Dear Class of 2020. “I don’t think this is the graduation ceremony any of you imagined. At a time when you should be celebrating all the knowledge you’ve gained, you may be grieving what you’ve lost: the moves you planned, the jobs you earned, and the experiences you were looking forward to. In bleak moments like these, it can be difficult to find hope,” Pichai said, reports news agency PTI.Referring to the crises that previous generations of students faced, such as class of 1920 graduating at the end of a pandemic, the class of 1970 graduating in the middle of Vietnam War in 1970 and the class of 2001 graduating few months before the 9/11 attacks, Pichai asked the students to be hopeful. “Be open, be impatient, be hopeful. If you can do that, history will remember the Class of 2020 not for what you lost, but for what you changed. You have the chance to change everything. I am optimistic you will.” “...and in all cases, they prevailed. The long arc of history tells us we have every reason to be hopeful. So, be hopeful,” he said.The India-born Alphabet CEO drew from his personal experience and the challenges he faced in his early years in the US. He said that he grew up without much access to technology and his first time on a plane was when he came to Stanford for higher education. “My father spent the equivalent of a year’s salary on my plane ticket to the US so I could attend Stanford. It was my first time ever on a plane,” Pichai said adding that a bright spot for him during that time was computing. “The only thing that got me from here to there—other than luck—was a deep passion for technology, and an open mind,” he added. The graduation ceremony, streamed on You Tube, was attended by former US President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama, Korean pop group BTS, singers Beyoncé and Lady Gaga, former Defense Secretary Robert M Gates, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and activist Malala Yousafzai.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/be-open-be-hopeful-google-ceo-sundar-pichai-s-mantra-for-class-of-2020/story-0PoFSI539wahls1gKjYd3N.html
09-06-2020||World||South Korean court rejects arrest of Samsung’s Lee in succession probe||A South Korean court rejected prosecutors’ request to arrest Samsung Group’s billionaire heir Jay Y Lee on allegations of price manipulation and violations of auditing rules, resolving a major uncertainty hanging over the world’s largest technology manufacturer.The Seoul Central District Court ruled against an arrest warrant for Lee and two other former Samsung executives Monday, saying that despite considerable evidence obtained through their investigation, they didn’t have a valid reason to detain Lee.”The relevance of the basic facts has been explained and it seems prosecutors have secured a considerable amount of evidence through their probes,” said Won Jung-sook, the judge in the case. “However, they had an insufficient explanation of the need to detain suspects.”Samsung Electronics Co. shares rose by as much as 2.9% in early Seoul trading on Tuesday.The ruling marks a victory for the co-vice chairman of the company, who’s embroiled in an increasingly contentious dispute with South Korean prosecutors over allegations of bribery and corruption. The request for an arrest warrant stemmed from a legal clash that dates back to 2015, centering on whether Lee and Samsung used illegal means to help him take control of a conglomerate founded by his grandfather.Prosecutors have been looking into alleged accounting fraud at Samsung Biologics Co. and a controversial 2015 merger of two Samsung affiliates, part of a broader probe into Lee’s succession plans. Investigators accuse Samsung of orchestrating a scheme to manipulate the value of Cheil Industries and Samsung C&T during the transaction, which they say helped the heir solidify his control of the conglomerate.”Given the seriousness of the case and a trove of evidence, the court’s decision to reject is a shame,” the prosecutors’ office said in a statement, as reported by Yonhap News. “Regardless of the result, we will do our best to continue the investigation according to law and principle going forward.”Why Samsung’s Billionaire Scion Is Facing Jail Again: QuickTakeThe failed arrest attempt is a relief for Samsung, which last week requested an outside review panel to assess the validity of a potential indictment of Lee by prosecutors, as allowed under Korean rules. If the panel is formed, it will make an assessment and give recommendations to prosecutors in coming months.Lee’s lawyers said in an emailed statement that they expect an impartial discussion of the case through the panel review. The Seoul Central Prosecutors Office said it will discuss Samsung’s request for the panel this Thursday, according to Yonhap.Tensions between South Korea’s largest conglomerate and prosecutors may intensify in coming weeks as both sides strive to win public opinion. Lee spent a year in prison from February 2017, when special prosecutors detained him over allegations that he bribed a confidante of former president Park Geun-hye.Samsung -- the world’s largest producer of memory chips, displays and smartphones -- has continued business as normal during the years-long probe and investors have been mostly unfazed. Its shares soared during 2019 and into the first months of 2020 before the coronavirus pandemic, despite prosecutorial scrutiny and investigations into more than a hundred group officials. But Lee’s plight remains a greater concern for Samsung because his potential absence would render it more difficult to make major decisions, such as on mergers and acquisitions or extraordinary investments.Samsung is fighting not just for Lee’s liberty, but for its corporate reputation. The allegations that it used gifts to buy government favor so one of the country’s richest men could take over his family’s company are so explosive they inflamed public opinion against major South Korean companies and shook the political balance of the nation.Samsung and Lee are determined to clear their names. The scion made a rare, personal apology in May, admitting missteps in the past and pledging not to hand leadership of the group to his children. Samsung has also been visibly active in helping South Korea’s battle against the coronavirus, dispatching its own doctors to help in the fight and helping to ramp up production of testing kits.Read more: Samsung Billionaire’s Fate at Risk Despite Role in Virus FightA day after prosecutors sought an arrest warrant last Thursday, Samsung strongly denied allegations of Lee’s involvement in stock price manipulations during the 2015 merger. The statement came after media reported that prosecutors concluded Samsung deliberately boosted stock prices of Cheil by purchasing treasury shares, while lowering Samsung C&T’s stock price through delaying announcement of an overseas construction deal. Samsung said there were no illegal attempts at manipulation.Fresh tensions between prosecutors and Samsung erupted in 2020 as the 51-year-old billionaire faced a new indictment over his involvement in succession plans, while a separate but related bribery trial involving the former administration remains in deadlock. Prosecutors have argued that one judge involved is biased and inclined to go lightly on Lee. The Supreme Court now needs to decide whether to keep the judge involved or replace him, which could mean the trial would drag into next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sout-korean-court-rejects-arrest-of-samsung-s-lee-in-succession-probe/story-uUIBvHOxE3V8oqR1K8wHKM.html
09-06-2020||World||PM Boris Johnson to set out further lockdown easing as UK deaths fall||Prime Minister Boris Johnson will talk his cabinet through his plans for easing the UK’s lockdown on Tuesday after officials reported the lowest number of daily deaths since restrictions were imposed.The prime minister said last month that non-essential retailers would be able to reopen on June 15 if the threat of the virus continued to recede, and Health Secretary Matt Hancock said Monday’s positive data means the government can press on with its plans.“Coronavirus is in retreat across the land,” Hancock told the House of Commons as he reported 55 fatalities, the lowest daily number since March 22. “Those downward trends mean that we can proceed with our plans, but we do so putting caution and safety first.”Johnson, who is battling plunging poll ratings as he seeks to navigate a route to reopen the British economy while avoiding a second spike in infections, has been under pressure to accelerate the removal of restrictions that closed stores and businesses and stopped people spending time with their families and friends.Lawmakers from his Conservative Party added to the demands as they called for the two-meter social distancing limit to be halved to help the beleaguered hospitality industry. Pubs and restaurants are working toward July 4 for the limited reopening of outdoor areas but say many will be unviable if customers still have to stay two meters apart.Policies, ReviewCutting the distance “is the only way that we are going to save millions of jobs in hospitality over the next few months,” former cabinet minister Theresa Villiers told the House of Commons on Monday. Graham Brady, chairman of the influential 1922 committee of rank-and-filed Tory lawmakers, said the current limit needs to be reviewed.Spain and Canada have joined the UK in adopting the two-meter limit, but the World Health Organization recommends people should stay only a meter apart, the distance favored by China and France. Denmark cut its limit to one meter from two on May 10.Hancock said the advice from the UK’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies is clear that the closer people are, the more likely they are to spread the virus and any change to the distance would have to be seen “in the round” with other restrictions.“We keep the two-meter rule under review all of the time and Sage have been doing some work on this recently,” Hancock told the daily virus briefing later Monday. “But ultimately it isn’t the rule that’s the challenge to the opening of hospitality in a safe way, it’s the virus, and we have to find ways to be able to reopen the economy in a way that doesn’t lead to the increased spread of the virus.”‘Peacefully, Lawfully’Johnson linked the pandemic to the Black Lives Matter protests as he urged people involved to keep their distance from each other in a video message on Monday evening. The feelings of injustice at the heart of the movement are based in “cold reality,” he said, but they shouldn’t drive people to act in ways that will lead to a resurgence of the disease.He condemned the violence of some protesters and damage to property, including the toppling of a statue of slave trader Edward Colston in Bristol, southwest England, but said work needs to be done to tackle prejudice and promote equality in Britain.“To all those who have chosen to protest peacefully and who have insisted on social distancing, I say, yes of course I hear you, and I understand,” Johnson said. “Let’s work peacefully, lawfully, to defeat racism and discrimination wherever we find it, and let us continue to work together across all the communities of this country as we put Britain back on its feet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-johnson-to-set-out-further-lockdown-easing-as-uk-deaths-fall/story-6GeraGSIumBln7kmtg5fZI.html
09-06-2020||World||England launches study of coronavirus spread in schools||Health minister Matt Hancock launched a study to find out the prevalence and spread of the coronavirus among school children and teachers in England on Tuesday to help inform the phased reintroduction of education after a lengthy national lockdown.The decision to gradually re-open schools has divided opinion, with Britain suffering the second-worst international death toll from Covid-19 and ministers warning of the need for caution to prevent a second wave of the virus.The study will look to establish how widespread the virus is among children, who typically show mild symptoms or no symptoms at all, and how effectively they transmit the disease.“This study will help us better understand how common asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 are so that we can support parents, pupils and teachers and support-staff, and inform our ongoing response to this new virus,” Hancock said in a statement.Selected age groups have been able to attend schools since the beginning of the month, although some educators decided not to re-open because they said it was not safe. Older students will also begin some schooling from June 15.The voluntary study will be administered by the Public Health England agency and will collect data from around 200 staff and pupils at up to 100 English schools.Researchers will use both swab tests - which check whether a person currently has the virus - and blood tests, which check whether the person has previously had the virus and developed antibodies to it.Data will also be fed into wider government programmes designed to establish how widespread Covid-19 is, and has been, throughout the community in order to help form policy and develop new tests and treatments. (Reporting by William James; editing by Stephen Addison)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-launches-study-of-coronavirus-spread-in-schools/story-0RfGRwc1SV5hy9wTIFoJ0H.html
09-06-2020||World||With just 332 Covid-19 cases, why Vietnam’s richest man is making ventilators||The coronavirus pandemic largely leapfrogged Vietnam—the country has reported just 332 cases and no deaths—but from his sprawling headquarters in Hanoi, billionaire Pham Nhat Vuong could see a need beyond the border. In April, the country’s richest man surveyed his cradle-to-grave conglomerate and made a decision. He was getting into ventilators.In the worst cases of Covid-19, the virus attacks the lungs, making it harder to get oxygen to the bloodstream. A ventilator can be the difference between life and death, and there aren’t enough of them. By one estimate, the world’s hospitals could use another 800,000.The shortage is most acute in the developing world—South Sudan, for example, has just four ventilators for a population of 12 million—but the world’s richest country is short, too. After reports that some hard-hit New York City hospitals had jury-rigged ventilators to serve two patients at the same time, President Donald Trump compelled automakers and other U.S. companies to start making the devices. Ford Motor Co. and General Electric Co. teamed up to deliver 50,000 ventilators by July 13 in a $336 million government contract.Vuong believes his company, Vingroup JSC, can do it faster and for less money. Using an open-source design from device maker Medtronic Plc, Vingroup submitted a working ventilator for regulator approval in mid-April. While the company waits for Vietnam’s regulators to give the go-ahead, ventilators are rolling off the assembly line.Vingroup’s ventilators cost around $7,000 in Vietnam, 30% less than Medtronic’s own model. The company also says it could produce as many as 55,000 a month as soon as the government approves them and plans to export them wherever there’s demand. Vingroup says it’ll donate several thousand to Ukraine and Russia, where Vuong has long-standing business ties.“For the time being, we will focus on producing lots of ventilators—and doing it really well,” said the 51-year-old Vuong, who shared his plans over the course of a few months in a rare interview at Vingroup’s Hanoi headquarters and in a series of emails. “We want to join hands with the Vietnamese government to solve a part of the pandemic problem.”While Vingroup runs a handful of hospitals and clinics, being a medical device manufacturer hadn’t been on the agenda. But Vuong, who first got rich selling packaged noodles in Ukraine, is known for an ambition that dovetails Vietnam’s own. So when the country pushed domestic manufacturers to make more sophisticated products, Vingroup started making cars and smartphones. Now, as the government gives away cases of made-in-Vietnam face masks to virus-hit countries overseas, Vuong is making ventilators part of an even more ambitious global campaign: selling Vietnamese cars to the world. In December, he announced that VinFast, the conglomerate’s automotive group, would develop an electric vehicle and export it to the U.S. by 2021. Vuong is pledging $2 billion of his own fortune to make the improbable feat happen.Whether Americans would consider a Vietnamese car remains an open question. Ventilators, on the other hand, are a product the virus-stricken world can’t turn down. “The lesson we learn from a crisis is that there will always be lots of opportunities,” said Vuong. “We have to make the right choices and act fast.”Over the past two decades, Vietnam has become one of the world’s fastest-growing economies. Average annual incomes have grown more than sixfold, and even pre-pandemic, Vuong fixated on building a company fast enough to keep up with the country’s growing middle class. Today the Vingroup umbrella covers dozens of businesses that touch Vietnamese from childhood through senescence.A baby can be born in a Vinmec hospital, grow up in a Vinhome, attend a Vinschool and go on to VinUniversity. A family might drive a VinFast car through a community designed by Vingroup’s master planners en route to a vacation at a Vinpearl resort. In their everyday lives, they can talk on VinSmart phones and shop for international brands at Vincom malls.For Vietnam’s leaders, Vuong and Vingroup are a testament to the country’s progression from a socialist economy to a market-oriented one. The government has applauded Vingroup’s growth and success as part of Vietnam’s modernization. When VinFast’s first car rolled off the assembly line, Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc declared it “a great day for Vietnam.”What Vuong and Vietnam’s top leaders crave is international recognition, particularly in the U.S., the country’s onetime enemy and the world’s biggest economy. Many Americans, Vuong acknowledges, still see Vietnam as a “poor, backward country where it’s impossible to have modern and high-tech products.” The successful global introduction of a Vingroup product—whether it’s a car or a ventilator—could change the way the world sees Vietnam.“We want the company to tackle things that people think are relatively difficult, things that Vietnamese private enterprises have not done successfully,” he said. “It’s our mission and responsibility to develop a Vietnamese brand with a world-class reputation.”Ventilators may prove a strategic introduction to the global market. If Vingroup can pull off production at the scale Vuong’s anticipating, it will be addressing a worldwide shortage, leveraging on Medtronic’s brand as a well-established medical device maker. And if the ventilators work the way they’re supposed to, Vingroup will have proven its ability to deliver a complicated, reliable, life-saving device—not a bad bona fide for an aspiring carmaker.The company configured its first ventilator assembly line in less than a month, customizing three rows of conveyor belts in its seven-month-old smartphone factory. Engineers from the company’s VinFast car unit worked on the design of the device, and representatives from Medtronic are advising workers who were making smartphones and TV panels a few weeks ago.“There are very few companies in the world like it,” said Mark Mobius, founder of Mobius Capital Partners LLP. He’s been investing in Vietnam for the past decade and has private equity investments in the nation. “The ambition is astounding. It would be a huge win—to make Vietnam a global player.”Vuong says his plans for global expansion have only been emboldened by current events. Vingroup still anticipates hiring a few hundred engineers to expand the research and design center in Australia that will develop VinFast’s next car models and EVs. The company is reportedly interested in acquiring some assets of the soon-to-be-defunct Australian automaker Holden.“He seems to be zigging when other EV startups are zagging,” said Michael Dunne, chief executive officer of automotive consultant ZoZo Go, which focuses on the Asian market. “He has sky-high ambitions. But then there are reality checks.”Vuong has echoes of another automotive titan, Dunne says: Li Shu Fu, head of China’s biggest private carmaker Geely Automotive Holdings Ltd. Best known for acquiring Volvo from Ford in 2010, Li has become the dominant force in China’s car market. And, like Vuong, he’s declared his American ambitions. In 2006, he announced plans for Geely to export cars to the U.S. More than a decade later, neither Geely nor any other Chinese car brand has done so. Vuong has steered the company through rough times before. In 2011, as Vietnam’s inflation spiked to a region high of 23% and the real estate market tanked, the company’s real estate unit debuted its first master-planned community, featuring luxury villas along a man-made canal. The company’s consolidated net income fell 64% that year. It merged its real estate and tourism units to form Vingroup.The merger worked. Net revenue reached a record in 2012 and profits rebounded.  Since then, revenue has grown seventeen-fold, hitting 130.8 trillion dong ($5.6 billion) in 2019. Last year, the company restructured, abandoning early plans for an airline and selling off most of its grocery stores unit as well as its agriculture business.“The ongoing businesses now are the ones with the biggest potential. We won’t change our business strategy,” said Vuong. “If the global recession is severe, we can adjust some of our short-term plans.”Vuong has the confidence of someone who’s grown very rich reading and shaping consumer desires. In his earliest success, he sold Vietnamese instant soup noodles in Ukraine, where he settled after a college scholarship took him to Moscow. To convince a population raised on borscht and dumplings to love just-add-water soup, he hit the malls, did cooking demonstrations and gave away hundreds of free samples.“At the end of the day, we convinced the Ukrainian consumer,” said Vuong. The business became a household staple in the Eastern European state, and Nestle SA eventually acquired it for an estimated $150 million.In 2000, Vuong returned to Vietnam with his noodle profits and found nothing but opportunity. “The infrastructure was too outdated compared to the world. Hanoi only had a few high-rise buildings and five-star hotels,” he said. “I had the money. If I invested and couldn’t earn anything back, my thought was, at least the city would have big, nice buildings.”Within three years, he opened Vietnam’s first upscale hotel, the Vinpearl Resort & Spa on Hon Tre Island, connected by a two-mile gondola to the seaside city of Nha Trang. The grounds include Vietnam’s first water park and an 18-hole golf course.He started a real estate company — later merged to become Vingroup — and began building modern condominiums with supermarkets, schools and malls. Last year, the residential real estate arm sold 10,000 apartments in 17 days at its Vinhomes Grand Park, a canyon of riverside residential towers in the commercial hub of Ho Chi Minh City. The development encircles Landmark 81, Vietnam’s tallest skyscraper, also a Vingroup property.Vuong announced his plans to build and sell cars in September, 2017. Nine months later, he debuted his plans for a smartphone unit, VinSmart. The breadth of ambition and speed of execution has staggered observers and, often, partners.“If you work with them, it’s on their terms,” says Stephen Wyatt, Vietnam country head of Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., which worked on the valuation for Vinhomes ahead of its 2018 initial public offering. “It needs to be turned around in a very short space of time, whatever the scope may be. I have had calls in the middle of the night from them if they are waiting for a report or if something hasn’t been delivered.”VinFast introduced three new combustion vehicles last year and says it received more than 17,000 orders. In November, it plans to debut its first electric vehicle, a crossover SUV, at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November. The batteries, built with cells from LG Chem, give the car a 500 kilometer (310 mile) range on a single charge, about 15% less than Tesla’s Model S. Meanwhile, local media have spotted another VinFast EV prototype, a two-door coupe, on the streets of Hanoi. The company says it plans to test them widely this winter and start selling them by the summer.Vingroup’s plan to export electric vehicles to the U.S. in 2021 or 2022 is “not realistic,” said Dunne. U.S. safety, environmental and regulatory approvals typically take at least two to three years, and it’s not clear whether Vingroup’s begun the process. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency declined to comment on whether the company has filed any of the necessary paperwork.There are more questions, all with potentially expensive answers. Tesla Inc., which leads the American pack of electric carmakers, has yet to make an annual net profit. A slew of Chinese EV startups were “also caught in the same circumstances,” said Dunne. “You just don’t step into the U.S. market and do it quickly.”Global ratings agencies have their own doubts. Last fall, both S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings changed their outlook on Vingroup to negative, citing concerns that the conglomerate relies on its cash-rich property unit—which makes up the bulk of Vingroup’s profit—to fund its new ventures. The company carried 291 trillion dong ($12.5 billion) in debt in the first quarter, up 37% from a year ago.Others ask whether Vingroup may grow too big to fail, so entrenched in Vietnam’s economy that the government and banking institutions would have to bail it out to prevent a collapse. Vingroup units have a combined market value of about $28 billion, or about 16% of the total value of the country’s publicly traded companies. As the company’s sales dropped by about one-third through the first quarter of 2020, they dragged both Vingroup shares and the broader market down too.“There’s a moral hazard if they believe they make such a key contribution that they take on more and more risks, thinking the government will help them out,” said Le Hong Hiep, an expert on Vietnam’s economy and politics at think tank ISEAS-Yusof Ishak Institute in Singapore. “That’s a common problem with other national champions in Asia. If Vingroup collapses, it will be the government and the whole country that will also pay a heavy price.”Vuong doesn’t deny the risk, saying “any company can collapse.’’ He says the conglomerate has run contingency scenarios in case of a real estate meltdown like the one in 2009 and continues to plan for divestments across the group. So far, the property market is expected to grow slightly this year, with Vingroup also now developing industrial parks that are expected to be in demand as manufacturers move into Vietnam from China.And to those who doubt his EV ambitions, Vuong pointed out that VinFast turned a swamp into a state-of-the-art automotive factory, complete with fully-automated robotic production lines, and delivered a car in 21 months—another feat few thought was attainable until it happened.For now, the phone factory will redeploy some of the same metals, plastics and silicon semiconductors to make ventilators. About 70% of the materials are sourced locally, Vingroup says, and it can tap an already vast supply chain. Just 85 workers are producing an initial 160 ventilators a day as the company awaits final approval from the government to ramp up manufacturing.Vingroup’s two ventilator models have met initial technical standards, and clinical trials are under way, according to Nguyen Minh Tuan, who heads the department at the health ministry that’s regulating the ventilators. He said Vingroup should get approval to mass produce the ventilators once the results of the clinical trials come in this month.Vuong says the current price of the ventilators is less than what it costs to make them. “The purpose of ventilator production is completely about contributing to society at this critical time,” he says. It’s also temporary. “We have no plans to expand into this segment.”Vuong identifies as a patriot above all else, and he says he wants his company to keep adding to the list of firsts for Vietnam. “I always tell my colleagues: don’t let your life pass by without meaning,’’ he said. “Don’t let it be that at the end of your life, you have nothing that’s worth remembering or retelling. It would be a miserable ending to see that your life didn’t add any value.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-just-332-covid-19-cases-why-vietnam-s-richest-man-is-making-ventilators/story-G0UME5sRHMgc9OJiTrYMgI.html
09-06-2020||World||Covid-19: First time in 75 years, world leaders won’t gather at UN||The president of the UN General Assembly said Monday that world leaders will not be coming to New York for their annual gathering in late September for the first time in the 75-year history of the United Nations because of the Covid-19 pandemic.But Tijjani Muhammad-Bande told a news conference that he hopes to announce in the next two weeks how the 193 heads of state and government will give their speeches on pressing local and world issues during the assembly’s so-called General Debate.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“World leaders cannot come to New York because they cannot come simply as individuals,” he said. “A president doesn’t travel alone, leaders don’t travel alone” and “it is impossible” to bring large delegations to New York during the pandemic.“We cannot have them in person as we used to — what happened in the last 74 years — but it will happen” Muhammad-Bande said of the annual event.Secretary-General Antonio Guterres recommended last month that the gathering of world leaders, which was supposed to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, be dramatically scaled back because of the pandemic.Guterres suggested in a letter to the General Assembly president that heads of state and government deliver prerecorded messages instead, with only one New York-based diplomat from each of the 193 UN member nations present in the assembly hall.Muhammad-Bande said Monday that by late September “maybe a hundred or so” people might be allowed in the General Assembly chamber.The meeting of world leaders usually brings thousands of government officials, diplomats and civil society representatives to New York for over a week of speeches, dinners, receptions, one-on-one meetings and hundreds of side events.This year was expected to bring an especially large number of leaders to UN headquarters to celebrate the founding of the United Nations in 1945 on the ashes of World War II.Muhammad-Bande said the 75th anniversary celebration “is not conceived as one moment” but will continue throughout the year starting on June 26, the 75th anniversary of the signing of the Charter of the United Nations in San Francisco.He said a political declaration on the United Nations at 75 is also being negotiated, and world leaders will have the opportunity to mark the occasion — only not in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-first-time-in-75-years-world-leaders-won-t-gather-at-un/story-4Rau0fm8VQf0qnGRIi1KrM.html
09-06-2020||World||‘It just hurts’: Thousands mourn George Floyd in Texas amid calls for reform||The last chance for the public to say goodbye to George Floyd drew thousands of mourners Monday to a church in Houston where he grew up, as his death two weeks ago continues to stoke protests in America and beyond over racial injustice, and spurred France to abruptly halt the use of police choke holds.Reflecting the weight of the moment, the service drew the families of black victims in other high-profile killings whose names have become seared in America’s conversation over race — among them Eric Garner, Michael Brown, Ahmaud Arbery and Trayvon Martin.“It just hurts,” said Philonise Floyd, George Floyd’s brother, sobbing as he ticked off some of their names outside The Fountain of Praise church. “We will get justice. We will get it. We will not let this door close.”Under a blazing Texas sun, mourners wearing T-shirts with Floyd’s picture or the words “I Can’t Breathe” — the phrase he said repeatedly while pinned down by a Minneapolis police officer — waited for hours to pay their respects as Floyd’s body, dressed in a brown suit, lay in an open gold-coloured casket. Some sang “Lean on Me” and Houston’s police chief bumped fists and embraced others in line. Funeral home spokeswoman La’Torria Lemon said at least 6,000 attended the service.Some knew Floyd in the nearby housing projects where he grew up. Others travelled hours or drove in from other states. Those who couldn’t make it whipped up their own tributes: In Los Angeles, a funeral-style procession of cars inched through downtown as the viewing began in Houston. In Tennessee, residents of Memphis held a moment of silence.Bracy Burnett approached Floyd’s casket wearing a homemade denim face mask scrawled with “8:46″ — the length of time prosecutors say Floyd, who was black, was pinned to the ground under a white officer’s knee before he died.“All black people are not criminals. All white people are not racists. All cops are not bad. And ignorance comes in all colors. That’s what I thought about when I viewed the body,” Burnett, 66, said.Floyd’s death on May 25 has inspired international protests and drawn new attention to the treatment of African Americans in the U.S. by police and the criminal justice system.Hours into the viewing, a judge in Minneapolis kept bail at $1 million for Derek Chauvin, the police officer charged with second-degree murder in Floyd’s death. Chauvin, 44, said almost nothing during the 11-minute hearing while appearing on closed-circuit television from a maximum-security prison.Two weeks after Floyd’s death, the impact continued to resonate at home and abroad.In Paris, France’s top security official said police would no longer permit choke holds that have been blamed for multiple cases of asphyxiation and have come under renewed criticism after Floyd’s death.In Portland, Oregon, the city’s police chief resigned Monday, just six months into her job, amid criticism of her department’s handling of protests in Oregon’s largest city. An African American lieutenant on the force replaced her. The shakeup came as police have been sharply criticized for using what has been called inappropriate force against some protesters as huge demonstrations continue in Portland.“With this happening to him, it’s going to make a difference in the world,” said Pam Robinson, who grew up with Floyd and handed out bottled water to mourners waiting outside the church. The punishing heat spiked above 90 degrees and got to dozens in line, including one person who was taken to a hospital. Dozens more were helped to a cooling tent.Comill Adams said she drove more than seven hours from Oklahoma City with her family, including two children ages 8 and 10. They wore matching black T-shirts with “I Can’t Breathe” on the back — shirts she made up specially for the memorial.“We had been watching the protests on TV. We’ve been at home feeling outraged. At times it brought us to tears,” Adams said. “The fact this one is causing change, we had to come be a part of it.”Mourners were required to wear masks over fears of the coronavirus and stood 6 feet apart as they paused briefly to view the casket. On a stage behind the casket two identical murals showed Floyd wearing a black cap that read “Houston” and angel wings drawn behind him.Republican Texas Gov. Greg Abbott was among the first to view the casket, wearing a striped gold-and-crimson tie, the colors of Floyd’s Houston high school, where Floyd was a standout football player.“George Floyd is going to change the arc of the future of the United States. George Floyd has not died in vain. His life will be a living legacy about the way that America and Texas responds to this tragedy,” Abbott said.Floyd’s death has spurred calls for change nationwide.The Minneapolis City Council has vowed to dismantle the city’s 800-member police agency. And in Washington, House and Senate Democrats held a moment of silence at the Capitol’s Emancipation Hall before proposing legislative changes in policing oversight, reading Floyd’s name and those of others killed during police interactions and kneeling for 8 minutes and 46 seconds — now a symbol of police brutality.Besides banning police choke holds, the Justice in Policing Act would limit legal protections for police and create a national database of excessive-force incidents, according to an early draft. It is the most ambitious change to law enforcement sought by Congress in years.Meanwhile, officials nationwide are already taking steps to outlaw choke holds: California Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered the state’s police training program to stop teaching them and Denver police announced Sunday they were banning them, effective immediately.Floyd’s funeral will be Tuesday, followed by burial at the Houston Memorial Gardens cemetery in suburban Pearland, where he will be laid to rest next to his mother, Larcenia Floyd.Former Vice President Joe Biden met with Floyd’s family Monday, according to a photo posted on Twitter by the Rev. Al Sharpton. Biden will provide a video message for Floyd’s funeral service. Previous memorials have taken place in Minneapolis and Raeford, North Carolina, near where Floyd was born.Cities imposed curfews as several protests last week were marred by spasms of arson, assaults and smash-and-grab raids on businesses. More than 10,000 people have been arrested around the country, according to reports tracked by The Associated Press.But protests in recent days have been overwhelmingly peaceful — and over the weekend, several police departments appeared to retreat from aggressive tactics.Several cities have lifted curfews, including Chicago and New York City, where the governor urged protesters to get tested for the coronavirus as concerns have been raised that demonstrations could lead to an increase in virus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-just-hurts-thousands-mourn-george-floyd-in-texas-amid-calls-for-reform/story-yMpywyBm2ySWdE2BDyqs0H.html
09-06-2020||World||North Korea to sever communication lines with ‘enemy’ South Korea: State media||North Korea said on Tuesday it will sever hotlines with South Korea as the first step toward shutting down all means of contact with Seoul, state news agency KCNA reported.For several days, North Korea has lashed out at South Korea, threatening to close an inter-Korean liaison office and other projects if the South does not stop defectors from sending leaflets and other material into the North. Top government officials in North Korea, including leader Kim Jong Un’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, and Kim Yong Chol, vice-chairman of the Central Committee of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, determined “that the work towards the South should thoroughly turn into the one against an enemy,” KCNA said.As a first step, at noon on Tuesday, North Korea will close lines of communication at an inter-Korean liaison office, and hotlines between the two militaries and presidential offices, the report said.The official pronouncements mark a setback in relations amid efforts to try and persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons programme in exchange for relief on tough international sanctions. The two Koreas remain technically at war because the 1950-1953 Korean War ended with an armistice rather than a peace treaty.“Regular communication channels are needed most during a crisis, and for that reason North Korea cuts them off to create an atmosphere of heightened risk,” Daniel Wertz, of the U.S.-based National Committee on North Korea, said on Twitter. “It’s a well-worn play for Pyongyang, but nonetheless a dangerous one.”The people of North Korea have “been angered by the treacherous and cunning behaviour of the South Korean authorities with whom we still have lots of accounts to settle,” KCNA said.The report accused South Korean authorities of irresponsibly allowing defectors to hurt the dignity of North Korea’s supreme leadership.“We have reached a conclusion that there is no need to sit face to face with the South Korean authorities and there is no issue to discuss with them, as they have only aroused our dismay,” KCNA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-says-it-will-sever-hotlines-with-enemy-south-korea-state-media/story-uo21Mxu28TlMoRAfHW4DNO.html
09-06-2020||World||Airlines sue against UK quarantine rules||Airlines struggling with the consequences of lockdown have launched legal action against the Boris Johnson government’s quarantine plan that took effect for most arrivals to UK from Monday, with Labour calling it a ‘blunt instrument’ used too late.Under the rules, the arrivals – except those from Ireland, Channel Islands and the Isle of Man – should quarantine themselves for 14 days. Critics say it should have been in place earlier, but home secretary Priti Patel defended its timing, saying it is needed to prevent another wave of coronavirus pandemic.British Airways’ owner, IAG, along with Ryanair and EasyJet, have sent a pre-legal action protocol letter to the government setting out why they believe the quarantine rules are illogical and unfair, that would allegedly prevent recovery in their industries.Ryanair chief executive Michael O’Leary warned that the rules will cause “untold devastation” for the tourism industry. He told BBC: “What it is going to do is untold devastation, not just to the airlines but to British tourism”. Under the rules, people arriving should drive their own car to their destination, where possible, and once there they must not use public transport or taxis. They must not go to work, school, or public areas, or have visitors - except for essential support. They are also not allowed to go out to buy food, or other essentials, where they can rely on others. Those arriving in England, Wales and Northern Ireland could face a fine of £1,000 if they fail to self-isolate for the full 14 days, while they face a £480 fine in Scotland. The maximum fine for repeat offenders in Scotland is £5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/airlines-sue-against-uk-quarantine-rules/story-8P4gnwcOBFNKHFPqEAaCFL.html
09-06-2020||World||George Floyd death: Minneapolis council vows to disband its police force||Minneapolis city council members have pledged to abolish its police force whose officer knelt on the neck of a dying George Floyd, as the biggest civil rights protests in more than 50 years demanded a transformation of US criminal justice.And Democrats, led by a group of African-American lawmakers, unveiled sweeping legislation on Monday to combat police violence and racial injustice. The 134-page bill would take numerous steps including allowing victims of misconduct to sue for police damages, ban chokeholds and require the use of body cameras by federal law enforcement officers, restrict the use of lethal force, and facilitate independent investigations of police departments with patterns of misconduct. The Democrats announced details of the legislation on Capitol Hill after kneeling for 8 minute and 46 seconds in Floyd’s memory — the exact time a white police officer had held the African-American down on the ground with a knee to his neck.  The move for the legislation, which may not pass given the lack of majority for Democrats in the Senate, came after a nine-member majority of the 13-member Minneapolis council on Sunday announced their decision to defund police force at a rally. They plan to replace the department with a community-based safety system and reallocate its budget to social programmes. “Our commitment is to end our city’s toxic relationship with the Minneapolis police department,” council president Lisa Bender said to loud cheers. She added they want to “end policing as we know it. ”President Donald Trump has been dismissive of the move. “LAW & ORDER, NOT DEFUND AND ABOLISH THE POLICE,” he tweeted on Monday. “The Radical Left Democrats have gone Crazy!”In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters he would shift some funds out of the city’s vast police budget and reallocate it to youth and social services.Demonstrations have swept the country slowly emerging from the coronavirus lockdown in the two weeks since Floyd, 46, died after choking out the words “I can’t breathe”. Derek Chauvin, the police officer due to appear in a Minneapolis court on Monday, has been charged with second-degree and third-degree murder as well as second-degree manslaughter.Huge weekend crowds had gathered across the country and in Europe to protest racism.  But slowly, normalcy is returning to the US. Curfews were removed in New York and other major cities including Philadelphia and Chicago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-floyd-death-minneapolis-council-vows-to-disband-its-police-force/story-OiHfqXqfJNg561qzuvQGZO.html
09-06-2020||World||Coronavirus pandemic is worsening globally, warns WHO chief||The head of the World Health Organization warned that the coronavirus pandemic is worsening globally, even as the situation in Europe is improving. At a press briefing on Monday, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus noted that about 75% of cases reported to the UN health agency on Sunday came from 10 countries in the Americas and South Asia. He noted that more than 100,000 cases have been reported on nine of the past 10 days — and that the 136,000 cases reported Sunday was the biggest number so far. Tedros said most countries in Africa are still seeing an increase in cases, including in new geographic areas even though most countries on the continent have fewer than 1,000 cases. “At the same time, we’re encouraged that several countries around the world are seeing positive signs,” Tedros said. “In these countries, the biggest threat now is complacency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-pandemic-is-worsening-globally-warns-who-chief/story-WYcdQYZlP9D9Lllo7HbM8K.html
09-06-2020||World||Lockdown may have averted over 3 mn Covid-19 related deaths in Europe: Study||Wide-scale lockdowns including shop and school closures have reduced Covid-19 transmission rates in Europe enough to control its spread and may have averted more than three million deaths, researchers said on Monday. In a modelling study of lockdown impact in 11 nations, Imperial College London scientists said the draconian steps, imposed mostly in March, had “a substantial effect” and helped bring the infection’s reproductive rate below one by early May.The reproduction rate, or R value, measures the average number of people that one infected person will pass the disease on to. An R value above 1 can lead to exponential growth. The Imperial team estimated that by early May, between 12 and 15 million people in the 11 countries - Austria, Belgium, Britain, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland - had been infected with Covid-19.By comparing the number of deaths counted with deaths predicted by their model if no lockdown measures had been introduced, they found some 3.1 million deaths were averted.“Measuring the effectiveness of these interventions is important, given their economic and social impacts, and may indicate which course of action is needed to maintain control,” the researchers said in a summary of their findings. A second study by scientists in the United States, published alongside the Imperial-led one in the journal Nature, estimated that anti-contagion lockdown policies implemented in China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, France and the United States prevented or delayed around 530 million Covid-19 cases.Focusing their analysis on these six countries, the US research team compared infection growth rates before and after the implementation of more than 1,700 local, regional and national policies designed to slow or halt the spread of Covid-19, the disease caused by the new SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus.They found that without anti-contagion policies in place, early infection rates of SARS-CoV-2 grew by 68% a day in Iran and an average of 38% a day across the other five countries. Using econometric modelling normally used in assessing economic policies, they found lockdowns had slowed the infection rate with “measurable beneficial health outcomes in most cases”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdown-may-have-averted-over-3-mn-covid-19-related-deaths-in-europe-study/story-i8V2Ex1paKVI1EoRgi9WvN.html
09-06-2020||World||Black business owners’ ranks collapse by 41% in US amid Covid-19 lockdown, says study||The Covid-19 economic shutdown has hurt African American businesses the most among racial and ethnic groups in US, with a 41% decline of black owners from February to April, a new study from the National Bureau of Economic Research shows.While the pandemic has hit entrepreneurs across the board, closing some 3.3 million small businesses at least temporarily, the sidelining of 440,000 African Americans was especially severe. Black owners may have fared worse because fewer of them operated in industries deemed “essential” during the pandemic, among other factors, according to the NBER paper. Immigrant business owners also fared poorly, with a 36% drop during the period.“The negative early-stage impacts on minority- and immigrant-owned businesses, if prolonged, may be problematic for broader racial inequality because of the importance of minority businesses for local job creation, economic advancement, and longer-term wealth inequality,” said the report’s author, Robert Fairlie of the University of California at Santa Cruz.The findings add to other data showing that the pandemic has broadly hit African Americans harder than other groups, with blacks suffering higher rates of mortality from the coronavirus and greater joblessness. While unemployment among white Americans fell to 12.4% last month, according to data released Friday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the jobless rate for African Americans rose slightly to 16.8%. The disparities put a stark spotlight on racial inequalities as protests continue nationwide in the wake of the death of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, at the hands of a white police officer in Minneapolis.Here’s a look at the main racial and demographic groups in the NBER paper:The NBER’s study evaluated data from a federal government population survey to estimate the number small business owners that had ceased operating from pre-pandemic February to April, the first full month of Covid-19 related lockdowns. The report makes no assumptions about whether the owners will be shuttered only temporarily or permanently, and it notes certain government relief efforts that could help keep small businesses afloat, especially the $669 billion Paycheck Protection Program.The study doesn’t capture most of the second tranche of funding in the PPP program, which started at the end of April and reached many small firms that were shut out in the first round. A new bill signed last week gives small businesses more flexibility in how they can use the PPP loans, which can be converted into grants as long as owners follow program guidelines. Among other changes, it extends the period in which businesses can use the funds and still seek loan forgiveness to 24 weeks from eight weeks.Overall, the number of operating business owners of all groups fell to 11.7 million in April from 15 million two months earlier, a 22% decline that Fairlie calls “unprecedented.” Aside from blacks and immigrants, Hispanic small business owners also fared poorly, with a 32% decline over the period, while Asians and females saw drops of 26% and 25%, respectively.The number of businesses owned by white men or women fell 17%, the study says.Among industries, the only sector that didn’t suffer a decline in small business owners was agriculture, which saw a 7% uptick. Hard-hit industries include arts, leisure and hotels, which fell by 35%, and construction, down by 27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-business-owners-ranks-collapse-by-41-in-us-amid-covid-19-lockdown-says-study/story-qaM9tdrnBmdKy7bnrTm58M.html
09-06-2020||World||Bail set at $1 million for police officer charged with George Floyd’s murder||A Minneapolis judge set a $1 million bail for police officer Derek Chauvin Monday as he made his first court appearance charged with the murder of George Floyd, the 46-year-old African-American man whose death sparked nationwide protests.Chauvin, who was filmed on May 25 pressing his knee on handcuffed Floyd’s neck until he expired, appeared by video from Minnesota state prison to face charges of one count of second degree murder, one count of third degree murder, and one count of manslaughter.In a procedural hearing that did not require Chauvin, 44, to submit a plea, the judge in the Hennepin County District Court set his bail at $1 million with conditions, and $1.25 million without conditions.Meeting the conditions would require him to surrender his firearms, not work in law enforcement or security in any capacity, and have no contact with the family of Floyd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-sets-1-million-bail-for-minneapolis-officer-charged-with-second-degree-murder-in-george-floyd-s-death/story-UzWtpkrAS26G8tVCsY3PZO.html
09-06-2020||World||Minneapolis council backs dismantling police force over George Floyd’s death||A majority of the members of the Minneapolis City Council said Sunday they support disbanding the city’s police department, an aggressive stance that comes just as the state has launched a civil rights investigation after George Floyd’s death.Nine of the council’s 12 members appeared with activists at a rally in a city park Sunday afternoon and vowed to end policing as the city currently knows it. Council member Jeremiah Ellison promised that the council would “dismantle” the department.“It is clear that our system of policing is not keeping our communities safe,” Lisa Bender, the council president, said. “Our efforts at incremental reform have failed, period.”Bender went on to say she and the eight other council members that joined the rally are committed to ending the city’s relationship with the police force and “to end policing as we know it and recreate systems that actually keep us safe.”Floyd, a handcuffed black man, died May 25 after a white officer pressed his knee into Floyd’s neck, ignoring his “I can’t breathe” cries and holding it there even after Floyd stopped moving. His death sparked protests — some violent, many peaceful — that spread nationwide.Community activists have criticized the Minneapolis department for years for what they say is a racist and brutal culture that resists change. The state of Minnesota launched a civil rights investigation of the department last week, and the first concrete changes came Friday in a stipulated agreement in which the city agreed to ban chokeholds and neck restraints.A more complete remaking of the department is likely to unfold in coming months.Disbanding an entire department has happened before. In 2012, with crime rampant in Camden, New Jersey, the city disbanded its police department and replaced it with a new force that covered Camden County. Compton, California, took the same step in 2000, shifting its policing to Los Angeles County.It was a step that then-Attorney General Eric Holder said the Justice Department was considering for Ferguson, Missouri, after the death of Michael Brown. The city eventually reached an agreement short of that but one that required massive reforms overseen by a court-appointed mediator.The move to defund or abolish the Minneapolis department is far from assured, with the civil rights investigation likely to unfold over the next several months.On Saturday, activists for defunding the department staged a protest outside Mayor Jacob Frey’s home. Frey came out to talk with them.“I have been coming to grips with my own responsibility, my own failure in this,” Frey said. When pressed on whether he supported their demands, Frey said: “I do not support the full abolition of the police department.”He left to booing.At another march Saturday during which leaders called for defunding the department, Verbena Dempster said she supported the idea.“I think, honestly, we’re too far past” the chance for reform, Dempster told Minnesota Public Radio. “We just have to take down the whole system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/minneapolis-council-majority-backs-disbanding-police-force-in-aftermath-of-george-floyd-s-death/story-LTvvdCQLx7byrboaNnf1jP.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Unlock 1.0 had to happen to bring life back on track’||Actor Gajraj Rao breathes cinema! He loves his work and enjoys every bit of it. “See, if you will not love and enjoy your work means you are in a wrong field. I have been in advertising for long and enjoyed every bit of it. Then, in 90s, when I took up acting, it took me to another level and gave the recognition that we all want in our lives,” he said over the phone.Approving Unlock 1.0, Gajraj wants people to still be cautious. “In all these months I evolved as a person, now I have become more enduring and don’t hurry on issues. Unlock 1.0 had to happen to bring back life back on track but as responsible citizen we should not rush and let’s take things slowly as ultimately markets, places of worship, restaurants are not going to go anywhere. So, as and when things get better one can socialise like before.” Talking about his last release and his conventional yet modern character, Gajraj said, “Though the central issue of ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhan’ was homophobia yet it was out-and-out a family entertainer. Playing conservative Shankar Tripathi was completely a different experience. I have been a bit sceptical with both my projects be ‘Badhaai Ho’ or ‘SMZS’ but the makers conviction made me so very confident. And see, how both the characters were an instant hit and lauded by the audience and at the same time contented me as an actor,” he said.His next ‘Maidaan’ with actor Ajay Devgn and co-produced by Boney Kapoor was being partially shot in UP, Mumbai and Kolkata. “This film of mine was supposed be extensively shot in April but lockdown happened. After months of hard work, the makers have got a huge set made in Madh Island, Mumbai but heavy rains due to cyclone Nisarga damaged much of it. To cope with all the damages, work may start soon and if the makers ask me to join in 15 days, I will sure join because they are much more knowledgeable than me and they have already suffered so much. So, with all proper guidelines we can start the shoot.”Gajraj is also busy reading scripts for digital as well as films. “I have a number of scripts to read and give a nod but I am taking my time. The digital platform is booming so I too wish to a part of it. However, I have already become a part of it as my film ‘Lootcase’ is getting an OTT release. It’s a comedy drama and we hope it will be liked by all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/unlock-1-0-had-to-happen-to-bring-life-back-on-track/story-8XgwoRSvvzv4VUF2mMAU8N.html
09-06-2020||India||Former left leader Jyotirmoyee Sikdar joins BJP hours after Amit Shah addressed Bengal||Asian games gold medal winning athlete-turned former Communist Party of India (Marxist) Lok Sabha MP Jyotirmoyee Sikdar joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kolkata on Tuesday hours after union home minister Amit Shah addressed the people of the state in a virtual rally. Sikdar won from Krishnanagar Lok Sabha, defeating BJP’s former union minister Satyabrata Mukherjee, in 2004. However, she lost in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections. Sikdar, a middle-distance runner, had won India many laurels in international championships. The 50-year-old sportswoman-turned-politician joined the party in the presence of BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday. Also Read: Amit Shah takes on Mamata Banerjee on virtual turf, seeks change in West BengalShe had contested the 2016 Assembly elections on a CPI (M) ticket but lost. Since then, she has hardly kept touch with the party, according to a state unit leader of CPI (M). A number of former Left leaders-- including three-time sitting MLA Khagen Murmu, now a BJP MP, and former CPI(M) MLA Mahfuza Khatun, now a vice-president of Bengal BJP-- have joined the saffron party over the past couple of years. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-left-leader-jyotirmoyee-sikdar-joins-bjp-hours-after-amit-shah-addressed-bengal/story-dOkD0ysMGWj873PSQetHiM.html
09-06-2020||India||Hizbul terrorists killed Congress sarpanch, says J-K Police chief||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh said that Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists were involved in the killing of Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti in South Kashmir’ Anantnag district on Monday.Bharti was killed by unidentified gunmen in South Kashmir. No outfit has claimed responsibility for the murder.“Yes Hizbul Mujahideen was involved in his killing,” Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police Dilbag Singh saidPolice had said Bharti was attacked inside his orchard in the afternoon. He was cremated in Jammu on Tuesday.Bharti, 40, was the sarpanch of village Lukbawan, Larkipora. He was associated with the Congress party. Locals said Bharti’s family had migrated from south Kashmir in the early ’90s but he returned a couple of years ago and contested the panchayat polls.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said that sarpanch did not have any security. lThe BJP has demanded security for sarpanchs and panchs in Kashmir.State spokesperson of Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) Altaf Thakur asked the administration to provide security to all sarpanchs and panchs.“We have been demanding security cover to our people for a long time. So far ,nothing has happened .We urge police to provide security to all sarpanchs and panchs,” he said.Thakur said that militants are not happy with development, adding that culprits involved in Pandita’s killing will be brought to book soon.“They don’t want development.Ajay Pandita was active on the ground for a long time.He always stood for his people. They want to create a rift between communities. They will not succeed in their nefarious designs. The militants are under tremendous pressure as they have suffered huge losses in the recent past,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorists-killed-congress-sarpanch-says-j-k-police-chief/story-iwT8wYu3KFqXFtBGKTGjlL.html
09-06-2020||India||Char Dham yatra from July 1 for pilgrims from outside Uttarakhand, till then locals can visit||Uttarakhand government has made the famous Char Dham Yatra out of bounds for pilgrims from outside the state till June 30, while putting a cap on the number of devotees allowed per day at the constituent shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath as per the guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the state on Tuesday.The state was under pressure to give the nod to restarting the famous pilgrimage after the central government allowed the reopening of religious places of worship as part of the first phase of gradual easing of restrictions— also known as Unlock 1—following over two months of varying degrees of national lockdown imposed to battle the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic.According to the guidelines released on Tuesday, only locals from Uttarakhand districts where the temples are located, will be allowed to visit the shrines in a limited way in the month of June. A maximum of 1,200 local pilgrims per day would be allowed to Badrinath, 800 to Kedarnath, 600 to Gangotri and 400 to Yamunotri shrine. An order released by Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board states that after discussions between district magistrates of the districts housing the Char Dham Shrines and bodies of priests and locals, “It has been decided that the Yatra will remain suspended for pilgrims from outside the state till June 30. However, the priests and locals have agreed to allow pilgrims from within the district and nearby areas to visit the shrines following all norms.”The state government had already begun work to ensure social distancing norms are observed at these shrines once they are allowed to reopen.Also Read: 77 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand tally to 1,488Raman specified who all will be allowed to visit the shrines in the month of June.“Till June 30, the yatra has only been allowed for those who live in the same district where the shrines are located. Along with them, those who have their hotels, guest houses, shops or government officials who want to continue their work there will be allowed to go,” he said.Pilgrims will be allowed to visit the shrines between 7 am to 7 pm after taking a mandatory free of cost token from counters set up at the shrines. Pilgrims will get the tokens only before darshan at the shrines. The SOP states that it will be mandatory for pilgrims to wear masks and maintain physical distance at the counters while taking the tokens. A fixed time and date will be mentioned on the token when pilgrims can go for the darshan after waiting in a designated queue for entering the shrines. The token will be checked at the entrance. A queue of maximum 120 meters in length with minimum two meters of distance between each pilgrim will be allowed for Kedarnath shrine, while for Badrinath shrine, a queue of maximum 240 meters length will be allowed.As per the norms, a maximum of 80 pilgrims will be allowed in an hour inside Kedarnath shrine, while 120 pilgrims will be allowed at the Badrinath shrine. At Kedarnath, the pilgrims will be given a maximum of one minute for darshan while the time limit has been capped to 30 seconds for Badrinath shrine. Those who wish to offer special prayers will have to maintain proper social distance while offering prayers.For Coronavirus Live Updates Meanwhile, one person will not be given more than three tokens at a particular time for entering the shrine. As part of preparations to start the yatra, local district administration officials at Badrinath shrine have already made circles outside the shrine for pilgrims to maintain physical distance.The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites- Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath- collectively called Char Dham, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins in the west from Yamunotri to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, a record 29 lakh pilgrims visited Char Dham compared to over 27 lakh pilgrims the previous year, including 9.2 lakh to Kedarnath, 10.2 lakh to Badrinath, 4.4 lakh to Yamunotri, and 5.03 lakh to Gangotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-from-july-1-for-pilgrims-from-outside-uttarakhand-till-then-locals-can-visit/story-1OKb71skNYEAxBq11hAP9N.html
09-06-2020||India||Odisha Congress to move CVC, Lokayukta over ‘PPE scam’ amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Odisha unit of the Congress has said that it will move the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the Lokayukta for a probe into alleged irregularities in the procurement of PPE kits to fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Demanding strong action against the officials involved in the “irregularities”, Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik said while several other states procured N95 masks at prices between Rs 1.34 and Rs 8.47 per piece, Odisha procured 30 lakh masks from a Tamil Nadu-based company at Rs 16 per piece.“While other states procured masks at Rs 8 per piece, the Biju Janata Dal government bought 30 lakh masks at a double price. Instead of Rs 2.40 crore, they paid Rs 4.80 crore. It is a scam by the BJD in the purchase of life saving medical supplies. An independent probe must be carried out to find out where the money has gone,” Patnaik said at a press conference.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Apart from launching a massive protest and hitting the streets, our party will move the Central Vigilance Commission and the Lokayukta in connection with the scam and submit a collective memorandum from all districts to Odisha Governor on June 11,” he said.The state Congress chief also alleged that the Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited had purchased an RT-PCR machine at three times the market price. RT-PCR machine which costs around Rs 4-5 lakh has been bought at Rs 12.84 lakh by the state government, he said.“We are not demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on the matter as the BJD enjoys a majority in the state. But we want him to clarify whether there have been irregularities in the procurement or not. We demand the resignation of the ministers and all those involved in the corruption,” said Patnaik.In a separate move, Odisha Pradesh Youth Congress Committee leaders met Governor Ganeshi Lal demanding CBI probe against health and family welfare minister Naba Kishore Das and MSME Secretary Hemant Sharma alleging their involvement in ‘PPE kit procurement scam’. Odisha Suchana Adhikar Abhiyan, a forum of RTI activists, too lodged an FIR in a police station of Bhubaneswar against the MSME secretary alleging his involvement in the PPE kit procurement ‘scam’.On Monday, a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in Orissa High Court in connection with the gross irregularities in the purchase of personal protective equipment by the state government.Last week Sharma was removed from the Covid-19 procurement committee following a controversy that erupted after over 20 truckloads of PPEs, sanitiser, masks and ventilators remained stranded in Bhubaneswar for weeks. The government accepted the consignments from three trucks while the others were turned away.In April, Sharma had claimed that the chief minister allowed his officers to travel with blank cheques for purchase of PPEs and testing kits.However, health and family welfare minister Naba Das said there were no irregularities and the state bought the PPEs as per central guidelines.“The masks were purchased after the direction from the Centre on March 24. The state is proud of the selfless service of health workers and such insinuations would demoralize them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-congress-to-move-cvc-lokayukta-over-ppe-scam-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-4TjM9D95rq58QHzYeIwT2M.html
09-06-2020||India||With 126 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand’s tally reaches to 1,537||With 126 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the tally of total cases in the state increased to 1,537. So far, 41 Covid-19 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state.A bulletin released by the state health department mentioned that 62 Covid-19 cases were reported late on Monday night while 64 cases were reported on Tuesday. The cases were reported from districts like Almora (1), Bageshwar (5), Dehradun (21), Haridwar (7), Nainital (4), Pauri Garhwal (4), Rudraprayag (4), Uttarkashi (1), Tehri Garhwal (72) and Pithoragarh (7).Out of the 126 cases, 25 patients reported on Tuesday had no travel history or were local citizens. A police staff from Dehradun also tested positive along with a vegetable vendor who was a close contact of an earlier positive patient. Other patients had travel history from places like Delhi-NCR, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.On Tuesday, 41 patients were also discharged from hospitals in different districts like Dehradun (27), Chamoli (7), Pauri Garhwal (6) and Uttarkashi (1).The districts of Dehradun (396), Nainital (328), Tehri Garhwal (221) and Haridwar (151) have reported the highest number of positive cases in the state so far. The rate of infection stands at 4.45% in the state now, with a recovery rate of 50.33%. The rate of doubling in the state based on the last seven days stands at 15.82 days.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 40,000 samples of which results of over 5,800 are awaited.The state now has a total of 60 containment zones across five districts of which the maximum containment zones at 25 are in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-126-fresh-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-s-tally-reaches-to-1-537/story-iNK4QdjypUicH6AlgfF1XO.html
09-06-2020||India||Assam gas well fire could take 4 weeks to extinguish, says OIL||Oil India Limited said on Tuesday that it could take at least four more weeks to control the fire and plug the blowout at a natural gas well that ignited earlier in the day in Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia district.The gas well had been spewing gas and condensate since the blowout began on May 27.The fire broke out at the well a day after three experts from Singapore had reached the area to attempt plugging the well.“Emergency meetings are underway with the expert team. They have expressed it is now a safe environment for working and are confident that the situation can be controlled and the well capped safely,” OIL said in a statement.“The situation demands arrangement of large quantities of water, installation of high discharge pumps and removal of debris. All the operations as per the experts will take about four weeks. Efforts will be made to reduce this time frame as much as possible,” it added. Meanwhile, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal directed industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary to rush to the site and take stock of the situation. He also suggested use of IAF aircraft to douse the fire.“Instructions have been issued to district officials to ensure safety of local residents. Police, military, para-military forces and NDRF are present at the spot,” Sonowal told journalists.“I have apprised Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan about the incident and asked him to take steps to contain the fire and the blowout. Indian Air Force (IAF) can also play a role in controlling the fire and I have asked defence minister Rajnath Singh about it,” he added.Sonowal asked residents of the area and Tinsukia town, which is 9 km away from the site not to panic and assured all help from the state government.Smoke could be seen billowing from the well several kilometers away from the site close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm at the site. The reason for the outbreak is not ascertained yet. Apart from a fireman of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) who sustained minor injury, no one else has been injured,” said Jayant Bormudoi, senior manager (corporate communication) of OIL.“The experts were not present at the site when the fire broke out. They were at meetings in OIL office in Duliajan. There is no immediate threat to residents of the area who have already been shifted beyond a radius of 1.5 km from the well,” Bormudoi added.Following the blowout nearly 2,000 people residing near the well had been shifted to four relief camps.Meanwhile, local residents have started protesting close to the blowout site blaming OIL for failing to control the disaster for two weeks. OIL has asked the state government to control the situation so that experts and officials can reach the site to control the fire and blowout.The Baghjan well suffered the blowout on May 27 while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-could-take-4-weeks-to-extinguish-says-oil/story-8KgN3R74OlH2MSMgZDiTfN.html
09-06-2020||India||Congress request for DK Shivakumar’s swearing in rejected by Karnataka govt||The Congress’ request to hold an event for the swearing-in ceremony for its new Karnataka president, DK Shivakumar, was rejected for the second time by the state government citing lockdown rules.The rules, as stated by the ministry of home affairs, do not allow the assembly of people for political purposes. The Congress had sought permission to hold the event on June 14.After the defeat of a number of Congress nominees in the bypolls to 15 seats in December last year, the then Karnataka Pradesh Congress president Dinesh Gundu Rao had resigned taking moral responsibility. On March 11, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had announced that DK Shivakumar, the party’s main troubleshooter in the state, will be the next state president. A grand swearing-in ceremony was also planned at the end of March, but with a nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 the event had to be postponed.Since then, DK Shivakumar has written twice to the state government seeking permission to hold an event for him to formally take over the office, but his plea has been rejected on both occasions.Only weddings with not more than 50 guests or funerals with not more than 20 people are allowed to take place.A miffed Shivakumar claimed that it was vendetta politics by the BJP government. The KPCC also in a tweet said that the party had sought permission for June 14 to hold a ‘Prathijn Dina’ (oath day) across 7,800 locations in Karnataka with 10 lakh plus Congress Karyakartas attending it, observing safety precautions for Covid-19 and maintaining social distancing. “By denying permission again, the BJP government is indulging in vendetta politics,” it claimed.The BJP refused to comment on the matter, with a spokesperson saying it is a government decision keeping the law of the land in mind and that the party had nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-request-for-dk-shivakumar-s-swearing-in-rejected-by-karnataka-govt/story-2kiRQMV7wBJp2Sbm8gjubL.html
09-06-2020||India||Goa govt defends change in Covid-19 testing strategy after backlash||The Goa government on Tuesday defended its decision to relax the mandatory Covid-19 test for people entering the state despite public pressure to continue the practice, saying it would ensure that the state did not lose focus on cases within its boundaries.Goa’s health secretary Nila Mohanan said that owing to the mandatory 14-day home quarantine, the state was adequately on guard against the disease. “This is a sustainable and strategic move that we are making because we need to have a very focused approach towards testing. The more samples we keep taking from everyone who comes across the borders we are losing focus on the areas within Goa where we have to look at very specifically,” Mohanan said at a press conference. “There are other focal points where we need to strategize and ensure that there is no outbreak. We need to see that the cases which are suspected are being tested on time, the results are available on time, so I think a very focused approach is required from now on and the more we load our labs with samples drawn from each and everyone who is entering the state the less we will be able to do a focused mitigation of coronavirus within our state,” Mohanan said. The government’s decision to make testing only optional for people entering the state was met with derision on social media and by opposition legislators who claimed the government had surrendered in its fights against the virus and was choosing the option of ‘herd immunity’ that would come at a huge cost especially to the vulnerable sections of the society. “The State government has thrown its hands in the air and is going for herd immunity. Herd immunity can either be achieved by injection (vaccination) or infection. This will come at a huge cost to Goa. The vulnerable people will be very badly affected,” leader of the Goa Forward Party Vijai Sardesai said.The state government has also changed its earlier strategy of testing everyone in the state’s lone containment zone and is now only focusing on high risk groups within the population even as the fear.In the first three days since Mangor Hill, a locality in the Port town of Vasco da Gama was declared a containment zone, the state government conducted nearly 500 tests per day and was on course to complete the testing within a week. Since the weekend, the health department is only conducting 50 tests a day in the containment zone, that have now been restricted to patients with symptoms and those in high risk categories including senior citizens, pregnant women, children under five and those with pre-existing conditions. Goa has among the highest testing rates in the country with 19,830 tests per million as of June 8, as per data released by the Directorate of Information and Publicity and second only to the Union Territories of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.On Tuesday Goa reported 29 new cases of Covid-19 among persons connected to the containment zone as well as people entering the state.Goa’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 359 of which 292 cases are active. On June 1, the state had 44 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-defends-change-in-covid-19-testing-strategy-after-backlash/story-qnjJpdOT3C44b9fS2ZKnyO.html
09-06-2020||India||Four doctors of AIIMS Bhubaneswar test positive for Covid-19||Four doctors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Bhubaneswar tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, putting further strain on Covid management of the hospitals amid mounting cases. Till Tuesday, Odisha had reported 3140 cases with 146 new cases.AIIMS Bhubaneswar director B Gitanjali said three senior resident doctors from surgery, pathology and pharmacology and a junior doctor from dermatology today tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total number of infected doctors to 5. Last week, a junior resident doctor of the hospital too had tested positive for Covid-19. The doctors who tested positive today were not engaged in treatment of corona patients in AIIMS, but stayed in a containment zone near the hospital.Sources said the swab samples of 3 more doctors in the institute have been sent for test as they are showing Covid-19 symptoms.Yesterday, four anesthesiologists in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town had tested positive for Covid 8 days after they helped in the surgery of a patient. Last week, two doctors in Rourkela General Hospital too had tested positive while one each in Cuttack, Nayagarh and Angul district have tested positive in last fortnight.So far 14 doctors in Odisha have tested positive for Covid-19.Apart from these 14 doctors, 13 nurses across the state have also tested positive. On Monday, 8 nurses in MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town had too tested positive.It is not just those working in Covid-19 wards who are getting infected, but also community health workers, police and other officials who are involved in contact tracing and screening suspected patients by going door-to-door in virus hotspots.On Monday, a jawan of the Odisha Special Striking Force engaged in COVID-19 duty in patrolling duty at a quarantine centre of Ganjam district tested positive for the virus. Earlier, two homeguards engaged in patrolling duty at a quarantine centre of Ganjam too had tested positive. Similarly, six Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Anganwadi workers, sanitary staff and volunteers who were engaged in two quarantine centres of Kendrapara district tested positive for Covid-19 on May 31.Besides the doctors, nurses and health workers, 61 NDRF and fire service personnel from Odisha who had gone to Kolkata for Cyclone Amphan restoration work, have tested positive for Covid-19 in last 4 days, said fire service DG Satyajit Mohanty. Two jawans working in military wing of Proof and Experimental Establishment under DRDO in Chandipur area of Balasore district on Monday had tested positive.A senior official of health department said the state government is taking adequate precautions in preventing infection of doctors, nurses and other frontline health workers. “All of them have been given PPEs, but due to some negligence they may be getting infected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-doctors-of-aiims-bhubaneswar-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-YKry7izGObt9pB6rphTPfL.html
09-06-2020||India||LG says Kejriwal’s decision to reserve hospitals was unconstitutional||Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Anil Baijal has responded to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s criticism of Raj Niwas overturning Delhi government’s decision to reserve Delhi administration-owned hospitals and other general private hospitals in the capital for treatment of the residents of the city-state and said the decision had to be overturned since it was unconstitutional.A statement issued by the LG’s office clarified its decision in view of the disagreement expressed publicly by Delhi CM. The statement said that the official position on the matter was articulated during the Tuesday meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) headed by the LG in Delhi.“In the meeting today, it was clarified by Hon’ble Lt. Governor that he had reversed the order of Delhi Government as it violated the constitutional rights of Equality and Right to Life which include Right to Health. A similar directive earlier issued by GNCTD to discriminate in providing healthcare facilities to patients based on their residence was struck down by the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi,” the statement said.Kejriwal had on Monday said that barring hospitals that are under centre’s control, all Delhi government run hospitals and private hospitals will provide service to residents of Delhi as the pressure on city’s health infrastructure was huge due to the rising number of coronavirus cases.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesBaijal, however, scrapped the Delhi government’s order reserving a chunk of the hospital beds in the city for residents of the national capital alleging it was not only unconstitutional but also against a Delhi High Court order that had nixed a similar proposal in 2018. Kejriwal responded to LG’s move claiming it would disadvantage residents of the capital.“The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all,” Kejriwal had said in a tweet after LG’s decision to overturn the decision.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19His Deputy Manish Sisodia had attacked the BJP alleging it had a hand in LG’s decision to overturn Delhi Government’s order.“What if all beds in Delhi get occupied within 2-3 days by patients from other states and that leads to the death of a Delhi resident who fails to get a hospital bed? Who will take the responsibility,” he had said at a press conference on Monday.Delhi has around 90,000 beds as per some estimates and half of these are currently empty.The statement released by Baijal’s office on Tuesday added that it was the responsibility of the State to provide universal healthcare to all patients coming to hospitals in accordance with constitutional provisions. He said this point was explained to Delhi CM Kejriwal in the meeting.“This was explained to the Hon’ble Dy. Chief Minister in today’s SDMA meeting. It is unfortunate that any responsible government should attempt to discriminate amongst patients on grounds of residence. Rather than discriminating between the patients the goal of the government should be to plan and prepare for adequate infrastructure. We are all Indians and Delhi belongs to all,” the statement said.The statement further adds that the Lt. Governor is fully aware of the need to ramp up medical infrastructure to meet the rising requirement and claims that Tuesday’s SDMA meeting discussed ideas like using spaces like Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Tyagraj Stadium, JLN Stadium and Pragati Maidan to make large makeshift medical facilities. “It was also decided to utilize banquet halls, marriage places, etc. to ramp up the facilities,” the statement adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-says-kejriwal-s-decision-to-reserve-hospitals-was-unconstitutional/story-3X0w0bwIWRQsR57vpriffK.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Systematic and targeted’: India to Pak over demolition of Hindu minority homes in Punjab||India on Tuesday registered a strong protest with Pakistan over what it said was the “systematic and targeted” demolition of homes of the Hindu minority in Punjab province, people familiar with developments said.A strong demarche or formal diplomatic representation was made to the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi on the demolition of houses belonging to Hindu minority at Chak 52/DB in Bahawalpur district of Pakistan’s Punjab, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“Members of civil society in India had expressed serious concerns and anguish at the targeted and continued persecution of religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan,” one of the people said.“They have also strongly condemned the incident wherein state authorities targeted the Hindu minority despite the occupants of the houses producing valid documents of ownership and legal relief granted against demolition,” the person added.The Indian side conveyed its concerns and asked the Pakistan high commission to inform the relevant authorities in the Pakistan government to take “urgent remedial action”, the people said.The Indian side also called on the Pakistan government to discharge its responsibilities by looking after the safety, security and well-being of minority communities and by protecting their rights and freedoms, the people said.The NGO Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) recently concluded after an independent fact-finding mission that local authorities in Bahawalpur district were responsible for demolishing the homes of members of the Hindu minority.“The demolition occurred despite the fact that the Hindu community – fearing this might come to pass after being threatened…on several occasions – had filed a case petitioning a senior civil judge of the Bahawalpur bench to issue an order forbidding any such action,” HRCP said in a statement issued last week.“Even though the restraining order was issued on 20 May 2020, 25 houses were levelled and another 10 partly demolished, leaving their occupants – including young children – without any access to shelter,” the statement said.“HRCP notes with serious concern that the Hindu community, already vulnerable as a religious minority, was targeted on grounds of faith to advance the interests of the local land mafia,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/systematic-and-targeted-india-to-pak-over-demolition-of-hindu-minority-homes-in-punjab/story-EkjrcNv0U7GpbgpGyPVXbK.html
09-06-2020||India||After adivasis protest Supreme Court order on reservation, KCR steps in||Adivasis in the tribal areas of the two Telugu states - Andhra Pradesh and Telangana - observed a complete shutdown on Tuesday in protest against a recent judgment of the Supreme Court, scrapping a government order providing 100 per cent reservation to tribals in the recruitment of teachers in the scheduled areas.Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that his government would file a review petition in Supreme Court, seeking 100 per cent reservations for STs in tribal area for teacher’s recruitment.The bandh was observed following a call given by Adivasi Employees and Teachers’ Associations, Adivasi Hakkula Sangham (Adivasi Rights Group), Girijana Sankshema Sangham (Tribal Welfare Group) and Tudum Debba. Even the outlawed CPI (Maoist) extended support to the bandh call.Shops and business establishments in as many as 11 blocks in the tribal areas of Visakhapatnam downed their shutters. In Seethampeta tribal area, tribals squatted on the roads raising slogans against the Supreme Court orders, bringing the vehicular traffic to a halt. They demanded that the state government file a review petition.Similar protests were held by adivasis at Buttaigudem, Polavaram and other mandals of the West Godavari district seeking reservation as per the government order. Polavaram MLA Tellam Raju promised to bring the issue to the notice of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and tribal welfare minister Pushpa Sri Vani and do justice to the tribals.On April 22, a five-judge constitution bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, struck down a government order (GO No. 3 of 2000) issued by the Andhra Pradesh government which had provided absolute reservation for members of the STs for teaching jobs in the scheduled areas. The apex court ruled that the reservations should not exceed the 50% limit.The bench also interpreted its judgment prospectively, not “retrospectively”, and held that the existing appointments made in excess of 50% reservation shall survive but shall cease to be effective in the future, providing relief to the tribal teachers who have already been appointed.The tribals have been agitating in protest against this judgment, stating that it would severely affect their rights.In Telangana, a complete bandh was also observed in Utnoor, Indravelli, Narnoor, Gandiguda, Jainur, Sirpur agency areas of Adilabad district. Buses were confined to their respective depots in Utnoor. Police teams were deployed in the area to prevent any untoward incidents during the shutdown time.In Venkatapuram area of Mulug district of Telangana, there was a clash between the tribals and security forces, as the latter tried to foil the enforcement of bandh. The shopkeepers voluntarily closed down their operations in support of the bandh call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-adivasis-protest-supreme-court-order-on-reservation-kcr-steps-in/story-8lXYOMWHokKPtgBbD5kuSJ.html
09-06-2020||India||SC directs NHRC to examine allegations of bonded labour in brick kilns in UP, Bihar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to examine complaints regarding alleged bonded labour in three brick kilns in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP).The direction was issued by a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Krishna Murari while hearing a plea by social worker Zahid Hussain who had claimed that 187 people have been forced into bonded labour in three brick kilns and are being made to do hard physical labour in inhuman conditions.The apex court also asked the human rights body to issue guidelines for protection and rehabilitation of bonded labourers in the light of their increased vulnerability due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The NHRC had earlier considered the complaints and issued directions on May 11 to the district administrations of Rohtas in Bihar and Sambhal in UP, where the three brick kilns are situated, to conduct inquiry and submit reports but no action was taken by the district authorities prompting Hussain to approach the apex court on May 25.When the matter first came up for hearing before the Supreme Court on June 3, the top court had issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh and Bihar governments and also asked the District Magistrates of Rohtas and Sambhal to submit their reports regarding the allegations.The court after considering the action taken reports by the two states on Tuesday sent the matter back to the NHRC while granting petitioner the liberty to move the Supreme Court again in case of delay by NHRC in dealing with the matter.Two of the three brick kilns are in Rohtas district in Bihar (in Bharkol and Dhaudarh villages) and one is in Sambhal district in UP. According to the petition, the Bharkol brick kiln has 41 bonded labourers including 14 children while the Dhaudarh kiln has 84 such workers including 27 dependent children. The one at Sambhal has 62 bonded labourers. All the 187 people are from scheduled caste communities.Hussain had alleged that the labourers at the brick kiln are prevented from leaving the facility on their own, denied their statutory minimum wage, physically and verbally abused, and even the women and children are often made to work long shifts of over 12 hours.“One of the labourers (at the Dhaudarh brick kiln) was beaten on his head with a stick and left bleeding merely for asking for his statutory wages. Three victims who are pregnant, are among such labourers, who are not being provided any medical assistance,” the petitioner alleged. The petition filed through advocate Srishti Agnihotri said that after the NHRC passed orders directing inquiry, the district administration of Sambhal through the labour enforcement officer, conducted a very perfunctory enquiry of all the 17 families. Despite the spot enquiry, the administration of Sambhal District asked the laborers to continue to remain at the brick kiln at the mercy of the brick kiln owners/traffickers.“The district administration has not made sufficient arrangements to move the labourers to an alternate safe location, arrange for their release certificates, ensure the payment of wages and access to healthcare and ration for the labourers”, senior counsel Anitha Shenoy said.As regards the two brick kilns in Rohtas district, the petitioner alleged that the district administration did not take any steps towards conducting spot enquiry and the laborers including pregnant women, are forced to work long hours under terrible conditions and without statutory wages.Hussain also sought specific guidelines to protect, rehabilitate and repatriate bonded labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic. He claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant nation-wide lockdown has intensified the vulnerability that bonded labourers are ordinarily subjected to.“From increased isolation to restriction of movement, lack of food supplies, lack of healthcare, non-payment of wages and restricted access to law enforcement authorities, the Covid-19 pandemic has severely exacerbated the abusive conditions that bonded labourers are trapped in. It has also pushed persons who were not originally working in a state of bondage, into a state of bonded labour,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-nhrc-to-examine-allegations-of-bonded-labour-in-brick-kilns-in-up-bihar/story-Mllb72QDz0pZwMcHlME6sL.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: ‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.To legally support new map, Nepal’s lawmakers discuss amendmentNepal’s Parliament on Tuesday discussed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new political map that shows Kalapani and Lipulekh as part of Nepalese territory amid widespread backing for the move from lawmakers.Read more. ‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanchThe mortal remains of sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti who was shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday, were cremated at Jammu’s Shakti Nagar crematorium on Tuesday.Read more. ‘Hungry only for votes’: TMC attacks BJP after Amit Shah’s virtual rallyHours after union home minister Amit Shah’s call on Tuesday to end the Mamata Banerjee regime in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of focusing on politics instead of Covid-19, the border stand-off with China and, for Bengal in particular, dealing with the post-cyclone relief and reconstruction.Read more. Covid-19 latest: Andhra joins the list of states with more than 5,000 positive patientsAndhra Pradesh joined the list of Indian states to have registered more than 5,000 positive coronavirus cases on Tuesday with the addition of 216 new Covid-19 patients taking the tally to 5,029 infections in the state, according to news agency PTI.Read more. India has largest, most experienced mountain army in the world, says Chinese military expertIndia has the world’s largest and most experienced troops trained for high-altitude battles, a military expert affiliated to China’s leading maker of equipment for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has said, adding that mountaineering is an “essential skill” for each Indian soldier deployed in the mountains.Read more. Varun Sharma mourns death of ex-manager Disha Salian, says he’s ‘speechless, numb’Actor Varun Sharma has condoled the death of his former manager, who died of a suspected suicide on Monday. The Chhicchore actor wrote that he is ‘at a loss for words’.Read more. The Ramon Magsaysay awards, Asia’s version of Nobel Prize awards cancelledThe Ramon Magsaysay awards, regarded as Asia’s version of the Nobel Prize, have been cancelled this year due to the global pandemic, the only third time the annual awards were disrupted in six decades.Read more. ‘Fear mongering’: BJP slams Manish Sisodia’s 5.5 lakh cases by July remarkDelhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta slammed the AAP government over 5.5 lakh cases remark. Gupta called Delhi government’s remark ‘fear-mongering’. “Delhi government is trying to instill fear in public as they have not done the groundwork,” Gupta said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said 5.5 lakh cases are expecting in Delhi by July end.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-we-won-t-leave-kashmir-says-family-of-slain-pandit-sarpanch-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mlFWPRCM1vEzYc0sN2hriJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Odisha warns of disciplinary action against employees not wearing masks in office||With Covid-19 cases going up steadily in Odisha, the state government said any of its employees found not wearing mask during officer hours would face charges of official indiscipline.As the number of Covid-19 cases touched 3,140 on Tuesday, the General Administration & Public Grievance department in an advisory for the government employees said ‘Social Distancing’ has to be meticulously enforced in all the government departments to restrain the spread of Covid-19. Not more than 4 persons would not be allowed in the lift and inside the lift, the persons have to stand facing the walls of the lift and not face each other, the government said.“All the employees inside the office premises are required to wear mask compulsorily, for the entire period of their stay in office. Wilful deviation from the instructions shall be construed to be an official indiscipline. 2. The principle of Social Distancing of two metres between two persons is required to be strictly maintained at all times in the office, such as discussing, standing, waiting etc. inside the premises,” the order said.The order also said employees need to ensure frequent hand washing (for minimum 20 seconds) during the office hours, especially after the use of washrooms. “Proper sanitisation of the Office buildings common space should be done at regular intervals. Adequate cleaning and sanitation materials are to be procured by the respective office establishment. All the rooms of the offices, stairs, washrooms etc. are to be cleaned /sanitized regularly. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) would be done in office premises and in common areas. The interiors of the vehicles including steering handles would also be disinfected using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution/ spray,” said the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-warns-of-disciplinary-action-against-employees-not-wearing-masks-in-office/story-Mm2N8BUfwphiZG55lnZgvK.html
09-06-2020||India||Central, state minister spar over Kerala opening places of worship||A central minister questioned the Kerala government’s decision to open places of worship, eliciting a sharp response from the state minister, who then advised the former to check with the home ministry guidelines. V Muraleedharan, minister of state for external affairs, termed the Kerala government’s move to open shrines “hasty”, adding the move will endanger lives of devotees. Hitting back, Kadakampally Surendran, state temple affairs minister, asked Muraleedharan to seek answers from home minister Amit Shah, whose ministry gave directions to this effect.“It is sad the minister has no idea about decisions being taken by his government in Delhi. It is good for him to do some homework before attacking the state government. He is using all opportunities to portray the state in a bad light,” said Surendran, adding the state opened all shrines as per the directive of the Central government.Unveiling the graded exit plan under Unlock 1, the central government had allowed reopening of places of worship for devotees, malls and restaurants from June 8 across the country. They have been shut since March 25, when the lockdown was first imposed to stem the spread of the disease.Earlier, the union minister tweeted against the move, saying it will invite more trouble for the devotees.“Its [Kerala’s] decision to open temples despite opposition from devotees seems suspicious - neither devotees nor temple committees demanded the opening of shrines,” he tweeted, adding, “What is the haste? Is this a deliberate attempt by the atheist government to denigrate devotees?”. This is not the first time that the Union minister has attacked the state government, earlier he had locked horns with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the evacuation of expatriates from the middle-eastern countries.Amid the verbal sparring, malls and restaurants opened in the state. Various temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) opened on Tuesday along with some churches and mosques in parts of the state. While the famous Lord Krishna temple at Guruvayoor opened its doors by following the stipulated norms laid down by the government, the Sree Padmanabha Swamy and Attukkal temples in the state capital were among those which remained shut.The Viswa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Aikya Vedi and many outfits have asked devotees to wait for some more time.Meanwhile, the state has reported 91 fresh cases taking the total to 2,096. Out of these, 53 are expatriates, 27 came from other states and 10 infected from primary contacts. The state has reported 17 deaths so far, said state health minister KK Shailaja’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-state-minister-spar-over-kerala-opening-places-of-worship/story-A5eV7ZCv3sITTq04sYyw0L.html
09-06-2020||India||PM Modi discusses Covid-19 pandemic with Philippines president||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday discussed the Covid-19 pandemic with Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte and assured that India’s well-established capacity for manufacturing affordable pharmaceutical products would continue to be deployed for the benefit of the entire humanity. The leaders also discussed the steps being taken by the two governments to address the challenges arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said.The Philippines President appreciated the steps taken by India to maintain supply of essential pharmaceutical products to his country, it said.The prime minister assured President Duterte of India’s commitment to support the Philippines in its fight against the pandemic. “He stressed that India’s well-established capacity for manufacturing affordable pharmaceutical products, including for an eventual vaccine once it is found, would continue to be deployed for the benefit of entire humanity,” the statement said. Both leaders expressed appreciation for the cooperation extended to ensure the welfare of their citizens in each other’s territory, as also for their repatriation home, during the ongoing health crisis. The leaders shared their satisfaction at the progress seen in recent years in all aspects of the bilateral relationship, including defence cooperation, it said.Taking to Twitter, Modi later said, “India and the Philippines will cooperate to reduce the health and economic impact of the pandemic, and to give shape to our common vision for the Indo-Pacific region.” Modi emphasised that India sees the Philippines as a vital partner in the Indo-Pacific Region.  The prime minister also conveyed his best wishes to President Duterte and the people of the Philippines for the forthcoming National Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-discusses-covid-19-pandemic-with-philippines-president/story-23U9iiwYZa2jlWNb1Js75K.html
09-06-2020||India||Darjeeling hotels retract call to shutdown from July 1, tour operators see hope||Darjeeling hotel owners association has reversed its decision to suspend operations during the off season beginning July 1, triggering hope that it may encourage gradual restoration of tourism to the Darjeeling-Kalimpong and the Dooars tourism circuits that support around 50,000 jobs.Stakeholders in tourism business in the Darjeeling region of West Bengal were relieved with the retraction of the decision rooted in fears that the flow of guests to the region, choked by the coronavirus induced lockdown, was unlikely to pick up despite easing of restrictions in the off season beginning July. The association also felt paying salaries to staff may not be possible after June.The Darjeeling Hotel Owners Association (DHOA) had earlier termed it was pointless keeping the hotels open and declared that staff would not be paid after July 1 and will receive only 35 per cent salary for April, May and June. It predicted that the tourism industry would be among the last to recover from the effects of the nationwide lockdown.Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), said, “Differences over payment of salary to hotel staff will be sorted out within a week. A committee has been constituted to find a solution.” The employees’ trade unions are opposed to the proposed salary cut.Travel Agents Association of Bengal (TAAB) has welcomed the decision saying it will send a positive message to tourists, some of whom have started enquiring about trips to Darjeeling.No end to commuters’ woes in Bengal as limited number of buses hit streets“A section of tourists will not be deterred by the pandemic. They know we will have to live with the virus for some time. The Darjeeling-Kalimpong and the Dooars tourism circuits provide employment to more than 50,000 people. There are 380 hotels in Darjeeling and its outskirts. They accommodate nearly 4.5 lakh tourists every year,” Nilanjan Basu, secretary, TAAB, said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe decision was also welcomed by the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF). Ajoy Edwards, the spokesperson for the outfit, had earlier threatened to move the Calcutta High Court if hotels went ahead with the shut down call.Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network requested the government to look at the financial issues faced by the hotel owners in the region.“There is not going to be an influx of tourists right now. The government should look into the problems faced by hotel owners and their employees,” said Sanyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-in-darjeeling-bengal-s-top-tourism-destination-to-shut-indefinitely-from-july-1/story-HHg2xvZ2KM0pVHrnP8ylVP.html
09-06-2020||India||Targets for Covid-19 vaccine identified by scientists||Scientists have identified regions of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 to target with a vaccine, by harnessing tools used for the development of cancer immunotherapies. The researchers at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) in the US employed the same approach used to elicit an immune response against cancer cells to stimulate an immune response against the novel coronavirus. Using this strategy, the researchers believe a resulting vaccine would provide protection across the human population and drive a long-term immune response. “In many ways, cancer behaves like a virus, so our team decided to use the tools we developed to identify unique aspects of childhood cancers that can be targeted with immunotherapies and apply those same tools to identify the right protein sequences to target in SARS-CoV-2,” said John M Maris, a pediatric oncologist at CHOP, and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania. “We think our approach provides a roadmap for a vaccine that would be both safe and effective and could be produced at scale,” said Maris, senior author of the research published in the journal Cell Reports Medicine. The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an urgent need for the development of a safe and effective vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease, the researchers said. An optimally designed vaccine maximises a long-lasting immune response, while minimising adverse reactions, autoimmunity, or disease exacerbation, they said. To increase the likelihood that a vaccine is both safe and effective, the research team prioritised parameters in identifying regions of the virus to target. The researchers looked for regions that would stimulate a memory T-cell response that, when paired with the right B cells, would drive memory B cell formation and provide lasting immunity and do so across the majority of human genomes. They targeted regions of SARS-CoV-2 that are present across multiple related coronaviruses, as well as new mutations that increase infectivity, while also ensuring that those regions were as dissimilar as possible from sequences naturally occurring in humans to maximize safety. The researchers propose a list of 65 peptide sequences that, when targeted, offer the greatest probability of providing population-scale immunity. The team will now test various combinations of a dozen or so of these sequences in mouse models to assess their safety and effectiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/targets-for-covid-19-vaccine-identified-by-scientists/story-U8RQtVJe3Dxn2rXc8vnsEN.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Hungry only for votes’: TMC attacks BJP after Amit Shah’s virtual rally||Hours after union home minister Amit Shah’s call on Tuesday to end the Mamata Banerjee regime in the Bengal Assembly elections next year, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of focusing on politics instead of Covid-19, the border stand-off with China and, for Bengal in particular, dealing with the post-cyclone relief and reconstruction.TMC accused Shah of presenting false data on funds spent by the Centre on various schemes and targeted him for reviving the issue of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which had triggered a major political controversy in Bengal and many other parts of the country in 2019. “Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan are our focus. But since Shah raised the issue of CAA, we need to answer. The rules for the CAA had to be notified within six months and the duration ends this week. Now they will seek another six months’ extension and revive the issue in December, which will be barely three months before the elections. They care for nothing other than votes,” TMC national spokesperson Derek O’Brien said while addressing a press meet held over videoconferencing.Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra and TMC Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi were also present at the press meet.Responding to Shah’s allegations that Bengal was the only state marred by political violence and even communal riots amidst the lockdown, and that the TMC government failed to create jobs, O’Brien said that Bengal fared better than BJP-ruled state both in terms of combating communal violence and job creation.“Incidence of communal violence is 28 times more in Bihar, 16 times more in Maharashtra, 8 times more in Haryana, 7 times more in Gujarat and 4 times more in Madhya Pradesh, according to NCRB’s data for 2018 which comes from the Union home ministry,” said O’Brien, TMC’s leader in Rajya Sabha. “According the report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the national unemployment rate is 23.5%, while in Haryana its 35%, in Madhya Pradesh 27%, in Uttar Pradesh 21%, and in Karnataka 20.4%, whereas Bengal has it at 17.4%,” O’Brien added.Mitra slammed the Centre for not giving cash in the hands of the people amidst the economic crisis over the pandemic. “The whole world is aiding people with cash to create demand in the market so that investments resume. What are you doing? Banks are putting money back to the Reserve Bank of India. The fiscal stimulation is only 1% of the GDP. Migrant workers have not been given any cash assistance. The only cash in-flow has been for the MGNREGA,” Mitra asked.Mitra alleged that the Centre was not paying Bengal Rs 53,000 crore of due, which excludes the losses due to cyclone Amphan. TMC also upped the ante on the issue of the border standoff with China. After Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter to ask Shah if China were occupying Indian territories, O’Brien asked in the evening, “Since Shah has been living in virtual reality, let us bring him back to reality by asking: Has China made any incursions to Indian territory?”TMC leaders said that the party would stand by the government on any question of external aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hungry-only-for-votes-tmc-attacks-bjp-after-amit-shah-s-virtual-rally/story-exbncbrbN6ZSgAtabuLRFN.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19 latest: Andhra joins the list of states with more than 5,000 positive patients||Andhra Pradesh joined the list of Indian states to have registered more than 5,000 positive coronavirus cases on Tuesday with the addition of 216 new Covid-19 patients taking the tally to 5,029 infections in the state, according to news agency PTI.The state also reported two new deaths to take the casualty figure to 77.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Karnataka and Haryana are other Indian states with 5,000 or more cases. These states are primarily behind India regularly logging an average rise of 10,000 new cases for the past few days.According to Johns Hopkins data, India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK. According to union health ministry data, India has a total of 266,598 cases. The data released by Andhra Pradesh’s Covid command control centre suggests that infections are rising not only among the locals but also amongst those arriving in the state. 147 of 216 new infections were detected in locals in the last 24 hours, while 69 positive cases were found among arrivals from other states.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAndhra’s tally of 5,029 positive cases also includes 132 foreign returnees.Of the two deaths reported in the last 24 hours, Krishna and Anantapur districts accounted for one each casualty.The bulletin said 64 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the cumulative discharges to 2,775 and active cases to 2,177.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-andhra-joins-the-list-of-states-with-more-than-5-000-positive-patients/story-xS9bhiW03Y8kEnv5qeIurK.html
09-06-2020||India||Telangana says impossible to test all hospital casualties for Covid-19||The Telangana government on Tuesday described as impossible and impractical the recent order of the state high court that tests for Covid-19 should be conducted on all those who die in government hospitals.“It is totally unscientific to call for conduct of tests on dead bodies for Covid-19 and there is no rationale behind the order. Nowhere did the World Health Organisation (WHO), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) or the Central government ask for conducting tests on the dead. The high court directions in this regard are impossible to implement,” health minister Eatala Rajender told reporters.He pointed out that on an average, nearly 1,000 people die in hospitals for various reasons and in the country, at least 30,000 people die. “How is it possible to conduct Covid-19 tests on all of them?” he said.The minister said all the Covid-19 positive patients admitted in Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad were being given the best possible treatment so that nobody would die of the disease. “The doctors are doing their best, even risking their own lives,” he said.The medical and health department officials told chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at a review meeting late on Monday night that the high court orders of May 27 for conducting Covid-19 tests could not be implemented.They sought his approval for moving the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s order. “Every day someone will die in some part of the state or the other. It is not possible to conduct tests on them. If the medical staff in the hospitals is deputed for this duty, they will not get any time to treat the patients,” a statement from the chief minister’s office, quoting the department officials said.They further pointed out that several patients come to the hospitals for other diseases and some for deliveries. There are now some who come for the treatment of Covid-19. “It is not possible to conduct tests on the dead for coronavirus leaving these patients. The state government should go for an appeal in the Supreme Court in this regard,” they suggested.The officials also told the chief minister that all those deaths accounted for as Covid-19 deaths were not actually connected to the virus. “About 95 per cent of the Covid-19 patients died due to other reasons like kidney, liver and heart failure, respiratory diseases, cancer, high blood pressures, diabetics and other diseases.“Since they have tested positive for coronavirus, they were accounted for as deaths due to Corona. This is the most unscientific way of awareness. Due to this false propaganda, there is fear among the people,” the department officials said.Meanwhile, the state high court on Tuesday struck down a petition filed by prominent social activist and Padma Shri awardee Sunitha Krishnan seeking a direction to the state government to enforce complete lockdown in the state till July 15.The petitioner said the intensity of Covid-19 in the state had gone up due to relaxation of lockdown restrictions, resulting in an increasing number of positive cases and deaths due to the virus. “The intensity will increase due to reopening of places of worship,” she said.The high court, however, said lockdown was a policy decision of the government and the courts wouldn’t interfere in the decisions. It reminded that all the states in the country had relaxed lockdown restrictions.With regard to reopening of places of worship, the court said it was for the people to decide whether or not to go to these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-says-impossible-to-test-all-hospital-casualties-for-covid-19/story-5A2tVe9NWwf0bhMBccvx4O.html
09-06-2020||India||Congress to open transgender cell in Kerala, 50 to be given membership||Around 50 transgenders will be given primary membership of the Congress in Kerala as the party inaugurates a special cell for the marginalised community on Wednesday.The party leaders said the initiative is the first of its kind in any political outfit and has the blessings of the high command.The memberships to those 50 people will be handed out by state Congress chief Mullapally Ramachandran in a function at party state headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram, PCC vice-president KP Anil Kumar said.The initiative came from the transgender community, said the Congress leader, adding that the party chose to honour their long-pending demand.“There are historic judgments but most remain only on papers. They are still marginalised and no party is around to air their problems and grievances. We hope the upcoming association will help alleviate their woes,” he said, adding former state chief minister Oommen Chandy and the present opposition leader in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala will also attend the function.“Most of our community members are often identified with Communist parties. At times people who believe in the Congress ideology are also forced to move in that camp. We have been telling Congress leaders about this for quite some time. We are quite happy finally the party has given us a chance,” said P Ranjini, a community member. She said after forming the association, they will get a strong foothold to help address some of the pressing problems of the community.Kerala was the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 aimed at ending discrimination against the community members and bring them into the mainstream. In 2017, it also set up a transgender justice board to deal with their complaints and a separate column called “third sex” was introduced in birth and death registration forms in the state.The state, touted as one of the most literate ones in country, also made mandatory for all government buildings to have separate washrooms for those who identify themselves as the third sex.According to the transgender board, there are at least 35,000 third sex and trans-sexual persons in the state. Three years back the Kochi Metro had given jobs to 23 transgenders, though some of them had to leave, others are still in service. Despite some initial moves, activists working in the area say more is required to bring them into the mainstream. But they do agree that the situation in Kerala is far better compared to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-open-transgender-cell-in-kerala-50-to-be-given-membership/story-6ys3SeW4wIYH0wkmVEH7qK.html
09-06-2020||India||Police personnel will be suspended if found beating people: DGP Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh director-general of police (DGP) DM Awasthi on Tuesday issued an order and warned the state’s police personnel that if anyone is found misbehaving or beating the public, the errant policeman would be suspended and also face punitive action.The DGP’s order, which is addressed to all inspector-generals (IG) and superintendents of police (SPs) in the state, comes in the wake of recent incidents of police excesses in Chhattisgarh.He directed the IGs and SPs to ensure a strong command-and-control structure over their subordinates, said a state information and public relations department official.The DGP’s order came two days after a Station House Officer (SHO) in Birgaon area of Raipur was caught on close circuit TV (CCTV) cameras flogging the public for violating containment zone guidelines, which were issued to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The SHO was attached to the police line and a probe has been initiated against him after chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took note of his violent outburst.“Several recent incidents have come to light, where police officials and personnel were found misbehaving with the public and also hitting them. Such incidents tarnish the image of the police, which has been built by a disciplined force. These incidents create a negative image of police in the minds of the public. Such unruly behaviour will attract immediate suspension and a case will be lodged against the personnel concerned,” the DGP’s order stated.He has also asked IGs and SPs to conduct departmental inquiries in such incidents and take action against the police personnel, who are found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-personnel-will-be-suspended-if-found-beating-people-dgp-chhattisgarh/story-Z6HZS9WLgtztyXYeHLE1oK.html
09-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand religious bodies want pilgrims from outside state given access to religious places||With very few pilgrims coming to temples and for the holy dip at Ganga ghats, Haridwar saints and religious bodies have sought relaxation for pilgrims from other states to visit religious places in Uttarakhand.With a major chunk of the local economy depending on religious tourism including the fabled Char Dham yatra, Hemkund Sahib pilgrimage, Rishikesh and Haridwar circuit, various religious organizations and temple committees in the state want pilgrims from across the country to be given permission to renew visits to these places.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the apex body of all the Akhadas, reasons that with the opening up of establishments and religious-commercial activities in unlock 1.0, pilgrim movement from other states should also be allowed.National general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said that shrines in the state should be allowed to welcome all devotees after more than two months long closure.The demand follows Uttarakhand government’s decision to bar visitors from other states from accessing religious places and tourist hotspots in the state.77 fresh Covid-19 cases take Uttarakhand tally to 1,488Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj cited the 48 % plus national recovery rate of Covid-19 patients to say the rule was not helpful and added that the religious institutions should be trusted to ensure social distancing norms but it was not apt to only let local pilgrims visit religious places of worship in Uttarakhand.Ganga Sabha, the sole body managing the affairs of world famous sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri citing less arrival of pilgrims since Monday at Har-Ki-Pauri has demanded relaxation for other state pilgrims too.Pradeep Jha, president of Ganga Sabha pointed “When the union government has given relaxation in Unlock 1.0 guidelines state government and local administration should further provide the benefit to pilgrims not only of Uttarakhand but of the whole country.“Religious sentiments are the same for devotees whether they are from our state or other parts of the country. Everyone wishes to take a sacred Ganga dip at Har-Ki-Pauri, view enchanting Ganga Aarti but for the past 70 odd days this isn’t possible. Pilgrims should be given permission to pay obeisance for religious-spiritual purposes, this will also boost local economy and livelihood of priests, teerth purohits who are majorly dependent on pilgrims influx “Pradeep Jha, Ganga Sabha president stated.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDistrict magistrate C Ravi Shankar said that as per the standard operating procedures laid by union and state government opening of religious worship places and Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats has been done and so far only local people are allowed entry rest depends on future guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-religious-bodies-want-pilgrims-from-outside-state-given-access-to-religious-places/story-kGqGIcn8HmZ5butn95IabP.html
09-06-2020||India||Rajasthan to get Rs 50,000 crore investment, 7,500 people to receive employment||Rajasthan government has approved 10,000 Megawatt (Mw) solar power parks project with an investment of Rs 50,000 crore - the biggest ever investment in solar energy in the state. The state government has given nod to the proposal by Adani Green Energy Limited to set up solar power parks at five locations and also install a solar panel manufacturing unit. As a result, around 7,500 people will get direct and indirect employment from the project. Currently, Rajasthan’s solar generation capacity is 4,883 Mw.Principal secretary, energy, Ajitabh Sharma said, “The plan is to set up 10,000 Mw of solar parks in a phased manner by the Adani Group in Rajasthan. Not only will it bring a huge investment in the state but also provide employment to many.”Also read: Rajasthan industries offer better wages, conditions to lure migrants backSharma said the firm will also be setting up units to manufacture solar equipment at some places which will happen for the first time in Rajasthan at such a mega scale. “In a meeting chaired by the energy minister on June 6, it was also decided to propose customized packages through the Bureau of Investment Promotion to this investment.“The proposal received is the largest investment committed in state in renewable generation to the tune of Rs 50,000 crores over the next 5-6 years progressively. Five solar power parks will be set up in Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Jalore and Barmer. For the first time, besides solar power generation, a solar equipment manufacturing unit at mega-scale would be installed in the state,” Sharma added. As per the proposal received, the Rajasthan government would generate revenue of Rs 2,000 crore through Goods and Services Tax (GST) during the construction phase; a sum of around Rs 100 crore annually through GST during the operations phase; and a one-time payment for the land of around Rs 650 crore, he said. The goal of 10,000 Mw generation will be achieved in phases – in phase-I, 1700 Mw hybrid power plant (solar and wind) in Jaisalmer will be established by 2021 after which 2,000 Mw plants every year in next four-five years at Jaisalmer, Jalore and Bikaner.“The Rajasthan Renewal Energy Corporation (RREC) is working in a very professional manner. The MoU sign with NTPC to set up a solar power park has been started to materialise. The RREC has received Rs 201 crore from the NTPC for setting up a 925 Mw solar power park at Nokh in Jaisalmer – an MoU was inked in February 2020. The state has started land levelling civil works. There will be an investment of Rs 3,500 crores in Nokh,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-rs-50-000-crore-investment-7-500-people-to-receive-employment/story-8y83Eok6EnQzIN2SWcKNII.html
09-06-2020||India||‘We won’t leave Kashmir’, says family of slain Pandit sarpanch||The mortal remains of sarpanch Ajay Pandita alias Bharti who was shot dead by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday, were cremated at Jammu’s Shakti Nagar crematorium on Tuesday.Pandita (40) was the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in the Larkipora area. He was a member of the Congress party.“We won’t leave Kashmir but I have a demand that the government should first create a regiment of Kashmiri Pandits in the valley,” said Vijay Pandita, brother of the deceased, who lit the pyre.“He was helpful to all. He loved his roots and always extended a helping hand to the needy. After becoming sarpanch he had decided to work for the welfare of Muslim villagers”, he added.Ajay’s father Dwarika Nath Pandita described his son as a lion and patriot.“My son was a lion. He was a true patriot. In 1996 we returned to Kashmir and re-started our lives. At that time Ajay was around 21 years old. He took bank loans and reconstructed our orchards and house,” he said.Pandita recalled that Ajay always rejected his suggestions that they should leave Kashmir because the situation was not normal.“He used to say that it is our home. He used Bharti in his name to show his love for the country. Some anti-nationals are behind his killing. They shot him in his back. He was a lion. My son has sacrificed his life for the country,” said Pandita.“There are forces, who don’t want Pandits to return and my son fell to the bullets of such ideology. We are not afraid, but will return and fulfill my son’s mission”, he added.Last December, Pandita had spoken about threats to his life and had demanded security.Dr Mahesh Kaul, a prominent writer on Kashmir and a community leader said Ajay’s murder was “part of a jihad to eliminate Kashmiri Pandits at different levels”.All Parties Migrant Coordination Committee (APMCC) leader Vinod Pandit accused the government of playing with the lives of minorities and demanded a probe into the killing.“We strongly condemn the killing of Ajay Pandita (Bharti) by terrorists. He was always under threat for being a sarpanch, and especially because he was a Kashmiri Pandit. Why did the government withdraw his security? Why play with minority lives in Kashmir? A probe is needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-won-t-leave-kashmir-says-family-of-slain-pandit-sarpanch/story-0kDX1akVDdIXo61JrAiUoO.html
09-06-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tests negative for coronavirus||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has tested negative for the coronavirus disease, reported news agency Press Trust of India on Tuesday evening. The fever, said PTI quoting officials, has subsided and he is now feeling well. The Covid-19 test was conducted this morning.The Delhi CM has not been meeting people since Sunday afternoon after he felt feverish. Subsequently, he decided to self-isolate, then followed it up with a Covid-19 test. In another development, the Centre’s officials ruled out community transmission in the national capital.However, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the number of Covid-19 cases in the city-state will balloon to 5.5 lakh by the end of July, presenting a grim assessment.The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.The highest spike of 1,513 fresh cases was recorded on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-tests-negative-for-coronavirus/story-wzFULWh8EwpZRwL8qAr98I.html
09-06-2020||India||Source of infection not known in nearly half of new cases reported in Delhi: Satyendra Jain||As coronavirus cases continue to mount in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the source of infection is “not known” in nearly half of the fresh cases being reported.Interacting with reporters, he also said that the Kejriwal government is making all the preparations to handle the huge rush of patients estimated by June end.When asked if Delhi has reached community transmission level as far as coronavirus infection is concerned, he said declaration on this is made by the Centre.“Epidemiologically, community transmission is the third stage of the infection...In Delhi, of the new cases being reported, in nearly half of these cases, the source of infection is not known,” he said.Later, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told media persons that officials from the Centre have said that there is no community transmission of coronavirus in Delhi.The national capital recorded 1,007 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 29,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 874, authorities said.The highest spike of 1,513 fresh cases was recorded on June 3.Asked about Lt Governor Anil Baijal overturning the Delhi government’s order to reserve hospitals only for residents of Delhi, he said, “Cases are growing so fast every day, and existing hospital beds will soon get swamped, where will people of Delhi go then.” Jain alleged that the orders were overturned by the LG “under pressure from the BJP”.He also claimed that the Delhi government had told the Centre to halt flight services much earlier, when coronavirus cases were beginning to be recorded in the country, “but those services were stopped 15 days later”.Asked what measures are taken if the infection reaches community transmission level, the heath minister said, “Stress is then laid more on treatment, currently we are doing more rigours contact tracing to stop infection from spreading.” On private hospitals situation, he said most of the facilities are already full to capacity but a large number of beds will be required in Delhi in coming weeks.An order has been issued for constituting a District Core Team for containing the spread of COVID-19 infection in the four districts North West Delhi, Central Delhi, West Delhi and North Delhi, where high active cases and high surge of cases are being reported, the authorities said on Monday.Jain said on Monday had told reporters, the current doubling rate of coronavirus infection transmission here is 14 days and so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks. PTI KND KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/source-of-infection-not-known-in-nearly-half-of-new-cases-reported-in-delhi-satyendra-jain/story-xuBoW8sgNNkEKlMqOhUMiK.html
09-06-2020||India||India better positioned in fight against Covid-19 but no space for complacency: Harsh Vardhan||India is better positioned in the fight against Covid-19 compared to other countries but there is no space for complacency, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday as the death toll due to coronavirus infection rose to 7,466 and the cases mounted to 2,66,598 in the country. Vardhan chaired the 16th meeting of the high-level group of ministers on Covid-19 which reviewed the containment strategies pertaining to the pandemic via video-conferencing here, the heath ministry said.The GOM was briefed about the latest status, response and management of Covid-19 in the country.  A brief snapshot was presented to the GOM highlighting the comparative position of India vis-a-vis other countries in similar stage of easing lockdown, underscoring the benefits that have accrued from the lockdown and how this can be leveraged in management of disease, the ministry said.As the country entered the “Unlock 1.0 phase” when restrictions have been eased and curbs lifted, Vardhan stressed that people need to be more disciplined and adopt appropriate behaviour to ensure norms of physical distancing, use of face covers, hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette are followed.  India is better positioned in fight against Covid-19 compared to other nations, “but there is no space for complacency,” Vardhan strongly reiterated.He also reminded everybody to download Aarogya Setu app which will help in self risk assessment and in protection against Covid-19.  More than 12.55 crore people in the country have downloaded the app, as on date, the ministry said in its statement.In the wake of all government offices opening now, Vardhan appealed to the heads of departments, “Let us also not forget the ‘social vaccine’ against Covid-19 through strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, hand hygiene and mask/face covers.”  The GoM was informed that as on June 9, Covid-related health infrastructure in the country has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated Covid hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU and 73,469 oxygen supported beds.  Also, 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 1,33,037 isolation beds, 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.  Moreover, 7,525 Covid care centres with 7,10,642 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The ventilators available for Covid beds are 21,494, the ministry said.The Centre has further placed an order of 60,848 ventilators, it added.   The Centre has also provided 128.48 lakh N95 masks and 104.74 lakh personal protective equipment (PPEs) to the states, union territories and central institutions.  ICMR’s testing capacity has increased through 553 government and 231 private laboratories (total of 784 labs).  More than 49 lakh cumulative tests have been conducted in the country so far with 1,41,682 samples been tested in the last 24 hours till 9 AM.Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityananda Rai, Minister of State for Shipping and Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Lal Mandaviya and Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey along with other senior officials took part in the meeting which was held following norms of physical distancing, the ministry said.Parameswaran Iyer, Chairman of Empowered Group-5, presented the critical strategies adopted by the EG to ease the burden of lockdown while enabling supply of critical items for the country to fight the pandemic.Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar presented details on the status of testing labs, augmented capacities for testing across the country, and also enlightened the GoM on various issues related to hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, and sero-surveillance studies.The number of active novel coronavirus cases stands at 1,29,917 till Tuesday 8 AM.So far, a total of 1,29,214 people have recovered with 4,785 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours.  “This takes the total recovery rate to 48.47 per cent,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-better-positioned-in-fight-against-covid-19-but-no-space-for-complacency-harsh-vardhan/story-JyJKudlHLqiuBfuW7JIA7M.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Will continue to provide Shramik trains for migrants as demanded by states’: Railways||Indian Railways in a statement on Tuesday announced that it will continue to provide ‘Shramik Special Trains’ to various states as demanded to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their native places. “The railway ministry has requested state governments to indicate their requirements about Shramik Special Trains and see that projected demand for movement of residual persons by rail mode is well chalked out and determined,” the ministry stated. Also read: SC directs states, union territories to facilitate return of migrant workers within 15 daysThe statement added that the chairman of the Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav, had written to various states governments on May 29 and June 3 on the matter, emphasising the “Indian Railways will provide the desired number of Shramik Special trains immediately within 24 hours of the request”. Today also, a letter was been sent to chief secretaries of the states emphasizing the same, the statement added. ALSO WATCH | Train services resume partially amid social distancing at stationsThis comes after the Supreme Court, earlier in the day, stated that, so far, 171 ‘Shramik’ trains have been demanded by various states from the Centre and directed the railways to meet any additional demand for trains within “a period of 24 hours”.In its order, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said “All the States/Union Territories shall take all necessary steps regarding identification of stranded migrant workers in their state which are willing to return to their native places and take steps for their return journey by train/bus which process may be completed within a period of 15 days from today.” The apex court also directed the central government and states to identify and send migrant workers to their native places within 15 days. The top court called for their counselling and help find avenues of employment for them amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“All States and Union territories shall also give details of all schemes which are currently in the state, benefit of which can be taken by the migrant labourers including different schemes for providing employment,” it said.Indian Railways has informed the State governments that it will continue to provide Shramik Special Train within 24 hours after the demand is received from the States: Ministry of RailwaysThe Ministry of Railways has operated around 4,347 Shramik special trains till date, transporting around 60 migrant workers to their native states amid the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-provide-shramik-trains-for-migrants-as-demanded-by-states-indian-railways/story-YcKzUJRsXM9OjY9fvdNUAK.html
09-06-2020||India||Validity of expiring motor licence, permits extended till September 30||The government has further extended the validity of documents related to motor vehicles such as license, registration or fitness certificate to end of September this year in view of the difficulties in renewal and extension of official documents during the lockdown phase creating a likely pendency. An official communication to this effect was made by the union road transport and highways ministry on Tuesday. Following minister Nitin Gadkari’s announcement to this effect, an advisory has been issued to all states and Union Territories over the grant of extension to the validity date of motor vehicle documents till September this year, said an official release from the ministry.The extension follows a similar order released on March 30 that extended the validity of fitness, permit, driving license, registration or any other concerned motor vehicle related document otherwise set to expire on or after February 1, 2020 to May 31 and the enforcement authorities were advised to treat such documents valid till June 30.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe order was released after the government shut down most government offices and non-essential services on March 25 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and ordered people to stay at home. While the lockdown provisions have been eased considerably, the government is granting people more time to get renewals done.“Considering the situation for prevention of Covid 19 still continues, and as per the requests received, Shri Gadkari directed his Ministry to issue advice for extension of this period till 30th Sept for treating the documents valid for enforcement purposes,” the official statement says.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Additionally, the ministry on 21st May this year had relaxed the fees validity and additional fee under Rule 32 or Rule 81 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 till 31st July 2020.The official release says that states and UTs have also been requested to consider provisions available under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 or other such provisions available under other acts for relaxation in requirement of permit, or fees or taxes for renewal or penalty so that people could be provided relief during these difficult period of pandemic outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transport-ministry-extends-validity-date-of-motor-vehicle-documents-till-september-2020/story-KTn6mwEujNMYpqSSVChPBK.html
09-06-2020||India||Has China occupied Indian territory in Ladakh? Rahul asks Rajnath Singh||The war of words between the Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged Chinese intrusion in Ladakh escalated on Tuesday, with Rahul Gandhi asking defence minister Rajnath Singh whether China has occupied Indian territory.“Once RM (Raksha Mantri – defence minister) is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh,” the former Congress chief asked on Twitter.Singh had on Monday hit out at the Congress party with a couplet of the famous Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib, saying, “Haath me dard ho to dawa kije, haath hi jab dard ho to kya kije (when there is pain in the hand, one takes medicine, but what does one do when the hand itself is a pain).”“Hand” is the election symbol of the Congress party.Singh’s attack was in response to Gandhi’s swipe at home minister Amit Shah over the alleged Chinese intrusion in Ladakh. Gandhi had said “everyone knows the reality” of the situation at the borders.Gandhi had tweaked a couplet by Ghalib to attack Shah. “Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but ‘Shah-yad’ (maybe) it’s a good idea to keep oneself happy,” he tweeted in Hindi.“The media is muzzled and terrified. The truth seems dormant. But it flows in the blood of every single Indian army officer and soldier. They know exactly what is happening in Ladakh,” Gandhi said in another tweet.His remarks came against the backdrop of the Congress stepping up its criticism of the government on the border standoff between India and China, asking it to come clean on the presence of Chinese forces in Ladakh.Beijing said on Monday the two sides had reached consensus on preventing differences from escalating into disputes during weekend talks between top army commanders.Addressing a virtual rally in Bihar on Sunday, Shah said India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country able to protect its borders, it is India.The Congress had earlier questioned the government’s silence on the “brazen Chinese transgression” into the Indian territory, and asked it to take all political parties and the country into confidence over restoring the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-china-occupied-indian-territory-in-ladakh-rahul-asks-rajnath-singh/story-9O6SsuShkItNDKSaCyXNzL.html
09-06-2020||India||I will continue to praise old songs but I don’t have a problem with new music: Sukhwinder Singh||The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in India for more than two months served as a big bummer for everyone. But as we slowly move towards Unlock 1.0, people are excited about getting back to work and doing what they love. Singer Sukhwinder Singh says he is really enthusiastic and pumped to restart work with full gusto. “I will be releasing 12 music videos by July next year, apart from my film songs, and I am really excited,” he says, adding, “Pain and suffering will never be our well-wisher or friend so we should not spend too much time with it. We should always try and move on from bad things,” says the singer as he talks about everyone recovering from the pandemic.“My relationship with film music will always stay but my team and I have decided to release independent singles to entertain everyone to the fullest with different genres of songs. If you constantly keep talking about sad and depressing thing, it is very difficult. We have to move on,” says the 48-year-old singer.  ???????A post shared by  Sukhwinder Singh (@sukhwindersinghofficial) on May 28, 2020 at 4:12am PDTAs far as the business of music industry is concerned, Singh says that if someone is making something with their heart, people will even pay the last remaining penny in their pocket to enjoy it. “There are very few special people in every industry. Making music videos is not a big deal but aap kitni shiddat ke saath usko banate hai, uska content kitna rich hai aur kis hadh tak who logon ke dilon ko choota hai is important. To give a hit film or a hit song, you have to be very passionate about your work. Agar aap kaam ke saath dillagi karoge, toh who kaam logon ke dil ko nahi chu payega. Quality is always more important than quantity. If people are not attracted or don’t get connected to your work, no matter how many things you make, it doesn’t matter,” he says.  When your friend surprises you in the middle of your concert. Absolutely loved our impromptu collaboration @vishaldadlaniA post shared by  Sukhwinder Singh (@sukhwindersinghofficial) on Mar 27, 2020 at 3:30am PDTAbout the changing dynamics of the music industry, Singh says that he will always be appreciative of old music, but he will never diss new trends or music. “I will continue to praise old songs but that doesn’t mean that I have a problem with new songs or new music. I cannot call new songs bad, how can I do that? Even I have sung songs that were new for that generation like Chak De and Jai Ho. One must experience the past to perform better in the present. We cannot live in the past, but we have to learn from it,” says the kar Har Maidan Fateh (Sanju; 2018) singer.Singh says that nothing much changed for him during the lockdown. “I used to do the same things before that I did during this time,” he signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-will-continue-to-praise-old-songs-but-i-don-t-have-a-problem-with-new-music-sukhwinder-singh/story-khpHk5OYY2tcZv2ul7m7yO.html
09-06-2020||India||Dehradun boarding schools to be probed after sexual assault on a 9-year-old boy in hostel||The Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has sought an investigation of all the boarding schools in Dehradun after an incident of sexual assault and harassment of a nine-year old boy by the hostel warden of a city-based boarding school came to light on Saturday last. The hostel warden was arrested for allegedly assaulting and sexually harassing a 9-year-old class 3 student inside the hostel, where the boy was stuck alone due to the lockdown. He narrated his ordeal to his parents who had come to take him home on Saturday after the lockdown was relaxed.Also Read: Unlock 1: HRD ministry begins consultations on reopening schools, safety of studentThe incident is one among several reported from Dehradun’s boarding schools in the last few years, including gang-rape of a class-10 girl by fellow students and the murder of a 7-year-old class-3 student by his seniors. Usha Negi, chairperson of SCPCR said the incident warrants a probe to establish if the boarding schools in the city are following the safety norms.“It is a very serious incident. In the backdrop of this and previous incidents in boarding schools, we have asked the district education department to probe all the boarding schools to check whether they are following the norms and regulations regarding children’s safety or not,” Negi said.Negi added that she was concerned about such incidents coming up at regular intervals despite the tightening of the rules for the boarding schools.“The school managements should understand that they are not just responsible for giving education but have to ensure the safety of the children studying in the schools. They are the future of our country and we won’t let these incidents happen again and again,” she said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAsha Painuli, chief education officer, Dehradun said the department hadn’t received any communication from the child rights body so far.“We are yet to receive any kind of communication from SCPCR on the same. But we have already issued notice to the school management in the recent case,” said Painuli.Painuli added that the department will take proper action in this case once the police probe is over.“Whenever such an incident is reported from any school, the district education department takes proper action the police investigation confirms the incident. In this incident too, we will take proper action after the police probe concludes. We are keeping an eye on the boarding schools to ensure that children are safe,” Painuli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dehradun-boarding-schools-to-be-probed-after-sexual-assault-on-a-9-year-old-boy-in-hostel/story-Ywwr5xrb7WeqgzthZXmwSK.html
09-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt under fire for exempting VIPs from Covid-19 quarantine||The Uttarakhand government in its fresh guidelines on inter-state and intra-state travel has exempted VIPs from mandatory quarantine.The guidelines have drawn flak from the opposition Congress which described the guidelines as “foolish” since Covid-19 cases continued to soar every day in the state. On Tuesday, 77 new cases took Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally to 1488.The BJP-led Uttarakhand government on Monday evening had issued guidelines on inter-state and intra-state travel under which all the inbound people have to go under quarantine. Those coming from high-load Covid-19 cities by any mode of transport will have to be in institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by 14 days of home quarantine.People coming from non-high-load Covid-19 cities will have to go under home quarantine of 14 days. Some exceptional cases including pregnant women, serious illness, death, senior citizen sabove 65 years of age could go under home quarantine of 14 days without seven days of institutional quarantine with proper directions and screening by the government. Also read: Uttarakhand hotels to remain shut, hoteliers say govt guidelines impracticalThe guidelines exempted central ministers and Uttarakhand ministers, chief justice and judges of the High Court, judges and judicial officers of district and sub-ordinate judiciary of the state, Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly of Uttarakhand, all officers of Centre, state government, PSUs, Central and State government organisations, from any sort of quarantine in case of inter-state or intra-state travel for official purposes. However, they will have to adhere to the Centre’s norms of safety and social distancing.The Congress has reacted strongly on the exemption and termed the government’s decision as foolish citing the recent case of state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj who tested positive for Covid-19 along with his family members and staffers. Suryakant Dhasamana, vice president of the Uttarakhand Congress unit said, “When the cases in the state are increasing every day, how could the government take such a foolish decision? It is beyond one’s understanding.”“First this government termed coronavirus as Jamaati and now with the latest exemption, they have divided it between VIPs and the common man. It’s simply ridiculous. They should understand that the virus doesn’t discriminate about religion, class, caste, creed or race. It can infect anyone,” said Dhasmana. Pointing towards Satpal Maharaj’s case, he said “what better example for the same than him.”“Is there any bigger VIP than Maharaj in the state. He is a minister in the present government, former minister in Centre, and also a Maharaj. Even he has tested positive for the virus, so what is the meaning of this exemption? Instead of taking more stringent decisions to contain the spread, the government is coming up with these decisions,” said Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-under-fire-for-exempting-vips-from-covid-19-quarantine/story-utlF1u3eYupL5bZgeaQ0UP.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition urges home minister to spare a minute to answer China question and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Dragon in the room’: Opposition’s swipe at Centre over Ladakh standoffThe Opposition parties are attacking the government over the border standoff with China. Leading the charge is Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has accused the government of hiding the truth. Read moreDelhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31: Manish SisodiaDelhi is likely to have over five lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate the infected patients, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, a day after L-G Anil Baijal revoked the AAP government’s order to reserve beds in Delhi government hospitals for its residents. Read moreAmit Shah counters Bengal CM over ‘Corona Express’ jibe. Then a predictionThe coinage “Corona Express” by Mamata Banerjee to trains ferrying migrant workers will turn into an “exit express” for the Trinamool, home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, sharpening the attack on the Bengal chief minister at a virtual rally. Read moreCoronavirus may have been spreading in China since August 2019: Harvard researchThe coronavirus might have been spreading in China as early as August last year, according to Harvard Medical School research based on satellite images of hospital travel patterns and search engine data, but China dismissed the report as “ridiculous”. Read moreI’ve never disclosed this but here is how Dhoni was picked: Syed Kirmani narrates MSD’s selection storyIt sounds only fitting to know that India’s first finest wicket-keeper was responsible for giving Indian cricket its best ‘keeper batsman. Years ago, when Syed Kirmani – India’s first World Cup winning wicket-keeper – was the chairman of selectors with the Indian cricket team, his eyes spotted a talent who would not only go on to become India’s answer behind the stumps for years to come, but also emerge as the country’s most successful captain of all time. Read more20-minute-old baby elephant ‘dances’ while taking first steps. Video is beyond adorableThis baby elephant may just be 20-minute-old, but it is already making people go gaga. A video shows the little one taking its first awkward and clumsy steps, under the supervision of an adult elephant. What’s even more heartening is the way the baby takes its steps which almost make it seem like it is dancing. Read moreHappy 35 Birthday Sonam Kapoor: Best looks of Bollywood’s OG style divaBorn to the actor and producer Anil Kapoor on June 9th 1985, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja has made a name for herself through her acting abilities and her impeccable fashion sense. Her introduction to Bollywood was as an assistant director in Sanjay Lela Bhansali’s 2005 film Black. He subsequently cast her in his 2007 romantic drama Sawarriya. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-urges-home-minister-to-spare-a-minute-to-answer-china-question-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CnJts3JrjQ1vLVk86oXZdK.html
09-06-2020||India||India has largest, most experienced mountain army in the world, says Chinese military expert||India has the world’s largest and most experienced troops trained for high-altitude battles, a military expert affiliated to China’s leading maker of equipment for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has said, adding that mountaineering is an “essential skill” for each Indian soldier deployed in the mountains.“At present, the world’s largest and experienced country with plateau and mountain troops is neither the US, Russia, nor any European powerhouse, but India,” wrote Huang Guozhi, senior editor of Modern Weaponry magazine.The magazine, considered a comprehensive military and defence journal, is affiliated to the state-owned China North Industries Group Corporation Limited (NORINCO), which describes itself as “the main platform responsible for developing mechanised, digitised and intellectualised equipment for PLA”.It’s one of the world’s largest defence contractors and is also closely involved in President Xi Jinping’s legacy project, the Belt and Road Initiative.ALSO WATCH | ‘Shouldn’t let differences escalate into disputes’: China on Ladakh standoff The write-up comes in the backdrop of a stand-off between Indian and Chinese border troops along the line of actual control (LAC) in the mountainous Ladakh region. It began last month and was the topic of talks between military commanders last weekend.Huang’s article published in thepaper.cn is a rare critique of an Indian army wing in Chinese media, which usually takes the more nationalistic tone of brandishing its own capabilities along the border with India.Huang’s take was nuanced.“Mountaineering is an essential skill for almost every member of the Indian mountain army. To this end, India even recruited a large number of professional mountaineers and amateur mountaineers from the private sector,” Huang wrote.“With more than 200000 troops in 12 divisions, the Indian mountain force is the largest mountain fighting force in the world,” Huang wrote.Huang said that since the 1970s, the Indian military has established and expanded the size and personnel of the mountain army on a large-scale, and also plans to create a mountain strike force of more than 50,000 troops.Giving the example of the Siachen Glacier, Huang wrote: “The Indian army has set up hundreds of outposts in the Siachen Glacier area with an altitude of more than 5,000 metres, with 6,000 to 7,000 fighters stationed. The highest post has reached 6,749 metres.”Huang didn’t mention the source of the information but went on to give a list of weaponry that the Indian army has deployed in the mountains suitable to high-altitude battles.“In terms of equipment, the Indian military, through procurement from abroad and domestic research and development, has equipped a large number of main battle weapons adapted to the combat environment of the plateau and mountains.”“The Indian military has also spent heavily on advanced heavy equipment from the US including the M777, the world’s lightest 155mm-towed howitzer, and the Chinook heavy transport helicopter that lifts the gun, to boost its fire support and anti-armour capabilities”.Huang also mentioned the high-calibre sniper rifles that Indian soldiers deployed at high-altitudes are now equipped with.The author also listed shortcomings of the Indian army mountain troops including lack of self-sufficiency in weaponry and ammunition especially needed for western weaponry.“In addition, there are many conflicts and differences between the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force. This has also led the Indian Army to decide to equip its own US-made AH-64E Longbow Apache attack helicopters instead of relying entirely on airfield support from the air force,” Huang wrote.Incidentally, India and the US signed an estimated $800 million contract in February this year in New Delhi for the delivery of six Boeing AH-64E Apache Guardian attack helicopters to the Indian Army’s Aviation Corps (AAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-largest-most-experienced-mountain-army-in-the-world-says-chinese-military-expert/story-4eR8hDrrshV7j59OHvfIYO.html
09-06-2020||India||As Covid-19 reaches rural Goa, villagers impose their own lockdowns||As the number of coronavirus cases rise in Goa, villagers have begun to lock themselves at home and ensure a complete shutdown of activity in their villages in the hope that they will tide over the pandemic. It began on June 6, when a health worker from Guleli in Sattari, a village located deep in the Western Ghats that line Goa’s eastern fringe with Karnataka, tested positive for the virus, people from the village quickly shut down the few shops that make up the village and quarantined themselves in their homes. The practice soon spread to neighbouring villages after cases were found there too and culminated in Keri, a village that lies along the border with Karnataka declaring a four day shutdown to “break the chain” of the virus. “Yesterday the Keri youth and villagers got together and decided that since the coronavirus has reached close to home they would voluntarily shut shop. The youth have come forward and called the each panch and explained the plan. This is for our own good and our own decision,” Laxman Gauns, a panch member from the Keri village, saidClick here for full Covid-19 coverage.“We have to break the chain of the virus. So we will remain shut for four days. This is not a government directive or anything, but it is our own choice and decision. Those who work outside the village, they should take their own precautions. We cannot take the law into our own hands and they should make their own choice,” he said. “It’s not as if the virus will disappear within four days but we want to do what we can and also spread awareness,” he added. Covid-19 cases emerged in rural Goa after health workers -- mainly those associated with the Vasco Urban Health Centre began testing positive. So far, 15 health workers have tested positive and five family members related to the health workers also tested positive. Seven hail from the Morlem village neighbouring Keri and one from Guleli. A large number of people from the villages of Sattari taluka are employed in the health department.On Tuesday, the state government tried to dispel rising fear about the pandemic after the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases. Goa now has more than 300 cases. The director of health told reporters Covid19 is “just like any other respiratory disease.”“There is a lot of fear that has spread and people are scared and they are scaring others too. It is just like any other respiratory disease and if we can take precautions, there will be nothing to worry. Also, as per our numbers, only 5% of patients show symptoms the rest 95% are asymptomatic. We also have a zero mortality rate and a 100% cure rate,” Dr José de Sa, director of Health Services, said. “There are other communicable diseases in the community, we don’t have to fear. But we have to take all precautions and for high-risk persons those who are above 65, children less than five and those who have comorbid conditions and pregnant women, have to be extra careful. Wear a mask, wash hands frequently and routinely follow all precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-reaches-rural-goa-villagers-impose-their-own-lockdowns/story-i79krhoYCxpsT6ZodrjWDI.html
09-06-2020||India||Rajasthan industries offer better wages, conditions to lure migrants back||The coronavirus induced lockdown and the resulting reverse migration of labourers has left several industries in Rajasthan facing a severe manpower crunch, forcing them to lure workers back with a promise of higher wages and better working conditions.The state government has also offered to help in bringing workers back from their home states, provided the industry bears the transportation cost. Labour secretary Niraj K Pawan said, “If the industry provides us details of districts from which they want labourers back, we will coordinate with those states and facilitate their transport,” he said.Despite the permission to resume operations from May 3, most industries in the state including construction, autos, real estate, MSMEs, textiles and garments are struggling due to the shortage of labourers, who had left for their hometowns in absence of work, income and shelter during the lockdown while gripped by Covid scare.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19NK Jain, FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry), Rajasthan chairman on the subcommittee on MSMEs said there is a 40 per cent shortage of labourers.“Only about 70 per cent of industry is functioning and they are completing old orders as there is no new demand. Those industries that have demand are getting labourers back but others are making do with what they have,” he said.Sunil Jain president, CREDAI, Rajasthan said the real estate and the construction sector is facing up to 40 per cent shortage of workers.“Most of the labourers in the construction industry in Rajasthan come mainly from the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Bengal. But now, most have returned, so we have to either get them back or employ new labour.”Also Read: Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rises to 251; cases cross 11,000-markJain said some firms are making efforts to bring back workers from their home states. “I know of some real estate firms that are trying to get workers back through contractors. Contractors are in touch with the labourers and are convincing them to return by offering assurance of full work and wages. A few have even sent vehicles to ferry labourers back,” he said.Aseem Kumar, general secretary of Rajasthan’s garment exporters association says the industry is facing up to 70 per cent labour shortage.“Factories are offering higher wages, accommodation and even promising work for the whole year, but the workers are not ready to return,” said Kumar.A majority of garment exports from Rajasthan go to Japan but also to the US, Europe and South America.Kumar said the export season for the northern hemisphere is ending but was starting for the southern hemisphere where summer will be setting in. “Those firms who have orders for South America need more labour force at this time and are making efforts to bring them back,” he said.Kumar said the crunch has led to labour wages rising by 15-20 per cent.The labour in the garment industry is paid per piece rate. A worker can earn 500-600 per day, depending on the style of the garment and the skill required, he said.Jain, too, acknowledged that wages have increased by 20-25 per cent. The daily wage rate ranges from Rs 400 to Rs 1000 depending on the skill set required for the job.Kumar said the garment industry needs a skilled work force and therefore can’t be replaced with anyone. “Our workers have been with us since a long time and are trained as per our needs. New labour will have to be trained from the start and that will take time.”Jain said the construction sector hopes to train the available migrants to overcome the shortage. “We have sought permission from the government to let us open skill training centres on project sites to train labour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-industries-offer-better-wages-conditions-to-lure-migrants-back/story-QIkqjBkj5guXogDvwNX0RJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah highlights Modi government’s direct benefit to people||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday highlighted how the Narendra Modi government has successfully sent direct benefits to the people, especially the poorest of the poor, over the past six years.While listing the government’s successes in this period, Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent gas cylinders to eight crore mothers and 2.5 crore households got free electricity. Ten crore toilets were built and 2.5 crore houses were constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, he said.Rs 72,000 crore was sent to bank accounts of 9.5 crore farmers through the PM Kisan Samman programme, Shah said.The government had made certain changes of historical importance in India and these include implementation of GST, direct benefits to poor through bank accounts, abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution, passage of the triple talaq bill and imminent realisation of the people’s dreams of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, he said.“Disasters have hit India before too. But this time, Modiji not only planned to tackle the pandemic but foresaw how it could affect the poor in the worst way and therefore declared a package well in advance,” Shah said.Talking about measures put in place amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the announcement of a nationwide lockdown, Shah said 8.7 crore people got Rs 16,000 crore through Kisan Samman Nidhi, while Rs 30,000 crore was sent to Jan Dhan accounts of 20 crore women.He said social security pension of Rs 3,000 crore was given to three crore people, while 2.3 crore construction workers got Rs 4,300 crore. Gas cylinders worth Rs 13,000 crore were given for free to 8.19 crore beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna, Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-amit-shah-highlights-modi-government-s-direct-benefit-to-people/story-nLAxZtjgmnzSg60Z3vFEYO.html
09-06-2020||India||Low pressure area forms over Bay of Bengal, likely to cross Odisha coast on Friday||A low pressure area that formed over east-central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday is likely to move west-northwest and become a well-marked low-pressure area and cross near the Odisha coast on June 12, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.“We are not expecting a cyclone. Low pressure systems do not intensify into cyclones during the monsoon. At the most, this will be a depression which will cross the Odisha coast in 48 hours. Such monsoon depressions bring a lot of rain,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD.“There are about 10 to 12 feeble low-pressure systems in the June to September period. In June and September, there is usually formation of one depression in each month. These depressions affect the flow pattern of monsoon also.”DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune, said: “As of now it’s a low pressure area which has not strengthened. But it will intensify in the next 48 hours. We have to see how that happens. This will cause widespread rains in Odisha, central India, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Konkan region. As of now, there is no cause for worry. It may in fact help the monsoon progress into central Arabian Sea, Goa and Maharashtra.”IMD said in its Tuesday bulletin that conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of the monsoon into some more parts of the central Arabian Sea, Goa, some parts of Maharashtra, some more parts of Karnataka and Rayalaseema, remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, some parts of Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh over the next 48 hours.Conditions are also likely to become favourable subsequently for further advance of the monsoon into parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, remaining parts of Rayalaseema and coastal Andhra Pradesh, remaining parts of the Bay of Bengal and northeastern states, Sikkim, parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal later this week.From June 1 to June 8, India received 56% excess rains. There is an orange warning for central India, including Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, on June 13, when very heavy rains are expected.There is also an orange warning for the western coast on June 12. An orange warning implies that government agencies will have to remain alert for rain-related emergencies.For northwest India, there is a lightning and thunderstorm warning during June 11-13 for Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, west and east Uttar Pradesh and west and east Rajasthan.Cyclones normally don’t develop during the monsoon season. The southwest monsoon is characterised by strong westerly winds in the lower troposphere (below five kilometres) and very strong easterly winds in the upper troposphere (above nine kilometres).This results in large vertical wind shear. Strong vertical wind shear inhibits cyclone development, according to the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Tropical Cyclones.During the monsoons, low pressure systems up to the intensity of depressions form along the monsoon trough, which extends from northwest India to northern Bay of Bengal. These systems have a shorter oceanic stay, which is also one of the reasons why they don’t develop into intense cyclones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-forms-over-bay-of-bengal-likely-to-cross-odisha-coast-on-friday/story-X7aK6XVv8ACBJRLO8cQ7IJ.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Total lockdown best medicine against Covid-19’: Mizoram CM Zoramthanga||A complete lockdown is the best antidote to stem the spread of coronavirus, said Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga, with his government enforcing a total shutdown for two weeks from today. The move follows rise in Covid-19 cases in the state and other parts of northeast following return of migrants. In an exclusive interview with Utpal Parashar, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga informs what necessitated the move.Here are the edited excerpts from the interview:Q: While the entire country is unlocking, Mizoram has imposed total lockdown. What prompted the government to take that decision?A: It’s a government decision to impose total lockdown. Previously, we had become ‘Covid-19 free’ with the state’s lone patient recovering. But when returnees started coming from all over, the positive cases started going up daily. In order to contain it, we decided to apply the best medicine, which is total lockdown. The people also want it. For now total lockdown will be for two weeks till June 22.Q: What’s the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Mizoram and how many people have returned to the state since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted on May 4?A: We have a little over 40 Covid-19 positive cases at present. But we think the figure will go further up when more tests are done. Around 10,000 persons have returned to the state till now and we expect few more thousand.Q: What are the guidelines of the new shutdown? Will the state’s only airport be shut and international and inter-state borders sealed?A: Mizoram’s international borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh as well as borders with other states have been shut for the past two months and will continue to remain so. The shutdown will be more stringent in towns but a bit relaxed in villages, allowing people to work in their fields. Attendance in offices will be less than 50%. The economy will be taken care of. Curfew will be in place from 7:30 pm to 4:30 am. The airport will remain open and all stranded people will have to return by air. We have decided to extend the limit of quarantine from 14 days to 21 days.Q: Once two weeks gets over on June 22, will the total shutdown be relaxed in a staggered manner or will the guidelines of Unlock 1 come into effect?A: It will depend upon the circumstances after completion of the two week period. We will make a decision depending on what the Covid-19 situation is at that time.Q: What about the testing facilities in Mizoram? Has the state government been able to get additional testing facilities?A: We got a new RT-PCR machine and consumables last week and very soon we will be able to test more than 1,000 samples daily. Right now we are testing just 200-300 samples every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-lockdown-best-medicine-against-covid-19-mizoram-cm-zoramthanga/story-sfYQuq6dG2r26c3QuuudbN.html
09-06-2020||India||Kolkata launches biggest operation to refix trees uprooted by cyclone Amphan||In a race against time, Kolkata has embarked on its biggest ever exercise to save trees that were uprooted by cyclone Amphan. Some of these trees, like the Baobab tree and the ‘Mad’ tree, are more than a century old.The storm hit Kolkata with wind speed of up to 130 km per hour on May 20, uprooting around 15,000 trees in one evening. Out of the 500 trees identified for re-fixing, more than 50 have been re-fixed.“This is the biggest ever replantation drive in Kolkata. We have identified at least 500 trees that can be replanted. More are being identified and would be fixed. This is over and above the 50,000 saplings that are being planted,” said Debasis Kumar, former member mayor-in-council (parks and gardens) of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).The authorities had set up a committee comprising experts from the state pollution control board, state biodiversity board, Botanical Survey of India and an NGO to identify the trees that can be replanted and help in the drive.Three weeks after the cyclone, time is now a vital factor to save the trees. “But it’s now a race against time, as the uprooted trees would not survive long and need to be fixed at the earliest. Meanwhile they need to be taken care of – the trunk has to be kept wet with water so that the tree doesn’t dry and there should not be any water-logging near the roots as this could lead to fungus attack,” said Arjan Basu Roy, founder of a NGO named Nature Mates, who has fixed more than 500 trees in the past few years after they got uprooted every time a cyclone or a storm hit the city.It’s a very laborious process, experts said. The tree has to be straightened up with cranes, a huge ditch has to be dug, the branches have to be trimmed before the tree can be re-fixed. Fungicide needs to be applied. The tree then needs to be tied to adjacent trees or bamboo poles to hold it straight“The task doesn’t end here. The tree needs to be covered with jute cloth to prevent loss of water through transpiration. If new shoots start sprouting manure has to be applied and it needs regular watering,” said SS Hamid, curator of the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden.The garden authorities will replant a 150-year-old Baobab tree, which stores several thousand litres of water and a century old ‘Mad’ tree on Wednesday. The Pterygota alata tree is called a ‘mad’ tree because no two leaves are identical.What has buoyed the efforts is that new twigs have already started spouting in some of the trees that were fixed near Rabindra Sarobar – a National lake in south Kolkata - a week after the cyclone. More than 50 trees have been fixed near the lake and another 60 - 70 would be replanted in the next few days. “Replanting each tree would cost Rs 15,000 – Rs 20,000. Experts said that around 70% of the trees survive after replantation if the root condition is good and the replanted tree is taken care off,” said S Nandi, superintending engineer of Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, custodian of two large lakes in Kolkata including Rabindra Sarobar Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-launches-biggest-operation-to-refix-trees-uprooted-by-cyclone-amphan/story-pytKdYuOWbQsqSQIG2XyuJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Central teams deployed in over 50 districts, municipalities with high Covid-19 cases: Health minister||High-level central teams have been deployed in 15 states and UTs with more than 50 districts or municipal bodies that are witnessing a spurt in cases to assist the local administrations in containment and management of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.These multi-disciplinary teams are helping the states and UTs address challenges like testing bottlenecks, low tests per million population, high confirmation rates, risk of capacity shortfall over the next two months, potential bed shortage, growing case fatality rate, high doubling rate and sudden spike in active cases, etc, it said.These states and UTs are Maharashtra (seven districts/municipalities), Telangana (four), Tamil Nadu (seven), Rajasthan (five), Assam (six), Haryana (four), Gujarat (three), Karnataka (four), Uttarakhand (three), Madhya Pradesh (five), West Bengal (three), Delhi (three), Bihar (four), Uttar Pradesh (four), and Odisha (five).“The aim is to assist the state governments by providing technical support for containment and (to) facilitate management of Covid-19 outbreak,” the ministry said in a statement.With 9,987 fresh infections, India saw a record daily rise in Covid-19 cases for the seventh consecutive day on Tuesday. The country’s tally stands at 2,66,598. The death toll due to the disease mounted to 7,466 as 266 more people died.The three-member central teams comprise of two public health experts/epidemiologist/clinicians and a senior joint secretary level nodal officer for administrative handholding and improving governance, the ministry said.These teams are working in the field and visiting healthcare facilities to support the state health department in implementation of containment measures and efficient treatment and clinical management of cases within the districts and cities, it said.The ministry said, “In order to ensure better coordination, quick action on the ground, adoption of a more granular strategy, it is proposed that these districts and municipalities should regularly remain in touch with central teams which are already coordinating with the states.” Such frequent interaction would further strengthen the surveillance, containment, testing and treatment-related action on the ground.Many districts and municipalities have already formalised a dedicated core team at the district level comprising of medical and administrative officials to coordinate on a regular basis with the central team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-deployed-in-over-50-districts-municipalities-with-high-covid-19-cases-health-minister/story-4Ua56MUU0Y9wJx5hF7gVtL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Over 1,800 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 till date’: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police on Tuesday said that nearly 1,871 personnel have been infected with Covid-19 so far, news agency ANI reported. As many as 853 police officials have recovered from coronavirus till date while 21 have lost their lives. According to reports, eighty-two positive cases of coronavirus were also reported among the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel deployed in the city. No new coronavirus cases were reported in Maharashtra Police personnel over the last 24 hours. Total Covid-19 cases in the force stand at 2,562 while death toll is at 34, ANI reported.  Also read: Delhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 - Manish Sisodia1871 Mumbai police personnel have been infected with #COVID19 so far, including 853 recovered & 21 deaths. 82 positive cases also reported among State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel deployed in the city: Mumbai Police #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/WMhaVPkzIAMeanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena on Tuesday, in its editorial mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, said that Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have been eased when the cases are not showing any sign of abating.“After unlock, the challenges will increase. The government can be very strict, but people should not allow this situation to arise,” it said.“The need of the hour is to have self-discipline to ensure the lockdown easing does not boomerang,” the editorial read.Maharashtra is the worst-affected stated in the country with more coronavirus cases than the original epicentre - China. The Covid-19 tally in the state has jumped to 88,528 while more than 40,975 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the virus across the state. Covid-19 death toll in the state stands at 7,466. Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, has registered 50,085 Covid-19 cases while 1,702 patients have succumbed to death in the city due to coronavirus. Worldwide, coronavirus cases have crossed the 7 million mark. More than 4 lakh people have lost their lives to the virus across the globe. India stands at the fifth spot with the most number of Covid-19 cases after countries like the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-800-police-personnel-tested-positive-for-covid-19-till-date-mumbai-police/story-ifdjBcTtaRpHoQv8TxeDWO.html
09-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh awaits results of over 4,000 Covid-19 test samples||Around 4,000 test results of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are still pending with the Chhattisgarh health department amid the state’s tally reaching 1,197 positive cases till Monday.State health department officials said over 600 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the past 10 days due to the influx of migrant workers because of the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Niharika Barik Singh, health secretary, Chhattisgarh, attributed the pending test results to the limited strength of the four bio-safety laboratories (BSLs) in the state, including two in Raipur alone, as they are struggling to keep pace with the swab samples being collected daily.“We’re receiving more swab samples than these laboratories can handle. However, many results are also pending due to a delay in data entry in the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) portal. We’ve also increased the headcount of data entry operators and laboratory technicians to clear the backlog. For instance, we’ve provided five data entry operators and an equal number of technicians to the Raipur-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS),” Singh said,“Besides AIIMS, Raipur, three other BSLs in Ambikapur, Bilaspur and Rajnandgaon will become functional from July,” Singh added.State health minister Tribhuvaneshwar Saran Singh Deo echoed the state health secretary.“The AIIMS authorities in Raipur have requested us not to send any new swab samples for the next four days. Testing is on in full swing, and the backlog will be cleared soon. We’re conducting tests in the other three state-run hospitals as well,” the minister said“The testing is a manual process, and it takes about eight hours to process a single swab sample. The technicians are already working on three shifts. We need to scale up the process for quicker turnaround time for the availability of test results. However, we need additional funds for the exercise and the state government is working towards it,” said a health department official, who didn’t wish to be named.“Earlier till May 14, the test results were available in two-three days, by May 25 the time lag increased to five-seven days and now, in some cases, it is taking up to 10-12 days,” said a state health department official, requesting anonymity.The state authorities have collected 85,346 swab samples till Monday, of which 80,447 test results are available and another and 3,948 are still pending, the officials said.Chhattisgarh has reported 1,197 Covid-19 positive cases until Monday, including 104 new cases. Of the new Covid-19 positive cases, two Chhattisgarh police personnel, and an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan have been found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease.So far, 52 Covid-19 patients from the state have recovered from the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-awaits-results-of-over-4-000-covid-19-test-samples/story-rtoDOEE6oetPzNaR9yt4dO.html
09-06-2020||India||Massive fire at Assam’s Baghjan oil well that has been spewing gas for two weeks||The natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district that has been spewing gas and condensate, caught fire on Tuesday — 13 days after it had a blowout.Large plumes of smoke are emanating from the well, located at Baghjan, and can be seen several kilometers away from the site close to Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Mottapung wetland.“The fire broke out at 1:40 pm at the site. The reason for the outbreak is not ascertained yet. Apart from a fireman of Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC), who sustained a minor injury, no one else has been injured,” said Jayant Bormudoi, senior manager (corporate communication), OIL.Watch: Massive fire at oil well in Assam, CM Sonowal seeks help from IAF The fire broke out at the well a day after three experts from a Singapore-based firm Alert Disaster Control had reached the site to attempt plugging the well.“The experts were not present at the site when the fire broke out. They were attending meetings at OIL’s office in Duliajan. There’s no immediate threat to residents of the area, who have already been shifted beyond a radius of 1.5 kilometres from the well,” Bormudoi added.The Baghjan well had reported the blowout on May 27 while work was underway to produce gas from a new oil and gas-bearing reservoir at a depth of 3,729 metres.A blow out is an uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a well, when pressure control systems fail.Around 2,000 people living near the well have been shifted to four relief camps after the May 27 incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-assam-s-baghjan-oil-well-that-has-been-spewing-gas-for-two-weeks/story-9wpNcTQ5K5j1omd257H2vL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Dragon in the room’: Opposition’s swipe at Centre over Ladakh standoff||The Opposition parties are attacking the government over the border standoff with China. Leading the charge is Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has accused the government of hiding the truth.“Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in a tweet in Hindi, improvising on Ghalib’s couplet to attack home minister Amit Shah on Monday.On Tuesday, he responded to defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had earlier attacked Gandhi and the Congress party.“Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?” Gandhi tweeted. Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also asked the defence minister to answer the question, saying denigrating party symbols of opposition is not defending India.“Denigrating Party Symbols of Opposition isn’t same as ‘Defending India’. Will Rajnath Singh ji answer the simple question posed by Sh Rahul Gandhi,” Surjewala asked on Twitter. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) too joined the Congress in attacking the Centre on the issue. “Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?” the TMC’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee said ahead of home minister Amit Shah’s virtual rally for the people of West Bengal. Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: "Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?""চীন আমাদের ভূমির অংশ দখল করছে কি না?"In the rally, Shah accused the TMC government of indulging in violence and sought a change in the state.The latest to join the Opposition chorus is PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti. Iltija handles her mother’s Twitter account where she tweeted: “When Pulwama happened, GOI retaliated with ‘surgical air strikes’. Here China is on the cusp of altering territorial status quo & oddly enough its become the ‘elephant’(read dragon)in the room. Obsequious surrender?” When Pulwama happened, GOI retaliated with ‘surgical air strikes’. Here China is on the cusp of altering territorial status quo & oddly enough its become the ‘elephant’(read dragon)in the room. Obsequious surrender?The standoff has been continuing in the Ladakh area for more than a month. A meeting between top military officers of both India and China was held on Saturday. Though the meeting ended without a breakthrough, China’s foreign ministry later said that there was consensus that the differences should not turn into disputes.India has boosted its troop presence in the northern area, matching China in numbers and resources. Home minister Amit Shah, while addressing a virtual rally for the people of Bihar, said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance. He said that the whole world agrees that after USA and Israel if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dragon-in-the-room-opposition-s-swipe-at-centre-over-ladakh-standoff/story-ahuceUGOGw5n2spi0FdkgL.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Covid-19 found its way to India via frequently travelled countries in Europe, Middle East’: Study||A group of experts at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have found that Covid-19 virus found its way to India via frequently visited countries in Europe, South Asia, Middle East and Oceania. “There is a close connection between the source of the virus and the countries that are most travelled by Indians,” the study stated. The study, with lead authors Mainak Mondal, Ankita Lawarde and Kumaravel Somasundaram from the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, was published in the scientific journal Current Science. Also read: Delhi expected to have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July 31 - Manish SisodiaThe research noted the potential origin of Covid-19 virus in Indians to be in countries “mainly from Europe, Middle East Oceania and South Asia regions, which strongly imply the spread of the virus through most travelled countries”.The analysis revealed that most Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses (129 out of 137) show more similarity to that of specific countries. “In cluster A, Indian samples show more similarity to the viruses found in Oceania, Kuwait and South Asian samples, while in the cluster B, Indian samples show more similarity to mainly European and few numbers of Middle East/South Asian samples,” the study read. Also read: No community transmission of Covid-19, say Centre’s officials - Delhi govtThe findings indicated that majority of Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses have originated from Europe, Middle East, South Asia and Oceania regions. “A large majority of Indian viral isolates (n = 129), which were collected during March/April 2020, show more similarity with samples from Europe, Middle East, South Asia and Oceania regions,” the experts noted. The remaining Indian isolates (n = 8) have grouped with other clusters which contained most samples from China and East Asia. Thus, the study concluded the probable source of origin of Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses to be in countries from Europe and Oceania regions besides the Middle East and South Asian regions. In another study, experts at the Harvard Medical School believe that coronavirus might have been spreading in China as early as August 2019, news agency Reuters reported. The research used satellite imagery of hospital parking lots in Wuhan - where the disease was first identified in late 2019 - and data for symptom-related queries around “cough” and “diarrhoea” on various search engines.“In August, we identify a unique increase in searches for diarrhoea which was neither seen in previous flu seasons or mirrored in the cough search data,” the research stated.Worldwide, the number of coronavirus cases have crossed the 7 million-mark with over 4 lakh people killed by the deadly contagion. In India, the Covid-19 tally has jumped to 266,598 - fifth highest in the world after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-found-its-way-to-india-via-frequently-travelled-countries-in-europe-middle-east-study/story-uriAXqKAS4mDw20YoNPHdJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Sharad Pawar visits cyclone-hit Maharashtra’s Raigad||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday visited Raigad district in Maharashtra to take stock of the damage caused by cyclone ‘Nisarga’ last week.Pawar interacted with locals at a market in Mangaon where district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare and Raigad Lok Sabha MP Sunil Tatkare were also present.The cyclone had caused huge devastation in parts of the coastal district, about 115 kms away from Mumbai, on June 3 after making landfall near Shrivardhan.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced an immediate relief of Rs 100 crore for Raigad.Pawar’s party is a key constituent in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by the Shiv Sena.Pawar tweeted that he had begun his tour of coastal Konkan region to review the cyclone damage.A close aide of Pawar said that the NCP chief would visit areas affected by the cyclone in Ratnagiri district on Wednesday.Six persons were killed and 16 others injured in different districts of the state in cyclone-related incidents like falling of electricity poles.The state government had announced Rs 4 lakh aid to the kin of the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-visits-cyclone-hit-raigad/story-seU8BfDSizaDYUXFvtvV0J.html
09-06-2020||India||Lufthansa offers to fly empty planes to India, carry fliers to Europe||Lufthansa group has offered to fly empty planes to India and carry passengers only on its outbound flights to destinations in Europe, senior government officials said on Tuesday.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Therefore, there is a pent up demand for outbound international travel, especially among non-resident Indians (NRIs) who are in a hurry to go back either for personal or professional reasons. “Lufthansa group (which operates airline brands like Lufthansa, SWISS, etc) have offered to fly ferry (empty) flights to India and carry passengers only on its outbound flights to destinations in Europe. A decision is yet to be taken on this matter,” said the senior government official. The Civil Aviation Ministry started Vande Bharat Mission on May 7 to bring back stranded Indians from abroad on flights operated by Air India group amid the coronavirus lockdown. Air India group has been taking bookings on its outbound flights too, and for some destinations the demand has been huge.Since March 23, foreign airlines have operated non-scheduled repatriation flights to take their stranded citizens back home. Lufthansa did not respond to the request for a statement from PTI.The offer from the German airlines group Lufthansa has come at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in India, especially in metro cities that have the country’s largest airports like Delhi and Mumbai. State governments in the past have expressed reluctance to deal with large numbers of incoming flyers as their health infrastructure has been swamped with a huge number of Covid-19 cases. For example, when scheduled domestic passenger flights started operating on May 25, Mumbai airport was permitted to handle only 50 flights per day as per the request of Maharashtra government. Similarly, Kolkata airport was permitted to handle just 20 flights per day from May 28 onwards, as per the request of the West Bengal government. More than 2.46 lakh people have been infected and around 7,400 people have died due to Covid-19 in India till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lufthansa-offers-to-fly-empty-planes-to-india-carry-fliers-to-europe/story-OZ94GJtkjnmkeNZyeA6BkJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah takes on Mamata Banerjee on virtual turf, seeks change in West Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday called the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal a failure and sought a chance for Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to fix the problems faced by the state. Addressing a virtual rally, Shah called for a change in the state government, kicking off the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign for 2021 Assembly election.Shah accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of indulging in violence, corruption, extortion, infiltration, terror, politics of appeasement and dynasty politics. He also stung Banerjee for opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and said that this move of her would turn her into a “political refugee”.Also Read: Key Highlights of Amit Shah’s Virtual Rally“Change is needed to take Bengal ahead. People who changed the communist rule expecting development are now saying that even the communists were better than TMC. You gave communists 34 years and 10 years to Didi. Now give a chance to Modiji and you will see. Bihar, from being a Beemaru state, is on the path of development since an NDA government took charge. Uttar Pradesh is moving ahead in just three years,” Shah said.The home minister said that West Bengal was the only state which witnessed violence amid the Covid-19 lockdown. He also took swipes at the state government for being apathetic towards the migrant workers. This was Shah’s third virtual rally in as many days. He had earlier addressed the people of Bihar and Odisha. The BJP’s West Bengal unit and central office in New Delhi coordinated for the rally which was aired live on social media.“Only BJP can change Bengal. I appeal to crores of people to give Modiji a chance for corruption and violence free Bengal,” said Shah, adding, “In those five years, you will see an end to violence, corruption, scam, extortion, terror, infiltration, and dynasty politics. If you want these, give Modi-ji the rights to take the steps.” Alleging that the state government was indulging in appeasement politics, Shah said that “priority was being given to one particular community”.He also attacked the state government on the issue of bringing the migrant workers back. “Bengal has so far accepted only 236 trains carrying three lakh people, whereas Uttar Pradesh has taken 1,700 trains for migrant workers. Bengal not only took less trains but Mamata Banerjee even called the Shramik Special trains as ‘Corona Express’. This is an outright insult to the migrant workers. They will surely avenge it,” the home minister said.Political analysts found Shah’s revival of the CAA issue intriguing. The CAA that offers citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from six neighbouring countries had turned into a subject of intense political tussle in West Bengal in the second half of 2019. The TMC, the Left and the Congress had targeted the BJP for dividing people and paving the path for harassment of millions. The BJP had then launched a high-voltage campaign supporting the CAA, arguing that millions of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh settled in West Bengal are to benefit from this new legislation.“You are opposing CAA. You are opposing citizenship to the refugees from Bangladesh. When the ballot boxes open, you will find yourself in the position of a political refugee,” Shah said attacking Mamata Banerjee.A few hours before Shah’s rally, TMC took a jibe at the Centre.“Respected @AmitShah Ji, Bengal has not heard you speak during these times of crisis, but we hope today you would take a minute to answer this: Are the Chinese occupying our territory or not?” Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s youth wing chief, wrote on Twitter on Tuesday morning.After the speech, Banerjee tweeted, “As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - “When are the Chinese EXITING our territory” #BengalRejectsAmitShah.” As usual the speech of @AmitShah Ji was all rhetoric and no substance. Nonetheless since he has talked about his dream of seeing ‘EXIT’ of TMC, I would like to ask him one more time - "When are the Chinese EXITING our territory"#BengalRejectsAmitShahTMC secretary-general and state education minister Partha Chatterjee wrote on Twitter, “.@AmitShah’s priorities are crystal clear even when the state is battling with a pandemic and a natural disaster. Bengal, remember the face of this man who is just hungry for your votes and nothing else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-takes-on-mamata-banerjee-on-virtual-turf-seeks-change-in-west-bengal/story-kNflXrw1Ds9pu9GrqNPg5M.html
09-06-2020||India||In Amit Shah’s West Bengal virtual rally, a scathing attack on CM Banerjee: Key points||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday addressed the ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ rally - the third virtual address in a series of rallies that he started on Sunday. While Shah lauded the spirit of the people of West Bengal amid trying times marred by the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone Amphan, he accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee for playing political games over the rights of the poor. Shah said West Bengal is the only state where “political violence is propagated”. The home minister paid tribute to the BJP workers who lost their lives in the political fight in West Bengal since 2014. He underscored the significance of the state and described it as the land of great leaders and intellectuals. Also read: ‘West Bengal only state where political violence is propagated’ - Amit ShahHere are the top highlights from Amit Shah’s virtual West Bengal rally:• “While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated,” Shah said. • “Give Modi-ji a chance for corruption and violence-free Bengal,” the minister stated. • He accused the chief minister of insulting migrant workers. “You’ve rubbed salt into their wounds and they will not forget it,” Shah stated. • The minister added, “Mamata ji, you referred to Shramik Special Trains as ‘Corona Express’. The name that you have given, ‘Corona Express’ will become an exit express for the TMC in the state”. • Shah said Banerjee is not allowing the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Yojana in the state which has benefitted so many people across the country. “I and the people of Bengal want to ask you this, why are you not letting it get implemented?” Shah questioned.• “Mamata ji, do poor people of Bengal have no right to receive free and quality medical aid? Why is Ayushman Bharat scheme not allowed here? Mamata Ji, political games should not be played with the rights of poor people,” Shah further added.• “Since 2014, over 100 BJP workers lost their lives in political battle here in West Bengal. I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-amit-shah-s-west-bengal-virtual-rally-a-scathing-attack-on-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-key-highlights/story-yHlzr6AlG7reW8tQgpIv5N.html
09-06-2020||India||70-year-old widow tortured by daughter, Bombay High Court comes to rescue||Bombay High Court has come to the rescue of a 70-year-old widow, who was being mentally and physically tortured by her daughter. The daughter allegedly kept the elderly woman under house arrest for months with a fractured shoulder and broken nerves without any support or proper medical care.“If children cannot take care of their parents and allow them to live in peace, they at least ought not to make their life a living hell,” said the bench of Justice SJ Kathawalla and Justice Surendra Tavade while issuing a stern warning to the daughter.The bench stopped short of evicting the daughter, a divorcee, and her son, from the petitioner woman’s flat at Mumbai’s Lokhandwala Complex in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. The bench, however, warned the daughter and her son that they will be evicted forthwith if either of them caused any harassment to the elderly woman or tried to stop any of her relatives contacting her or from entering the flat.Also read: Mumbai Police’s order for action against fake news is legal - Maharashtra govtThe judges said that after talking to the petitioner, they had gathered an impression that the petitioner apprehended serious physical and mental harassment and consequently threat to her life at the hands of her daughter if she went to reside at her own flat with the daughter. “However, in view of the pandemic and the consequent problems that individuals are facing, we are today not passing an order directing the daughter to make alternate arrangements,” said the bench.The elderly woman moved the High Court seeking eviction of her abusive daughter and her son after the tribunal constituted under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 could not take up her plea for urgent reliefs due to the coronavirus pandemic.She said her abusive daughter had been in a wrong company all along. In 1998, she eloped with her boyfriend, a person having a criminal background. They spent two years in constant fights and in July 2000, he abandoned her and their toddler son, With an intervention of relatives, the daughter temporarily returned to her parents’ place at Lokhandwala but started living there forcibly.She added that a few months after returning to the parents’ place the daughter started harassing the petitioner and her husband. Both of them had become helpless as the daughter had threatened to level false accusations of molestation against her father, she added.The elderly woman’s petition stated that she was mentally and physically tortured by her daughter, especially after her husband died in January 2011, and her finances were taken over by her. She was forced to remain naked so as to compel her not to step out of the house and was served food only once a day. On August 3, 2018, she got an opportunity to step out of the flat but was hit by an auto-rickshaw while crossing a road. She had to be hospitalised. Thereafter, the 70-year-old could not move and was almost bedridden for a long time. During that time, her daughter did not allow any of her relatives to enter the flat and also broke the woman’s cell phone to ensure that she could not contact anybody else.In February 2020, her other daughter came from the US and took her to Bombay Hospital where a series of tests revealed that she had a shoulder fracture and several of her nerves around the neck had been severely damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-year-old-widow-tortured-by-daughter-bombay-high-court-comes-to-rescue/story-uDAdHX1GZdMzSocjeT6zxO.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi L-G calls meeting of political parties to discuss Covid-19 situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi L-G calls meeting of political parties to discuss Covid-19 situationDelhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has called on Tuesday afternoon a meeting with all political parties over the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Read moreDelhi’s ‘no test for asymptomatic patients’ rule a self-goal in Covid fight?The Delhi government’s order to not test asymptomatic patients has been criticised by many. Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad discusses the issue with AAP leader Akshay Marathe and senior consultant neurosurgeon from Ganga Ram hospital Dr. Ajit K Sinha. Watch to know moreOreo Bhajiya is the latest fusion food on the block. Would you like a bite?Those who love Oreos will agree that there are many delicious ways of consuming this sandwich cookie. Besides the usual way of dunking it into milk, one can also make milkshakes or cakes using Oreo cookies. Read moreMannat: A look inside Shah Rukh Khan’s Rs 200 crore Mumbai mansionShahrukh Khan, better known as King Khan in Bollywood, and the brilliant actor and eloquent orator needs no introduction with 80 Bollywood films and 14 Filmfare awards to his name so far. Read moreBihar 94000 Primary Teachers Recruitment: Apply from June 15, revised schedule for DElEd candidates outFollowing the validity granted to the D.El.Ed (open distance learning) programme through the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) in keeping with the Patna High Court order, Bihar government has issued directive to give such candidates a chance to apply for the post of primary teachers. Read moreI’ve never disclosed this but here is how Dhoni was picked: Syed Kirmani narrates MSD’s selection storyIt sounds only fitting to know that India’s first finest wicket-keeper was responsible for giving Indian cricket its best ‘keeper batsman. Read moreConfirmed: Janhvi Kapoor’s Gunjan Saxena The Kargil Girl to release on Netflix, watch her real story in new teaserBollywood actor Janhvi Kapoor is all set to bring the story of air force pilot Gunjan Saxena to the screen with her latest project, Gunjan Saxena The Kargil Girl. Directed by Sharan Sharma, the film stars Janhvi in the titular role and also stars Pankaj Tripathi, Angad Bedi, Viineet Kumar, Manav Vij and Ayesha Raza. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-l-g-calls-meeting-of-political-parties-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4VKTJ4LQ5NdJSTvMRRnyeP.html
09-06-2020||India||Amit Shah counters Bengal CM over ‘Corona Express’ jibe. Then a prediction||The coinage “Corona Express” by Mamata Banerjee to trains ferrying migrant workers will turn into an “exit express” for the Trinamool, home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday, sharpening the attack on the Bengal chief minister at a virtual rally.“The name ‘Corona Express’ that you have given, Mamata didi, will become your exit route. You’ve added salt to the wounds of the migrant workers and they will not forget this,” said Shah during an online address to workers at ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ rally.The BJP has been holding these virtual rallies to spread the message of the party and the government and also give a push to political activity.The home minister was drawing attention to Bengal CM’s criticism of running migrant trains, accusing the railways of packing in most migrants in one train instead of running several of them.Watch: ‘Corona express will ensure your exit from West Bengal’: Amit Shah “In the name of Shramik Special trains, the railways is running ‘Corona Express’ trains...The Railways is sending migrants in jam-packed compartments...The number of COVID-19 cases is increasing because of this. The Railways has some social obligation, they cannot just operate on the basis of profit and loss,” she said.Banerjee had claimed at the time that the state was able to control the spike in the coronavirus cases, but the influx of people through Shramik Specials pushed the numbers up again.The Shramik Specials were being run by the Centre to help migrants, stuck in various states due to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic, reach home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-counters-bengal-cm-over-corona-express-jibe-then-a-prediction/story-GcoIKrL8gSry5gWmR5HKFO.html
09-06-2020||India||As Unlock 1 kicks in, govt lists ‘Covid-19 appropriate behaviours’||A day after allowing services to resume under relaxations provided during Covid-19 lockdown, the government offered a list of dos and dont’s.Titled ‘COVID Appropriate Behaviours’, the list was posted on Union health ministry’s Twitter feed.From following social distancing to avoding spitting in public places, it gives a long list of things to follow:• Greet without physical contact• Maintain a distance of six feet in public places• Wear reusable handmade masks/face cover all the time• Avoid touching eyes, nose and mouth• Cover nose and mouth while coughing and sneezing• Wash hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser• Do not chew tobacco, khaini etc or spit in public places• Regularly clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces• Avoid unnecessary travel• Do not discriminate against people affected by Covid-19, their caregivers or anyone supporting the fight against Covid-19• Keep the number of guests to the minimum if social event cannot be postponed• Do not visit crowded places and avoid mass gatherings #IndiaFightsCorona:Practise these COVID Appropriate Behaviours to protect yourself and others from #COVID19. #BadalkarApnaVyavaharKareinCoronaParVaar #SwasthaBharat #HealthForAll @PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @CovidIndiaSeva @COVIDNewsByMIB pic.twitter.com/1VtOdRoH1AIndia on Tuesday reported another surge in the number coronavirus disease cases. The country recorded 9,987 cases in the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 2,66,598, according to the Union health ministry.The number of active cases in the country is 1,29,917, while 1,29,214 have been cured or discharged, the health ministry update at 8 am showed.The number of those killed by the disease reached 7,466 on Tuesday after 266 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-unlock-1-kicks-in-govt-lists-covid-19-appropriate-behaviours/story-uQStEuZvgj4N7w8THdVotO.html
09-06-2020||India||‘West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated’: Amit Shah||While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated, Union home minister Amit Shah made a sharp remark during his ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad’ virtual rally on Tuesday.Shah remembered the many party workers who lost their lives amid the political battle in the state since 2014. “I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said.  While democracy has strengthened its roots and has been consolidated in the entire country, West Bengal remains the only state where political violence is propagated: Union Home Minister Amit Shah at ‘West Bengal Jan-Samvad Rally’ via video conference pic.twitter.com/KiRt45rDjQHe started his address by saluting the ‘corona warriors’ for risking their lives to save others amid the coronavirus pandemic and also prayed for the souls of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19 and cyclone Amphan in West Bengal. Also Watch | ‘Over 100 BJP workers killed in Bengal since 2014’: Amit ShahThe minister launched a sharp attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying that she is not allowing the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Yojana which has benefitted so many people across the country.“I and the people of Bengal want to ask you this, why are you not letting it get implemented?” Shah questioned. “Mamata ji, do poor people of Bengal have no right to receive free and quality medical aid? Why is Ayushman Bharat scheme not allowed here? Mamata Ji, political games should not be played with the rights of poor people,” Shah further added. This was Shah’s third virtual event in a series of online rallies that began on Sunday. The minister first addressed the Bihar virtual rally on Sunday followed by the Odisha virual rally on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-remains-the-only-state-where-political-violence-is-propagated-amit-shah-at-west-bengal-jan-samvad-virtual-rally/story-Mq26nfIgQm2x4OSzaA1m5J.html
09-06-2020||India||‘I salute corona warriors for risking their lives to save others’: Amit Shah at West Bengal Jan Samvad Rally||Union home minister Amit Shah addressed the ‘West Bengal Jan Samvad Rally’ via video conferencing on Tuesday and lauded the selfless, tireless fight put up by ‘corona warriors’ against India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Shah started his virtual address by emphasising the significance of West Bengal, describing it as a land of great leaders and intellectuals like Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose, among many others. Shah said he prays for the souls of all those who have lost their lives in the fight against Covid-19 and the destruction brought by cyclone Amphan in the state. He also remembered the many party workers who lost their lives amid the political battle in the state since 2014. Since 2014, over 100 BJP workers lost their lives in political battle here in West Bengal. I pay my respect to their families as they've contributed to development of Sonar Bangla: Union Home Minister & BJP leader Amit Shah at ‘West Bengal Jan-Samvad Rally’ via video conference pic.twitter.com/KYqtfjh08P“I pay my respect to their families as they’ve contributed to the development of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said. Shah’s Tuesday’s address comes a day after he addressed the ‘Odisha Jansamvad’ virtual rally on Monday in a series of online events that started with him addressing the ‘Bihar Jansamvad’ event on Sunday. In his Odisha virual rally on Monday, Shah said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “go gaz ki doori (a distance of two yards) mantra to fight against the coronavirus pandemic does not mean to distance the party and its people.“Do gaz ki doori’ cannot create a distance between BJP and its people,” said Shah at Odisha Jansamvad virtual rally. Shah’s Sunday address during the Bihar virtual rally was wide-ranging which he said had nothing to do with the Assembly polls due in the state later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-salute-corona-warriors-for-risking-their-lives-to-save-others-amid-the-covid-19-pandemic-amit-shah-at-west-bengal-jan-samvad-rally/story-S7lcIgrhojzVtTBprvTmeN.html
09-06-2020||India||Supreme Court directs states, union territories to facilitate return of migrant workers within 15 days||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and union territories to identify and take steps to return stranded migrant workers within 15 days. It also directed the Indian Railways to provide special Shramik trains within 24 hours of request by states.The court also asked state governments and Centre to list all schemes of employment for workers who have returned and open counseling centres at block/district level to ensure they are informed of their benefits under various schemes. The government has also been asked to provide information to migrant workers about employment opportunities and facilitate those who wish to return to their place of original employment. The apex court ordered all the complaints and FIRs filed against migrant workers for violating rules to be withdrawn.The matter will now be heard on July 8.The court has taken suo motu cognisance of the issue. During the last hearing on June 5, 15 days is enough for states to send migrant workers - stranded in cities across the country since the imposition of nationwide lockdown - home.Migrant workers, many left jobless and homeless after their workplaces or work sites shut during the ongoing lockdown imposed on March 25 to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease, have struggled to get home.Many of them have walked hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-states-union-territories-to-facilitate-return-of-migrant-workers-within-15-days/story-GGhwhlLnlJggM56p63cmWJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Man killed by tigress in Uttar Pradesh, enraged locals attack forest staff||A 35-year-old man was mauled to death by a tigress near Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) located in Pilibhit district of West Uttar Pradesh on Monday night. The incident enraged locals who attacked a team of forest guards and set ablaze a picket.The same tigress is also believed to have injured two brothers in another attack on Sunday.Confirming the incident, PTR’s deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said, “A young tigress of PTR strayed out of the forest area and attacked one Subendu Vishwas, a resident of Goyal Colony located near Mala range of PTR. The man died on the spot. The tigress is believed to be behind another attack on two brothers in the same area. Our teams are trying to track the tigress.” The injured brothers are still in the hospital recovering from their injuries.Also read: Pak journalist praises UP’s handling of Covid-19 crisisMinutes before the tigress attacked him, Subendu was sitting with his friends beside a road which lead to Goyal Colony. The tigress injured his face, neck and abdomen in the attack. Subendu’s relatives and other residents of the colony got enraged by the incident and attacked a team of forest department that reached the spot. The mob later set ablaze a picket of forest department demanding monetary compensation for the kin of the deceased.The forest department had to call the local police to contain the situation.“Some locals got very angry by the incident. We are trying to speak with them about the issues and resolve the matter amicably,” said the officer. The forest and local district administration has also assured to provide financial support to Subendu’s family.According to experts, PTR has a very thin buffer zone that allows both animals and humans to cross over into each other’s territories. This leads to man-animal conflict. Over 25 people have been killed because of this conflict since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-killed-by-tigress-in-uttar-pradesh-enraged-locals-attack-forest-staff/story-Chu9wsuGYuk5TpkyY2eh1O.html
09-06-2020||India||Asymptomatic spread of coronavirus is ‘very rare’, says WHO||A World Health Organization (WHO) official said late on Monday that people with the Sars-Cov-2 may not be infectious if they are ‘asymptomatic’, a significant new claim about the understanding of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that experts around the world said could be premature.WHO official epidemiologist Maria Van Kerkhove made the statement at a briefing in Geneva, where officials from the global health agency said that new coronavirus cases had their biggest daily increase ever and countries must continue with efforts to contain the virus.“From the data we have, it still seems to be rare that an asymptomatic person actually transmits onward to a secondary individual,” said Van Kerkhove, head of WHO’s emerging diseases and zoonosis unit, said at a news briefing from the United Nations agency’s Geneva headquarters. “It’s very rare.”These asymptomatic cases, she said, were identified through contact tracing of known patients and the lack of onward transmission by asymptomatic individuals was based on data from countries carrying out detailed contact tracing. “Much of that has been published in the literature yet,” she said, adding that the agency was reviewing such data to be sure. Also Watch | Covid ‘situation worsening’, says WHO as global cases cross 70 lakh-markAlso Read: Covid-19: Maharashtra inches closer to 90,000 cases, total tally touches 88,528Van Kerkhove said such findings were published in a paper from Singapore, where contacts from long-term care facilities and households supported the theory.Last week, China announced results from its population-wide testing of residents in Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, where they found 300 asymptomatic patients among the city’s 9.98 million residents.Personal belongings of these asymptomatic carriers such as toothbrushes, mugs, masks and towels have shown negative for the virus in samples collected from the surfaces, Chinese news agency Xinhua reported on Tuesday. A total of 1,174 close contacts of the 300 cases have also been tested negative for coronavirus, the report added.Experts have sought to ask the WHO to make a distinction between whether the lack of transmission was true only in asymptomatic cases – people with an infection that is so mild that they never have any symptoms – compared to pre-symptomatic cases where people go on to later develop symptoms.In a study published in the journal Nature in mid-April, researchers from China’s Guangzhou studied 94 patients and estimated that 44% of secondary cases were infected during the index patient’s presymptomatic stage, particularly in settings such as households.“Disease control measures should be adjusted to account for probable substantial presymptomatic transmission,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asymptomatic-spread-of-coronavirus-is-very-rare-who-says/story-FacDXRatyOZMwRmBdt392N.html
09-06-2020||India||Manipur high court restrains 7 Congress MLAs from entering Assembly||Seven lawmakers in Manipur have been accused of supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government despite being elected on a Congress ticket.A petition has been filed seeking disqualification of these MLAs. Till a decision on the petition is taken by the Speaker’s tribunal, these lawmakers have been restrained by the Manipur High Court from entering the state legislative assembly.The single bench of Justice Kh Nobin of High Court of Manipur passed an order on Monday.“...unless and until the petitions are decided and disposed of finally by the Hon’ble Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly, the private respondents namely Sanasam Bira Singh, MLA, Ginsuanhau, MLA, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, MLA, Ngamthang Haokip, MLA, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh, MLA, Kshetrimayum Bira Singh, MLA and Paonam Brojen Singh, MLA are restrained from entering the Manipur Legislative Assembly, Imphal,” the order said.The petitions have been filed by MLA K Meghachandra against Ngamthang Haokip from Saitu, MLA O Henry against Ksh Biren from Lamlai, MLA K Govindas against Paonam Brojen from Wangjing Tentha, MLA DD Thaisi against Y Surchandra from Kakching, MLA Kh Joykisan against Sanasam Bira from Kumbi, MLA O Surjakumar against O Lukhoi from Wangoi and MLA K Ranjit against Ginsuanhau from Singhat.The bench said that the petitions for the disqualification of the MLAs were filed before the Speaker on November 8, 2018, and were not decided by him within a reasonable time as mandated in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, sources said.The ruling was passed on Monday after it was kept reserved on June 5. On the hearing that day, the Congress MLAs had prayed before the high court to restrain the seven MLAs from entering the premises of Manipur Legislative Assembly.One of the petitioners has hailed the judgement. Speaking to mediapersons, Congress MLA K Meghachandra called it a “landmark verdict”. “The order passed by the high court has proved that democracy has failed in Manipur,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-high-court-restrains-7-congress-mlas-from-entering-assembly/story-mkEGPACAn8551j9H8FniVM.html
09-06-2020||India||Hundreds sign petition to remove ‘Clive of India’ statue in UK||Hundreds of people signed an online petition on Monday demanding the removal of a statue of Robert Clive, who played a key role in establishing Britain’s colonial domination over India, in Shrewsbury, western England. The petition on Change.Org is addressed to the local Shropshire County Council and came within hours of dramatic scenes of a former slave trader Edward Colston’s sculpture being pulled down and dragged into a river in Bristol on Sunday, during a weekend of fiery “Black Lives Matter” anti-racism protests. “Robert Clive was one of the early figures of the British imperial domination of India, Bengal and much of South-East Asia,” reads the petition, which has already attracted over 1,700 people of its 2,500 target within hours. “Clive as a symbol of British colonialism is significantly offensive to Indian, Bengali and south-east Asian descent and to attempt to justify it as a celebration of British pride and nationalism is only justifiable if one revels in the persecution and murder of millions of innocent people,” it reads.Clive served as the first Governor of Bengal Presidency under the East India Company in the 18th century, earning the title ‘Clive of India’. The petition highlights his role in the “looting” of Bengal in the early years of the British Empire, with many of the region’s riches finding their way back with him to Britain. “To have a statue commemorating the man that ruined a nation and held innocent people to his barbaric orders is both offensive and embarrassing. Just because a figure is historical, that doesn’t make him good. He is nothing more than a figure of oppression and white supremacy that has, whether consciously or not, been celebrated and commemorated in Shrewsbury town centre for hundreds of years,” it notes. Local Shrewsbury MP, Conservative Party’s Daniel Kawczynski, called for a peaceful discussion on the statue and pledged to conduct a “blow by blow” research on the life of locally-born Clive. “We are doing a research paper and while I won’t comment on his life until after it’s written, the British Empire was a tremendous source for good during its time,” said Kawczynski, who said he would be using the House of Commons library for the research. “We honour and celebrate those who helped establish this empire. They are part of our history and should be treated with respect and dignity. I know some people will want to eradicate all traces of the British Empire, but I’ve seen huge pluses of things it did around the world,” he said. The MP also paid tribute to Britain’s war-time Prime Minister Winston Churchill, whose statue on Parliament Square in London was among those targeted by protesters over the weekend with graffiti reading “was a racist”. The steps below Mahatma Gandhi’s statue nearby were also left marked with the word “racist”. Peter Nutting, the leader of Shropshire Council, said that in line with the council’s constitution, all petitions that gain 1,000 signatures are debated to determine any action required. “In the meantime, while we recognise the strength of feeling around the Black Lives Matter campaign, and acknowledge people’s right to protest, we ask them to do so peacefully and safely, abiding by the social distancing guidelines,” he said. There is a similar life-size statue of Clive near the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) building on King Charles Street, Whitehall, in central London. The plinth records his two major career spurts in India, including the Battle of Plassey in 1757 and the Treaty of Allahabad in 1765. Clive, born in Market Drayton in Shropshire before his schooling in London, travelled to India for the East India Company in 1743 before returning to his London home later in life where he died in 1774 -- believed to have committed suicide. The Black Lives Matter protests over the weekend took place across different parts of the UK in solidarity with similar protests in the US and around the world against the killing of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American man who was a victim of police brutality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-sign-petition-to-remove-clive-of-india-statue-in-uk/story-k3u2DEkGvLl0j2xGZ1sbbI.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: After deadliest day, another big spike of nearly 10,000 cases in 24 hours||India on Tuesday reported another surge in the number coronavirus disease cases. The country recorded 9,987 cases in the last 24 hours, which took the overall tally to 2,66,598, according to the Union health ministry.The number of active cases in the country is 1,29,917, while 1,29,214 have been cured or discharged, the health ministry update at 8 am showed.The number of those killed by the disease reached 7,466 on Tuesday after 266 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours. Also Watch | Covid ‘situation worsening’, says WHO as global cases cross 70 lakh-markIndia recorded the deadliest day due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.The first of the major relaxations as part of India’s three-phase ‘unlocking’ plan came into force in several parts of the country on Monday. Across the country, restaurants, malls and religious places such as temples, mosques and churches opened for the first time after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25, albeit with far fewer footfalls then before.Signs marking where people will stand, new screens between diners and separate entry and exit routes were commonly seen in these places, along with thermal screening and hand sanitisers that visitors were being required to apply before entry.In metropolitan cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, traffic jams were reported during rush hours and a large number of people was seen at bus stops, particularly since in both these cities, the metro and local rail transit are yet to resume.Meanwhile, the World Bank said on Monday that the coronavirus pandemic will plunge the world into a severe recession, the deepest since World War II, shredding per capita incomes and pushing millions into poverty.The global economy is expected to shrink 5.2% in 2020, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-after-deadliest-day-another-big-spike-of-nearly-10-000-cases-in-24-hours/story-4TR3bjaQq5FpL8HC8vGjdM.html
09-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to police and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to policeTablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, who has been booked for holding a weeks-long gathering in March, ignoring guidelines prohibiting meetings of more than a certain number of people, resulting in a jump in coronavirus infections, is yet to submit his Covid-19 test report from a government lab despite being asked to, the Delhi police on Monday. Read moreCanadian PM Trudeau defends decision to attend protest amid Covid-19 curbsAmid criticism from opposition leaders, Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau has defended his presence at a ‘Black Lives Matter’ protest despite warning Canadians to avoid large gatherings and supporting restrictions on mass events across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreGoogle Maps update now shows how crowded is public transport, medical checkpoints and more on Android, iOSGoogle is taking some major steps in improving its Maps app with more Covid-19 information, letting travelers know about checkpoints, how crowded public transportation will be, testing center alerts and more. These features are available on both Android and iOS versions of Google Maps but for select countries around the world. Read moreHappy birthday Sonam Kapoor: See her 10 best family pics with Anand Ahuja, Anil Kapoor and othersActor Sonam Kapoor turns 35 years old on Tuesday and to get the celebrations started, we bring you the 10 best pictures from her family album. After spending almost two months away from her parents in Delhi due to the coronavirus lockdown, Sonam returned to Mumbai on Sunday and is ready to ring in her birthday with her family. Read moreDry fasting: Health benefits, how to do it and why its better than ‘wet’ fastingAs more and more people are becoming health conscious, fasting has become a common method of keeping the body’s fitness up. Fasting has been in practice for centuries and it is only recently that the health benefits of it are being discussed. Read moreOn The Record: Delhi doctor calls govt’s moves ‘Kafkaesque’ In the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury talks to Dr Ambarish Satwik, a surgeon at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram hospital, about the infrastructure of hospitals ito combat covid-19. Satwik also calls Delhi government’s decision to station senior nursing officer in hospitals a ‘Kafkaesque’move. Watch to know moreLong road to regaining training peakWith the Windies Cricket Board announcing the squad for a three-Test series in England starting July 8, the wheels have been set in motion. Halted since March 13 due to the pandemic, international cricket will resume with the series, subject to UK government approval. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tablighi-jamaat-chief-yet-to-submit-his-covid-19-test-report-to-police-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AhWHHZTwIp87RmorMrrSyI.html
09-06-2020||India||In latest salvo, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath Singh a question on border standoff with China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again targeted the government over the weeks-long standoff with China in the Ladakh region. In a tweet directed at Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Gandhi asked a question.“Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?” he said on Twitter. Once RM is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh?The tweet was in response of Singh’s jibe at Gandhi, who had earlier raised questions over the issue of border dispute with China.Also Read: India-China troops disengage at 4 standoff points in eastern LadakhGandhi had used Mirza Ghalib’s verse to attack Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday morning. “Everyone knows the reality of the borders, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in a tweet in Hindi, improvising on Ghalib’s couplet. सब को मालूम है ‘सीमा’ की हक़ीक़त लेकिन,दिल के ख़ुश रखने को, ‘शाह-यद’ ये ख़्याल अच्छा है।https://t.co/cxo9mgQx5KSingh hit back in the evening with another tweaked version of Ghalib’s couplet in Hindi: “You apply medicine to the hand when it pains, but what to when the hand itself is the cause of pain.” मिर्ज़ा ग़ालिब का ही शेर थोड़ा अलग अन्दाज़ में है। ‘‘हाथ’ में दर्द हो तो दवा कीजै,‘हाथ’ ही जब दर्द हो तो क्या कीजै.. https://t.co/k1fhnI6K4N“Hand” is the Congress party’s election symbol.Shah had on Sunday said that India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.Gandhi has been attacking the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the border standoff with China and has been asking the government to come clean on the situation.The standoff has been going on for more than a month now. A meeting was held on Saturday between the top military officials of both the countries which ended without a breakthrough. But China said after the meeting that a “consensus” was reached. The Chinese foreign ministry also said that differences should not be allowed to turn into disputes.The external affairs ministry had also said that India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-salvo-rahul-gandhi-asks-rajnath-singh-a-question-on-border-standoff-with-china/story-stlx3hTWqqqIbcIPS2KZ0J.html
09-06-2020||India||Police recover huge quantity of ammunition near LoC in north Kashmir’s Keran||The Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed to have recovered large quantity of arms and ammunition near the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Keran sector.The police said that based on a reliable input a joint search operation was launched by Kupwara Police and the Army’s 6 Rashtriya Rifles in Keran village and forest areas along the LoC.Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar confirmed that during the combing operation large quantity of arms and ammunition were recovered from a weapons dump.The recoveries included five AK-47 rifles, 15 AK magazines, 443 rounds, two under barrel grenade launcher or UBGL, 57 UBGL grenades, six 9mm pistols, 12 9mm pistol magazine, 77 9mm pistol rounds, 15 hand grenades and two AK slings.“With this joint operation security forces deployed in Kupwara have successfully foiled the nefarious designs of Pakistan based terror operatives to smuggle illegal weapons into the Valley and spread terrorism,” Kumar said.The police have registered a case and launched further investigation.Meanwhile, an Over Ground Worker of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), identified as Irfan Ahmad Wani of Shatlu Rafiabad in Baramulla, was arrested by joint party of SOG Baramulla, 52 RR and 53 CRPF at Kralhar. A Chinese pistol, one magazine, four rounds and a mobile phone were recovered from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-recover-huge-quantity-of-ammunition-near-loc-in-north-kashmir-s-keran/story-IPJw8J5oJUePqsMxKnP2bI.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Number of cured patients nearly equal to active cases||India is on track to achieve an important milestone in fight against the deadly coronavirus disease. The number of cured or discharged patients in the country is now nearly equal to the number of active cases.According to the Union health ministry, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country is 1,24,981 and the number of cured patient is 1,24,429.The further narrowing of this gap will show that the spread of the disease is slowing down.The rate of the spread of the disease has came down to 3.8 per cent in the last 24 hours, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported. It was 15 per cent before the lockdown was implemented, it further reported. It came down to 4.8 per cent two weeks ago, and now stands at 3.8 per cent.India recorded the deadliest day due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases at 88,528, added the most number of new infections at 2,553. Mumbai, the country’s financial capital, alone saw its tally of confirmed cases crossing 50,000 and its death count reached 1,702.Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.Gujarat remained as the state with the highest fatality ratio, with 6.22 per cent of known infections having succumbed to the disease. The case fatality ratio in the national capital remained just below three per cent.Globally, over 4 lakh people have died and more than 70 lakh have tested positive for the virus ever since its emergence in China last December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-number-of-cured-patients-nearly-equal-to-active-cases/story-G2Hvhz5pWXCWLsOxjwGByK.html
09-06-2020||India||Manipur high court bars 7 Congress ex-MLAs from House||The Manipur high court on Monday ordered that 7 former Congress MLAs, who had defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the 2017 Manipur assembly elections, cannot enter the state legislative assembly till the disqualification petitions filed against them are decided by the Speaker of the House, Y Khemchand Singh.This comes close on the heels of expulsion of BJP minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar from the state assembly in March after the Supreme Court in a strongly worded order restrained Shyamkumar from entering the assembly and also stripped him of his ministerial post while asking the Speaker to decide a similar disqualification petition against him for defecting to BJP.The order passed by justice KH Nobin Singh on Monday would mean that unless the Supreme Court stays the order, the 7 MLAs will not be able to cast their votes in the Rajya Sabha elections which is slated to take place on June 19 for filling the lone seat from the state to the Upper House of the Parliament.The seven MLAs who were disqualified are Sanasam Bira Singh, Ginsuanhau, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh, Kshetrimayum Bira Singh and Paonam Brojen Singh.Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, SG Hasnain and N Ibotombi represented the Congress leaders who had filed the petition. Senior counsel HS Paonam appeared for the 7 defected MLAs.The Congress party had emerged as the single-largest party in the 2017 Manipur assembly elections, securing 28 seats, three seats short of the majority mark in the 60-seat assembly. However, the BJP, with 21 seats, moved in to stake its claim in an alliance with the Naga People’s Front, Nationalist People’s Party and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP).Shyamkumar and seven MLAs had contested and won on Congress ticket before extending their support to BJP leader Biren Singh to form a coalition government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-high-court-bars-7-congress-ex-mlas-from-house/story-GcMOa0cXyvNRrxXobSDWyL.html
09-06-2020||India||India has highest number of serious Covid-19 cases after United States: Report||India may be the fifth worst-affected country by the coronavirus disease, it has the highest the number of serious Covid-19 patients after United States.According to data analysis by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan, the US has 16,923 patients in serious condition and India has 8,944.Brazil is now the new global hotspot of the country, but even there, the number of patients with serious conditions is less than India. Brazil has thrice the number of Covid-19 patients that India, but the number of serious patients is 8,318, Hindustan reported.In Russia, the number of Covid-19 patients in serious condition is one-fourth of India. In Spain, Britain, Germany and Italy, their number is less than 1,000.The Union health ministry had earlier said that less than five per cent of the Covid-19 patients in the country need intensive care. Out of these, 2.25 per cent were admitted to the ICU and 1.91 peer cent needed oxygen support.The ministry also said that only few people needed ventilator support. Most of these patients belonged to Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh.India recorded nearly 10,000 cases on Monday which took its Covid-19 tally to 2.6 lakh. Mumbai, the country’s financial capital and the worst hit city by the dreaded virus outbreak, alone saw its tally of confirmed cases crossing 50,000.India also recorded the deadliest day due to Covid-19 outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed.Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-has-highest-serious-number-of-cases-after-united-states-report/story-AXtfa6WKZV9upbmT7KO9fP.html
09-06-2020||India||Reality of ‘borders’ known to all: Rahul Gandhi||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday the government will not compromise on the country’s pride and self-respect even as Congress president Rahul Gandhi stepped up his criticism of the Centre’s handling of the ongoing India-China border row. Addressing a BJP event online, Singh acknowledged that Gandhi and some opposition leaders have sought the government’s clarification on the developments at the border. “As the defence minister of the country, I want to say that...I will say it inside Parliament; I will not mislead the people,” he said. Earlier in the day, Gandhi stressed that “everyone knows the reality”, less than 24 hours after home minister Amit Shah pointed out that India has shown decisiveness in protecting its borders. “The media is muzzled and terrified. The truth seems dormant. But it flows in the blood of every single Indian Army officer and soldier. They know exactly what is happening in Ladakh,” Gandhi said in a tweet. “Everyone knows the reality of the ‘borders’, but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” he said in another tweet in Hindi, tweaking a couplet by Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib.Addressing a virtual rally in Bihar on Sunday, Shah had said India’s defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.Reacting to Gandhi’s tweets, BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said: “Sabko maloom hai Doklam ke samay kiske sath chai peene ke bad aap chupana chahte the (Everyone knows with who you had tea at the time of Doklam and later tried to hide it).” During the Doklam stand-off in 2017, Gandhi’s meeting with Chinese envoy Luo Zhaohui triggered a war of words. Gandhi then clarified that as an opposition leader, he held regular meetings with diplomats on critical issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reality-of-borders-known-to-all-rahul-gandhi/story-opqiMW8xTfjrhEBWbVCafM.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Is India the country with the fifth highest number of cases, or the sixth?Does it really matter?I’ve previously written about how there’s a tendency to view dashboards providing statistics of the coronavirus disease as some sort of report card of a government’s performance. The governments of many Indian states seem to think so; as do the governments of many countries.So, some reports of India overtaking Spain and becoming the fifth in the listing in terms of number of cases (not in Hindustan Times) immediately provoked reactions about the relative populations of the two countries.It’s time to recognise two truths about the coronavirus disease. One, in the absence of widespread testing, caseload numbers are useless. They help nobody. In fact, they probably hurt by presenting a picture that’s far removed from reality.Two, the coronavirus has gotten the better of most governments. Health systems around the world – first world and third – have been overwhelmed by it. Governments may find it embarrassing to admit this, but everyone is probably better off if they do.The only number that matters is the number of deaths – and there, India continues to do better than other countries. The country’s current case fatality rate of around 2.8% is less than half the global rate.For those who want to know why some listings have Spain above India and some, below, it’s because the country has acquired the reputation for having the dodgiest data around. Some of this is because of inconsistencies between how cases were initially reported by the provinces, but some is also because of the variety of testing techniques used. Still, as I have said, the number is irrelevant.The only thing that matters is that John Hopkins’s coronavirus dashboard puts the number of deaths in Spain at 27,136; Worldometers.info at also 27,136; and the New York Times, 27,136.India, according to the HT dashboard (which cross-checks death numbers with states), had 7,134 deaths as of Sunday night.It isn’t clear why India should see fewer deaths – unless some deaths are not being reported, but this doesn’t seem to be the case – but every country needs and deserves all the breaks it gets.The other two numbers that matter are testing capacity and hospital beds. Everyone who wants to get tested should be able to; and anyone who needs a hospital bed should be able to find one (the use of the word want in the first case and need in the second is deliberate).There’s nothing as harrowing as not being able to get a test done or not being able to find a hospital bed. Both Mumbai and Delhi are going through that phase right now. The two cities – the country’s most important ones – together accounted for 25% of the cases reported on Sunday, continuing a trend that’s been evident and consistent for weeks. (Add Chennai, and the proportion rises to 35%, and sure enough, there are signs that even that city’s health infrastructure, among the country’s best, is beginning to show signs of wear).The number of recovered patients doesn’t really matter in my opinion – because it’s just a question of math; India’s death rate is 2.8%, which means that if 1,000 people are infected in a certain 24-hour period, then, between 10 and 20 days after, 972 of them are bound to recover. Consequently, a peaking of daily caseloads in a period will correspond with a peaking of recovered patients in the following two to three weeks.Governments would do well to remember this as the numbers continue to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-2iVj8C480yHttvDGLaSVQM.html
09-06-2020||India||BJP, JD(U) hit out at Lalu Prasad for calling CM a ‘coward’||A tweet by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) national president Lalu Prasad Monday morning, calling Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar a “coward” for not exiting his residence for 83 days, drew angry responses from the National Democratic Alliance.Leaders of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party hit out at the RJD leader for spreading false information among the people. “From where did you learn the art of doing scams and acquiring illegal properties?” retorted deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi.JD (U)’s spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan asked Lalu Prasad to first set his house in order before questioning Nitish Kumar. The Congress, however, said that the Bihar assembly elections will mark the evaluation of work done by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-jd-u-hit-out-at-lalu-prasad-for-calling-cm-a-coward/story-a0BbxKSM1FVolcSLISZnDP.html
09-06-2020||India||Mizoram extends restrictions as Bengal revises some of its rules||The Mizoram government decided to impose a complete lockdown in the state on Monday, the day shopping malls, restaurants and places of worship reopened in many parts of country after over two months.The decision was taken at a consultative meeting held in Aizawl that was attended by legislators, senior government officials, NGOs, church bodies, hospital associations and village council members. “Total lockdown for two weeks starting midnight tonight (Monday). Quarantine period will be for 21 days. Home quarantine option to be limited to only extremely unavoidable cases,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.Other details of the lockdown guidelines are being formulated, he said.The chief minister told the meeting that a complete lockdown with “area-wise moderation” was essential to contain the virus as there were instances of violation of present lockdown rules in many areas.Mizoram has recorded 42 Covid-19 positive cases till date. The first patient, a 50-year-old pastor, was found positive for the disease on March 24, after his return from the Netherlands.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government extended lockdown restrictions in containment zones till June 30 in line with the Union home ministry’s guidelines. The restrictions were in force till June 15.In an order issued by chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, the government also offered certain relaxations outside the containment zones, where only essential services are allowed. It said 25 people can attend marriages, funerals and places of worship at a time. The number was previously fixed at 10.“Norms of physical distancing and health hygiene protocol must be strictly followed. Any violation in compliance of norms of physical distancing, health hygiene protocol and wearing of masks shall attract penal action as per law,” the Bengal government order said.“It is reiterated that movement of individuals shall remain prohibited between 9 pm to 5am, except for essential activities. District administration and local authorities shall issue appropriate orders in this regard and ensure strict compliance,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-extends-restrictions-as-bengal-revises-some-of-its-rules/story-y6MWtBpxzILfurzC7bLMdK.html
09-06-2020||India||Earthquake rattles NCR for 16th time in two months||There was a mild earthquake near Delhi on Monday. It was of 2.1 magnitude located east southeast of Rohtak at 1 pm, latitude 28.85 and longitude 76.76. This is the 16th earthquake to be recorded in Delhi NCR since April. Delhi-NCR witnessed at least 14 earthquakes in the past two months with a magnitude 3 earthquake recorded near Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday night according to data with the National Center for Seismology. All earthquakes in the past two months have been mild with only two above 3.5 magnitude. “The earthquakes are being monitored and will be studied by a team at NCS. Though it’s common to experience mild tremors in this region,” the helpline said. J L Gautam, head (operations) at NCS said it was not abnormal to record so many earthquakes within a couple of months in Delhi NCR region. “These are non-linear. There can be several mild earthquakes in a very short period. Minor adjustments of the plates keep happening,” he said on Monday. “There are a number of small faults in this region. The earthquake last night was in Uttar Pradesh in Gautam Buddha Nagar. There is the Mathura fault; Moradabad fault; Delhi Haridwar ridge; Delhi Sargoda fault; Mahendergarh and Dehradun fault so small earthquakes happen in this area. It’s not abnormal. That doesn’t mean we cannot expect a big earthquake. Earthquakes cannot be forecast,” Gautam had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-rattles-ncr-for-16th-time-in-two-months/story-m0sI6LnY0j4dwT2D0pbX9K.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in India up by 342 in biggest jump||India has recorded the deadliest day due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, a compilation of data released by states showed on Monday when the fatality count rose by 342, taking the total number of deaths due to the illness to 7,476.The spike comes at a time when the country has been averaging close to 10,000 cases a day, although Monday’s figures showed a decline in new infections -- 8,582 – compared to the 10,856 seen on Sunday. Monday’s jump in fatalities is only the second time the number has been in the 300s. On Friday, this number was exactly 300, the data released by officials across the country showed. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of cases at 88,528, added the most number of new infections at 2,553. Tamil Nadu, which has the second-highest number of infections, added 1,542.Gujarat remained as the state with the highest fatality ratio, with 6.22% of known infections having succumbed to the disease. The case fatality ratio in the national capital remained just below 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-up-by-342-in-biggest-jump/story-wB2nAFLMUkIG3anEG7FQ6I.html
09-06-2020||India||India working on two roads in Ladakh amid border row||India is working on two key roads near the China border in eastern Ladakh — the site of a tense weeks-long border stand-off with its northern neighbour — to provide connectivity to an important forward area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN), two senior officers familiar with the developments said on Monday.While the first is the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DS-DBO) road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, Daulat Beg Oldi, the second road being built from Sasoma to Saser La could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO near the Karakoram pass, said one of the two officers. The Sasoma-Saser La road axis is south-west of DBO.Both projects are being executed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which is ferrying 11,815 workers to areas near the China border in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand for building strategic roads, as first reported by Hindustan Times on May 31.India is not allowing the border confrontation with China to hinder strategic road projects in forward areas, including the Ladakh sector, where soldiers of the two nations are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said the second officer cited above.The current Chinese troop build-up in the Galwan valley threatens the critical 255-km DS-DBO road (also known as the SSN road), and top experts and China watchers have argued that India should build an alternative road to DBO.The road from Sasoma to Saser La, at a height of almost 17,800 feet, is a tough project that falls under “Hardness Index-III”, the BRO’s top-most classification for hard projects, the second official added. Experts believe that the road can be extended to Brang Sa, Murgo and eventually DBO in the long term. BRO officials weren’t available for a comment.“There’s a 200% need to have an alternative road to DBO in Sub-Sector North. The DS-DBO road can be interdicted at several choke points by Chinese forces during hostilities. While the road from Sasoma to Saser La can connect with DBO, it will be an engineering challenge due to the terrain. It may require construction of a tunnel too,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.HT reported on May 27 that if the DS-DBO project is blocked, the Indian Army will be forced to use aerial supply lines and also build an arduous alternative route linking Sasoma to Murgo to DBO through the glaciated Saser La. Two years ago, the BRO said the Sasoma-Saser La road would be the world’s first motorable glaciated road.Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), also a former Northern Army commander, said the construction of Sasoma-Saser La road in the glaciated terrain posed a huge challenge, especially in the final patches near Saser La.“If we can build this road and further connect it to DBO, it could provide an alternative route during summer months. However, the all-weather DS-DBO road will remain very important for the army,” Hooda said. The defence ministry told Parliament’s standing committee on defence last year that the Sasoma-Saser La road was a challenging project because of its peculiarities. “Due to peculiarity of formation and shifting of moraines, the road suffers continuous shifting resulting in various gradients… The Central Road Research Institute has been approached for providing solution and the proposal based on CRRI recommendation is being prepared,” the ministry told the panel.Amid the border stand-off, top officials said the BRO would complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022 for swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.A day after the external affairs ministry said that India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the border stand-off, defence minister Rajnath Singh met the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs and reviewed the situation along the disputed border in the Ladakh sector.An hours-long meeting on Saturday between a delegation led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and a Chinese delegation headed by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC ended without a breakthrough.The external affairs ministry said the meeting “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere” and both sides agreed to work towards peacefully resolving the situation.In the first official acknowledgement of a troop build-up along the disputed border with China. Singh last week said a significant number of Chinese troops were present along the LAC and the Indian Army had matched the neighbour’s military moves.China has marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements, as reported by HT on May 26.The situation of the ground remains unchanged in the midst of efforts to break the stalemate, said officials. They added that increased Chinese air activity had been observed on the other side of the LAC during the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-on-two-roads-in-ladakh-amid-border-row/story-lAh4LPrp20Z1wxX4AU9EON.html
09-06-2020||India||L-G overrules Kejriwal move to close hospitals to outsiders||Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal scrapped the Delhi government’s order reserving a chunk of the hospital beds in the city for residents of the national capital and restored federal guidelines on who can be tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), overturning a set of recent decisions by the administration that had become a political flashpoint and led to public anger. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who issued an order on Sunday reserving beds for people living in Delhi, said Baijal’s decision against it will lead to problems for the people of Delhi but added that the government will try to make adequate arrangements. “The L-G’s order has created a very big problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. Probably it is God’s will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment for all,” he said in a tweet shortly after the orders were issued on Monday evening. Baijal, as the administrative head of the government, reports to the President and is the topmost authority of the Delhi disaster management agency, which is coordinating all matters related to the Covid-19 outbreak. In the order, he acknowledged that Covid-19 has spread in Delhi “in threatening proportion”, but stated that ‘right to health’ has been held as an integral part of ‘right to life’ under the Constitution by the Supreme Court. Kejriwal’s deputy Manish Sisodia attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party in power at the centre and said that the Union government must involve states in decision-making processes. “Delhi government had drafted a well-planned strategy but the BJP pressurised the L-G into overturning it. What if all beds in Delhi get occupied within 2-3 days by patients from other states and that leads to the death of a Delhi resident who fails to get a hospital bed? Who will take the responsibility,” he said at a press conference. Concerns over Delhi’s hospital capacity have abounded since last week after an increasing number of people said they were being turned away from hospitals, with some accounts on social media saying that the problems led to deaths among their friends and families. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Monday, the city has roughly 9,000 hospital beds, of which nearly half are vacant.The capital added 1,007 new infections, taking its total tally to 29,943 on Monday. The bulletin added 62 fatalities, of which 17 were in the 24 hours between Saturday and Sunday. In all, 874 people have now succumbed to the illness in the national capital. The number of tests carried out in this period was 3,700, sharply down from the 6,000-6,500 tests a day seen at the beginning of the month.Baijal issued a second order in which he reinstated the testing rules for suspected Covid-19 patients in Delhi. The rules had been changed by Kejriwal’s government on June 2 to allow only close contacts of a Covid-19 patient who had symptoms to be eligible for a test, a move that the government said was meant to discourage people with mild or asymptomatic disease from using up testing and hospital resources. The changed guidelines also said asymptomatic direct contacts who were not senior citizens or suffered co-morbidities would not be tested. “...in order to contain the spread of Covid-19, it is essential to conduct a thorough contact tracing of affected persons, especially in containment zones and as such, the ICMR strategy for Covid-19 testing should be followed without any deviation,” according to the order. “This deviation from the ICMR guidelines can result in inadequate contact tracing of affected individuals and can result in further spread of Covid-19 in the NCT of Delhi,” the order added. The Delhi government has also asked 8 of the 40 testing centres in the state to stop testing for alleged irregularities. Delhi remains the state that tests the most people per million in the country. As of Monday evening, it had conducted 12,909 tests per million population. In the first order, Baijal also cited a 2018 ruling by the Delhi high court that quashed a circular of the Delhi government giving preferential treatment to the capital’s citizens by reserving 80% of the beds in the GTB hospital to declare the government’s Sunday order as “impermissible”. “All government and private hospitals and nursing homes/clinics situated in NCT of Delhi have to extend medical facilities to all Covid-19 patients coming for monitoring/treatment without any discrimination of being resident or non-resident of Delhi,” Baijal’s order added. “This was a misstep by the Delhi government and was probably done for political reasons. It should have been avoided — throughout the year all hospitals in Delhi get about 45% of their patients from outside the city. In the crisis, with people complaining of not getting beds, the government must have just reacted. A better way to go about it is to have strict criteria for admission to the hospitals or to intensive care units and ensure that it is followed across hospitals,” said Dr MC Misra, former director of AIIMS, Delhi. Lalit Kant, scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said Delhi is at a stage where testing should be scaled up rather than being restricted. “What the Delhi government had ordered was in violation of the ICMR guidelines. At a time when it looks like Delhi has hit the community transmission stage, more and more testing is required for proper contact tracing. If we test more, there will be more positive cases and containment of the infection will be easier,” he said. “The government’s decision was insensitive. The L-G has done the right thing by overruling it. In this hour of crisis, AAP should refrain from indulging in politics and focus on improving facilities for people. Their decision to stop testing of asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 positive patients was against ICMR and Centre’s guidelines. As for treatment, we shouldn’t deny treatment to anyone,” said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/l-g-overrules-kejriwal-move-to-close-hospitals-to-outsiders/story-N8jZyAqkJ9kNgxBdEzoMfK.html
09-06-2020||India||‘Focus must lie on slowing spread of coronavirus’: VK Paul||VK Paul, chairman, Empowered Group I ( medical equipment and management plan to tackle the coronavirus outbreak), and also member (health), Niti Ayog, talked to Rhythma Kaul about the next phase of the pandemic in IndiaIs India dealing with large-scale community transmission?The evidence that we have with us currently says that the situation is grim only in a limited geographical location, especially urban areas that are densely populated. There still are huge geographical areas that are not affected much, so we cannot generalize and say the whole country is badly affected. The data shows that of all states, there is high prevalence in the form of large clusters in just about 10 states that too because they have hyper dense population. Health ministry and ICMR are also conducting sero-surveys (blood test to detect antibodies) that will give us a sense of how widespread the disease is. However, the scene is not as bad as it is made out to be. India saw cases rise even during the lockdown; now that the lockdown is being lifted isn’t there a risk of disease spreading further?The country entered into lockdown at a very early stage, and in a measured way. What we have gained is for all to see, but we are aware that as a large country with huge population our people continue to be susceptible. What we can do, however, is to not let the virus have the speed of growth it wants to have. Our efforts now will be aimed at retarding its speed of growth.What is India’s strategy now going to be to contain the disease spread?The containment measures will now be devised and implemented keeping in mind local conditions. Like I said before, we entered lockdown at a very early stage, and we gained in many ways including successfully changing the trajectory of the spread of the virus. At a certain level we improved also and that is for everyone to see in terms of improved case doubling rate before and during lockdown and other parametres. We are at a position now where the pandemic is moving in a different stage. People are traveling, especially migrant workers, and the virus will also be traveling in a way. In Bihar, for example, we found many people under quarantine were Covid positive. It will be a variable situation that we will be grappling with and our focus should be on keeping it local. The strategy that we need for Mumbai will be different from what we need for say Benaras. The real challenge is to know where we are lacking at the local level and address those gaps. Another challenge is to ensure we don’t overshoot our testing capacity, and keep increasing it to meet the demand. Then we must also focus on keeping our mortality rate low. That is crucial in our fight against Covid. When will India see the peak of the infection?There will be no single peak; rather different peaks in different geographies as things look like at the moment. The national curve is being driven largely by Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad. Earlier, modelers had predicted a free run for the virus but we managed to push the peak and also lowered it. When we are fighting the war we will have many more people getting infected; the game is to test, treat and track. We don’t know when the peak is going to be but we can works towards keeping as low as possible. How do you see life changing once the lockdown is lifted?What we expect now is that the fight against Covid-19 becomes a people’s movement. It’s our test to see how best life can be normalized, and yet the infection is contained, for which we need community participation. We are fighting without any weapon as there is no drug or vaccine against the disease currently, so behavior change is the key along with surveillance and medical infrastructure upgrade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-must-now-be-on-slowing-spread-of-virus-vk-paul/story-2JNVgzJCRQbeekg5UHYH2K.html
09-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Doorstep checks start in Ganjam hotspot in Odisha||Odisha started doorstep screening of 350,000 families in Ganjam district on Monday as part of government efforts to identify and treat Covid-19 patients in the hot spot where cases have soared in recent weeks after the return of thousands of migrant workers. Ganjam district collector Vijay Amrita Kulange said as the maximum numbers of migrants returned to Ganjam district, the district administration started the screening drive in view of the monsoon, which is likely to hit the state next week. So far, at least 150,000 migrant workers have returned to the district that has 631 cases, roughly a fifth of all cases in the state“While some migrant workers are staying in official quarantine centres, others are under home quarantine. To know the extent of spread of the virus, our teams will visit houses wherein they will screen people for corona symptoms using infrared thermometers to record body temperatures. They will also screen people having fever, cold, diarrhoea,” Kulange said, appealing to local people to not hide the disease. The programme will end on Saturday.Most of the migrant workers who returned to Ganjam were working in Surat and other industrial cities of Gujarat, which has more than 20,000 cases of coronavirus infection. Till Monday, 1,993 persons were discharged across the state, making up around 66% of the total number of patients. However, state health officials admitted that the steady rise of cases in Ganjam and 10 other districts – such as Bolangir and Kendrapara -- was a matter of worry. The Naveen Patnaik government has now enforced complete shutdown on weekends during June. “This month is most important in our fight against Covid-19. Ten hours night curfew from 7 PM to 5 AM will restrict the people for 300 hours in a month. Both weekend shutdown and night curfew will keep people indoors for 17 days in a month, which will help in checking spread of Covid-19 to a great extent,” Patnaik said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doorstep-checks-start-in-ganjam-hot-spot/story-4rv2UAFqj5AKZniPA9Rx8J.html
09-06-2020||India||Optional attendance, staggered shifts new normal for schools amid Covid-19 pandemic?||Waiving off mandatory attendance for students, holding staggered classes, and providing breaks to different classes at different time were among the suggestions that officials of the human resource development ministry and state education departments mulled as they discussed the reopening of schools against the backdrop of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Senior officials of the ministry maintained that no date has or month has been decided for the opening of schools . To be sure, many have warned against the opening of schools; countries that have done so have waited till the infections started declining; in India, the number of daily new cases, and daily deaths continues to rise. Hundreds of schools across the country including nearly 200 Kendriya Vidyalayas and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and those run by state governments are functioning as quarantine centres, including for migrants.“There are many aspects and the HRD ministry is working on protocols keeping all these factors in mind,” said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be identified. The HRD ministry is preparing standard protocols on safety, social distancing and hygiene on school campuses as well as for online education. In the meeting chaired by School Education Secretary Anita Karwal the contours of these were shared with states and their responses sought within a week.Among the measures that the HRD ministry has considered are: holding classes in different shifts, removing attendance requirements, encouraging students who can log in to classes online to stay at home, doing away with morning assemblies, ensuring the transport facilities follow social distancing norms,opening for only only senior classes not having lunch break for all classes at the same time, usage of masks and sanitisers and avoiding sports or cultural activities .The ministry will also come up with detailed norms for residential schools as well as for online education. To be sure, education is on the concurrent list which mans both the Centre and the states can pass legislations on it. “There are so many aspects and all need to be looked into. What should be the response if a student or teacher reports unwell. These are real life concerns and the ministry has to factor in a range of possibilities. However, the ministry will bring the norms only after consultation with states. These norms will be of advisory nature and states will be allowed to come up with their own plans,” said a second official who asked not to be named.Asked about reports on a final date on opening of schools, ministry officials emphasized that a final decision can only be taken after consultation with the Union Home and Health ministries as well as state and union territories.Officials said that the ministry is aware that online education can’t be a substitute to the conventional mode of teaching with many students not having personal devices or network connectivity. However, a road-map is being prepared to address this issue, they added. “Overall, there is a view that daily online classes should not go beyond a couple of hours. The ministry has asked NCERT and CBSE to look into various areas. The SOPs when they come out are likely to reflect these issues,” said the second official.Following the meeting, HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted that valuable suggestions were received and will be shared with the Health ministry and the Home Affairs ministry. Our priority has always been the safety and security of students, he said.In its guidelines, the Ministry of Home Affairs said that the decision on opening of education institutions would be taken in July after consultation with teachers and parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-safety-top-of-school-opening-agenda/story-SWiyNat6df6uRCAx6pE4nL.html
09-06-2020||India||2 policemen held for ‘supplying’ ammunition to Maoists in Bastar||Raipur: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a head constable in Sukma district were arrested on Monday over their alleged involvement in selling and supplying ammunition to Maoists in the Bastar region, the Chhattisgarh Police said. “We have been watching this gang for long time, and a few more people are under the scanner,” DM Awasthi, Chhattisgarh’s director general of police (DGP), said. Sukma police have arrested ASI Anand Jatav and head constable Subhash Singh based on the ongoing investigation, Bastar inspector general Sunderaj P said.“We are not disclosing more details and modus operandi because we are questioning them and more arrests could be made,” he added.Officials said the two personnel allegedly forged records of cartridge stocks, fudged numbers, and sold the stock not shown in records to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). Four middlemen have already been arrested in connection with the racket. “On basis of information we got on June 4, two of middlemen were arrested; they told us that two persons from Kanker district were supplying them ammunition. We have arrested them on Sunday,” a police officer posted in Sukma, who did not want to be named, said.Darshan Padda, the secretary of Pratapur Area Committee of the CPI(Maoist) group in Kanker district, was in touch with the middlemen, who received commission on every consignment, this official said.Sukma superintendent of police (SP) Shalabh Sinha said officials are working on all angles. “...we are expecting something big will come out...,” he said.An Indian Police Service officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said police personnel are not told to bring back cartridges after encounters against Maoists in deep jungles.“...this helps them to hide some cartridges… Earlier too, there were complaints that policemen were supplying cartridges to Maoists...Now, after every anti-Maoist operation, each and every personnel is thoroughly checked...But this is different case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-policemen-held-for-supplying-ammunition-to-maoists-in-bastar/story-SH5XohOYcLxHgPwY1GfgUP.html
09-06-2020||India||Bibliophiles help sellers at Kolkata’s iconic book market by buying damaged books||Kolkata’s iconic book market in College Street is getting some unique support from booklovers, as people have started buying books damaged by the heavy rain during Cyclone Amphan as ‘mementos’ of their love for books.A group of booklovers, who call themselves the Book Scavengers, have appealed on social media so that people buy books completely damaged by the rain. They have so far raised more than Rs 1.5 lakh from about 170 people for the 250-odd books that they collected.Another small publisher tied up with an e-commerce site for Bengali books for the online sale of damaged books along with a special bookmark. Their first list of 75 books was sold within hours on June 6 and the next lot of 100 will be up on June 9, for which they are already receiving queries.In yet another crowd-funding project to support the booksellers, nearly 1,000 supporters had helped raise more than Rs 16 lakh as of June 8.The College Street area in north Kolkata, popularly known as Boi-para or the book locality, is home to some of the most prestigious educational institutes and happens to be a storehouse of books, both academic and non-academic, with nearly 1,000 small to large publishers and booksellers operating in the locality.Cyclone Amphan which lashed Bengal on May 20, accompanied by heavy rain and water logging damaged thousands of books, with the street vendors and those with wooden shops the worst affected. In the immediate aftermath of the cyclone, a heart-wrenching photo went viral on social media showing booksellers on college streets looking in despair at books floating in the dirty water.“Out of my love for books, the idea came to me that something should be done about the damaged books and I soon found many supporting my idea,” said Debanjan Sen, an eye surgeon based in south Kolkata.“We collected about 250 non-academic books from small book vendors. These are heavily damaged and can at the most be used as mementos for supporting booksellers during their struggle. We have dried the books and have done some small repairs. After we dispatch the books to the donors, the rest of the proceeds will be divided between the booksellers we got the books from,” Sen said. Susnato Chowdhury, editor of the Bengali literary ‘little magazine’ Bodh-Shabdo, had given a similar call on social media, and finding many supporters, tied up with Boighar.in, an ecommerce site for Bengali books.Tuhin Mallick of Boighar.in, which is hosting the damaged books in a special section on their website titled Boi Morey Na, literally meaning books don’t die, said that the response has been very optimistic.“It’s mostly an emotional call. But the first day’s collection of 75 books got sold on a day and people kept inquiring about more books. Most of these books are damaged but still readable, at least to a large extent. A special bookmark has been designed for these books,” said Mallick.There have been some other initiatives, too. A crowd-funding project spearheaded by Indrani Roy, joint managing director of Bengali publishing major Mitra & Ghosh, has been titled ‘Contribute to Save the Famous Literary Corner of the City of Joy’. Supporting this initiative writer and Congress leader Shashi Tharoor wrote on social media on May 29, “Kolkata’s CollegeStreet (BoiPara) is as legendary as the smell of ideas wafting out of CoffeeHouse, but #Cyclone Amphan ravaged it, leaving battered books, flooded stores & devastated booksellers already reeling from the #Covid-19 #lockdown. Let’s help them.” As of June 8, the campaign has raised more than Rs 16 lakh and assistance of Rs 10,000 each was given to 63 book traders.It is this love for books that College Street’s publishers and booksellers are banking on.“The book market has largely opened on Monday though there has been some shortage of staff, as those living in distant areas could not turn up. However, the good sign is, buyers are back,” said Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey, honourary general secretary of Publishers’ and Booksellers’ Guild. He also owns Dey’s Publishing, one of the largest Bengali publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bibliophiles-help-sellers-at-kolkata-s-iconic-book-market-by-buying-damaged-books/story-KCYPYA7xcLUv798o1ROuyI.html
09-06-2020||India||Malaysia ups rice, sugar import from India||New DelhiRelations between India and Malaysia are back on the upswing after taking a hit under former premier Mahathir Mohamad, with Kuala Lumpur increasing its purchases of rice and sugar from New Delhi in recent months.India quietly initiated steps to reset the relationship after Mahathir, who irked New Delhi with his repeated criticism of the situation in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act , or CAA, resigned in March, people familiar with developments said on Monday.India’s ambassador to Malaysia, Mridul Kumar, was the first foreign envoy to meet new Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin and foreign minister Hishammuddin Hussein within a week of the formation of the new cabinet in March, and the two sides have worked behind the scenes to put ties back on an even keel.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said India is buying 200,000 tonnes of palm oil for the June-July period from Malaysia, the world’s second-biggest producer and exporter of the commodity after Indonesia.Earlier this year, India, the world’s largest buyer of edible oils, had changed its rules to effectively bar imports of refined palm oil from Malaysia, largely because of the position taken by Mahathir.“This is the largest order for palm oil by India in the past few months,” said one of the people cited above.Indian importers will also benefit from Malaysia’s decision of June 5 to fully exempt palm oil from export duty for the rest of this year as part of efforts to help industries hit by the Covid-19 crisis.“This move will benefit India’s refining industries, which had been hit hard by the imposition of this duty earlier in the year. This duty has been a focus of India’s commerce ministry,” the person quoted above said.On the other hand, Malaysia has placed an order with India for 100,000 tonnes of rice for May-June, whereas its total import of rice from India last year was around 85,000 tonnes, the people said.MSM Malaysia Holdings, the country’s leading refined sugar producer, bought around 88,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar from India last year, whereas it procured 130,000 metric tonnes of raw sugar worth $50 million for the January-March quarter this year, the people said.Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Indian government also approved the supply of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol for Malaysia, the people said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Malaysian counterpart, Hishammuddin Hussein, also spoke in mid-April about the response to the pandemic and efforts to assist citizens stranded in each other’s country.Malaysia is one of India’s key trading partners in Southeast Asia, and bilateral trade was worth $17.25 billion in 2018-19, up from $14.71 billion in 2017-18However, bilateral ties were hit after Mahathir repeatedly criticised CAA and the situation in Kashmir after the Indian government scrapped the region’s special status last August.Despite pushback from India, Mahathir continued his criticism and the diplomatic spat led to India imposing curbs on palm oil imports that hit Malaysia for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malaysia-ups-rice-sugar-import-from-india/story-681ZEzOWCflU8NzCHDPkaJ.html
09-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi has done nothing to fight Covid-19, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday said India was comparatively in a better position due to the steps it has taken to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic even as he criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government management of the situation. He said Gandhi has done nothing to fight Covid-19 except conducting interviews.“Some opposition leaders are questioning us as to how we handled the Covid-19 pandemic. We may have faulted somewhere and maybe short of expectations, but there was never a lack of sincerity. People are discussing in English about India’s fight against coronavirus in Sweden and America. Please give an account of what you have done except giving interviews,” said Shah in his address from New Delhi to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and supporters in Odisha. He was referring to a series of video conversations Gandhi has held with global and Indian thought leaders to discuss the Covid-19 crisis and its consequences on the country’s economy. In the latest such interaction, Bajaj Auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj told Gandhi that the lockdown to flatten the Covid-19 curve ended up flattening the “wrong curve” of the economic growth. Bajaj said India’s lockdown strategy was influenced by the West despite being an Asian country.Shah said the government has fought the pandemic along with 1.3 billion Indians and that is why India is among those countries, which have fared better in dealing with coronavirus. “At the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 130 crore [1.3 billion] people stayed indoors and co-operated with his vision to fight the pandemic. When the history of epidemics is written, the one on janta curfew will be written in golden letters no matter who writes it. I have never seen that kind of response to a public curfew,” Shah said at the virtual rally.He said the government announced Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for 600 million people when the Covid-19 crisis emerged in March. “When the disease reached India, Modi fought the pandemic in a strange way. After independence, many epidemics and natural disasters came. It was generally seen that governments used to take responsibility. However, our government took people along in such a way that the government fought the health crisis while simultaneously 130 crore people came forward to fight it,” he said.Shah said when Modi came to power, 70 million families had no bank accounts. “Under the Jan Dhan Yojana, 310 million bank accounts were opened. During the lockdown, the Modi government sent Rs 53,000 crore to crores of Indians to help them during these times. Many disasters came. The Congress did nothing except holding interviews,” he said. Shah added BJP workers fed over 110 million people during the pandemic.Shah conceded that migrant workers, including those from Odisha, faced difficulties while returning home but the government ensured that they eventually reached home. “Migrant workers initially faced problems but the government was more concerned about their safety from Covid-19. Modi started running Shramik Special trains from May 1 to take migrants home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-has-done-nothing-to-fight-covid-says-shah/story-UvaAtAMZcg7u1aM5w6VETI.html
09-06-2020||India||Use MGNREGS to help people, Sonia asks central govt||New Delhi: Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi that in 2014, (soon after becoming PM) he derided the rural job guarantee scheme launched by the Congress-led UPA that governed India from 2004 to 2014 as “a living monument of your failure” -- and that the Modi government has come “full circle”, falling back “on the UPA’s flagship rural-relief programme” against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout. Her comments, made in a news article, came against the backdrop of reports that in May, 21.9 million households demanded work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, the most in eight years. The demand comes even as both the urban and local economy has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread. The lockdown forced factories, construction sites, restaurants and retail stores to stop work, forcing millions of migrant labourers out of jobs and making them undertake often arduous journeys back home. Urging the government “not to play politics”, Gandhi said this was not a “Bharatiya Janata Party versus Congress issue”. “You have a powerful mechanism at hand (MGNREGS), please use it to help the people of India in their time of need.” “Covid-19 has demonstrated the unmatched value of a people-centric scheme like MGNREGA with a humbled Modi government being constrained to commit an additional Rs 40,000 crore to it,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said in a video conference on Monday. MGNREGS was the focus of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s fifth and last tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to boost the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown.Last month, she announced that the government will allocate an additional Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGS to help generate nearly 300 crore person-days in a bid to boost employment.The earlier budget estimate for the scheme was Rs 61,000 crore.BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal said, “MGNREGA has seen three important changes over the years, first is asset creation with the work is now compulsory, (remember earlier dig holes and fill policy), secondly DBT has plugged all leakages, eliminating large scale corruption. And thirdly increased fund allocation.”Gandhi also asked the government to “put money directly in the hands of the people in this time of crisis by clearing arrears, ensuring unemployment allowance, and being flexible about modes of payment”. She added that the Modi government “has not paid heed to demands to increase th number of workdays to 200.” The job guarantee scheme offers 100 days of employment to one member from every eligible household. “Please forget that your current reliance on MGNREGS is the scheme’s biggest victory and therefore, indirectly the victory of some of your political opponents,” Singhvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-mgnregs-to-help-people-sonia-asks-central-govt/story-UuGcGkoxSxndoumil05IoO.html
09-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 peak likely in July, drop in tests: Data||Covid-19 infections in Madhya Pradesh are expected to peak around July, an analysis of the state health department has warned while highlighting a decrease in testing, widened geographical spread of the disease, and an increase in active cases as well as the positivity rate. “Virus is still around. There is no vaccine in the near future. The peak is expected around July,” said analysis based on data and trends available until May 27.The analysis noted there was a surge in daily cases in the second half of May. “Geographical spread of the virus widened and active cases started increasing again. Besides, the positivity rate increased in the past 3 weeks... 12 districts with above 5% overall positivity rate,” it said. “The fatality rate was decreasing but the growth rate of deaths started to increase in the past 10 days [from 2.1% on May 15 to 2.4% on May 27]. There was a fatality rate of more than 5% in 9 districts...”It said the number of cases continued to increase in May even as the rate of testing decreased. As many as 2,461 tests were conducted on May 1. They rose to 5,648 on May 16 but declined to 3,595 on May 27. After the analysis, 4,840 tests were conducted on May 28 and 6,126 tests on June 7, officials said.With 2,872 tests per million population, Madhya Pradesh lags behind Maharashtra (4,909), Gujarat (4,168), and Rajasthan (7,385) as of Sunday. As of May 27, the national testing average was 2,345 per million population. In the positivity rate, Madhya Pradesh (4.9% ) was the third-worst after Maharashtra and Gujarat. The state had the second-highest fatality rate in the country (4.3%) after Gujarat (6.2%).“Active cases started growing again after May 10,” the analysis said. It said the infection has spread from 30 districts in early May to 51 districts as of May 27.Health minister Narottam Mishra said the state has the highest recovery rate in the country--over 65%. “Only 2,735 Covid-19 patients are under treatment while our preparedness is for 80,000 beds...”Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said Madhya Pradesh still needs a substantial increase in testing. “Instead, the number of tests, of late, was decreasing which is a matter of serious concern. ...the situation will worsen if the government does not strengthen its health facilities... If there is a marked improvement in the situation, as the government claims... why 21 more districts were affected since May 1 and why the number of Covid patients continues to increase.”As per the health department bulletin on Monday night, the state registered 237 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 9,638. The mortality rate in Madhya Pradesh - 4.29% - is more than 1.5 times that of the national rate of 2.80%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-s-peak-likely-in-july-drop-in-tests-data/story-qTtTz2eYp0o6dcmjRcOCuI.html
09-06-2020||India||World Bank warns of drop in Indian GDP due to Covid-19 pandemic||The coronavirus pandemic will plunge the world into a severe recession, the deepest since World War II, shredding per capita incomes and pushing millions into poverty, the World Bank said on Monday. The global economy is expected to shrink 5.2% in 2020, it said. Declines in economic growth across region will be driven by severe disruptions to “domestic demand and supply, trade and finance”, the bank said in a report, Global Economic Prospects, which contains an assessment of economic shocks from pandemic shutdowns.In India, the bank forecast that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will shrink 3.2% in the fiscal year 2020-21, when the “impact of the pandemic will largely hit”. GDP, or the value of all goods and services produced, is the broadest measure of incomes generated in an economy. The International Monetary Fund has slashed its 2010-21 growth projection for India to 1.9% from 5.8% estimated in January. Barclays said it saw 0% growth, while the World Bank cut India’s growth forecast to 1.5-2.8% from 6.1% earlier.The World Bank in its note on India said: “Stringent measures to control the spread of the virus will heavily curtail activity, despite some support from fiscal and monetary stimulus. Spill-overs from weaker global growth and balance-sheet stress in the financial sector will also weigh on activity.” While advanced economies will see growth falling 7% in 2020, emerging economies as a group, which includes India, will see a growth decline of 2.5% this year. “Per capita incomes are expected to decline by 3.6%, which will tip millions of people into extreme poverty this year,” the bank said. Measures to control the pandemic has already caused a “severe contraction”, or negative economic growth in many economies. The bank forecast the most widespread declines in per capital incomes since 1870.“This is a deeply sobering outlook, with the crisis likely to leave long-lasting scars and pose major global challenges,” said World Bank Group vice-president Ceyla Pazarbasioglu in the report.Downside risks, or threat to growth, are predominant, the bank said, including the possibility of a more protracted pandemic, financial upheaval and retreat from global trade and supply linkages. “A downside scenario could lead the global economy to shrink by as much as 8% this year, followed by a sluggish recovery in 2021,” it said.To spur growth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a Rs 20-lakh-crore rescue package on May 12. The government has attempted to set the country on a new pro-business economic course, pulling down the last vestiges of state control in most sectors to jumpstart a stalling economy. India’s GDP growth slumped to 3.1% in the March quarter, the slowest pace in 11 years, dragging the country’s full-year expansion to 4.2%, compared with 6.1% in the previous year, data released on May 30 showed.In a series of announcements last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman opened up more of the economy for private investment. The government will limit state-run companies to just four in many sectors, for instance, to boost private investment. The World Bank report said “deteriorating economic conditions” in advanced economies and major emerging market economies are “impacting export-related industries” in South Asian countries, including India. “The only way to go is to revise the fiscal policy (i.e. driving up government spending) so that growth can sprint back,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-warns-of-drop-in-indian-gdp-due-to-pandemic/story-qdidKf1eZJg83WjtbSdeCO.html
09-06-2020||India||On first day of Unlock 1, few people return to shopping malls, restaurants||It was a slow start for restaurants and hotels that opened across the country after a gap of two and a half months on Monday.Restaurants owners and hospitality industry leaders said though their establishments have resumed operations as part of the central government’s three-phase unlock plan, they do not expect big footfall immediately with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases rising across the country.“We have been focusing on home delivery and takeaway services in these past few days, but received virtually no dine-in customers on Monday. People are still scared about stepping out of their houses,” Amit Pal Singh, the owner of Chandigarh’s famous Pal Dhaba, said. Park Street in Kolkata, home to several famous restaurants, too, witnessed a tepid response.At Mocambo, one of the landmark eateries in the city, around 20 customers walked in during the day. “We used only half of the seating area. There were no big groups and no customer asked for liquor...people know that bars have not been allowed to operate. Most people ordered our signature dishes chicken a la kiev and chicken tetrazzini,” one of the mangers told HT. Koushik Chowdhury, a businessman who came looking for some Chinese food, said: “During lockdown, I had ordered pizzas at home. A visit to Park Street was a refreshing change.”Famous for Mughlai dishes since its inception in 1929, the main branch of Aminia near New Market in central Kolkata, too, was back in business. “Around 70 customers turned up during lunch hour,” said Aftab Akhtar, one of the managers. “Most people ordered biryani, the Aminia special, chap and roti...,” he added. Bengaluru’s iconic hotels such as Vidyarthi Bhavan, Brahmin’s Cafe and Udupi Sri Krishna Bhavan reopened, replacing traditional steel plates with disposable utensils. Then there were places that did not open despite the central government’s approval. Lucknow’s Tunde Kababi and Idris Biryani were among them.“We are famous for serving meat galouti kebab and non-vegetarian dishes, but our suppliers say they are not getting meat as slaughterhouses all across the state are closed,” said Mohammad Usman of Tunday Kababi.In Jaipur, most hotels and restaurants remained closed. “We are not prepared to start operations of hotels and restaurants, and will take another two-three weeks,” Kuldeep Singh, the president of Rajasthan Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, citing shortage of workers.About 25% restaurants reopened Goa and they are relying on home delivery and takeaways, according to Gaurish Dhond, the president of the Goa Hotel and Restaurant Association. “It is not profitable for others to reopen...without tourists, customers,” he said. In tourism destination Uttarakhand, hotels remained closed, calling guidelines issued by the state government “impractical”. On Sunday, the government said hotels cannot take bookings from guests coming from cities with high Covid-19 caseload, including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, and Noida. It also prohibited guests from visiting tourist spots and public places.“Though the government has allowed us to resume operations, it has put conditions, which, if followed, will be difficult for our business,” said Dinesh Shah, the president of Nainital Hotel Association, a body of about 120 hotels.The hotel association of popular hill stations Mussoorie that oversees 200 hotels, too, said it is not favour of resumption of business with conditions. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the guidelines will be revised in a few days.Vikas Katoch, the general manager of Fun Republic Mall in Lucknow, said on the first day just 200 people came to the shopping complex, but he expects the rush to return during the weekend.Vaibhav Nigam, a college student, was one of the visitors there. “I just came to have a feel of the mall as it’s been more than 70 days since we last visited one,” he said.One of the mangers at South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road in south Kolkata said getting people used to the safety drills took some time.Rahul Saraf, managing director, The Forum Group, said: “More than 1,000 people walked into our mall in Howrah till 6.30 pm although it rained. Though the turnout was more than what we expected, we would like to be cautiously optimistic. The real picture will emerge after at least a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-1-few-people-return-to-shopping-malls-restaurants/story-ofD3hRXvX93eYERSqc1nBK.html
09-06-2020||India||Kerala expat whose pregnant wife was evacuated in May, dies in Sharjah||A young man from Kerala working in the UAE, whose pregnant wife took the first Vande Bharat flight out of Dubai for the delivery of their first child, died in his sleep on Sunday, a month after she left, his friends said.Doctors in Dubai said he died of cardiac arrest but his sample will be tested for Covid-19. His friends said if he tests negative for Covid-19, his body will be flown home in a couple of days.Nithin Chandran (29) and his wife Athira Geeetha Sreedharan (26), hit the headlines after the latter filed a petition in the Supreme Court for evacuation saying her delivery was due in July and aviation laws do not permit her to fly after seven months of pregnancy. The court later disposed of her plea after the Centre informed it about its decision to evacuate stranded people abroad through the Vande Bharat mission.Nithin was also offered a ticket to travel along with his wife on the first flight by Congress legislator from Palakkad Shafi Parambil through a collective of NRIs but he gave away the open ticket to another needy person and sponsored two other tickets, his friends said. His wife also shared this information with the Hindustan Times on her arrival on May 8 in Kozhikode in north Kerala.“We are really shocked. He was a Good Samaritan and was in the forefront of the NRI collective in the UAE. He was also offered a ticket by the legislator through the Indian Cultural and Arts Society (INCAS) but he gave it to another person who was really ailing. Later he sponsored two other tickets also,” said one of his friends P Praveen.He also said Nithin was suffering from high blood pressure for some time.He was found dead in his flat in Sharjah when his friends went looking for him after he did not answer calls.A mechanical engineer, Nithin was working with a private construction firm in Dubai. Athira, an electronics engineer, was working with an IT firm in Sharjah.Hailing from Kozhikkode they got married in 2018. Their friends said both were active in social service and members of the Blood Donors Club in UAE, affiliated to INCAS, an organisation owing allegiance to the Congress Party. “I am really shocked. Last month I talked to him several times. Service was in his blood,” said Shafi Parambhil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-expat-whose-pregnant-wife-was-evacuated-in-may-dies-in-sharjah/story-SR8CQ2iA4Qk7iKrgyHG2bK.html
09-06-2020||India||Sarpanch gunned down in Kashmir’s Anantnag; no group claims responsibility||Srinagar: A village sarpanch was gunned down by terrorists in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday.So far, no group has claimed responsibility for the killing. Police said unidentified gunmen attacked Ajay Pandita Bharti inside his orchard in the afternoon. Bharti, 40, was the sarpanch of village Lukbawan, Larkipora. Police said he was associated with the Congress. Locals said Bharti’s family had migrated from south Kashmir in the early ’90s but he returned a couple of years ago.Soon after Bharti’s killing, police and army began a search operation to track down his killers. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Bharti did not have any security. “He was not provided security despite feeling insecure,” he claimed.“Very sorry to hear about the killing of sarpanch Ajay Pandita in Anantnag earlier this afternoon. I unequivocally condemn this terror attack on a grassroots political worker & pray that his soul rests in peace,” tweeted former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, whose Twitter handle is being operated by her daughter Iltija Mufti, said, “Terrible news.Condolences to the family.Shrinking political space in Kashmir has made political party workers all the more vulnerable.They are stuck between punitive actions of a vindictive government & militants on the other end.” Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party chief Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also condemned the killing. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted his condolences. “My condolences to the family and friends of Ajay Pandita, who sacrificed his life for the democratic process in Kashmir. We stand with you in this time of grief. Violence will never win,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-gunned-down-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-no-group-claims-responsibility/story-iLHZPCSz2RdeUXwy51ybzN.html
09-06-2020||India||Opposition likely to unite in House against draft electricity bill||The proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill that several states say undermines India’s federal structure and attempts to privatise distribution could be the next flashpoint between the government and the Opposition. Parties such as the Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) as well as Left parties have opposed the bill with critics also alleging that it is not in the interest of farmers and the poor.On April 17, the Centre issued a draft proposal for the amendment of Electricity Act, 2003, in the form of draft Electricity Act (Amendment) Bill, 2020 , inviting comments from stakeholders within 21 days. The deadline was later extended till June 2. The draft bill aims to establish an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) that will have the power of a civil court to settle disputes between power generation companies (gencos) and distribution companies (discoms).According to the draft, ECEA will have sole authority to adjudicate matters related to specific performance of contracts related to purchase or sale of powerSeveral states, including Telangana, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, have alleged that the amendments will take away the autonomy of state-owned discoms and state electricity regulators. The draft bill also has a provision for direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. Opposition leaders say this will work against the interest of farmers and poor domestic consumers, and insisted that the mode of payment should be left to state governments to decide.The bill also aims to ensure a mandatory minimum purchase of power from renewable sources of energy and enforce stringent penal measures for non-compliance with the provisions in the act.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel joined the chorus against the bill on Monday, writing a letter to RK Singh, the Union minister of state for power. He urged the government to abandon the move in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded that states be consulted before making it a law.“The implementation of the bill will adversely affect the lower sections of society as the provision of cross subsidy in it is impractical and not in the interest of farmers and the poor,” he wrote. “The farmers will face a crisis if the subsidy on electricity given to them for irrigation is not continued and thereby, it will affect the production of food grains.”Opposition parties are likely to form a united front on the issue to stall the bill in Parliament whenever it is convened in the aftermath of the pandemic, a Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity.Last week, Maharashtra energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut said the Centre intends to “override and dominate the State Government’s responsibility in the administration of power Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electricity”.He said the Constitution of India, under the Seventh Schedule, provides powers to both the Centre and states to make appropriate laws on matters related to electricity. But the proposed amendments will “centralise power” and make “states weaker in the matters related to power sector”, he said in a statement on June 3.Raut added that the Centre was trying to privatise distribution, transmission and generation “as it was now taking various measures and policy decisions to privatise the Public Sector Units under various pretexts”. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah has echoed Raut’s views while DMK president MK Stalin has said the bill should be withdrawn. Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the bill was against the spirit of federal polity. He urged non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief ministers to strongly oppose the move and launch joint efforts to protect the rights of the states.“We have invited comments from all stakeholders and states, which is why the draft bill was put in public domain. The ministry will go through all the inputs and comments before finalising the bill,” a spokesperson for the ministry of power said. Earlier amendments to the Electricity Act proposed by the Centre in 2014 and 2018 failed to become a law.“The most crucial problem of the power sector is the financial condition of discoms which is the consequence of inadequate and infrequent tariff revisions which is the principal responsibility of state regulatory commissions. The willingness of the SERCs (state electricity regulatory commission) to maintain their independence from the State which appoints can be seen as the main reason for lack of tariff revisions,” said former power secretary P. Umashankar.“The proposed amendment by taking away the authority of the State to select the regulators seeks to establish the independence of the regulators,” he said.“States may oppose the amendment but they are responsible to have brought things to this pass because of their reluctance to tariff revisions and their unwillingness to allow the regulators to function independently,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-likely-to-unite-in-house-against-draft-electricity-bill/story-sQnn0J9UPz7X91BahyjRDK.html
09-06-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief yet to submit his Covid-19 test report to police||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, who has been booked for holding a weeks-long gathering in March, ignoring guidelines prohibiting meetings of more than a certain number of people, resulting in a jump in coronavirus infections, is yet to submit his Covid-19 test report from a government lab despite being asked to, the Delhi police on Monday. A fresh notice was likely to be issued to him to get tested and join the investigation, te police added. Six other office bearers of Jamaat, a Muslim missionary organisation who were booked along with Saad have been questioned in the case, a crime branch officer said requesting anonymity. Saad is yet to appear before the investigators. “We have not received Maulana Saad’s Covid-19 test report from a government hospital. A notice in this regard was served to him a few weeks ago, but no response has come so far,” the officer said. Saad had earlier tested negative for Covid-19 at a private lab and submitted his report to the crime branch team probing the case. The team has insisted on a government lab’s test report.Jamaat spokesman Shahid Ali said they have cooperated with the investigation in compliance with directions issued without any default. “Maulana Saad was found negative on being tested for Covid-19 and it was duly informed to the investigation agency. We are committed to appear before the investigating officer (IO) as and when directed either by the IO or by the honourable court,” he said.The officer cited above said a second round of the questioning of the six office bearers has also been planned and notices seeking their presence before the investigators would be served soon. Thousands of people, including over 900 foreigners from at least 34 countries, attended the congregation at the Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Over 2,300 people, including foreigners, were evacuated from the headquarters in late March and lodged in various quarantine facilities. The congregation was the source of early clusters of infection in both Delhi and Tamil Nadu. The crime branch on March 31 filed a criminal case against Saad and the six others for defying government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Charges related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy were added to the case after some of the attendees died of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-yet-to-submit-his-covid-19-test-report-to-police/story-s01rBiJ5sgVCqKZaikx5iI.html
09-06-2020||India||Private hospitals offer remote monitoring, care at home for Covid-19 patients||A number of private hospitals in the national capital region (NCR) have begun care packages for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who are in home isolation, offering remote monitoring by nurses and doctors and medical care kits that will help detect if their condition deteriorates. The Delhi government has said that Covid-19 positive persons are eligible for home treatment as long as they can isolate themselves and not infect other members of the household, a decision meant to reduce the burden on hospitals as cases rise.Among the providers of such services are Max Healthcare, Medanta and Fortis. Max’s Max@Home services includes a medical kit (with a thermometer and an oxygen saturation metre), daily monitoring of the vitals by a trained nurse twice a day, a tele-review with a doctor every third day as well as home delivery of medicines.Medanta’s Covid-19 home care services are split into basic packages for monitoring or more thorough ‘complete covid care’ offering that includes a Covid-19 test; N-95 and other masks, gloves, sanitisers, a pulse oximeter, a digital thermometer, a blood pressure machine, a PPE kit, as well as vitals monitoring tools with built-in critical alert system. Max has at least 100 patients while Medanta has around 90 patients using their home care services.Experts welcomed such offerings. “If the patient is suspected clinically but doesn’t have any breathing difficulty or pneumonia or any other life-threatening symptoms, the patient should stay home. In fact the patient will get more infections if he or she is in a hospital. These patients should register with a medical facility. A nurse or doctor should be in touch over the phone every day,” said Dr Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Majority of people with Covid-19 will require a pulse oximeter (oxygen saturation metre) and a CT scan of the chest or a good quality chest X ray to see if there is pneumonia. The patient can check pulse oxygen levels at home. Doctor or nurse on call will have to watch for symptoms every day. If fever settles then there is no need for admission, if not a bed can be readied for the patient in hospital. This is needed to un-clutter the system right now,” he added.According to Medanta’s standard protocol for home isolation, warning signs that a patient must report are persistent fever of over 101°F for 72 hours, breathlessness or fast breathing, blood in sputum, confusion, loss of consciousness and altered behaviour or severe abdominal pain with diarrhoea. A pulse rate of more than 110 per min or oxygen saturation of less than 94% is also a cause for concern. “We decide if the patient needs hospitalisation based on these standard parameters,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, senior director, internal medicine at Medanta in Gurugram.A second expert said that it is now crucial to treat mild infections at home. “Complacency is likely to be more when at home but in Delhi cases are touching 1,000 to 1,500, so where do you have so many beds? Home isolation of those without risk factors and those who are comfortable, eating well, do not have breathlessness should stay home and isolate themselves in a room and use a separate bathroom,” said Dr GC Khilnani, PSRI institute of critical and pulmonary and critical and former and head of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS.In a paper in Lancet led by Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, Singapore University in April said institution-based isolation was better suited to reduce household and community transmission citing example of isolation shelters in Wuhan that provided triage, basic medical care, frequent monitoring, rapid referrals.Delhi at present has a tie-up with private medical services provider Portea to monitor home isolation cases. If their condition deteriorates, Portea schedules an appointment with a doctor or a Delhi hospital immediately.In the past month, there have been 7,300 Coovid-19 patients who have been monitored by Portea remotely and around 2,000 of them have been discharged, and 200 needed hospitalisation. “Delhi government doctors choose which patients are asymptomatic or have mild illness and who have the space to be isolated at home. Medication, PPE, diet chart, brochures etc are given by Delhi government. We are in touch with the patients on a daily basis. There is an option for the patient to also call in if his or she is feeling very unwell. So far compliance has been good and patients have responded to calls,” said Meena Ganesh, MD and CEO, Portea Medical.Who is eligible for home isolation?• Patient should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer• Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts• A care giver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis• A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation.• The care giver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer• Download Arogya Setu App on mobile (available at: https://www.mygov.in/aarogya-setuapp/) and it should remain active at all times (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi)• The patient shall agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams• The patient will fill in an undertaking on self-isolation (Annexure I) and shall follow home quarantine guidelinesWhen do you seek emergency care/hospital care?• Difficulty in breathing• Persistent pain/pressure in the chest• Mental confusion• Developing bluish discolorations of lips/face• As advised by treating medical officerWhen can you discontinue home isolation?• after 17 days of onset of symptoms (or date of sampling, for pre-symptomatic cases) and no fever for 10 days.• There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is overSource: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-offer-remote-monitoring-care-at-home/story-qhMF60aUn9wnQDSKJjklZI.html
09-06-2020||India||Lt Guv scraps 2 orders by Kejriwal on Covid-19 in 1 day, sets off a BJP vs AAP||Shortly after Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal overruled the AAP government and directed authorities that no one should be denied treatment for not being a Delhi resident, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed the governor’s order as a “huge problem and challenge” for the city-state. The CM, however, added that his government will honour the directive. “LG Sahib’s order has created a huge problem and challenge for the people of Delhi. Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the coronavirus epidemic is a big challenge. May God bless us to serve the people of the whole country. We will try to provide treatment to all,” tweeted the Delhi CM in Hindi this evening.Baijal, drawing from various Supreme Court judgments, impressed upon the state government that the right to health is an integral part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution.“...Directs all departments and authorities concerned of NCT of Delhi, to ensure that monitoring/treatment is not denied to any patient on the ground of not being a resident of NCT of Delhi,” theL-G said in his order.In another order, the L-G overruled the city government’s order for coronavirus testing only for symptomatic patients.Baijal said all nine categories people, including asymptomatic, as prescribed by the ICMR should be examined in the national capital.As complaints about the quality of treatment at Delhi’s hospitals snowballed on social media, CM Kejriwal declared on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents while the Central government hospitals will remain open to all.Watch l In Focus: Kejriwal’s ‘state govt hospitals only for Delhiites’ order divisive? Deputy CM Manish Sisodia accused the BJP of forcing the decision upon the government through L-G Baijal.“The BJP put pressure on the L-G and made him overrule our decision, now priority will not be given to people of Delhi in Delhi hospitals. Why is the BJP doing politics over Covid-19 and trying to fail the policies of state government”?,” Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The deputy CM, who also doubles up as state education minister, underlined that the decision was taken after careful thinking for the benefit of the people of Delhi. “The Delhi government had taken the decision after thorough deliberations so that people of Delhi could get beds and treatment if cases increase in future. The CM had planned how many beds were needed for how many cases and how they will be arranged,” the ANI quoted Sisodia as saying. Earlier today, defending the government’s decision to reserve hospital beds exclusively for Delhi residents, state health minister Satyendar Jain reasoned that over the past week more than 1,000 cases have been reported each day and batted for more space in hospitals for the city residents.“Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus. A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals,” said Jain.The minister claimed that cases weren’t much in neighbouring cities.The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday. Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-problem-delhi-cm-kejriwal-after-l-g-overrules-hospitals-for-residents-move/story-0KAsLj7TNbyOuzKhXv1GhL.html
09-06-2020||Editorials||Battling terror in Jammu and Kashmir | HT Editorial||On Monday, Ajay Pandita — an elected sarpanch in South Kashmir’s Anantnag district — was shot dead by terrorists. This is the second targeted killing of a local grassroots leader, after another sarpanch was shot dead in November. Pandita’s killing is a reminder of political and security challenges in the Valley.Despite the coronavirus pandemic spreading widely in Pakistan and devastating its economy, its military-intelligence complex has not let go of its sponsorship of terror across the border. Be it through constant attempts at infiltration, stoking tensions across the Line of Control, or spreading fear through terror proxies in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Pakistan continues to seek to destabilise India. New Delhi will have to remain vigilant, ensure sharper intelligence collection, keep its security personnel on high alert, and protect its citizens and political leaders in J&K. Along with stepping up its security preparedness, the government should also consider opening up the political space in Kashmir, releasing mainstream leaders still under detention, opening channels of communication with all stakeholders who remain committed to India’s unity and believe in peaceful politics, and providing a road map for eventual elections. Expanding the democratic space will strengthen the pro-India constituency in J&K, which in turn, will provide strong local political, intelligence and administrative networks to defeat terror.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/battling-terror-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-gpo6xAlivzGfqYBnD7n8NL.html
09-06-2020||Editorials||Secure the future of migrants | HT Editorial||In a significant, albeit delayed directive, the Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday asked states and Union Territories to identify stranded migrants and arrange their transport back home within 15 days. It has also asked administrations to withdraw cases filed against migrants for violating the lockdown guidelines, and the Indian Railways to ensure the availability of trains within 24 hours if there is demand. Both the Centre and the states have been told to prepare a detailed list to identify migrants. The court has instructed that all schemes and employment opportunities available to migrant workers must be publicised; and there must be employment relief and skill mapping. The SC’s decision comes over 75 days after the national lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), led to a humanitarian crisis. Migrant workers, suffering from an acute shortage of food and income and yearning to return home to their families and communities, began walking home, before the Centre, in early May, introduced special trains and buses for their transport. But this process has been riddled with complications. There was a controversy over train fares (before the court stepped in to say that migrants cannot be charged); there have been difficulties in Centre-state coordination over trains; social distancing norms have often not been observed; migrants have had to wait for days, if not weeks, to be able to get on to trains, prompting many to walk; many have died due to hunger and fatigue. All of it has led to a socio-economic tragedy which is almost unprecedented in independent India’s history; this scale of people movement has not been seen since the Partition.This newspaper has argued that the SC was remiss in not taking up the issue of migrant workers earlier. It only took up the issue on May 26, two months after the crisis began. To be sure, its intervention now is welcome. But it is not just the judiciary; the primary blame for failing to anticipate the needs of migrants and not providing an adequate safety net lies with the executive. It must now expedite the movement of migrants back, and both the Centre and the state governments need to plan ahead. While the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) has emerged as an indispensable policy tool to provide incomes to those who have returned, governments will have to do more in ensuring employment — even as they focus on tackling the spread of the disease. The plight of migrant workers has undermined the credibility of the State and caused enormous distress. It is time to correct the mistakes and find ways to give them a dignified future. The SC should continue to keep an eye on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/secure-the-future-of-migrants/story-I12tiwvqD8yFoCrSvWYlKI.html
