11-06-2020||News||Covid-19 has opened the doors for Gov Tech 3.0 | Analysis||Technology and collaboration are the mantras that many hope will help the world turn the tide against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The public health ecosystem has demonstrated unprecedented collaboration among scientists, governments and medical companies, sharing everything from epidemiological data to software and design files to develop a vaccine and manufacture-testing equipment.Could this crisis be the trigger for a new era of technology collaboration among citizens, businesses and governments to solve the gravest problems of our times? The initial signs are promising. Governments are deploying technology in newer innovative and collaborative ways. For example, many countries, including India, have deployed contact tracing apps developed through public-private partnerships, to prevent the spread of the virus, and are crowd-sourcing relevant information from citizens. Private companies, such as taxi aggregators, are opening up their tech platforms to help the government fight the crisis by tracking crowds in real-time.This crisis seems to have become a laboratory for the dawn of a new era of what we will call Gov Tech 3.0. While 1.0 was the era of “computerisation” of manual processes such as putting income tax forms online, 2.0 was about building systems which digitised end-to-end processes, for example, the government’s “e-office” file management system. GovTech 3.0 is focussed on Open Digital Ecosystems (ODEs), the underlying philosophy of which is for governments to move away from being a builder of end-to-end tech solutions towards becoming a facilitator by creating digital infrastructure on which innovators can collaboratively build solutions for the public good.A good analogy to understand this shift is the physical infrastructure of cities. Building “commons” is done by the government through public funding and engagement. This includes the construction of roads, drainage systems, parks and mass transit systems. If built and governed well, this is the “platform” on which businesses and individuals then create the vibrant ecosystem of activities that make up our urban life and are visible to us as we interact and transact with others in the city. Similarly, the ODE approach suggests that the government should focus on creating the “digital commons”; enable interoperability between siloed systems, so that innovators can build solutions on top, by leveraging what technologists call open-source software, open standards, and open Application Programming Interface (APIs).Several path-breaking ODEs are already in play in India: Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in the financial services space; the National Digital Health Blueprint that imagines a radically different public health ecosystem; the National Digital Infrastructure for Teachers called DIKSHA; the National Urban Innovation Stack which is enabling more efficient provision of municipal services; and a digital ecosystem for agriculture which is being designed by an inter-ministerial committee.In the wake of Covid-19, we can take this thinking further. For example, could we create a “social protection ODE”, through which migrant workers can access State benefits irrespective of where they are? This could be enabled through an interoperable tech architecture connecting disparate state and department tech systems and apps, built by innovators, enabling migrants to get real-time information about and access to their entitlements.ODEs are not just a different way of delivering government services — they are a different way of imagining the citizen-State relationship. ODEs enable the rapid scaling of solutions, through modular technology-building blocks, that can be deployed in multiple contexts by ensuring interoperability across platforms. This can shift the balance of power in favour of citizens.While ODEs empower and enable collaboration in unprecedented ways, many worry that such interconnected digital networks may make us more vulnerable to harm, with dispersed accountability and possible violation of individual privacy. These concerns are heightened when the power of digital platforms is combined with the coercive power of the State. In the Covid-19 context, we see that in some countries, mobile phone location data, thermal imaging drones, and cyber tech normally used in counterterrorism, are being integrated and deployed for surveillance of citizens. The curtailment of personal freedoms may be acceptable to the public during a crisis, but the worry is that once such technology is out there, it may be impossible to roll it back.This issue — that with high-stakes benefits come high-stakes risks— is central to the ODE debate. Designing privacy-protecting and secure databases is critical. The invisible rules that are coded into “tech” need to be made transparent through thoughtful design principles, legislation, governance frameworks and public engagement. For example, having accountable institutions behind these ODEs, and robust grievance redressal mechanisms is critical for their success. Making sure the design is citizen-centric and ensures inclusive access to services at the last mile will help drive adoption and sustain these ecosystems.A recent government white paper put out on mygov.in has invited public consultation on some of these critical open questions around National ODEs. The design choices India makes today, not just in terms of the technology and data architecture, but also in terms of governance architecture and community engagement around ODEs, will determine how we collaborate to build a more resilient and empowered India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-opened-the-doors-for-gov-tech-3-0/story-Gogbtg00bYrwyrxreMKUQI.html
11-06-2020||News||Why defections continue to cast a shadow on politics | Opinion||It’s election season again, this time to fill 55 Rajya Sabha (RS) seats. These elections are usually not interesting as they proceed from the results of past assembly elections. It is the parties’ strength in the states concerned that determine how many seats they get to fill. So the results are known in advance. But in recent times, RS polls have been marked by uncertainty, as some parties engage in horse-trading to change the composition of assemblies in their favour. As I write this column, the Congress in Gujarat is busy corralling its Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) in a resort, as eight MLAs have succumbed to the charms of induced retirement, putting their party’s second seat in RS in jeopardy. It is a worrying trend in Indian politics that parties can induce legislators to abandon ship so easily and without consequence, which amounts to altering the people’s verdict. On March 20, the Kamal Nath-led government in Madhya Pradesh fell, having lost its majority after 22 of its MLAs resigned, following Jyotiraditya Scindia’s decision to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This was the fourth time in as many years that the Congress lost a state due to defections. In February last year, in Karnataka, 14 Congress and three Janata Dal (Secular) MLAs resigned, precipitating the downfall of the 14-month-old coalition led by HD Kumaraswamy. In July, 10 of the 15 remaining Congress MLAs announced their resignation in the Goa assembly and merged with the BJP. A similar scenario took place in Manipur in 2017. Despite having emerged as the single-largest party, the Congress was outmanoeuvered by the BJP which cobbled together a coalition, backed by Congress defectors who had joined it ahead of the election. This is not a recent phenomenon. In a book published in 1974, Subhash Kashyap recalled that in the 1967-71 four-year period, 142 defections took place in Parliament, and as many as 1969 defections took place in state assemblies across the country, causing the downfall of 32 state governments (statistics available on a PRS report). He further observed that 212 of these defectors had been subsequently rewarded with ministerial positions. In Karnataka, last year, ten of the eleven defectors who won their by-election on a BJP ticket were offered cabinet positions. In recent years, the BJP has benefited the most from such defections. But data shows that the dominant party is not always the favoured destination of choice for defectors. In the late 1960s, most defectors were from the Congress. In the general election of 1977, the Bharatiya Lok Dal ran 94 turncoat candidates, including 21 from the Congress. Many of them migrated back to the Congress once it became clear that Indira Gandhi was set to win the 1980 elections. Those large-scale political migrations, according to Kashyap, were the reason the anti-defection law was passed in 1985 by Rajiv Gandhi. It is not hard to guess the motivation behind these defections and the role of parties in inducing them. But all these defections are not merely the sum of the opportunism and individual ambitions of legislators. They also reveal the troubles that brew within political parties. Contrary to what one may expect, defectors are not necessarily newcomers or professional weathercocks who contest under multiple party labels. At least half of the recent Congress defectors were seasoned politicians, some former party heads or ministers. The fact that the Congress loses old-timers is a powerful signal of its organisational disarray. Despite winning state elections, the party remains vulnerable to poaching by the BJP, which remains unchallenged at the national level. In recent years, political parties in India have undergone at least two transformations. The first is campaign professionalisation. Parties use data platforms that enable them to reach out directly to their workers at the village level. The second is an increase in the concentration of power in the high commands of parties. This has been a process nurtured by the growing personalisation of politics and the increased reliance on direct modes of communication. As a result, MLAs who used to play an important role of mediation in and outside their organisation have been made almost redundant. This causes a great deal of frustration and discontent. And when the party they belong to suffers from a vacancy of leadership and offer little prospects of future electoral gains, it is not surprising that many MLAs jump ship. While this might seem a problem that the Congress has to grapple with, the trend of undoing governments through defections is problematic for two reasons. First, it shows that the anti-defection law no longer serves its main purpose of preventing government instability when a dominant party, which loses an election, seeks to convert it into a victory. And second, the practice of bringing duly-elected governments down through horse-trading makes a complete joke of whatever legitimacy or meaning is left of electoral mandates. Accepting defeat and respecting the people’s choice is a strong marker of a healthy democracy. Contriving to reverse the outcome of elections undermines it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-defections-continue-to-cast-a-shadow-on-politics/story-4Fs0vOMzmpBX9YVYiadMsL.html
11-06-2020||News||A blueprint to improve health systems in cities | Opinion||History is replete with examples of disease outbreaks altering cities and changing lives. In 1849, a cholera outbreak in New York’s congested clusters prompted it to recalibrate its infrastructure. In 1994, Surat’s municipal corporation played a key role in overhauling its sanitary and hygiene systems after the city was hit by the plague. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has again reminded the country that strong and resilient health systems act as the first line of defence, not only against outbreaks but in meeting everyday health challenges.It has underscored the weaknesses, inequities and dearth of investment in urban health infrastructure and serious issues of governance. The pandemic has taken its roots in cities and proven to be the single-most potent disruptive force to the “engines of economic growth”. States with a higher proportion of urban populations are driving up the numbers. In India, while efforts have been made to create tertiary care facilities at the district level, little has been done to reform municipal bodies in urban areas. It is important to distinguish between the two. Having directed the efforts towards rural India, today the country is faced with the reality of urban health care. About 60% of all hospitalisations in urban India are in the private sector, all of which may not be fully regulated in small, urban slum settlements. While the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM, 2005) was able to address some critical challenges in rural health care, India’s cities continue to struggle under the high burden of diseases.During this crisis, a stronger and tiered structure of primary health services in cities could have served as the first points of testing and care, alleviating some of the burden on tertiary systems. While the human and economic cost of this crisis cannot be stressed on enough, it is important that we consolidate the learnings and restructure the system. Here are a set of reforms. One, the National Urban Health Mission (2013) was launched to bring primary health services within the reach of the urban poor. Between 2015-16 and 2017-18, modest progress was achieved under this programme, though its potential remains untapped. Now is an opportune time to revisit the programme. Having a strong network of primary and community health centres in cities, as in rural India, can lead to more equitable health outcomes.Two, we need to rethink the Smart Cities Mission. Launched with the objective of promoting cities that provide core infrastructure, currently, building health infrastructure is a low priority in the 100 such cities being developed. A closer scrutiny of data of projects taken up under the mission reveals that only 69 of the 5,861 projects were for health infrastructure and capacity-building — this works out to a little over 1% of the total projects selected since 2015. This is an opportunity to recalibrate this scheme and build sustainable cities, better equipped to handle disease outbreaks. Three, we must remember the linkages between health and other determinants. Families in informal settlements lack a consistent supply of clean water and soap and rely on ill-maintained community toilets and shared taps. With nearly half of Mumbai’s population living in squalid conditions that are emerging as clusters for Covid-19, Maharashtra has the highest burden of the disease in the country. The Swachh Bharat Mission has been able to drive shared understanding about the benefits of sanitation – we must expand on this. Even the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation can be leveraged better to ensure proper infrastructure and improved sanitation channels and networks in cities. Similarly, we can link efforts with initiatives like the National Clean Air Programme (2019), that align policies against air pollution with those under the country’s climate change plan.Four, we must leverage the strong digital infrastructure. There are many examples of how cities are doing so during the pandemic — including the Agra Smart City Mission’s e-Doctor Seva, a tele-video consultation facility, launched as a public-private partnership. In Chandigarh, there are “fight Covid stations” with thermal screening, pedestal operated hand-wash, soap dispensers. Recent telemedicine guidelines issued by ministry of health and family welfare in collaboration with Niti Aayog and the Medical Council of India, provide for an excellent opportunity to enable health care delivery to the urban poor even beyond the lockdown period. With such use of digital technology, we can manage health facilities more effectively, and ensure better disease surveillance and data collection.And finally, given the high proportion of patients seeking care in the private sector, it’s important to harness its large pool of resources so that more people can access quality services. More public private partnerships can ensure better regulation and monitoring so that protocols are followed. As per a Boston Consulting Group estimate (2017), about 40% of India’s population will be living in urban areas by 2025. It is imperative that the government re-imagines these spaces to meet the needs of the people. By building or upgrading infrastructure, including a trained workforce, it cannot only address epidemics, but also provide quality health care. India’s has the framework, it must act on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-improve-health-systems-in-cities/story-4xsLYoxIxSsdL1slmXGUNN.html
11-06-2020||News||A post-Covid-19 social protection architecture for India||The lockdown to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has inflicted a heavy cost on India’s poor. Most have seen their incomes fall; many have seen their families uprooted; some have even lost their lives. On moral grounds alone, there is a strong case for augmenting spending on social protection for the poor, and the Government of India has taken some important first steps in this regard. However, more can and should be done, because spending on social protection is not only ethically desirable but also critical for driving the broader economic recovery. A core theme in economics is that there is a trade-off between welfare programmes and efficiency. Yet, a growing body of research suggests that when people are very poor, there may be no such trade-off. Thus, a well-designed social protection architecture should not be seen as charity, but a key engine for economic growth. Schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), public distribution system (PDS), and a modest universal income transfer can drive growth by boosting demand, correcting market failures, improving credit access, and providing the insurance needed for people to undertake risky investments to improve productivity. The value of MGNREGS and PDSThese facts are evident in research on India’s two main pillars of social protection — MGNREGS for employment security, and PDS for food security (that cost 0.5% and 1% of GDP respectively). Many sceptics of MGNREGS (including myself) initially thought that the programme was not a good use of public funds. In addition to concerns about corruption and leakage, many economists were worried about the prospect of MGNREGS driving up wages without increasing productivity, thereby reducing market employment.However, high-quality evidence using a large-scale randomised evaluation has found that improving MGNREGS implementation (by reducing leakage, payment delays and uncertainty) led to a substantial reduction in rural poverty. Importantly, only 10% of the income gains were from additional MGNREGS income. The majority of the impact came through an increase in both market wages and employment of the rural poor. One reason is that when employers have high market power (which we find evidence of), programmes such as the MGNREGS can correct pre-existing market failures and increase both wages and employment. We also find longer-term benefits, including increases in credit, assets, number of non-agricultural enterprises, and employment in these enterprises. Thus, improving wages and incomes of the poor, through social protection, can have large positive multiplier effects on the economy.Similarly, recent research has found that PDS can insulate the poor from price fluctuations of food grains, and increase the proportion of the population that can reach minimum nutrition standards. Given the well-documented link between nutrition and productivity for labour-intensive tasks, PDS is likely contributes not only to food security, but also to boosting the productivity of the poor.Thus, the government’s decision to increase the budgets for MGNREGS and PDS make a lot of sense since the benefits likely exceed the costs. Crucially, the existence of these two pillars provided the government with a rapidly implementable option for expanding social protection to mitigate the costs of the lockdown. For instance, phone-surveys in the last two months indicate that increased PDS allowances have been an important lifeline for those who have lost their jobs and income.But economic recovery and India’s development will need more. The time is right to add a third social protection pillar, based on modest but near-universal income transfers that will promote both public welfare and an economic recovery.A third pillar: An Inclusive Growth DividendThere has been growing support for the idea of Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) of income into beneficiary bank accounts, including a prominent call for a Universal Basic Income (UBI) in the 2016-17 Economic Survey. These calls have been amplified during the current crisis. A UBI-type approach will minimise targeting costs and exclusion errors, reduce administrative cost of implementation, and offer flexible benefits. Importantly, several studies have shown that income transfers help the poor greatly and that they spend the money productively (and not on alcohol or temptation goods as commonly believed).Yet, the idea of UBI has not gained policy traction in India, in part because the amounts suggested have been prohibitively expensive (ranging from 3.5% to 10% of GDP). To make a poverty-eliminating UBI fiscally feasible, many proponents suggest replacing existing welfare schemes (including NREGS and PDS) with UBI. However, this is politically difficult and may not even be desirable given the benefits documented above. A more feasible option to deliver the social protection benefits of income transfers is to decrease the value of the transfer and implement it as a supplement rather than a substitute to existing programmes. One concrete implementable idea that I have proposed in an essay with Paul Niehaus and Sandip Sukhtankar, and in a more detailed paper with Maitreesh Ghatak, is an “Inclusive Growth Dividend (IGD)” pegged at 1% of GDP (Rs 120/month at current levels). The amount will be paid as a monthly supplement to every Indian, with allowances for children paid into mother’s accounts. While this will take some administrative work, the investments in Aadhaar and Jan Dhan accounts in recent years make it feasible to implement IGD in the near future. Though this is a universal income transfer, we called it an IGD because it differs from UBI in important ways. Unlike “basic income”, which connotes an amount that is enough to live on, “dividend” clarifies that this is one component of a portfolio of people’s income streams. “Inclusive growth” reflects the goals of universality, progressivity, and shared prosperity. Since the amount is the same for all citizens, the value of the IGD is much greater for the poor, but it is a shared benefit for the entire population that will grow with the overall economy.An IGD could be transformative for India in several ways. Even at the modest value of Rs 120/month (or Rs 500/month for a typical household), it would meaningfully reduce poverty — augmenting consumption for the poorest 50% of the population by over 10%, and for the poorest 10% by 20%. Since mothers would receive allowances on behalf of their children, IGD would sharply improve female empowerment and agency — especially in rural India. It would directly contribute to universal financial inclusion by activating dormant Jan Dhan accounts, and allowing the poor to accumulate savings. It would also promote access to credit at lower interest rates (since creditworthiness will improve as a result of predictable cash flows), and increase the ability of the poor to make productivity-enhancing but risky investments (such as planting a new crop) by providing some consumption insurance. An IGD also has many advantages relative to alternative designs that aim to deliver larger income transfers to fewer (poorer) people. First, it avoids targeting costs and reduces the risks of mistargeting. Second, the IGD amount is meaningful enough to mitigate poverty, but too small to adversely affect work incentives. Third, targeted programmes have to be phased out as people earn more, which creates disincentives to work because of the loss of benefits. There is no such problem with an IGD. Finally, sociological evidence suggests that non-beneficiaries strongly resent welfare programmes that reverse the income ranking of people in a community. An IGD elegantly avoids the last two challenges by being universal and lifting all boats equally. Successfully implementing an IGD will have the added benefit of augmenting both the capacity and credibility of the Indian State. Delivering an IGD every month will represent the first time that the Indian State has reliably delivered a benefit to every citizen. On its own, this will be a signature achievement. More importantly, the capacity to do so will dramatically increase the policy options available to the government to respond to future scenarios. The current moment of nationwide economic hardship is especially appropriate for an IGD. Historically, times of economic hardship have been associated with an increase in social strife and conflict as people compete over a shrinking economic pie. An IGD can mitigate this strife and serve as a powerful symbol of social solidarity that all Indians experience together regardless of their station (an option for the wealthy to “give it up” could add to the solidarity). Driving economic growthIn addition to protecting the vulnerable, a stronger social protection architecture will build the platform for a broader economic recovery. The government’s current economic strategy for businesses has largely focused on expanding credit access for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). While the approach is fiscally prudent, this strategy is missing one critical element: Measures to boost demand. Even with credit guarantees, firms are unlikely to hire workers and ramp up production unless there is adequate demand in the economy. Commentators such as Haresh Chawla and Rathin Roy have highlighted that India’s economic performance over the past two decades has been a top-down growth story. Specifically, the top 5-10% of the population earns enough to drive consumption. This demand trickles down to sustain the next 30-40% working in smaller (mostly informal) enterprises, while the bottom 50% leads a hand-to-mouth existence. By putting more money in the hands of the poor, an IGD could help reverse this pattern and provide a bottom-up boost to the economy. Not only will it increase income, it will also provide predictability of future income — a key driver for demand. Recent evidence on unconditional income transfers provided to entire communities in Kenya finds an economic multiplier of 2.7. More generally, both theory and evidence suggest that a broader consumption base promotes economic development by allowing firms to recover the fixed costs of investing in more productive capital and technology. Thus, while the government may be wary of making additional fiscal commitments at a time of shrinking revenues, an IGD is likely to have a substantial multiplier effect on the economy by boosting domestic demand, and thereby deliver a high public return on investment. Another way in which social protection can contribute to growth is through supporting migration. The heart-rending scenes of migrants travelling back to their villages have led many to call for reducing migration. Though well-intentioned, this will be a mistake because reducing migration hurts both workers and employers. Throughout the world, cities are engines of growth and migration to cities the most common pathway out of poverty.Thus, the appropriate policy response to the migrant crisis is to build a stronger social protection architecture that is nationally portable. Having a portable PDS and IGD in place (and augmenting allowances before the lockdown) could have prevented the crisis of return migration by providing migrant workers means to sustain themselves during the job-losses caused by lockdown. The Government of India has correctly prioritised the implementing of nationwide PDS portability, which will strengthen this key pillar of social protection. An IGD will add a crucial component of flexible income support — especially since PDS grains alone are not enough to survive with no other income. Research in recent years has shown that even modest income support to the rural poor can sharply increase their overall productivity and income by covering the search costs of finding better opportunities. Thus, a portable IGD is likely to boost both incomes and aggregate productivity by empowering workers to seek the best possible livelihood in any part of the country. Creating a win-winThe prime minister’s stated goal of “Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikaas, Sab Ka Vishwaas” is a laudable one. Yet, translating this ideal into practice is not easy. An IGD provides a practical and implementable way of doing so through its combination of universality (sabka saath; with everyone), promoting broad-based development (sabka vikaas; universal progress), and building public confidence in the government by credibly delivering a benefit to every Indian every month (sabka vishwaas; for everyone’s trust). A key policy goal in responding to the hardship caused by Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread should be to both support the economy and the vulnerable in the short run, and promote long-term development goals. An IGD-led nationally-portable social protection architecture will do exactly this. It will support the poor, give them the means and confidence to migrate to better job opportunities, boost demand and productivity, help the economy recover, build social solidarity and state capacity, and lay the foundations for broad-based long-term prosperity. Karthik Muralidharan is the Tata Chancellor’s Professor of Economics at UC San Diego. Vishnu Padmanabhan contributed to this piece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-post-covid-19-social-protection-architecture-for-india/story-BCt1POzFojnKloCkHTsv9H.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Mumbai infra projects worth ₹2.63L crore affected by lockdown’||As many as 794 projects worth ₹2.63 lakh crore have been affected owing to the pandemic-ensued lockdown in Mumbai, a survey by project-monitoring organization Projects Today shows. Of the 794, 73% were government projects, while 26% were private projects, majorly real-estate developments.Apart from Mumbai, the top cities where projects have been affected include 539 projects in Bengaluru (worth ₹1.06 lakh crore), 607 in Pune (worth ₹89 thousand crore), 117 in Nagpur (worth ₹88 thousand crore) and 87 in Nellore (worth ₹71 thousand crore). “Together the five cities account for 29.3% of the total projects under execution in 108 hotspot districts,” the report ‘Projects Scenario Post Covid-19’ notes.The state government has been undertaking a massive infrastructure overhaul in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with the plan to build a 337-km Metro network, the 22-km Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, and the coastal road connecting south Mumbai to the western suburbs. However, the works were stopped following the lockdown, and the agencies have also been facing issues with migrant workers leaving the city.“Most projects will face an overrun of a minimum of six months. Labour shortage and the upcoming monsoon season will prove to be a big hurdle for most of the infrastructure projects to restart properly,” said Shashikant Hegde, CEO, Projects Today. The organisation has been monitoring 74,000 projects across India from the time of their announcement.The report also notes that Maharashtra tops the list in terms of ‘Covid-halted projects investment’, the state is followed by Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat.The organisation also conducted a survey of 233 architects, contractors, and consultants from 14 states and 30 cities in May. When asked about the hurdles these projects will face post-lockdown, 56.2% of the respondents said that finding the requisite number of labourers is going to be the biggest hurdle. Around 53% of the participants said that financing the projects will be a major hurdle. Apart from this, sourcing raw materials, arranging transport, and policy decisions will also affect the revival of projects, the responders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-infra-projects-worth-2-63l-crore-affected-by-lockdown/story-TIinIU5RWi2rtiduhz1qmK.html
11-06-2020||City||Covid-19: Health dept recommends second containment zone in Amritsar||The health department has written to the district administration and recommended to declare second containment zone in Amritsar’s congested walled city, keeping in view the rapidly rise in community transmission of the coronavirus. The administration on June 8 had declared the first containment zone in Amritsar after the district crossed 500-mark cases. The areas of the walled city, including Katra Moti Ram, Ganj Di Mori, Katra Parja, Bombay Wala Khoo, Gali Kandha Wali and Katra Moti of Ram Bagh, were sealed in the first containment zone, after 19 community spread cases were reported from there.So far, the district has reported 542 cases, including 14 deaths. “It is difficult to maintain social-distancing norms in the congested and populated walled city lanes, most of which are less than 6-foot wide. A letter has been written to the administration to declare Phullan Wala Chowk, Katra Charat Singh, Katra Bhai Sant Singh, Tunda Talab, Katra Dullo and Shakti Nagar as containment zone,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.Amritsar additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said, “We conducted a field survey in these areas and have asked the health department to reassess the situation. If these areas are found vulnerable, we will declare the second containment soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-health-dept-recommends-second-containment-zone-in-amritsar/story-HbFqLPImBl3pj6gc7vefDI.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||1,422 cases daily: Mumbai’s average from June 3-10||In the past eight days, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city has gone up by 27% – an average of 1,422 cases daily. The city’s doubling rate (time taken for the number of cases to double, which is indicative of the spread) is 25 days, against the national average of 16.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data, 1,268 cases were reported in Mumbai on June 3. The day’s count on June 4 was 1,441; 1,146 on June 5; 1,256 on June 6; 1,397 on June 7; 1,317 on June 8 and 1,015 on June 9. June 10 saw a jump with 1,567 cases. According to the state health department, the number of cases on June 10 was 52,667.BMC’s data shows that earlier the cases were restricted to the containment zones, but now they are spreading through the city and suburbs. Between June 3 and June 9, wards namely P/N (Malad), R/S (Kandivli) and R/C (Borivli) have recorded a gradual rise in cases. Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner of zone 5 (ward L, M/E and M/W), said, “Earlier, the infection was limited only to a few wards, but in the past 45 days, it has spread to almost every ward. Borivli and Gorai, which recorded the lowest number of cases earlier, have more active cases now.”Till June 9, Borivli West, which includes Gorai, IC Colony and LIC Colony, had 912 active cases, just a little lower than G/S ward (Prabhadevi, Worli), which has 1,231 active cases and tops the list of total cases in the city (3,618 cases). R-C ward of Borivli West has 1,330 cases. P/N ward, which covers Malad, has more active cases (1,712) than the third-most affected L ward, comprising areas namely Kurla, Sakinaka and Chandivli. L ward has 3,258 cases, of which 1,608 are active. According to experts, the design of a pandemic is such that it spreads like tremors, just like an earthquake that starts from an epicentre. “The situation in areas of Dharavi and Koliwada, which recorded one of the highest cases, has come under control. Now the virus is spreading vertically. The cases are therefore still high,” said Anant Bhan, global health expert. For the first time since the outbreak of the virus in April, the doubling rate in E ward (Byculla) and F/N (Matunga) has improved to 50 days. The doubling time has improved in most of the containment zones in wards such as G/N, which includes areas like Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim.Dr Archana Patil, additional director, state health department, said relaxation in lockdown cannot be the sole reason for the rise in cases. “There can be several factors such as increase in testing capacity and better screening, among others. We are studying all reports before we can come to a conclusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-422-cases-daily-mumbai-s-average-from-june-3-10/story-liRsErCrzEnzKEUAkmueXJ.html
11-06-2020||City||Punjab reports four deaths, 57 new cases||AMRITSAR/SANGRUR/JALANDHAR/BATHINDA/PATIALAPunjab on Thursday reported four deaths and 57 fresh cases. In Amritsar, four patients succumbed to Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).“The 45-year old man, resident of Bazaar Gorian, Lahori Gate, was admitted to GMCH in a critical state through the flu corner on Wednesday. He passed away soon after. The patient’s swab samples were collected posthumously and came out positive Thursday morning”, said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“A 62-year-old woman of Nawan Kot area, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away on Wednesday night. A 63-year-old man of Gate Hakima, who was tested positive a few days back, died on Thursday evening” Kishore said.He added, “A 70-year old man of Dhaab ka Tikka, who was also suffering from SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) and hypertension, besides being tested positive for Covid-19. He suffered cardio respiratory arrest on Thursday and died.”The district also reported 15 fresh cases on Thursday, out of which 11 are fresh community transmission cases and two are Border Security Force (BSF) personnel. The 15 cases also include a 45-year old man, who died on Wednesday but his reports came out on Thursday. The district’s total tally is now 542, out of which 15 have died and 388 have recovered.19 FRESH CASES IN PATHANKOTPathankot deputy commissioner (DC) GS Khaira said: “Nineteen more people of the district were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and most of them are contacts of Covid-19 patients. The total active cases in the district are now 57.”Tarn Taran also reported two Covid-19 cases on Thursday, which includes a Maharashtra-returned man and a 42-year old woman, who is also suffering from TB.TWO TEST POSITIVE IN MOGA Two people have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga district on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 69.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said one of the patients, a Moga resident, is undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. He was admitted to the civil hospital on June 9 and later referred to Faridkot hospital as he was having trouble breathing. The second, a resident of Daudhar village was admitted to the community health centre (CHC) at Bagahpurana. A 27-year-old resident of Talwandi Sabo sub-division in Bathinda tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said the patient had returned from Delhi to his native village of Lehri in a taxi recently. He was in home quarantine since then.In another case from Muktsar district, a newly married woman from Malout town tested positive for Covid-19. During the lockdown, the 20-year-old was stuck at her parents’ house in Delhi and came back to her in-laws recently.FIVE INFECTED IN SANGRURFive people tested positive for coronavirus in Sangrur on Thursday. These include three cops, a prisoner and another one is with travel history of Delhi.Meanwhile, a 66-year-old man who was tested positive for coronavirus at a private hospital Ludhiana travelled to Sangrur on Thursday morning. He arrived in the town via bus and reached home on a rickshaw from the bus stand. The health department teams traced the patient and sent him to isolation centre Ghabdan. Meanwhile, three persons of Talwara in Nangal area of Rupnagar district ,who were contacts of a Covid-19 positive patient of the same village, were tested positive.2 MIGRANTS FROM JALANDHAR FOUND INFECTED IN UP Two migrants among the 12 people who tested positive of coronavirus reached at Gorakhpur town of Uttar Pradesh. Officials said that 18-year-old boy and 45-year-old man, both migrants, came to local civil hospital on June 8 where they gave their samples for the coronavirus test. Laterthey took a private bus from the Pathankot chowk in Jalandhar to travel for Gorakhpur town by showing the slips of virus test. The matter came into the light when we received the sample reports on Thursday and found the both persons tested positive “We have informed the state health department about the matter later the state department further informed the Uttar Pradesh health department,” said a senior official. They will not be counted in the Punjab tally. Besides, six members of family, who came from New Delhi to Jalandhar, tested positive for the virus. They will also not be counted in the state’s tally. Meanwhile, three people from Jalandhar district also contracted the virus. Two persons tested positive for the virus in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districtPatiala also reported three cases. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said all the three patients have returned from New Delhi early this week.Besides, two persons were tested positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-reports-four-deaths-57-new-cases/story-8i1mZHZIl9FdHSAejTiAgL.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Historic well related to 5th Sikh guru restored in Gurdaspur||A historic eight-cornered well related to fifth Sikh master Guru Arjan Dev has been restored at Gurdwara Patshahi Panjveen at Othian village near Batala town of Gurdaspur district.The well has been restored with old-fashioned small bricks. Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of Khadoor Sahib-based Kar Sewa organisation, was assigned the task to restore the structure.“The SGPC is working to conserve the heritage. Guru Arjan Dev got this well dug on the demand of the community. It has been made operational now,” said Rajinder Singh Mehta, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) that manages the shrine.“We decided to restore it with the help of the heritage experts. Also, heritage trees will be planted on one acre land of the gurdwara to provide shelter to birds and reduce pollution,” said SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh who was also present on the occasion.Baba Sewa Singh said his organization has restored many heritage structures at Khadoor Sahib. “These structures inspire the young generation to get connected with their heritage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/historic-well-related-to-5th-sikh-guru-restored-in-gurdaspur/story-1mTc7fMNDRaFjHdRZJEeYO.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||No clarity on rules as schools tell teachers to report to work||In the absence of clear guidelines about attendance of teachers in schools across the state, several schools in the city are now asking teachers to report for duty.As per the amendments to easing of lockdown restrictions issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on June 9, schools and other educational institutes can only function for “non-teaching purposes including the development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results”.A circular issued by the finance department, which states that the salary bills of government employees would be drawn based on their attendance from June, has been quoted by the office of the education inspector, north region for schools in Mumbai.With no clear guidelines from the education department, private schools have already started calling teachers for various reasons such as conducting online classes, finishing online assessments, and other teaching-related work.“We have been asked to report to work, citing the guidelines on the creation of educational content, and have been asked to conduct online classes. The school has made no arrangements for travel and they have asked us to carry our own sanitisers,” said the teacher of a private school in Kandivli.Anil Bornare, coordinator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) teachers’ cell, said several aided schools have also asked their teachers to report to work from June 15. “The government circular, which mandates people to attend office on a rotational basis, is being misinterpreted by schools, which are asking their staff to be present because they are government employees. Staffers live far from the school in most cases, and it becomes difficult for them to travel considering there are no trains, and buses are already crowded. The government should give clarity on the issue,” Bornare said.Officials from the state education department said that zone-wise guidelines for the functioning of schools would be issued soon. The state education department had earlier declared that while the new academic year would commence from June 15, it would not mean schools could reopen. Schools would only be allowed to teach online classes until they are allowed to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-clarity-on-rules-as-schools-tell-teachers-to-report-to-work/story-RRjNUydhudjxyrGH7t04dL.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Metropolis Labs barred from conducting tests for 1 month||For the second time in less than two months, Metropolis Labs has been barred from carrying out tests for Covid-19 after complaints that it took longer than 24 hours to submit test results. It had previously been sent a show cause notice for the same reason in the third week of April.On June 9, Metropolis Labs was barred from conducting Covid-19 tests for a month. Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “On Tuesday, we sent a notice to the lab prohibiting them from collection and testing samples for four weeks. We have found out that the lab on several occasions has delayed in providing the reports.” In April, Metropolis’s permit to test for Covid-19 had been suspended for a week. “Since they repeated the same mistake, we were forced to suspend them for a month,” said Kakani.Civic officials said delay in submitting reports leads to sudden spikes in the number of cases and deaths on certain days. Delays not only result in Covid-positive patients becoming eligible for treatment later, but also increase the chance of others being exposed to the virus. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) testing protocol, test results must be submitted within 24 hours of taking samples. At present, BMC is conducting approximately 5,000 tests for Covid-19 daily.A spokesperson for Metropolis said it had cleared its backlog. “As the largest lab chain in Maharashtra with the highest capacity for Covid-19 tests, our only aim is to serve the testing needs of the city and the state. We have also extended our offer to do tens of thousands of free tests for those who are unable to afford [tests] and are awaiting formal approval,” said the spokesperson.While civic officials have criticised private labs for taking two to three days to deliver results, the latter have said BMC is not holding civic-run labs to the same standards. “BMC is just blaming us for late submission. Have they checked the timing of their own labs? We are all overwhelmed and overstretched. Closing down labs, even temporarily, will only add to the pressure,” said an official from another private lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metropolis-labs-barred-from-conducting-tests-for-1-month/story-jfm9lKJzkx6ccPBgvsFH5I.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Parel society to set up in-house ICU and quarantine unit||A housing complex in Parel plans to set up its own isolation facilities and intensive care unit (ICU). Ashok Towers, comprising four high-rise buildings which house around 650 families, hopes to use empty flats in the complex as well as the club house and party hall in its premises to set up medical facilities for residents.Dr Nilesh Shah, a member of Ashok Towers’s managing committee, said, “We are in the process of identifying space for setting up facilities up to ICU beds in our club house and party hall, and are in the process of procuring necessary apparatus for the same. Ours is a private initiative that in a way supports the government as we become self-reliant this way.”The initiative has been taken by around 20 medical professionals who live in Ashok Towers. While they are yet to finalise their plans, they hope to accommodate five isolation beds and three beds in the ICU. These facilities will not cater to critically-ill patients, but are intended for asymptomatic carriers and those with mild cases of Covid-19. The housing society’s members said that if a resident tests positive for the virus, medical facilities on the premises will ease the burden on private and government hospitals.So far, four residents of Ashok Towers have contracted Covid-19. Of these, only one required hospitalisation. According to BMC’s data, more than 50% of those who test positive for Covid-19 are asymptomatic, and not more than 10% require hospitalisation.Shah said, “We are drafting our own standard operating process, and it will be implemented with the assistance of around 20-25 medical professionals from our housing complex. If there is any regulatory process with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), we will get it done in the coming days.”Residents are also planning to set up quarantine facilities in the empty flats in the housing complex, for patients with mild symptoms or the asymptomatic. ICU beds would be set up in the club house and party hall. Society members said they have procured oxygen cylinders, and are in the process of procuring beds, basic medicine for treatment and other equipment.Sarika Poddar, secretary of Ashok Towers, said, “We are also housing our essential staff (security, gardening) in our club house to ensure there is no commuting of outsiders in the society. We are also planning to allow house maids to work in few houses that require help, owing to them housing senior citizens. However, all housekeeping staff will reside in our club house where we are arranging accommodation, and will also have to quarantine themselves after entering the society and reporting to work.”On Wednesday, Congress legislator and Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh requested BMC to give permission to housing societies to set up isolation facilities in clubhouses and recreational centres on their premises. Shaikh had said asymptomatic patients from the a society can be quarantined there instead of at Covid care centres. The BMC is yet to regulate on this issue.Non-availability of beds for Covid-19 patients has been a persistent concern for the BMC, particularly in the last two weeks. While BMC has set up war rooms for each of the 24 wards in the city to facilitate bed allotment, the civic body has also appealed that citizens who test positive should consult BMC’s health officer to figure out whether they can quarantine at home or need to be admitted to either an isolation facility or a hospital.As of June 9, around 75% of the beds for Covid-19 patients were full. Of the 17,835 available beds, around 13,390 beds were occupied. Of the beds in ICUs, 99% were occupied and 96% of ventilators were occupied.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a Mumbai-based health consultant with a private hospital, said, “Medically, there is no problem in having isolation or ICU beds facility in a housing society, if it benefits the both the government and citizens. However, there should be round-the-clock availability of a medical professional to ensure the health of the patient is monitored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parel-society-to-set-up-in-house-icu-and-quarantine-unit/story-lrJSnYIDNpGlgXC6l4mMEN.html
11-06-2020||City||Beekeepers failed to recover cost this season on export suspension||With export of honey suspended due to global lockdown to contain the spread of covid-19, beekeepers or apiculturists have had a disastrous season so far. The bee production season for mustard nectar, the most valued one for export, starts from October and lasts till February. Jagtar Singh, 43, a beekeeper from Sangrur’s Kanjla village, said earlier this season, 25-tonne honey derived from mustard flower nectar found no exporters. Later, lower than usual temperatures for summer and the lockdown meant honey production reduced to half of the average of 15kg per bee colony. This major disruption to the business cycle has meant that beekeepers were unable to recover cost invested in bee colonies, which is between Rs 90 and Rs 100 per kg. Now, producers are incurring the cost of cold storage. “As lockdown caused by pandemic suspended export activities to the US, most beekeepers are forced to spend Rs 2 per kg for using cold stores. I have no option than to wait till November when licenced middlemen resume placing orders for the US and European markets,” he said.With an annual estimated production of 18,000 tonne, Punjab is the third-largest producer of honey. According to National Bee Board data, Punjab has 2.7 lakh bee colonies.President of Progressive Bee Keepers Association Narpinder Dhaliwal said of total honey produced in Punjab, about 80% is exported to the US. “Honey derived from mustard flower nectar has a creamy texture and its crystallised form has huge demand in the West. About 10,000 farmers are engaged in producing export-oriented honey. Owing to global restrictions, about 80% mustard honey could not be exported and it landed in the cold stores,” he said.During lockdown, most apiculturists were unable to take bee boxes to other places for nectar collection as villages did not allow entry. “It resulted in the death of bees and production saw a significant dip. Honey collected in April is consumed in the domestic market, but the lockdown hampered packing work. As apiculturists had the past unsold stock of mustard honey, they succumbed to market pressure to sell honey at a lower cost in April,” said Dhaliwal.Another beekeeper for over 15 years, Jatinder Singh, of Kandhargarh village in Sangrur, said the period between June to September is crucial for the survival of beekeepers after two failed seasons this season. Bees are to be fed with sugar starting July and most producers are short of money. “Early this year, beekeepers were paid Rs 98 per kg for mustard honey and farmers hoped for higher pricing later for their export-oriented product. The global lockdown crashed hopes and lower temperature for a prolonged period in April-May further led to reduced honey production,” he added.“The state government should assist us with providing subsidised sugar to feed bees and financial credit from banks to keep the business rolling. Bees are instrumental in pollination and strengthen ecological balance,” Jatinder claimed. Strap/BlurbFarmers forced to bear cost of cold storage, nectar collection also suffered during the lockdown; most hope for revival of export demand from November||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beekeepers-failed-to-recover-cost-this-season-on-export-suspension/story-51fDO22wfmQJ0BLwWMVddM.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Repatriate 20,000 Punjabis stranded in Dubai: Sukhbir to Centre||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday urged Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to direct the Indian consulate in Dubai to extend help to around 20,000 Punjabi workers who were stranded without passports in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), besides making arrangements to repatriate them back to India.In a statement, the SAD chief said they had been ousted from various jobs by private companies in Dubai and wanted to return back to India, but could not do so because their passports had been impounded by their employers. Sukhbir said he had received messages from many youth that they were ready to pay for their air tickets, but there were thousands of workers who had spent their savings and were not in a position to afford return tickets. “Such persons should be rescued and naval ships can be dispatched to bring them back home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/repatriate-20-000-punjabis-stranded-in-dubai-sukhbir-to-centre/story-zUg55ycIVzTuBVpVCZwO1H.html
11-06-2020||City||Valmiki Samaj alleges one-sided probe in group clash incident||Alleging one-sided probe by the police in the group clash incident that took place in Amb Sahib colony of Mohali, members of Valmiki Samaj on Thursday held a protest outside the Phase 11 police station.On May 28, two groups at Amb Sahib colony clashed after people from Valmiki caste and colony president, Satish Kumar engaged in a verbal duel. Some persons were injured in the incident as blunt weapons were used by both the groups.A case of attempt to murder was registered by the police against some persons of Valmiki Samaj on the complaint of Satish Kumar. Later, the Valmikis submitted their complaint against the colony resident and his accomplices following which police had registered a cross-FIR without adding Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Few members of the Valmiki Samaj today met SP (headquarters) Gursewak Brar and alleged they were not satisfied with the probe conducted by the Phase 11 police.They also alleged that the police have not registered the case under Section 307 of the IPC against the colony president and his accomplices. They said that the police were under pressure as Satish had some political links.One of the protesters, Kuldeep Kumar said, “The police are conducting a one-sided probe in the case. If they can add Section 307 of the IPC against us, then why can’t the same section be added against Satish, who along with his accomplices had attacked our people and also threatened the community in the past couple of months.” He said that the colony president had also hurt their religious sentiments by making objectionable statements against the community.The protesters also alleged that Satish Kumar was having a criminal background and was also into the drug business. Phase 11 station house officer, Jagdeep Singh said, “We are not working under any kind of pressure. The inquiry of the matter was marked to the SP (headquarter). We are investigating the matter as per the complaints submitted by both the groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/valmiki-samaj-alleges-one-sided-probe-in-group-clash-incident/story-j82KoTzcQqV5CJxAlPov7J.html
11-06-2020||City||Former village chief’s body found charred||A 75-year-old former chief of a Greater Noida village was found dead after he went missing on June 2. The deceased was identified as Chandi Pradhan and police said he had left home to see a doctor in Kasna and never returned. Police found his charred body two days later, but took more than a week to identify it. Pradhan’s family alleged that police made no sufficient efforts and cremated the body as unidentified.Pradhan, who hailed from Kheri Bhanota, had left home on the afternoon of June 2. His son Kapil said when his father did not return, he informed the Surajpur police next day and filed a missing person complaint. “We later came to know through news reports that a charred body was recovered on June 4, about a kilometre from the Sirsa roundabout,” he said.Kapil said he immediately rushed to the police station and made enquiries. “The police told me that an autopsy had revealed that the victim was strangled and later the body set on fire. The police had found some property documents from the spot which belongs to my father. The police should have made efforts to reach out to us,” he said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said the documents recovered from the spot had no details that could have identified the man. The police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence). “We have detained a few suspects for interrogation. Primary investigation shows the man was killed over a monetary dispute. We will soon solve the case and arrest the people involved in the murder,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-village-chief-s-body-found-charred/story-Jy2fukJBM2AvvmQkhJpdzN.html
11-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad police’s tracker dog Leena helps cops arrest three in blind murder case||Two-and-half-year-old Labrador Leena got treats from the Ghaziabad police after she managed to crack a blind case that led to arrest of three men for the murder a 24-year-old man on the night of May 31. According to police, Leena pinpointed location of the prime suspect, about 2km away from the scene of the crime. Her feat also saved four innocent persons, who were the initial suspects in the case, from further probe and prosecution.According to police, the deceased man, identified as Vivek Kumar, was a contractual employee with the electricity department and was returning home to Kushaliya locality under the jurisdiction of Masuri police station area when he was killed. Midway, his motorcycle had hit prime suspect, Mohsin alias Kauwa, and he along with two accomplices, Adil and Salman, ended up strangling the victim and stealing the motorcycle, Kumar’s phone and other belongings.“Leena was roped in to track the killers after Kumar’s body was found in the fields on the morning of June 1. The body had a belt tied around the neck, indicating strangulation. Leena picked up the scent of his attackers ran to a primary school where she started barking and scratching the gate of the school. We suspected that the suspect(s) had a connection to the school,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said.Leena, police said, was specially trained at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) facility in Uttarakhand and had joined a team of six other dogs of the Ghaziabad police about four months ago.“Our teams fanned out near the school and found that Mohsin’s house was about 50 metres from the school and they had visited the closed school to consume alcohol on the night of the murder. Upon further investigation, we found that Mohsin has previous criminal cases against him. Finally, our teams tracked the three suspects and arrested them on Thursday. The clues given by Leena helped out teams solve the murder case and the suspects were nabbed,” Jadaun said.As a reward for her work, Leena got a new strap leash, a bed and utensils, besides a special dinner.The police said Kumar’s family initially suspected role of his four friends in the murder, and they were picked up for questioning by the police. With Leena’s ‘investigation’, the four men were cleared of all further probe.Police said Kumar’s bike hit Mohsin who was sitting with two other accomplices. The three suspects allegedly robbed him of his belongings, before Kumar to death and leaving his body in the fields nearby.“The investigation concluded that the keys to the locked school was with Mohsin’s relative and the three suspects often came to the school during in the evenings to consume alcohol. That was why Leena tracked them to the school,”Jadaun added.The police booked the three men under the IPC sections 302 (murder) and 394 (robbery) and under the provisions of the SC/ST Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-s-tracker-dog-leena-helps-cops-arrest-three-in-blind-murder-case/story-jfihe9PwJ0snGKbUvHO7nM.html
11-06-2020||Noida||Pregnant woman’s death: Noida ESIC hospital director transferred to Delhi||After an inquiry report found eight hospitals guilty of negligence in the death of a pregnant woman in Noida, the director of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital in Sector 24, one of the hospitals indicted in the report, was transferred out on Thursday. The ESIC hospitals are run under the auspices of Union ministry of labour and employment.According to the order issued by Deepak Malik, deputy director (medical administration) of the ESIC, Dr Anish Singhal, was transferred with ‘immediate effect’ from the post of director of the ESIC Hospital. “He has been posted to the ESIC directorate (Medical) in New Delhi. Dr Balraj Bhandar has been appointed as new director of the ESIC Hospital, Noida,” the order stated. Singhal will be relieved of his charge by Thursday afternoon.Based on the probe report into the death of the pregnant woman, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY’s had sought the immediate transfer of ESIC hospital’s director, apart from action against doctors, an ambulance driver and other medical staff, who were all deemed guilty of denying treatment to the pregnant woman who died on Friday. On June 5, the ailing woman was taken by her husband and relative to as many as seven different government and private hospitals in the district and also a private hospital in Ghaziabad. But all hospitals refused to admit her and she eventually died the same evening at a government hospital in Greater Noida.Since the incident brought into focus the issue of medical negligence and unavailability of care even during a pandemic, the district administration had immediately constituted a two-member inquiry team, led by district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, to investigate the matter. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), on Monday, had also issued a notice to the state government seeking details of action taken in the case.The probe team found gross negligence on the part of different government and private hospitals. It held liable the doctors who treated her and referred her, and the driver of the ambulance who dropped her outside the district hospital. The DM then wrote the government seeking the immediate transfer of the chief medical superintendent of the district hospital and the ESIC hopsital director.The report said private hospitals “made up excuses” of not having beds and turned her away, and held the staff and management guilty of negligence. The CMO has been told to issue show-cause notices to these hospitals and to lodge FIRs against them.Despite repeated attempts through calls and text messages, Dr Anish Singhal was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pregnant-woman-s-death-noida-esic-hospital-director-transferred-to-delhi/story-DZvVAa9qAVIIAp6DgpUgeO.html
11-06-2020||Noida||Noida records its 11th Covid-19 death, tally at 735 with 28 new cases||The sample reports from the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) Thursday confirmed that a 62-year-old man from Sector 25, who was suffering from bronchial asthma and hypertension, and died of cardiopulmonary arrest on Tuesday, was Covid-19 positive. With his death, the total death toll due to the coronavirus is now 11 in Gautam Budh Nagar district, health officials said.With 28 new positive cases on Thursday, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 735 in the district. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said till Thursday evening, 477 patients have been discharged from different hospitals. “Apart from them, 60 others have been cross-notified to other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 247 active cases,” he said.Meanwhile, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said as per the state government guidelines, home isolation is not allowed for Covid-19 patients.Referring to those who have been tested positive from private laboratories, he said the administration has dedicated a special team of doctors to monitor such cases. “If you are Covid-19 positive, dial 18004192211 and press option ‘1’ to give your details. Our doctors will take care of you. They will call you, send an ambulance and shift you to an isolation hospital/facility,” Suhas appealed through his official Twitter handle on Thursday.On the other hand, the Noida authority, on Thursday, divided the city into two blocks and appointed an engineer in charge of each area to carry out deep sanitisation of hot spot areas, to prevent the further spread of Covid-19.“These two officials will carry out deep sanitisation in all hot spots over the next three days,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said.There are at least 150 residential sectors, 81 villages and at least 50 industrial sectors in the city. In block 1, assistant project engineer Rajendra Prasad will oversee the exercise, while assistant project engineer BP Singh will oversee block 2. The GB Nagar district administration will hand over the fresh list of hot spots to the Noida authority.The two officials along with their teams will be equipped with fire tenders, ‘Covid 19 Vajr Vahan’, hand spray machines and another high pressure disinfectant machines. The exercise will involve the spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution on all common spaces in hot spots in order to disinfect these areas.There are 96 containment zones of Block 1 and 62 zones in block 2, the administration said.The DM further said at present despite having fewer than 250 patients, different Covid-19 dedicated facilities in the district has around 900 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “Not only that, many private hospitals, including Fortis, Jaypee and Yatharth, have given their proposals to start exclusive Covid facilities at their hospitals. Their proposals are in the final stage of approval and very soon they will get the permission to treat Covid-19 patients,” Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-records-its-11th-covid-19-death-tally-at-735-with-28-new-cases/story-ldo59yI94Eoe7gh5vM4a5I.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Govt has no plan to keep tabs on migrant labourers reaching Punjab||Even as hundreds of migrant labourers are arriving in Punjab everyday from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for paddy transplantation, the state government has no plan in place to keep tabs on them to ensure they do not add to the state’s Covid-19 tally. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said 1.5 lakh farmhands have already reached the state and the number is likely to double in the coming days. “Queues of luxury buses in the state’s countryside is a common sight these days. Farmers are left with no option but to use their own resources for quarantine, food and medicines for the labourers. The government has failed to come up with anything concrete to help them on this. I myself arranged labour from UP for transplantation of paddy and got their basic tests done besides providing them an isolated place to stay,” said Lakhowal.As per an estimate of state agriculture department, nearly 10 lakh migrant labourers worked in Punjab during the previous paddy-sowing seasons. Now, the state has only 1 lakh farmhands who are engaged in potato harvest in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala districts. BS Rajewal, who heads another faction of BKU, said, “Farmers are left to fend for themselves. Now, they have to look after the health of the labourers in the middle of the pandemic.”To deal with the problem of labour crunch, the state agriculture department has asked the farmers to adopt direct seeding rice (DSR) technique. Paddy transplantation began in the state on a slow note on Wednesday due to the shortage of labour.Principal secretary (health) Anurag Aggarwal said 9,000 response teams working in the state to attend to those found symptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-govt-has-no-plan-to-keep-tabs-on-migrant-labourers-reaching-punjab/story-VMOSKPdlNkjQ4on2TlS7sK.html
11-06-2020||City||Cop among 13 fresh Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana||As many as 13 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported here on Thursday. Among these cases, 11 people are from Ludhiana, while two others, including a police constable, deployed in the Division number 2 police station, hail from Barnala.The city police have already lost ACP Anil Kohli to the virus. However, four police personnel of the city, who were later tested positive, have defeated the virus.Besides, a clinic in Field Ganj was closed after three patients, taking medicine from here, were found to be corona positive on Wednesday.With this, the total count of coronavirus positive patients in Ludhiana has reached 313, while 113 patients are from other districts and states. A total of 179 patients have successfully been cured of the virus.According to additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Dr Sachin Gupta, who is nodal officer of Covid-19, said that the police constable, identified as Gurpreet Singh, was tested positive this evening and has been shifted to the civil hospital.He said police were conducting minatory Covid-19 tests of all the policemen and officers in Ludhiana.The tests were being conducted on the direction of commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Akhil Chaudhary.ADCP Gupta said a total of 700 cops have undergone Covid-19 tests, out which one constable (Gurpreet Singh) was tested positive on Thursday.“The report has just arrived and we have started the process of contact tracing. We are preparing a list of preliminary and secondary contacts of the positive person. Besides, the cop has been quarantined and his colleagues have been told to self-isolate themselves,” said ADCP Gupta.A mother-daughter duo, residing in the Gill Road area, aged 24 and 5, were tested positive of Covid-19. Besides, two sisters aged 16 and 18. from Prem Nagar in Islamganj, who had recently returned from Mumbai, were also tested virus positive.Two men, aged 29 and 72, who are contacts of 60-year-old woman from Habibganj , who had died on June 4, have tested positive.A 27-year-old pregnant woman from New Janta Nagar, three patients, a 62- year- old woman from Nirmal Chhaya Flats in Rishi Nagar, a 40-year-old man from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, Focal Point, and a 35- year- old man from Mundia Kalan, with influenza-like symptoms, were also tested positive.A 35-year man from Ferozepur, a gastro patient, was also among those tested positive this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-among-13-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ludhiana/story-N3zBNfYs7qnRVXLSasaA1H.html
11-06-2020||City||UP-Rera fines developer ₹93 lakh for not executing ts order||In a landmark order, Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) imposed a penalty of ₹93 lakh on Mascot Homes Private Limited for failing to comply with its order to refund 31 buyers of its Manorath project in Greater Noida West.This is the first time that the UP-Rera has fined a developer for not complying with its refund order.“The developer shall refund money to 31 complainants along with interest till December 31, 2020 and we have also levied a penalty of ₹93 lakh for failure to comply with the Rera order. The penalty amount will be deposited in Rera account. Penalty was calculated at the rate of ₹1000 per day of delay,” said Balvinder Kumar, UP-Rera member and presiding officer, bench 2 at Rera’s Greater Noida office. “Further if amount of penalty and refund is not paid by December 31, 2020 we will issue recovery certificate against the promoter to recover the amount. District administration will then recover the amount from the promoter. The promoter’s property will be attached and bank accounts seized.”On January 31, 2019, the promoter was ordered to give possession to buyers by June 2019 alongwith delayed interest, failing which the buyers would have the right to claim refund.In August 2019 ,complainants approached the authority for execution of the order, following which Rera issued notices to promoter who promised to give possession by January 2020, which too it failed to do.On March 16, 2020 both parties appeared on hearing date. Promoter sought time to refund buyers’ money in instalments but did not give affidavit. Bench had then ordered refund in instalments and the first installment was to be paid by April 30, 2020 and the compliance date was on May 4, 2020. The promoter again did not comply with Bench orders. No compliance was submitted with regards to payment of 1st installment by the Promoter.Promoter’s advocate Manendra Kumar said, “We will challenge the order at higher appellate authority in Lucknow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-fines-developer-93-lakh-for-not-executing-ts-order/story-M67byqwcxr6RzxgyY9C6rO.html
11-06-2020||City||Referral hospital for paramilitary jawans discharges 224 of 340 patients||On June 8, a Delhi-based retired deputy inspector general (DIG)- rank officer of the Border Security Force (BSF) and his wife, tested positive for Covid-19. When the couple’s efforts to get themselves admitted to isolation facilities in government and private hospitals in Delhi proved futile, they contacted the officials at the central armed police forces (CAPF) referral hospital at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) Lakhnawali camp at Greater Noida. In no time, they were admitted to an isolation ward there and their treatment commenced.CAPF inspector general (medical services) Dr Dinesh Chandra Dimri said in pursuance to the instructions of director general Surjit Singh Deswal that all hospitals must help veterans and their dependants, the couple was immediately admitted to the hospital. “While the former BSF DIG had fever, his wife had breathing problems. But, now they are recovering fast,” he said.Dr Dimri said so far 224 of the 340 CAPF personnel and their dependents have been cured of Covid-19 and discharged from the referral hospital. “The list of discharged patients include 173 personnel from ITBP, 41 from BSF, five from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), one each from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the National Security Guard (NSG), and the National Disaster Response Force, besides two civilians. The remaining 116 patients, who are still admitted to the isolation facility of the hospital, include 45 from NSG,16 from ITBP, 14 from CRPF, 12 each from CISF and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), nine from BSF, four from NDRF, two from National Investigation Agency and one each from Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) and intelligence bureau (IB),” he said.The IG said of the total 340 patients admitted so far to the referral hospital, no casualty has been reported yet. “Of these patients, 45 had various co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism and cancer. Our team of doctors, led by Dr Shailendra Kumar, has also treated 12 critical Covid-19 patients successfully,” Dr Dimri said.Meanwhile, Dr Mukesh Saxena, the CAPF additional director general (medical services), has issued directions regarding various safety measures that must be mandatorily followed by all CAPF staff. “They have been given adequate protective equipments, including PPE kits, N-95 masks and sanitisers, to tackle the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/referral-hospital-for-paramilitary-jawans-discharges-224-of-340-patients/story-eDrbOsm9klRvOiSBqrrcfL.html
11-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 death rate of 3.36%surpasses state average of 2.85%||As the number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district continue to rise, the death rate in Ghaziabad has surpassed the state’s fatality rate. As many as 19 Covid-19 patients have died in the district, out of the 565 cases reported in the district so far. According to the district health department data, on Thursday the death rate of Ghaziabad stood at 3.36%. This is higher than Uttar Pradesh’s death rate which stood at 2.85%. As per the records made available by the state surveillance officer, as many as 345 Covid-19 patients have died in the state out of the 12,088 total cases reported until now.“Till the last week of May, there were only three Covid-19 related deaths in Ghaziabad, but there has been a sudden spike now in the deaths. Out of the 19 fatalities, eight Ghaziabad residents died at an L3 category hospital in Meerut, while one death each took place in Noida and Delhi. So far, eights deaths have taken place at our L3 category facility at Santosh Medical College and Hospital, after it started operations about 10-12 days ago,” said Dr NK Gupta, district chief medical officer (CMO).The L3 category hospitals were set up by the state government under its three-tier Covid-19 healthcare structure. Unlike the L1 and L2 hospitals that deal with asymptomatic or patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms, the L3 category hospitals deal with patients who need critical care.Officials did not elaborate on the deaths at Santosh Medical College.“The hospital was earlier a quarantine facility and was later converted to an L3 facility. Since this is a government acquired facility, only the Ghaziabad chief medical officer will be able to officially comment about any issue,” said Dr Manish Sabharwal, chief medical superintendent, Santosh Medical College and Hospital.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also refused to comment and referred the matter to the CMO.“The L3 facility at Santosh Medical College is managed by the hospital team and we cannot comment over the number of deaths that took place there. Out of 19 deaths, about 70-80% of patients had comorbidities. Most of them were senior citizens who had also developed complications due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. There were some cases where the patients suffered heart strokes as well,” the CMO said.However, the health department officials are yet to officially confirm whether the deaths were due to Covid-19.“We are waiting for the death audit reports of the deceased, and once they arrive we will be able to know whether the deaths were a result of the ailments the patients were already suffering or were they purely due to Covid-19. We expect that Covid-19 aggravated the comorbidities in patients, however, the death audit reports will conclude the exact cause of death,” Dr Gupta said.On April 15, the state health department officials had announced that audit of Covid-19 related deaths will be carried out and the medical reports of all the deceased will be studied by a panel of doctors.One of the firsts Covid-19 related deaths in the district included a 60-year-old woman from Vijay Nagar. She died on April 30 at a private hospital, and later her test reports found her Covid-19 positive. Doctors at the hospital had then said the death was a result of a heart stroke.“We are yet to know the exact reason behind my mother’s death apart from the source of her Covid-19 infection. She was suffering from blood pressure issues along with thyroid problems and was on medicines. Just two days before her death, we came to know that she also had diabetes. After my mother’s death, my entire family went under 14-day institutional quarantine and followed by seven-day home quarantine,” said the woman’s son.“How my mother contracted the infection is still a big question. The health department needs to expedite the audit of her death all Covid-19 related casualties,” he added.In Ghaziabad, deaths have been reported from Khoda, Pratap Vihar, Jhandapur, Vaishali, Behrampur, Sahibabad, Nandgram, Daulatpura, Vasundhara, Chiranjeev Vihar, and Indirapuram, said, officials.According to the health department data, Ghaziabad accounts for about 5.5% of the total Covid-19 related deaths in the state.Meanwhile, Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home) said the state has achieved the target of testing 15,000 samples per day, and the chief minister has directed the officials to now strive for testing 20,000 samples per day.“The CM has directed officials to focus on districts such as Agra, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Moradabad, Kanpur, Firozabad, Basti and Kanpur from where many Covid-19 deaths have been reported recently and also has asked the death audit reports to be expedited,” he added.State health department officials said they have also launched a week-long initiative to test the most vulnerable sections and those who provide essential services.“The week-long initiative will focus on certain groups such as those at old age homes, orphanages and juvenile homes etc, and will also cater to people engaged in the delivery of food, milk, and newspapers among others. People in urban slums, pharmacists, and helpdesk staff in hospitals will also be tested randomly under the initiative,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).TWO DEATHS, 24 NEW COVID-19 CASESTwo more Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district, taking the death toll to 19. “A 75-year-old man from Modinagar died at Meerut, and 63-year-old man from Maliwara died at Santosh Medical Hospital in Ghaziabad,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.As many as 24 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday in Ghaziabad. The district now has 565 cases. The new cases include three cases from Vaishali, one from Crossings Republik and two each from Kaushambi, Vaishali, Indirapuram and Vasundhara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-covid-19-death-rate-of-3-36-surpasses-state-average-of-2-85/story-xIvH8mCYlf2zaK9Ym6v2uK.html
11-06-2020||City||Markets in sealed Vaishali and Khoda localities allowed to open||Traders of Vaishali and Khoda finally heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday after district officials announced relaxations and allowed markets to open up in the twin localities. The Khoda and Vaishali localities had been placed under sealing on May 10 and June 1, respectively, to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases.Ever since the localities were placed under the ‘sector scheme’ as part of the sealing activity, the traders had been demanding that markets should open up. The district officials finally relented on Thursday and announced relaxations for the markets to open up in Vaishali and Khoda.“SOme restrictions have been eased in Vaishali and traders can open their shops on alternate days between 9am and 9pm as directed in the earlier orders. Strict social distancing norms will need to be observed. If they follow all rules, then relaxations will continue.However, the markets under containment zones will remain shut,” said Aditya Prajapati, sub-divisional magistrate.The traders’ association expressed happiness and requested all shopkeepers to shut by 8pm.“We have asked our members to shut shop by 8pm so that there is no violation of the 9pm to 9am curfew which is directed by the authorities. We have also asked them to take precautions and follow protocols as mandated. Our markets opened up for a couple of days earlier in May, but soon after Vaishali was placed under sealing. So our employees again suffered and all the stocks that we had purchased was going to waste,” said Anirudh Vashishtha, general secretary of Vaishali Udyog Vyapar Mandal.The residents of Vaishali said that opening of markets was a welcome sign and more relaxations should be provided later.“The markets have opened up and some barricades have been removed from internal roads as well. However, residents face restrictions in terms of moving in and out of Vaishali. Administration should consider this as we and restrict the sealing to containment zones only,” said Mohit Sharma, resident of sector-1.The district magistrate on May 22 had issued directions for opening of 34 markets across Ghaziabad city on alternate days.The major markets located in Indirapuram, Vaishali, Sahibabad, Bajaria, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Mohan Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Turab Nagar, among others, were directed to stay open on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.The market which were to open Monday, Wednesday and Friday were the ones located in Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar District Centre, Kavi Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar Extension, Navyug Market, Ambedkar Road and those in Delta Colonies of Ramprastha, Brij Vihar, Surya Nagar and Chander Nagar.the administration on Thursday, allowed some lockdown restrictions relief to 15 different markets in Khoda, that were allowed to open.“We have allowed opening of 15 different markets in Khoda. They will be open from 9am to 9pm on alternate days. Opening markets has been a demand from local traders since the lockdown began and thereafter since Khoda was placed under sealing. Each market has been given two days to open on alternate days on an experimental basis,” said KK Bhadana, executive officer of Khoda Nagar Palika.“During these four days, we will observe how traders and residents follow social distancing and safety protocols. If the response is favourable, the district magistrate will allow the relaxations to continue,” he added.According to officials, there are estimated 2,500-3,000 shops in Khoda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markets-in-sealed-vaishali-and-khoda-localities-allowed-to-open/story-9A01QCizPNnDszI9sWh4HN.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||UT district courts limit filing of new cases to 125||In fresh restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Chandigarh district courts will accept filing of only 125 cases per day. As per an order released by the district and sessions judge, the filing of cases is allowed from 10am to 1pm. Moreover, a single advocate can file only 10 cases per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-district-courts-limit-filing-of-new-cases-to-125/story-jRfzAEsVKKo7E7lmepyZhN.html
11-06-2020||City||Delhi’s home quarantine norms not applicable in Ghaziabad, says DM||The Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) on Thursday ordered the district chief medical officer (CMO) to trace those Covid-19 patients discharged from private hospitals in Delhi but were quarantining themselves in their homes in Ghaziabad.Issuing the order, DM Ajay Sankar Pandey said such patients ought to be admitted to the Covid-19 facilities in the district.“We have come to know that asymptomatic patients get discharge slips from private hospitals in Delhi and are staying in home quarantine in Ghaziabad. This facility is available in Delhi but not in Ghaziabad which is part of Uttar Pradesh (UP). So, I have asked the CMO to track such patients and get them admitted in our Covid-19 hospitals. Such patients are a potential risk to others. Home quarantine of asymptomatic patients is not allowed in UP,” said Pandey. “If such patients follow Delhi norms, they should make arrangements for their stay in Delhi where such guidelines are applicable. They must also disclose if they are staying at home in Ghaziabad. If they fail to respond and we track them, legal action will be initiated.”Health department officials said that they did not currently have any data on such patients in home quarantine in Ghaziabad.According to Union ministry of health guidelines, those who have been clinically assigned as very mild/pre-symptomatic patients, may follow home isolation provided they have the facility for self-isolation and quarantining family contacts, inform the district surveillance officer of their health status and agree to an undertaking for self isolation. The ministry also prescribes a number of rules for caregivers of such patients.“The state government has not issued any guidelines in this regard. If any patient is found Covid-19 positive, he/she will have to get admitted to a Covid hospital. This is applicable in cases even if the patient is asymptomatic. On Wednesday we came to know from RWA members in Vaishali that an old aged man who is positive was staying at home for past eight days. So we got him admitted to our Covid hospital despite resistance by his family members,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The DM also directed the stricter implementation of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms and directed officials that test reports from private laboratories should be streamlined.“We have found instances where patients come to know of the reports before the health department. There are instances where test reports of private laboratories are positive but turn negative when tested through government labs. In more instances, we come to know of positive patient only through local residents and there is no information given to health department. I have called for strict implementation of guidelines otherwise action will be initiated,” Pandey said.Paramount Symphony sealingNearly a week after a 43-year-old resident of Paramount Symphony, a high rise in Crossings Republik, was found to be Covid-19 positive on June 4, sealing action remained pending on Thursday.The magistrate had issued and pasted the sealing order on June 7. But the officials found themselves in a fix after they were informed that the patient was not there. The present sealing guidelines remain silent on what to do if the patient had left the society before the medical report is declared positive. However, the society is mentioned under category 1 containment zone in an order passed on June 9 and qualifies a tower that had the case to be sealed.“We were told by residents that the patient had not been in his flat since May 30 or 31. Later, we received a list from the health department of the areas which were to be sealed and the name of the highrise was not there. So we sought clarification from the district malaria officer (DMO) who is in-charge of deciding on the areas to be sealed, but there has been no response as of now. Hence, proceedings are pending,” said Prashant Tiwari, the sub divisional magistrate who is in-charge of sealing activities in Crossings Republik.DMO GK Mishra said that he had information that the patient had left the high rise even before his test returned positive from a private laboratory.“His family also left the flat. This is why we were not inclined to seal the tower. But we have no specific guidelines on how many days after a patient leaves his house should the area be sealed. It is then left to the judicious decision of the magistrate. In order to authenticate whether the patient was present in his flat or not, help from police surveillance will be taken up,” he added.“In case the patient was present in his flat during the time his positive report came, we will take legal action against residents and even lodge an FIR for misleading officials during the work,” said Tiwari.The highrise has about 1100 flats and the resident who tested positive was a contact of a positive patient.Kshitij Singhal, one of the residents of the tower, said that residents came to know about the patient only on June 7.“When we called him he told that he has left his flat so that no other family member of his family catches the infection. It is now up to the administration to take a call,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-home-quarantine-norms-not-applicable-in-ghaziabad-says-dm/story-H3zatssHesWP7rq1uv9HKO.html
11-06-2020||Noida||SC order to reduce interest rate on land dues a setback for Noida, Greater Noida authorities||The Supreme Court order that the Noida and Greater Noida authorities should charge only 8% interest on default payments of housing land dues instead of the existing 15-23% will negatively affect their financial health, said officials of the two industrial bodies, reacting on the Wednesday order of the apex court. The landmark order, however, has made real estate developers happy as it would considerably lessen their debt burden. The real estate sector in Delhi-NCR has been reeling under huge financial pressure due to the economic slowdown and the losses incurred due to the imposition of the national lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Noida and the Greater Noida authorities, which together need to recover a sum of at least ₹30,000 crore in housing land dues from the developers, will have to bear huge financial losses if this SC directive, which capped the interest rate at 8%, is implemented. The SC order came after a Noida-based developer, ACE Group of companies, filed a petition, arguing that, if as per the marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) revised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the interest rate has been capped at 7-8%, then why are the Noida and Greater Noida authorities still charging exorbitant interest rates on outstanding of financial dues.Reacting to the order, the chief executive officer of Noida Authority, Ritu Maheshwari , said, “We are seeking a legal opinion about the Supreme Court order.” The Noida authority spends around ₹2,000 crore annually on the maintenance of civic services. After this order is implemented, the civic amenities may be severely impacted as the authority will face huge monetary losses, said Maheshwari.The other industrial body of the area, the Greater Noida authority, said that the authority owes ₹7,000 crore in debt from different institutions. The SC order will pose a huge financial challenge for the authority to deal with. The Greater Noida authority, which spends at least ₹1,000 crore on civic amenities annually, may be affected as the revenue collection from the developers will come down drastically after the implementation of this order.“We have asked our legal department to examine the order so that the further course of action can be decided,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, Greater Noida authority.The two authorities have allotted housing land after accepting 10% of the total land cost. The developers are supposed to pay the remaining 90% of the land cost in instalments. The two authorities are supposed to charge 11% interest rate on land dues. In case a developer fails to repay his land due instalments on time then the two authorities have been mandated to increase the interest rate. In cases, where the developer repeatedly defaults on payment of land dues, the rate of interest can go up as high as 23% and can keep on increasing.The ACE Group, in its petition, argued that the Noida authority is demanding an additional charge of ₹600 per square metre, while the Greater Noida authority is demanding an additional charge of ₹1,700 per square metre in order to repay the additional compensation to farmers for the plots alloted between 2010 to 2015. It said that due to recession, homebuyers could not pay up the extra cost and thus they are unable to bear the additional financial burden the high rate of interest.Meanwhile, Noida- and Greater Noida-based developers welcomed the order, saying that it revive the stalled housing projects, which were facing financial issues.“The order will help the market to pick up. The basic problem was that the exorbitant rate of interest made most of the projects economically unviable. As a result, no bank was ready to fund these projects. Once the order is implemented, it will revive the real estate sector and many stalled projects will be delivered to homebuyers,” said Getambar Anand, ex-national president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), a builders group.The developers also said that two authorities will now restructure their outstanding of the land dues.“Once the Noida and Greater Noida authorities restructure their land cost dues and reduce the same it will make most of the stuck realty projects viable. It will help the developers to seek funding from banks and it will help the developers to deliver at least 1 lakh flats soon,” said RK Arora, president (Uttar Pradesh) of the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), a realtors group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sc-order-to-reduce-interest-rate-on-land-dues-a-setback-for-noida-greater-noida-authorities/story-hb0TFzJMMup64eJPh6W7zO.html
11-06-2020||Noida||Weighed down by huge overheads, gym owners explore options to survive||After remaining shut for nearly three months now, gymnasiums in Noida are battling for survival with owners renegotiating rentals with landlords and exploring revenue-sharing models even as Covid-19 is bound to keep their members away art least for the near future.Gym owners and managers are contemplating a change in business models and are chalking out new plans such as online training modules, and fitness trainer services at doorstep, among others, to survive in a post-lockdown time.Health officials said gyms were among the first to be shut to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and they will be among the last to be permitted by the government. Gyms in Noida have been shut since on March 15, at least 10 days before the nationwide lockdown kicked in on March 25.According to World Health Organization experts, gyms are hot spots of Covid-19 infection as a large number of people use the same machines, weights, and other exercise paraphernalia.Gym users also constantly touching their face, water bottles and face towels, which invariably increases the risk of an infection spread. No matter how many times the gym administration sanitises the place, the chances of an infection are higher in the closed space environment.In such a scenario, gym owners are looking to the government for help, stating that even though their establishments were closed over the past three months, they still had to shell out ₹25,000-50,000 a month on fixed overheads, not to mention rents that vary from ₹1-5 lakh, depending on the location and exclusivity of the gym. “Currently, the major issues we face is that we pay ₹4.25 lakh as rent every month, which we are trying to negotiate down with the landlord. We had been paying salaries to our staff and are in touch with our clients who wish to join back soon. We are also in touch with a few vendors to procure face shields and glass partitions between machines to ensure safety of users. But unless the rent is brought down, we may be forced to close,” Deepa Ahuja, who owns Anytime Fitness – an American Fitness chain, in Sector 108, said.Anytime Fitness owns 100 centres across the country, of which nearly 40 are located in Delhi-NCR and four in Noida.“The landlords expect us to pay full rents, irrespective of whether we have business or not. Even after the government allows us to reopen, we will get fewer clients. So the minimum support we seek from our landlord, after opening, is a 30-50% reduction in rent or a revenue-sharing agreement. If the landlord persists in claiming the full rent, we might not open at all,” Ankur Arora, owner and founder, La Fitness, Sector 18, said.The central government, in an order on May 30, had said a decision on the reopening of gymnasiums and swimming pools shall be taken in the “third phase” of the Unlock1 plan. Although there is no time limit specified for the third phase, it cannot take place before July as state governments are yet to decide on the second phase, which includes the opening of schools and colleges.According to the officials, there are about 400 gyms in Gautam Budh Nagar.“They can operate once the district administration gives a go-ahead. But my department’s main priority would be to ensure that proper precautions are taken to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Nothing is more important than human life,” Poonam Bishnoi, district sports officer, said.However, the gym owners say while they are all set protocols and precautionary measures to ensure safety of clients, it’s their own existence that’s currently at stake.According to the managing director of Anytime Fitness, the fitness chain is witnessing a revenue loss of ₹15 lakh per month per centre.“We desperately need relief from the government and landlords, because the rentals are a major chuck of our monthly fixed charges. Gym owners also had to pay the electricity charges varying from ₹25,000-50,000 even for the period when the gyms are closed. If the rentals are not revised, about 40% of all gyms will close and at least 50 families per centre will suffer a livelihood loss,” Vikas Jain, managing director, Anytime Fitness, said.Ranjan Ghosh, senior regional manager, Gold’s Gym, who operates a branch in Noida’s Sector 30, said after resuming operations the fitness chain anticipates a direct loss of 35% .Gold’s Gym is an American fitness chain with around 150 gyms across 94 Indian cities. In Delhi-NCR, Gold Gyms has 18 centres of which two are in Noida. “Even if we open around August, going by the trends seen at our branches in Mongolia and Egypt, where gyms have opened again, we expect an approximately 35% revenue loss,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/weighed-down-by-huge-overheads-gym-owners-explore-options-to-survive/story-4KVTDi8NVzUQ4MMTHCqiuN.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi heading towards being ‘corona capital’ of India: HC on spike in Covid-19 cases||The national capital is fast heading towards becoming the “corona capital” of the country, observed the Delhi High Court while expressing concern over the spike in Covid-19 cases and directed that all private hospitals equipped with labs to test for coronavirus and having ICMR sanction be permitted to conduct the test. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed that “corona capital” was “an epithet the city can well do without” and said it was need of the hour that all private hospitals equipped with labs to test for Covid-19 be permitted to do so without losing any more time. According to latest official figures, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is over 32,000 including 984 deaths. The number of active coronavirus patients in the city is over 19,000. The bench made the observation after it was told by the petitioner that several private hospitals, including Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, have been prevented from carrying out Covid-19 tests.The Delhi government, represented by its additional standing counsel Satyakam, opposed the submission, saying 23 private labs have been allowed to conduct the tests apart from 17 public sector labs. The bench, thereafter, issued notice to the 23 private labs, mentioned by Delhi government in its affidavit, and asked them to file their replies clarifying whether they have been permitted to undertake tests for suspected Covid-19 patients and by which technique.“They shall also point out the difficulties, if any, faced by them on account of any bureaucratic red-tapeism,” the bench said. It also noted in its order that non-Covid patients, who are approaching private hospitals for admission to undergo emergent surgeries and other such procedures, are not admitted without a coronavirus test for which they are compelled to go elsewhere.“It is most unfortunate that non-Covid patients are being made to wait to undergo test for Covid-19 at labs other than those which are situated within the premises of the hospitals, that are equipped and authorised to conduct the said test,” the bench said.The high court directed that all the private hospitals that have been called upon to reserve 20 per cent beds for admitting Covid-19 patients, are equipped with labs to conduct coronavirus test and have sanction of ICMR to do so, “should proceed to conduct tests on symptomatic and asymptomatic persons, who seek admission in the hospital for undergoing surgeries and procedures of other nature as well”.It also impleaded Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the matter so that details of private hospitals authorised by it to undertake Covid-19 tests can be furnished to the court on the next date, June 18.The high court said that ICMR while filing its status report shall also indicate number of applications submitted by accredited labs in Delhi seeking permission to conduct Covid-19 test and the status of the same.The order came on the application by advocate Sanjeev Sharma who has contended there have been several instances where non-Covid patients needing surgery or emergent procedures are required to undergo testing before that, but hospital concerned is unable to conduct the test as they are not permitted to do so by Delhi government.The application, filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government and all the hospitals and nursing homes permitted to treat Covid-19 cases to daily publish on their respective websites the status of vacancy of beds so that patients need not run from pillar to post for the same. The application was filed in the main petition, by Malhotra, which had sought swift testing of Covid-19 cases and declaration of results within 48 hours.The high court had on May 4 disposed of the petition with a direction to the Delhi government to publish on their websites correct data of tests conducted, number of positive results and pending outcomes.The application has alleged that the high court’s May 4 direction was not being complied with properly by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-heading-towards-being-corona-capital-of-india-hc-on-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-HYHYWoqYxiNnct9q90K5TL.html
11-06-2020||City||For street food vendors in Nida, it isn’t business as usual||Noida: Though Sarita’s family of five was hoping to get back to their village in Bihar, they decided to stay put in Noida when one of her sons found a job at a local grocery store, thinking his salary would see them through till the time they got their two street vends back up and running. Their hopes of going back to business as usual, however, were not met.“Once the restrictions were lifted, we restarted our tea vend at the Sector 18 market. However, business has been very slow. Barely 10-15 customers come in and we are not earning even close to what our income was earlier,” said Sarita, who lives in the Atta market area.All family members used to run the roadside shop together but they are letting their son continue working at the grocery shop for the additional income.There are myriad street-food vendors Sarita across the district who are struggling to make ends meet as despite relaxations and being allowed to resume work last month itself, business has not been not picking up for them due to lesser footfall.When the national lockdown had first been announced from March 25, street vendors had lost their livelihood. Some of them being migrants had wanted to go back to their home states but the hope of getting back to selling their wares soon enough had kept them from going.Some vendors, meanwhile, say they have simply not opened up their shops as they know they will not have enough customers to keep the business running.“We had two outlets next to each other. From one we used to sell streetfoods like golgappe, chaat, samosas and even momos. From the other we sold basic vegetables. Once the lockdown rolled about, we knew that the demand for fruits and vegetables would go up and that is what we are continuing with even now. Our street food vend has been put on hold for at least another month or so. We know that there will not be enough customers. Hardly one person comes by asking when we will resume selling snacks. So it doesn’t seem worth the effort for now,” said a vendor in Sector 75, asking not to be named.For others, there is no option but to forge ahead despite the reduced clientele.“The last two months were very difficult. My brother works as an auto-rickshaw driver while I run a momo stall. We both lost our livelihood and could barely scrap by depending on residents of nearby societies for help with basic necessities. Though we are both back to work, the situation hasn’t changed much. People no longer want to eat outside food. Very few people come over and most of them just get it packed to take it home. It doesn’t matter that I ensure proper hygiene is maintained. People are simply scared of eating out. No one shop is faring well,” said Naresh, who runs a vend at the Sector 76 market.Footfall is proving to be a problem not only for street food vendors but markets and malls as well, as people are scared of venturing out unless absolutely necessary.“I want to go and enjoy all the foods and snacks that I used to eat two months earlier. But it just doesn’t seem worth the effort anymore when even stepping out of the house is an achievement in itself. Maybe the situation will change in a few months when the pandemic starts to subside and we know that every seller is ensuring proper hygiene and sanitisation measures,” said Ritika Singh, a resident of Sector 75.India had first gone on lockdown from March 25 and is currently in the first phase of the Unlock when most activities, except those in containment zones, have resumed, albeit with precautionary measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-street-food-vendors-in-nida-it-isn-t-business-as-usual/story-Tr1BTYSY9WckklbsPEgb9J.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Three held for attack on Inderlok police post, several cops injured||Three men were arrested after they, along with four others, barged into the Inderlok police post in north Delhi on Wednesday night and attacked with sticks and rods the policemen present there.Police said one of the men also opened fire at the police personnel, but no one was injured. The in-charge of the police post was rushed to the hospital after sustaining injuries on his head. A few others sustained minor injuries, senior police officers said on Thursday. The arrested men have been charged with attempt to murder, among other offences. Narrating the sequence of events, police said that around 8.30pm, a man named Mohammed Akhlaq, who runs a bakery in Inderlok, came to the police post and complained against one Sadaqeen, the son of the land owner of his bakery, and two others. Akhlaq said the three tried to take away some of his bakery items and when he resisted they assaulted him.“On this, the personnel from the police post went to the suspect’s house and brought Sadaqeen and two others to the post for further questioning. After some time, all three were allowed to go and they left. But they later returned with three to four more men armed with sticks, rods and pistols,” a senior officer, who did not wish to be named, said. The officer said the men attacked the police personnel and threatened them for detaining Sadaqeen. “During this, one of the persons, later identified as Naved, opened fire at the police team, but the bullet did not hit anyone. At least four others were pelting stones on policemen from outside,” the officer said.To disperse the attackers, the police post in-charge sub inspector Pankaj Thakran fired two rounds with his service pistol.“The attackers then tried to flee, but the policemen managed to catch three of them, including Sadaqeen and his two aides Ashiqeen and Shahrukh. Naved, who had opened fired, however, managed to escape with five to six others,” the above mentioned officer said. A CCTV footage of the incident, showing the men attacking the policemen was also widely shared on social media on Thursday. Although HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video clip circulating on social media, the CCTV video shows two men entering the police post. They are followed by four others. The group starts attacking the police personnel outside the compound. As a clash breaks out, some more men can be spotted attacking the policemen with sticks and throwing stones at them. The clip also shows the attackers running away as the policemen chase and catch two of them.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said they have identified the remaining suspects and efforts to arrest them are under way. “The arrested men have been charged with attempt to murder and under other relevant sections of the IPC,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-held-for-attack-on-inderlok-police-post-several-cops-injured/story-aT8DyHtoLKhiTjC4gmjsbK.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four dists continue to remain Punjab’s pandemic hotbeds||The Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Pathankot districts continue to remain Punjab’s Covid-19 hotbeds, with the four reporting a lion’s share of the total confirmed cases in the state in the last two weeks.An analysis of the data available with the state health and family welfare department reveals that the four districts witnessed the maximum rise in cases since June 1 while the number of infections in Pathankot got more than double since.Of the total 624 cases in the state since June 1, as many as 387 were reported in these four districts. With an average 14 cases a day since June 1, Amritsar, which is already on top of the chart of total cases, has witnessed the majority of fresh cases at 152. The district has topped the state’s tally of infections for over one-and-a-half-months since a large numbers of Nanded-returned pilgrims were tested positive.Amritsar is followed by the state’s industrial hub, Ludhiana, which reported 102 cases during the same period.In terms of the total number of cases, Jalandhar continues to remain on the second spot with 71 infections since June 1.ACCOUNT FOR 68% OF ACTIVE CASES Of a total of 569 active cases in Punjab at present, Amritsar, Jalandahar, Ludhiana and Pathankot account for 68% infections at 160, 59, 111 and 57, respectively.Interestingly, the SBS Nagar and Mohali districts which stayed on the top of the chart of positive cases initially, have succeeded in flattening the Covid-19 curve. Since June 1, SBS Nagar recorded only 10 cases whereas SAS Nagar registered 29 fresh infections.Punjab health department’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Violation of social-distancing norms has been the main reason behind the surge in cases. In the past 15 days, we have come across many instances wherein a positive patient infected 10-15 persons.”“Another reason behind the spike in cases is their early detection. Around 200 cases in the past 10 days are those wherein patients came from abroad or from outside the state. Also, a significant increase in testing in the last 10 days is also showing a surge. Today, we conducted a record 9,000 tests in a single day,” he added.The department has conducted 66,646 tests this month so far.14 DEATHS IN LAST 11 DAYSAs many as 14 infected persons have died in Punjab since June 1 even as the state continues to have one of the best mortality rates in the country. But health officials say in all these cases the patients were having serious co-morbidities and were aged above 60.The department also declines community spread in any part of the state.“In districts where cases are increasing in a large number, we are going to increase targeted testing to check if there is community spread,” said the nodal officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-dists-continue-to-remain-punjab-s-pandemic-hotbeds/story-9Quo3xzZgMT0Hn85dyJi4M.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||MCDs offer community centres, stadiums to govt for setting up Covid-19 treatment facilities||Owing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the three municipal corporations of Delhi on Thursday offered the Delhi government all community centres, stadiums and other properties under their jurisdictions for setting up temporary hospitals to treat patients. In a joint press conference, the political representatives of the East, North and South Delhi municipal corporations said that the civic bodies are ready to “handover” their hospitals to the government for use as Covid-19 dedicated facilities.There are nearly 119 community centres, four stadiums and four sports complex under the North corporation. Hindu Rao is one of the largest hospitals in North Delhi with a 980-bed capacity. Kasturba Hospital has a 450-bed capacity.There are around 100 community centres under the South corporation, while the East corporation representatives also offered to “handover” its Swami Dayanand hospital and all 71 community centres to deal with Covid-19 pandemic.Jai Prakash, the standing committee chairperson at North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that it is a time to defeat coronavirus, for which the municipalities and the Delhi government will have to work in “close coordination”.“We are ready to give our hospitals, such as Hindu Rao and Kasturba Gandhi, to the government so that these could be developed as Covid-19 dedicated facilities and better treatment could be provided. Similarly, we are requesting the state government to use our community centres and stadiums for creation of temporary hospitals and isolation wards to fight the coronavirus pandemic,” he said.Bhupendra Gupta, the South corporation’s standing committee chairperson, said that the government in April had dedicated the civic body’s Tilak Nagar super-speciality hospital as a Covid-19 dedicated facility, where six coronavirus patients being treated at present. “If the government wants, it can make our 100-bedded hospital at Kalkaji a Covid-19 dedicated facility. We are also offering all our community centres to be converted into isolation wards to meet the demand. We want to support the government, but they will have to provide resources,” Gupta said.“Delhi’s private hospitals are charging arbitrary amounts from Covid-19 patients as their beds are full. The state government is saying that they need more spaces to create temporary hospitals and isolation wards, so we are offering them all our community centres for the same. If they want, they can also declare Swami Dayanand Hospital as a Covid-19 dedicated facility so that better treatment can be provided to the Covid-19 patients,” Anju Kamalkant, mayor of the East corporation, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mcds-offer-community-centres-stadiums-to-govt-for-setting-up-covid-19-treatment-facilities/story-YYXXmPqT0P9FgVjfyKkv0O.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||COMMUNITY SPREAD FEARS: Stricter curbs imposed on weekends, holidays in Punjab||Amid apprehensions of community spread of Covid-19 and projections indicating that the pandemic peak in Punjab was two months away, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered stricter lockdown on the weekends and public holidays, with movement to be restricted to e-passes holders.“All citizens, except medical staff and essential service providers, will be required to download e-passes from the COVA app,” Amarinder directed at a video conference meeting to review the pandemic situation and the state’s preparedness to handle the further spread. Industry will be allowed to function normally on all days, though. The CM’s directions came even as the doubling rate in the state worsened from 22 on May 31 to 15 on June 10, showing a progressive decline day by day.Directing director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict implementation of these directives to prevent gathering of large crowds, the CM said such tough measures were necessitated on account of the spiralling Covid-19 cases across the world. He said stringent curbs could help delay the peak for as long as possible.The CM also asked medical and health experts to consider imposition of strict conditions, including mandatory testing certification, for entrants from Delhi, where the situation had assumed alarming proportions. On an average, 500-800 vehicles are coming to Punjab from the national capital every day, the DGP informed the meeting. A decision on stricter curbs on those coming from Delhi will be taken after a review by the experts, an official spokesperson said after the meeting.Pointing out that many of those who had come from outside had behaved irresponsibly and had not reported to the health authorities, Amarinder said tough measures would have to be taken where needed, as the spike was still continuing and was expected to escalate in the days ahead.The CM suggested that since it normally takes 3-4 days for the virus to show up, those coming from outside should be tested after a week and in the meantime, they should be strictly asked to home quarantine themselves. The DGP was directed to ensure strict implementation of the home quarantine.Referring to complaints received on social media, and through other channels, of private hospitals charging exorbitant sums for Covid hospitalisation and care, Amarinder directed the health department to ensure strict application of CGHS rates. All data on availability of beds etc should be put in public domain, he said, adding that there was no scope for complacency in the state’s battle against Covid.He said the state government’s efforts would need to be scaled up further, particularly in view of the health department’s projections suggesting that the peak of the pandemic was yet to hit Punjab, and it could happen towards the end of August if the doubling period continues to come down as per the current trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/community-spread-fears-stricter-curbs-imposed-on-weekends-holidays-in-punjab/story-4SGsk0kOA6ycjLz76orHJL.html
11-06-2020||City||Garment factory owner, trader held with heroin in Ludhiana||The Special Task Force (STF) arrested a garment factory owner and a trader for drug peddling on Wednesday late and recovered 680 gm heroin from their possession.The accused were going to deliver the drugs when the police arrested them.Vicky Sharma, 52, of Karnail Singh Colony of Tajpur village and Ramit Grover, 27, of New Shivaji Nagar were on their scooter when the STF apprehended them. A mini electronic weighing scale and 25 empty packets were also recovered from their possession.Sub-inspector Gurcharan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the STF arrested the accused near the bus stand of Bhamian Kalan following a tip-off.“During questioning, the accused told the STF that they used to procure heroin from a Nigerian national based in New Delhi and from smugglers based in Amritsar. They used to sell the drugs among addicts,” said the SI.“Vicky Sharma is already facing trial in two cases of drug peddling and was out on bail. Ramit Grover has never been arrested before, but has been smuggling drugs for the past four years,” the cop added.Vicky Sharma runs a grocery store and a furniture shop, while Ramit owns a garment factory. The SI said that Ramit Grover was a drug addict himself and used to buy drugs from Sharma.A case under appropriate sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered. The STF produced the accused before the court on Thursday. The court remanded the accused to two days in STF custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garment-factory-owner-trader-held-with-heroin-in-ludhiana/story-GHJ8vzuIA0e8WoiCSRZVOM.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||Sainikhera, South City-1 residents want isolation centre moved from access road||Residents of Sainikhera village and South City-1 have asked the district administration to shift a Covid-19 isolation/quarantine centre located near the main access road to the village. Residents, in a letter to the Gurugram deputy commissioner, said that the location of the centre, set up in a guest house, on the main access road is a major cause of concern as the road is frequently used and sees a high footfall. With the rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last 10 days, residents said that they want the administration to shift this isolation centre to a location distant from a large population cluster.Sainikhera village, near the Signature tower crossing, has a population of around 3,000 residents, a majority of whom are migrants living on rent. They work in the business establishments of Sector 29, and as helpers and drivers in nearby localities.“We have requested the district administration to look into the matter as this guest house designated as a Covid isolation centre is on the main approach road to the village. Many children, labourers and workers use this road and there is a chance that they could get infected,” said Ishwar Singh, a resident of the village.Residents of South City-1, which is adjacent to the village, said that a number of houses in their colony are also adjacent to this isolation centre, and expressed concern over a possibility of the virus spreading. “The government should establish such facilities in areas, which are less densely populated. It should also use its own guest houses, like the PWD guest house, and other facilities,” said RS Jakhar, a resident of the area.Also, residents of the area called for increased testing, with many expressing scepticism that no one has tested positive for Covid-19 in the area. “We have requested the administration to look into the issue and take action,” said RK Garg, another resident.Amit Khatri, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that he would look into the matter. “Let me check this issue and if there is a genuine problem, we will resolve it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sainikhera-south-city-1-residents-want-isolation-centre-moved-from-access-road/story-YAFW7bvh1XuH4eQW9EikdL.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||58-year-old inspector is first casualty in Gurugram Police||A 58-year-old Haryana Police inspector, posted in Gurugram, succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Sector 51 on Wednesday night. This is the first Covid-19 related death involving police personnel in the district.Inspector Pradeep Dagar, who was working with the summon’s branch at the police commissioner’s office in Civil Lines for the past eight months, had been admitted to the private hospital after he suffered a heart attack, the police said on Thursday. According to the police, Dagar had not been keeping extremely well for the past few years and had also undergone an open-heart surgery last year. “He suffered another heart attack a fortnight ago and was taken to the hospital and underwent two surgeries at the hospital. On June 7, his condition deteriorated and was tested for Covid-19 at a private hospital. His results came back positive on June 8. On Wednesday, he complained of fever and cough,” said, Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, confirmed the death. “The policeman was Covid-19 positive and died due to cardiac arrest.”Dagar, a Sector 15 resident, was working from home since the lockdown was announced, the police said. They added that he was going to retire on July 31 and was allowed to work from home as he was not keeping well. He is survived by his wife and two sons.Akil said all police personnel suffering from terminal illnesses are going to be put in quarantine and have been allowed to remain at home unless they are completely fit to resume duties.At least, 30 Gururgam Police personnel have tested positive for the deadly infection so far.According to police officials, the rising number of cases has triggered anxiety among the families of police personnel.“With the help of the health department, we are maintaining data of positive cases and tracing their close contacts. Those visiting containment areas are directed to wear protected gears and to ensure they maintain social distancing at all times. Our department will take all the necessary steps for the well-being of our personnel and their families. We are taking all due precautions and are regularly advising our staff about the safety protocols against the pandemic,” said Akil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/58-year-old-inspector-is-first-casualty-in-gurugram-police/story-sMiuU76plED0QZMEzT9VML.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||After wait of 6 years, Unitech Nirvana Escape in Sector 50 gets occupancy certificate||After waiting for almost six years, the residents of Unitech Nirvana Escape project in Sector 50 finally received the occupancy certificate(OC) on Wednesday, after the developer of the housing complex fulfilled all the necessary licence conditions, met the financial liabilities and settled other dues that had delayed the process. The issuance of OC will now allow the residents of the condominium to finally apply for water, sewage and other civic amenities from government, which were denied to them so far, said the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of the housing complex. The RWA has been pursuing this issue with the developer and the DTCP for the past six years.The Unitech Nirvana Escape project in Sector 50 is spread over 10.09 acres and the licence for the project was issued in 2006. The possession to the house owners was given in 2014. However, since then, the residents have been fighting for the issuance of the occupancy certificate.Santanu Chowdhury, president of the RWA, said that due the delay in getting the OC, the condominium was facing problem in accessing regular water supply, power and sewage connections, which had made life difficult for the 350 families living inside the complex. “Without the OC, the project was not considered a valid legal entity. As such, we faced problems in registration of property deeds, transfer of property, getting bank loans and insurance, etc. Additionally, we faced other infrastructure shortages. We pursued the matter with Unitech and District Town and Country Planning(DTCP) department officials and finally managed to secure it on Wednesday,” he said.Sudhir Jayant, secretary of the RWA, said that all apartment owners were happy at the positive development and hoped that quality of life will further improve after this.DTCP officials said that OC has been granted to seven towers, the EWS block, community building, swimming pool and eight shops after the licence requirements were fulfilled by the developer. “It was after a lot of efforts by the officials, the RWA and director-general of the DTCP that the OC could be granted. There were lot of legal requirements that needed to be completed. The residents will now be able to avail the necessary civic infrastructure from the government,” said RS Bhath, district town planner.Amitabh Das, vice president, business development, Unitech, said that the company obtained clearances from the DTCP, NOCs from other departments, and also cleared financial liabilities of around ₹2.25 crore, after which the OC was issued. “There was a financial crunch but despite that we worked to ensure that the house owners don’t suffer. We are committed to complete our other projects as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-wait-of-6-years-unitech-nirvana-escape-in-sector-50-gets-occupancy-certificate/story-4akXbIa7aeRlhaIhtYqY0J.html
11-06-2020||City||Punjab education dept ties up with Khan Academy, students can now access math assignments online||As many as 1,200 government high and senior secondary school students from across the state will be covered and training to teachers has been started by the academy online To offer creative videos, quizzes, fun experiments, assignments related to mathematics, the state government has tied up with the Khan Academy, which will provide free access to students and teachers on their web portal.Khan Academy offers practice exercises, instructional videos, and a personalised learning dashboard that empower learners to study at their own pace in and outside of the classroom. We tackle math, science, computer programming, history, art history, economics, and more.As many as 1,200 government high and senior secondary school students from across the state will be covered and training to teachers has been started by the academy online. To easily access the portal, login IDs of the students aged between 11 and 15 years (students of Classes 6 to 10) will be created once the training of the subject teachers is completed. The content will be available in English and Punjabi for the convenience of students on the portal in mathematics. Presently, officials are training subject teachers and computer teachers and login IDs will be issued to them so that they can take benefit from this portal. Last year, the department has introduced this portal to 200 government schools across the state as a pilot project. Out of the 1,200 government schools, 181 are from Ludhiana, 65 from Amritsar, 27 Barnala, 56 Bathinda, 25 Faridkot, 54 Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 Fazilka, 21 Ferozepur, 70 Gurdaspur, 122 Hoshiarpur, 121 Jalandhar, 49 Kapurthala, 7 Mansa, 40 Moga, 33 Muktsar, 30 Pathankot, 52 Patiala, 27 Rupnagar, 29 SBS Nagar, 79 Sangrur, 24 SAS Nagar and 54 of Tarn Taran.The portal will help students to understand the topics through videos, experiments and they can also do self-assessment. Students can also test their knowledge by participating in quizzes. To enable the students to access home assignments login ID’s will be issued to them this month. The Mastery Challenges will be a way for the children to review and practice skills they have previously learned regarding the subject. It will consist of six questions that review three skills.School education secretary Krishan Kumar said, “This move by the department will enable the child for self-assessment and can improve his level of understanding the concepts in mathematics. The students can easily access home assignments through this portal and will get instant feedback on their performance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-education-dept-ties-up-with-khan-academy-students-can-now-access-math-assignments-online/story-4K8XPKk9ZEJNHbgaxz88tN.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||MDU affiliated govt colleges to hold final-semester exams in July||Three city government colleges affiliated to the Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, will be holding terminating semester examinations from the first week of July. The university has sought details about final-year students and the infrastructure and seating capacity for maintaining social distancing. Students in the first and second years will be promoted without an exam and criteria for the same is being decided, said officials.BS Sandhu, controller of examination, MDU, said that final exams for students will take place in the first week of July with physical distancing norms in place. “While the exact dates are yet to be decided, the exams will tentatively take place in the first week of July. We have written to colleges seeking details about the students and the infrastructure capacity which will help us to plan the standard operating procedure for conducting the exams,” said Sandhu.In a directive issued by MDU on Tuesday, colleges have been asked to provide the strength of final-year students in each course, the number of students from foreign countries, and the number of students living in and outside the state. Colleges have also been asked to share if their premises are being used by the government as a quarantine facility or for any other purpose. Further, colleges have been asked to calculate the seating capacity after factoring in physical distancing — one student on one bench, keeping one bench vacant between two students.Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had started compiling internal assessment data for first and second-year students. “While we await more details on the criteria that will be used for promoting first and second-year students, we have started creating a rough database with internal assessment details,” said Khullar.Meanwhile, Gurugram University (GU) administration on Monday said physical examination for final-year postgraduate students will start from mid-July to the first week of August.“We will be holding terminal semester examinations for final year students starting from July 16 with social distancing. We have around 140 students, who will be accommodated in different rooms for the examinations. The plan is to have 10-15 students in each room,” the public relations officer of GU said.The official added the decision to hold the examination might be reconsidered if the Covid situation worsens. “We are also keeping a tab on the coronavirus situation and if things worsen, the examinations may get called off,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mdu-affiliated-govt-colleges-to-hold-final-semester-exams-in-july/story-C9R8k5Z3pQS9RdAIrS7ALM.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||Hoteliers request excise dept to replace expired beer with fresh stock||Hotels and restaurants in Gurugram have written to the state excise and taxation department requesting it to either buy-back the beer stock which expired during the nationwide lockdown or replace it with a fresh stock.City hoteliers and restaurant owners said they had procured enough beer stock before thew lockdown was announced, but the stock expired when all hospitality sector establishments shut down on March 25. They said with the stock expiring they have suffered a total loss of nearly ₹1 crore.Bhishan Singh Chauhan, liaison manager, The Leela Hotel, said the more than 2,400 cases of beer with the hotel have expired so far, and another 2,000 cases will expire in July. “We have already suffered a loss of more than ₹9 lakh and if the government does not consider our request we will suffer additional loss of ₹9 lakh,” he said.Sameer Singh, vice president (operations), Lemon Tree Hotels, said the government should either pay hotels for the expired stock or replace the old stock with fresh one to save hotels from suffering more financial losses.Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), said after receiving a letter from hoteliers and restaurateurs, a representation to the senior officials in Panchkula regarding the matter was sent and decision is yet to be taken. “The expired beer will have to be destroyed as it cannot be exchanged, but we are under process of exchanging the stock which will expire in the coming months. The liquor vends can sell liquor, but bars in hotels and restaurants are still closed,” she said.Inderjeet Banga,head of Gurugram chapter of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) said many city restaurants, pubs etc had to destroy beer worth ₹50 lakh during the lockdown. “The expired beer is of no use to either the excise department or to us. Even the department will destroy the beer. Restaurants and hotels in the city have suffered huge losses in light of the lockdown,” said Banga, who owns Pranskster (a restaurant in Sector 29, Gurugram) and the restaurant chain Pirates of the Grill.Restaurant owners said if the excise department exchanges the stock, the saved capital can be used in setting up new arrangements after hospitality service providers receive a green signal from the government to open bars in their establishments.Hotels and restaurants across the country have been incurring losses since the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25. These establishments had bought stock for routine consumption but have been barred for selling liquor for more than two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hoteliers-request-excise-dept-to-replace-expired-beer-with-fresh-stock/story-yxDqSZvDf53nGHHac27TgM.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||Beer dries up in Gurugram, people turn to Delhi for their liquor||Liquor vends across the city have alleged a shortage of stock of beer to serve their customers for more than a month, with some even claiming of having to go to national capital Delhi just to purchase their stock.The wholesale vends said they have not received their supply of beer for the last 40 days at least, despite regular follow-ups with the excise officials in the district and those in Panchkula.Excise officials, however, said that the delay in supply was owing to the Covid cess — between ₹10 and ₹30 on a beer bottle — that had been announced by the state government and which required labels on all bottles to be changed.HC Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that every time there is a change in taxation or policy, the retail price changes as does the label on the product. “Every brand manufacturer has to get approval for these changes from the excise department before releasing their product in the market,” he said.Officials said that the manufacturers, after getting labels approved, supply the beer to the distributors, who then in turn take it to the liquor vends. The beer manufacturing factories are located in Dharuhera, Sonipat , Ambala and Beri near Jhajjar.Dahiya said nearly 9 lakh cases of beer are sold in a month across Haryana, out of which 4 lakh cases are sold in Gurugram alone. Each case of beer consists of 12 beer bottles. Rakesh Kumar, manager at a liquor store on Golf Course Extension Road said they had not received beer stock since the shops reopened on May 6 and have been suffering from loss of both revenue and customers. “We don’t have any stock of beer in our outlet. This has pulled down our sales by almost 50% on a daily basis,” he said.Another employee of a liquor vend in Sector 40 said, “We have absolutely run out of our stock of beer also in the shop and we have no idea when the situation will return to normal. A majority of our customers, during summer, prefer to buy beer. But for the last one month, we have not been able to get any stock of beer and this is causing heavy losses,” said Arun Kumar.The liquor vend owners said due to the shortage, their customers were turning towards Delhi, where beer is cheaper when compared to the city.A case of beer costs ₹3,000 (light) and ₹2,100 (strong) in Gurugram. Delhi, on the other hand, sells the same beer at ₹1,900 (light beer) and ₹2000 (strong beer) for a case. Shashank Kumar, another liquor vend owner, said that only a few brands, which are not so popular among his customers, lay on his shelves. “If the beer shortage issue is not resolved, Delhi will take over and we will suffer losses and the excise department revenues will be hit,” he said.The excise officials said that new beer labels , which have been approved by the excise taxation commissioner, were pending. “There is no deliberate delay from the department’s side and we have already issued all labels. The beer supply will be sorted out within a week and other issues related will be resolved at the earliest,” said Shekhar Vidyarthi, excise and taxation commissioner (ETC), Panchkula.Around 218 liquor shops located in Gururgam opened on May 6, after the state government announced a series of relaxations, following the implementation of Lockdown 3.0 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/beer-dries-up-in-gurugram-people-turn-to-delhi-for-their-liquor/story-OZG7jSpxcZ0f29onrSVJgJ.html
11-06-2020||City||LIP stages protest outside MLA Vaid’s house over cancellation of blue cards||Accusing the Congress government of cancelling blue cards of poor residents, members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) staged a protest outside the house of Congress MLA (Gill constituency) Kuldeep Singh Vaid in Sarabha Nagar here on Thursday. The protesters blocked the main road outside the MLA’s residence for over three hours.Protesters alleged the Congress is targeting supporters of other parties by cancelling their blue cards, while the Congress supporters, who are not even eligible for cards, are availing free ration being distributed by government.LIP in-charge for Gill constituency Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth said, “We also went to the office of the district food supply commissioner before holding a protest outside the house of the MLA. But, the authorities failed to give a satisfactory reply due to which we were forced to hold a protest. But, even the MLA did not turn up at the protest site for giving an assurance to residents”The party’s in-charge of Fatehgarh Sahib, Manwinder Singh Giaspura said, “The Congress is playing politics even at this time of crisis when residents are starving due to the shortage of food. Rather than helping residents, the Congress government is cancelling blue cards of eligible residents. The LIP will continue holding protests till the time cancelled blue cards are restored.”Despite attempts made to reach MLA Vaid, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-stages-protest-outside-mla-vaid-s-house-over-cancellation-of-blue-cards/story-jBPdpvvysuw466O9XRluoN.html
11-06-2020||City||19 more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, count mounts to 470||Nineteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh late on Wednesday and Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 470, officials said.Three cases were reported from Una district, eight from Kangra, two each from Chamba, Hamirpur and Solan and one each from Sirmaur and Shimla.Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar said three people tested positive in the district late on Wednesday night. Of these, two were under home quarantine and one in institutional quarantine.They include a 21-year-old youth who returned from Assam while the other patient, a 30-year-old man had returned from Delhi. The third patient is a 45-year-old man from Amb sub-division, who had returned from Delhi and was in institutional quarantine in a hotel.EIGHT TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRAKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said eight people who returned from Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. The fresh cases include a 35-year-old man and his wife aged 27 from Rachialu village. Another 27-year-old woman from Jawali town has also tested positive. A 30-year-old woman and her 4-year-old daughter from Naganpatt are also among the fresh cases. Besides, a 52-year-old man and his 22-year-old daughter have also tested positive. Another man, aged 61, also from Baijnath, has contracted the disease.FOUR CASES IN SOLAN AND CHAMBAFour cases were reported on Thursday from Solan and Chamba. Deputy commissioner KC Chaman said one of the two cases from the district is a truck driver from Nalagarh area. “He was quarantined in his truck and tested positive in the morning,” he said. The second patient is a former village panchayat pradhan from Baddi area. In Chamba, a 23-year-old man from Kehal Bakan village and a 25-year-old woman from Salooni have tested positive.The man was home-quarantined since his return from Gurugram on June 2. The woman was institutionally quarantined at Banikhet since she returned from Delhi on May 28, said Chamba DC Vivek Bhatia.A 17-year-old youth has tested positive in Sirmaur. His mother is already undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Two cases were reported from Hamirpur and one from Shimla.KANGRA, HAMIRPUR WORST-HITSo far, Himachal has recorded 470 cases, of which 276 have recovered while six, including three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.Kangra and Hamirpur are the worst-hit districts with 126 cases each. A total of 57 cases have been reported in Una, 37 in Solan, 34 in Chamba, 24 in Bilaspur, 23 in Sirmaur, 22 in Mandi, 15 in Shimla, four in Kullu and two in Kinnaur.The active cases in the state have come down to 177 as twenty-six patients have recovered.Kangra has the maximum of 58 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-mounts-to-470/story-xQFi9YLbxYemCFAqRjLJIJ.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents protest against Chandigarh school for charging fees amid lockdown||Parents of children studying in Saint Soldier International School, Sector 28 staged a protest outside the school against the collection of fees despite classes being suspended amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Similar protests were witnessed outside many city schools last month as well.In the last 20 days, over 15 such protests have been staged by parents.The parents said their economic condition has taken a huge hit amid the lockdown and they can’t afford to pay the fees. They added that schools were charging for facilities like air-conditioners and electricity which are not being used as classes are suspended.Principal of Saint Soldier International School, Vijaya Siddhu said: “We are charging only monthly tuition fees and have reduced the amount according to government instructions. Many parents have appreciated the online classes conducted by the school. Our fee structure is extremely reasonable and most of the parents have paid the monthly fees and do not have any issue about it. However, some parents feel that they should not pay fees because children are not coming to school but we would hope for them to understand that our teachers are making immense efforts to continue the academic process through online teaching, which itself is a huge change for both teachers and students.”A joint complaint was also submitted by parents with 102 signatures to the fee regulatory body of Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-chandigarh-school-for-charging-fees-amid-lockdown/story-POK1wvgithEL3JIIiWiybM.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Harbir Anand appointed district education officer of Chandigarh||Harbir Singh replaced Alka Mehta as Chandigarh’s district education officer (DEO) on Thursday while Mehta was promoted to the post of deputy director-3.Besides, 16 principals were also promoted on Thursday.Monica Maini, who was posted as deputy director-3 was given the charge of deputy director-4. Ravinder Kaur will join as deputy DEO-1, whereas Neena Kalia will be deputy DEO-2.Thursday’s developments came in the background of litigation between former DEO Anujit Kaur and Alka Mehta. Anujit Kaur had, in 2019, challenged the appointment of Mehta as DEO in the Chandigarh Administrative Tribunal (CAT) after which Mehta approached the Punjab and Haryana high court which, on January 6, 2020, stayed the order of the CAT. The next hearing of the case is scheduled on August 17. SD Sharma, advocate for Alka Mehta, said the orders amounted to contempt of court.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, education, UT Chandigarh, said, “The four senior most officers have been posted as deputy directors and the next after them is posted as DEO. The same principle was followed when Alka Mehta was posted as DEO. So, there is no issue in following the same principle of posting Alka Mehta as deputy director when one position of deputy director is vacant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/harbir-anand-appointed-district-education-officer-of-chandigarh/story-ZYFboixNoz1J5Z0eZhey1O.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||AIIMS to turn its almost ready burns unit with 100 beds into Covid facility||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will add another 100 bed for the treatment of patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at its upcoming ‘Burns and Plastics’ block by the weekend.“There has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last couple of weeks. Hence, we have decided to turn the almost ready Burns and Plastics unit into a Covid-19 centre. The block already has a built-in ICU and utility pipelines and can be utilised for the treatment of those with Covid-19,” Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS, said. Currently, the hospital has 725 beds at its cancer centre in Jhajjar and 265 beds at the trauma centre on Ring Road. Of these, 533 beds at the Jhajjar campus and 214 at the trauma centre are already occupied, according to data provided on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app. As for critical care, AIIMS Jhajjar has 39 ICU beds, and the trauma centre 50. The ‘Burns and Plastics’ block will add another 30 beds to the intensive care unit.Doctors, nurses, and technicians from the main hospital will be rejigged to man the new block. Apart from instituting proper protocols for infection control, requirement of manpower for the Jhajjar centre and the burns block was one of the reasons for the hospital not reopening its out-patient clinics.The hospital had shut its OPD services, where over 12,000 patients used to come daily for consultations, at the beginning of the lockdown on March 25.With cases of Covid-19 on the rise, the Delhi government is working towards making 1.5 lakh beds available for those with a severe level of the infection by July-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-to-turn-its-almost-ready-burns-unit-with-100-beds-into-covid-facility/story-88SwSdqZQmrf5QHyXYvmdO.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Minister finds irregularities in distribution of take-home ration, orders audit of anganwadis||The Delhi women and child development (WCD) minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Thursday found “irregularities” in the distribution of ‘take-home ration’, during a surprise inspection of households covered by the government’s integrated child development scheme (ICDS). The minister has ordered an audit of all anganwadi centres, which are responsible for the distribution of ration to children and pregnant and lactating women. According to the scheme, each child beneficiary is entitled to 1,300gm of dalia, 260gm of black gram (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm of roasted black gram. Each pregnant woman gets 1,690gm of dalia, 260gm of black gram (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm of roasted black gram.Thursday’s inspection found that several beneficiaries were not getting the ration in the prescribed quantities.“Irregularities were found in the quantity of ration distributed to beneficiaries. We are carrying out a door-to-door inspection of each beneficiary. I have ordered an audit of all anganwadi centres and payments to the agencies concerned will be stopped until the report comes. Strictest possible action will be taken against those found guilty,” Gautum said. He along with officials from the WCD department had on Thursday inspected areas such as Tarzan Camp, Narela, Rohini sector-24, JJ Colony Bawana and Sanjay Basti in Timarpur assembly constituency. The purpose of the inspection was to check the implementation of the ICDS scheme. There were several complaints from beneficiaries about irregularities in the quantity of ration received, said a statement issued by the minister’s office on Thursday evening. While the take-home ration was being distributed in proper quantities in most places, in Narela, it was found that only 15% of the entitled ration was being distributed. Besides similar complaints were received from Seemapuri assembly constituency, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/minister-finds-irregularities-in-distribution-of-take-home-ration-orders-audit-of-anganwadis/story-I2O7FkJDQqFUXJOy9KrsFN.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||BEST ferries over 14L commuters since launch of Mission Begin Again||More than 14 lakh commuters availed Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus services in three days after they resumed operations as a part of the state’s Mission Begin Again on Monday.The transport agency also increased the number of buses operating on 81 routes in the city. An additional 348 buses were added to the fleet by Wednesday. It operated 2,480 buses on Thursday in the city. BEST had introduced buses by allowing only 30 passengers – 25 seating and five standing – per bus.On Wednesday it also started operation of Tejaswini buses for women commuters from its Vikhroli bus depot. Two buses are being operated during peak hours from Vikhroli to Backbay bus depot.The management stated that it plans to increase the number of buses in the coming days. “The number of buses is being increased after seeing the response from passengers. Our traffic officers and field inspectors provide us with daily on ground reports,” said Manoj Varade, spokesperson, BEST.On Monday, the first day of Mission Begin Again, BEST started operating 2,132 buses in the city and saw a ridership of 4.19 lakh passengers.On Tuesday, the organisation operated 2,308 buses and witnessed a ridership of 4.73 lakh passengers and on Wednesday, 2,433 buses were operated with a ridership of 5.26 lakh passengers.Meanwhile, BEST Sanyukt Kamgar Kruti Samiti (BKKS), an umbrella body of BEST unions, started silent protests outside bus depots in the city from Thursday. The protests – against employees facing disciplinary action and charge sheets issued by the administration for not coming to work – will continue outside depots till July 13.“The administration has been issuing charge sheets to its employees without considering or understanding the situation. Few employees are residing in containment zones and others do not have proper means of transport to reach their workplace,” said Shashank Rao, president, BSKKS.The union has also demanded the creation of a temporary coronavirus hospital for the BEST employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-ferries-over-14l-commuters-since-launch-of-mission-begin-again/story-FDXf573EQI6i5u4kmiVcuO.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Plea in High Court seeks reimposition of lockdown in Delhi||A plea before the Delhi high court on Thursday sought directions to the Delhi government to again impose a strict lockdown in the national capital in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The matter is likely to be heard on Friday.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by advocate Anirban Mondal and his employee Pawan Kumar, said the Delhi government itself has admitted that there would be around one lakh Covid-19 cases in the city by June-end and the number would rise to around 2.25 lakh by mid-July and over 5.5 lakh by July-end.Mondal’s plea also contended that given the situation, the government should consider imposing a strict lockdown in the city. The petition, filed through advocate Mridul Chakravarty, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government to consider constituting an expert committee of doctors, medical specialists and virologists to prepare a “detailed blueprint” for controlling or containing the spread of the virus.The petition sought imposition of a lockdown on the grounds that during the earlier lockdown period, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases was low. It said by allowing the movement of people and economic activities in the national capital, “the spread of the virus has severely spiked, resulting in a sharp rise in numbers of daily cases”.“That, primary focus/efforts/ resources of the state, as of now should not be on the monetary/ economic aspects, but on health and safety of its people,” the petition read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-high-court-seeks-reimposition-of-lockdown-in-delhi/story-qlpTuSZCwuWUv8oFtmcIhM.html
11-06-2020||Noida||Noida corona count: 1 more dies, 28 test + ve; till date fatalities 11, total cases 735||A 62-year-old man died of Covid-19 while 28 people tested positive for the infection on Thursday, taking the Gautam Buddh Nagar district’s toll of fatalities due to the disease to 11 and the number of total patients to 735, said officials. The deceased, a resident of Noida Sector 25, was suffering from bronchial asthma and hypertension, they said. “He died of cardio pulmonary arrest with SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) with sepsis (a life-threatening condition caused by the body’s response to an infection) with shock. He was Covid-19 positive,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Meanwhile, 28 other new Covid-19 positive cases were found in the district on Thursday, taking the tally to 735, he said. “So far, 477 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals. There are 227 active cases now,” the officer said. Among the new patients, 10 are aged 50 or above and six are aged 30 or below, including an 8-year-old boy, according to a statement.The recovery rate of patients on Monday stood at 64.89 per cent, according to official statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-corona-count-1-more-dies-28-test-ve-till-date-fatalities-11-total-cases-735/story-xSSED4LhtcRW9jD75AWunN.html
11-06-2020||City||Road repair work starts in Panchkula: Haryana speaker||Haryana speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Thursday said that repair work of Panchkula roads has started. On Thursday, he inaugurated the repair works of roads of the extension sectors of the dumping ground. He said that around 30.90km road stretch will be repaired and around ₹4 crore and ₹13 lakh will be spent on this work.Gupta said that ₹1.44 crore will be spent on the repair work of 10.85km long roads of Sector 28 and ₹1.40 crore will be spent on 14.50km stretch of Sector 27 roads.Apart from these, extension roads of Sectors 23 to 26 will also be repaired and ₹1.29 crore will be spent on those roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-repair-work-starts-in-panchkula-haryana-speaker/story-FLdIVt07ZwDa3CXlg2kLqJ.html
11-06-2020||City||BJP national spokesperson Nalin Kohli counts Modi-led NDA-II’s achievements||The PM Modi-led NDA-1 government laid the foundation for the new era of development, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nalin Kohli during a press conference here on Thursday.Kohli said that the Modi government has started multiple schemes beneficial for the masses. The opposition parties create unnecessary hullabaloo regarding government’s scheme but much people have benefited from these schemes.He said that the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A of the Indian Constitution was one of the biggest achievements of the current government.ZERO TOLERANCE TOWARDS CORRUPTIONOn a query regarding the health scam in Himachal, Kohli said that the BJP government has a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption. He said that the state took swift action in the alleged scam and the culprits have been arrested.“Former state president Rajeev Bindal even resigned on moral grounds after the case emerged. This shows the commitment of BJP to fight corruption,” he said. Kohli said that investigation is on in the case.FLAYS OPPOSITION FOR POLITICS DURING COVID CRISISThe BJP leader said that Centre took all measures to prevent spread of Covid-19. The lockdown helped in keeping things in check and now the economy has also started returning on normal.On opposition’s allegations of inadequate facilities to treat covid patients, Kohli said that there were 1.52 lakh beds dedicated to covid patients. “Beds with ventilators have also been increased. Opposition should criticise but it should not be politically motivated at a time of crisis,” he said.Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami, party’s state general secretary Trilok Kapoor, Kangra district BJP president Chander Bhushan Nag and state media in-charge Rakesh Sharma were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-national-spokesperson-nalin-kohli-counts-modi-led-nda-ii-s-achievements/story-80URF70blFO5qQNUvsjQhI.html
11-06-2020||City||Thieves steal ATM machine with ₹12 lakh in Ambala||Thieves decamped with an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) of Bank of Baroda containing over ₹12 lakh in Ambala’s Mullana area, police said on Thursday.The accused stole four cabins of the machine bank manager Manoj Kumar told the police.“The security guard was not present at the kiosk when the incident occurred on Wednesday late evening. The CCTV footage shows that the accused came in a car and broke open the shutter lock with a gas pipe and later the ATM with a gas cutter. The thieves sprayed paint on CCTV cameras fitted inside the ATM booth and stole the machine containing ₹12 lakh,” Manoj said in his police complaint.Mullana police station in-charge said, “We are scrutinising the CCTV footage to get a clue to the accused.”An FIR was lodged under Sections 380 (theft), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 457 (lurking house-trespass by night, or house-breaking by night, in order to the committing of any offence punishable with imprisonment) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-steal-atm-machine-with-12-lakh-in-ambala/story-6v0Shx711mq1wDbeHr9c9H.html
11-06-2020||City||51-year-old Ludhiana man loses ₹31,600 in online fraud||Fraudsters duped a 51-year-old man of Rs 31,600 in the lieu of refunding money for his cancelled online order. On the complaint of Gurmeet Singh, of Heera Nagar Colony, the Basti Jodhewal police have booked three persons, including two women. They have been identified as Tapas Barik of West Bengal, Girija Devi of Madhya Pradesh and Indu of Uttar Pradesh.The case was registered after a nine-month investigation.Gurmeet had told the police that he bought a mobile phone for Rs 4,499 on an e-commerce website on September 21 last year. The next day, he received a message from the website that his order was cancelled.Later, a representative of the firm called him and asked for his bank account details to refund the money for his order. The caller also sent him an online link. Minutes after Gurmeet accessed the link, Rs 31,600 were withdrawn from his bank account, following which he approached the police.Inspector Sukhpal Kaur, who is investigating the case, said they had identified the accused, who will be arrested soon.A case under Section 66 of the Information Technology Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at the Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/51-year-old-ludhiana-man-loses-31-600-in-online-fraud/story-nhoelQkkecHs6fk3oqXKTM.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt allows restro-bars, clubs to sell stocked beer to liquor shops||The Delhi government on Thursday allowed the city’s restro-bars, hotels, and clubs to sell their stock of beer expiring this month to liquor shops in a bid to minimise their financial losses, an official said.There are around 950 hotels, clubs and restro-bars in the national capital which have an excise license, however, they have not been allowed to open since March 25 when the first nationwide lockdown was announced.The liquor vends will continue to remain closed in the city till June 30.According to the Excise Act, the restro-bars, hotels, and clubs can only sell liquor to their customers, the official said, adding that it would be a one-time relaxation.“In wake of the extraordinary situation emerging out of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, the government has allowed these establishments to sell the stock of beer expiring on June 30 to liquor vends,” the official told PTI. The decision was taken after the excise department got several requests to allow such establishments to sell their stock of beer lying unsold as it would expire soon due to the lockdown restrictions, the official said.“The move will minimise the financial losses of restro-bars, hotels and clubs as they have not been allowed to open for over two months. However, they cannot sell their stock of beer expiring after June 30,” the official added. The shelf life of beer is around six months, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-restro-bars-clubs-to-sell-stocked-beer-to-liquor-shops/story-zp9ug8GZHVgR8KGHg7vqlK.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fee regulatory body likely to hear plaints against Chandigarh schools on June 15||Over 150 individual and joint complaints have been received by the Fee Regulatory Authority of Chandigarh in the last one month. In two years of its constitution, the right to information (RTI) data shows that the body has not even met once. Sources said that the first meeting of the body is scheduled on June 15, where various issues will be taken up. The committee will hear the plaints of the parents filed so far and will also decide on the penalty to be imposed on city schools for violating the norms of Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act 2016.Principal secretary, education, Arun Kumar Gupta said: “All such complaints are recent and were received in the last month. So there was no point in a meeting earlier when practically no complaint was pending.”After notification of the act in the city in 2018, the regulatory body has acknowledged just one complaint to date which is still pending. Apart from filing complaints with the body, the parents are also protesting regularly against various private schools against arbitrary charging of school fees.As per Section 11 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act 2016, “Any complaint received under this Act shall be scrutinised by the regulatory body within a period of 15 days from the date of its receipt in accordance with the prescribed procedure, and it shall be finally decided within 60 days.”The committee comprises the education secretary, district education officer and seven other members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-regulatory-body-likely-to-hear-plaints-against-chandigarh-schools-on-june-15/story-JXao3XncbWADdBc0PCPcFN.html
11-06-2020||City||Restaurants, dhabas in Shimla can resume operations from today with 60% occupancy: DC||In a bid to restart economic activities after the 80-day nationwide lockdown to combat Covid-19, the Himachal government has allowed restaurants to resume operations in Shimla. This comes three days after the tourism and civil aviation ministry issued guidelines for phased reopening of areas outside containment zones – allowing hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services to reopen from June 8.Hospitality industry in Himachal suffered tremendous losses due to the lockdown. Shimla DC Amit Kashyap convened a meeting of hoteliers and restaurateurs to find ways to resume operations.While restaurateurs have agreed to resume operations and follow standard guidelines, hoteliers across state are reluctant to do so over safety concerns for the staff and guests.The DC has allowed resumption of operations of restaurants and dhabas here from Friday, with 60% capacity.“We were told that we will be allowed to let customers in at eateries, restaurants and dhabas,” said Sanjay Sood, president of Shimla Hoteliers and Restaurateurs Association. Restaurateurs have been directed to ensure social distancing on premises and regular sanitisation drives. All staff will have to wear caps, gloves and mask.Representatives of the hospitality industry were against the idea citing difficulty to resume operations with the laid SOP.The government notification makes it mandatory for hotel staff including the security, to wear masks and single-use gloves while performing their duties and use sanitizers. All guests and staff should maintain a distance of at least six feet.Hoteliers are further advised to appoint a rapid response team and a management team headed by a rapid response leader and rapid response officers from all operational departments. The team will be responsible to prevent incidents, manage cases and mitigate impact among guests, staff and other involved parties. The team should frequently evaluate preparations, identify gaps and make adjustments to avoid any incidents.As per the guidelines, all touch points like door knobs, switches, door handles, safety latches and taps should be cleaned regularly and it is advised to use 1% sodium hypochlorite having at least 70% alcohol to do so. Daily temperature of all staff members, guests, visitors and vendors should be checked with thermal gun thermometer.Guests are advised to avoid using lifts and use staircases instead. Social distancing should be maintained in case of use of lifts. CCTV cameras should be fully functional. Common area cleaning checklists should be displayed at the reception and room cleaning checklist inside rooms on the back of the door. Hotel staff is to immediately inform police in case a suspected guest flees or is untraceable.Details of guests, including travel history and medical conditions along with identity cards and self-declaration form, should be provided by guests at reception. Aarogya Setu app survey will be recommended to all guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restaurants-hotels-in-shimla-can-resume-operations-from-today-with-60-occupancy-dc/story-kalnipfviZdnNzGZ44tYdP.html
11-06-2020||City||CICU delegation meet ADC over issues related to bank loans||A delegation of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) on Thursday met additional deputy commissioner (ADC) (development) Amrit Singh to discuss the issues related to the banking sector.The issues which were raised by the delegation include delay in releasing Micro Units Development and Refinance Agency Ltd (MUDRA) loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), the lackadaisical approach of banks in sanctioning an additional 20% limits as advised by the government, failure of banks in releasing collateral-free loans to the MSME sector among others.CICU president, Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary, Pankaj Sharma said, “The industry is moving through a tough phase and these issues related to banks are increasing problems for us. We have also demanded that the banks should charge a minimum rate of interest at this time of crisis. The ADC has assured that our grievances would be resolved a MUDRA camp would also be organised in the CICU office soon.”Representatives of different banks including State Bank of India, National Bank, Bank of Baroda among others, were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cicu-delegation-meet-adc-over-issues-related-to-bank-loans/story-VzLJ2vdEjeclacsIjxCNcP.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||PEC up 10 notches in NIRF rankings, need to do more, says director||Chandigarh It’s good news for Punjab Engineering College, a deemed to be university, which has gone up 10 notches in The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) list for 2020 released by the human resource development (HRD) ministry on Thursday.The institute’s director, Dheeraj Sanghi, however, said, “Internally we believe that we are imparting better education than this ranking indicates.”PEC, ranked 68 this year, was slotted 78 among Indian engineering institutes in 2019 and 73 in 2018.Showing all-round improvement, PEC’s score this time was 41.43 as compared to 38.42 in 2019.In 2016 when NIRF rankings were first released PEC was ranked 38 with a score of 61.32 among all engineering institutes.As every year, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) stole the show, with IIT Madras, IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay ranked as the top three institutes of the country, while IIT Ropar secured 25th position.In teaching, learning and resources, PEC has scored 55.66 this year as compared to 49.83 in 2019. From 12.62 in 2019, PEC’s score in research and professional practice has increased to 14.20 this year . The institute has also managed to improve its graduate outcomes from 61.98 last year to 64.10 this year and its perception score to 19.90 from 16.27 in 2019.Sanghi also said a lot more had to be done to improve the institute’s performance, “Although we are happy, this is not a huge jump for us. We have improved over last year but climbing up in the rankings will be more difficult for us, for which we have to work. Internally we believe that we are imparting better education than this ranking indicates.”Home Science College among top 100In a surprise showing, the Government Home Science College, Sector 10, at the 86th spot, was the only Chandigarh based college that made it to the top 100 colleges of the country. Last year two institutes made it to the top 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-up-10-notches-in-nirf-rankings-need-to-do-more-says-director/story-2PBcBO9rB6ktRZrskpWwfL.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s non-SCS officers to take written exam for entry into IAS||Non-state civil services (SCS) officers in Haryana will now have to take a written examination to get appointed to the Indian Administrative Services (IAS). Until now, non-SCS officers in Haryana were appointed to the IAS on the basis of their ability and service record, perceived as a rather subjective criteria.As per a June 9 personnel department order, the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) will now hold a written examination for the non-SCS applicants. Based on the marks obtained by the candidates in the written examination, the HPSC will prepare a merit list and recommend names to the state government for onward submission to the Union Public Service Commission. The names of qualified candidates will not exceed five times the number of vacancies. The personnel department will also submit details of the annual confidential record of the candidates to the UPSC.The three-hour written examination will have 100 multiple-choice questions with five options. The exam will be of 500 marks and for every wrong answer, 25% marks assigned to the question shall be deducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-non-scs-officers-to-take-written-exam-for-entry-into-ias/story-8wICGcxEQnc8mRku67JqeL.html
11-06-2020||City||Himachal construction workers demand employment for cardholders||The Himachal Pradesh Construction Workers’ Federation has demanded the state government to provide employment to all cardholders. They urged CM Jai Ram Thakur to increase work days to 250 per year and daily wages to Rs 350 per day. Apart from this, they have demanded tools and weekly-offs and to increase coronavirus relief amount being provided by the State Labour Welfare Board to registered labourers from Rs 4,000 to Rs 7,000.They have accused the state government of not being serious about providing employment to workers. They claimed that during the first quarter of the ongoing financial year, only 22% of total registered families have received work for just 17 days.State general secretary of the federation, Bhupinder Singh, said that due to coronavirus, many industries in urban areas have shutdown and many workers have lost jobs in last three months. In the present situation, MGNREGA is important for these workers. He added that cards of around 13.02 lakh families have been made. Of these, 7.52 lakh families are under active job card categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construction-workers-demand-employment-for-cardholders/story-Aqyxyco8BCCN4vS62sfHSM.html
11-06-2020||City||Declare 2020 a ‘zero academic year’, say Panchkula Parents Association||Parents Association met Haryana Assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Thursday demanding that 2020-2021 be declared as ‘no academic year’.They submitted a letter to Gupta, stating: “We are the parents of school going children from Panchkula. We have a few submissions to be made for declaring the present year as ‘No Academic Year’ for the future of humanity as well as generations.”Expressing concerns regarding sending their children to schools amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, they said: “Vaccine or medicine for the disease is still not invented. As already said by the World Health Organisation, the government and ICMR that the children, as well as the elders, are a vulnerable population, therefore, it makes sense to declare this year as no academic year.”Parents appealed that life is more important than a year and children should be saved from this epidemic.Box: Some parents of students studying in a private school of Panchkula also met Gian Chand Gupta and urged that the directorate of education should be asked to look into the matter of tuition fee hike by the school for the 2019-2020 session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/declare-2020-a-zero-academic-year-say-panchkula-parents-association/story-TwCflaDHIIY2is4ZQGbseM.html
11-06-2020||City||Appreciation of new ideas seen as foundation stone for organisational success, says PAU V-C||After bagging the 192nd position for agricultural science in the ‘US News Best Global Universities’ rankings for the year 2020, the vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana on Thursday said that hard work coupled with teamwork and appreciation of new ideas is seen as the foundation stone for organisational success.Vice-chancellor Dr BS Dhillon during a webinar shared his experiences in shaping the university’s research, extension, teaching, and administration. It was attended by more than 200 vice-chancellors of different universities. The session was organised by the DDG, education, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).Dr Dhillon, in his talk titled, ‘Initiatives in Research, Teaching, Extension and Administration: The Struggle and Ground Covered since 2011, said, “Reprioritisation and keeping pace with emerging challenges through creating new programmes like food industry business incubation centers at Ludhiana and Bathinda, technology centre, school of climate change, organic farming, focus on diversification, fruit and potato breeding, etc have always been of critical importance in today’s challenging agricultural scenario.”He also stressed the usefulness of strengthening research in priority areas and shifting research teams to appropriate ecologies, exemplifying through cotton teams in Bathinda, sugarcane in Kapurthala and citrus in Abohar.For smooth administration, Dr Dhillon shared the importance of creating four positions of additional director of research (ADR) for planning and monitoring research across colleges/disciplines.“Besides, having a monthly review meeting of research and extension, I believe in closely monitoring and revising strategies and face to face interaction between researchers and extension workers,” stressed Dr Dhillon.He further dwelt on how his focus on exploring, identifying and exploiting resources led to obtaining of BT genetic stock from Delhi University for the development of BT cotton varieties besides hybrids, genetic stock carrying Tma12 gene from Tectaria macrodonta, Maize haploid inducer from CIMMYT, Mexico, etc. While discussing the need for strengthening inter-institutional linkages, Dr Dhillon explained how strong coordination between PAU and agriculture department led to the successful management of whitefly and a bumper cotton yield. On recruitments in the university, he said, “there has been a constant emphasis on merit and national integration,”On the teaching front, Dr Dhillon emphasised on exchange programmes for students as well as teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/appreciation-of-new-ideas-seen-as-foundation-stone-for-organisational-success-says-pau-v-c/story-RZjhBlu568Hk41z5I5sz4H.html
11-06-2020||City||J&K reports 1 death, 67 fresh Covid-19 infections||Sixty seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 4,574, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 24 were recorded in Jammu division and 43 in Kashmir. Among these, 26 patients have a travel history, the officials said. The highest jump in Covid-19 cases in the Kashmir division was witnessed in Anantnag where 13 more people tested positive while other districts saw single digit increase. In Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in five of the 10 districts. Also, a 62-year-old woman from Kulgam district in south Kashmir died due to the virus on Thursday. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 52. Official said she was admitted at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences in Srinagar on June 7. The woman was suffering from inflammation of gall bladder with hepatic flexural growth and died after having a cardiopulmonary arrest while being treated at the infectious disease ward of the SKIMS.Active cases in J&K stand at 2,702 and 1,820 patients have recovered so far. Meanwhile, 149 more patients—30 in Jammu division and 119 in Kashmir—were discharged on Thursday. Till date, 2.27 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 41,312 in home quarantine, 25 in hospital quarantine and 55,395 under home surveillance. Besides these, 127,530 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-1-death-67-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-P3FaO1hk3JTafqhokXhfpK.html
11-06-2020||Lucknow||UP records biggest single-day coronavirus spike with 24 deaths and 478 new cases||Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 24 more coronavirus deaths and 478 new cases, the biggest single-day spike in both numbers so far as the state battles a Covid-19 surge.The death toll in the state now is 345 after three consecutive days of record highs with the coronavirus tally reaching 12,088. On Thursday, the maximum five deaths were reported from Meerut; three each in Agra and Ghaziabad; four in Kanpur; one each in Moradabad, Hapur, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Azamgarh, Bijnore, Badaun, Jhansi and Hathras, according to a Health Department release. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 7,292 of the total infected people have recovered. The state has 4,451 active Covid-19 cases now, he said. He said 15,079 tests were conducted in UP on Wednesday, which is so far the highest in a day in the state. Prasad said accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace the workers who have returned from other parts of the country and till now over 15 lakh of them have been tracked. I In the state, 3,303 workers tested positive, the release said. Samples of those who had symptoms of the virus have been sent for testing, he said. The state government’s 1.15 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed 88 lakh homes, the principal secretary said, adding that the Aarogya Setu mobile application is also being used to track suspected patients. “Acting on alerts generated by the app, 71,736 people were called for testing, of them 155 were found positive for coronavirus and they are undergoing treatment, while 3,289 people are in quarantine,” he said. Friday onwards, the Health Department will start targeted sampling and take random samples from old-age homes, juvenile homes, orphanage, hospitals, pharmacists, delivery boys, hospital staff and others “to find the ground reality”, the principal secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-records-biggest-single-day-coronavirus-spike-with-24-deaths-and-478-new-cases/story-gYDamqjSqcFX2l64ruBwTI.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Proclaimed offender wanted in eight criminal cases held from Mauli Jagran||A proclaimed offender (PO), wanted in eight criminal cases, has been arrested from Mauli Jagran. The accused, identified as Ravi alias Thakri, 25, a resident of Mauli Complex, was arrested on a tip-off from near the booth market, Mauli Complex.Ravi was arrested on March 10, 2017 with 60gm charas from near the AKM Bhatta turn, Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran. During the trial of the case, Ravi jumped bail and, on March 25, 2019, he was declared a PO. He is named as an accused in cases of theft, burglary and drug cases. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/proclaimed-offender-wanted-in-eight-criminal-cases-held-from-mauli-jagran/story-vBYjltnEWgfXBEbIz21UDI.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||MU ranked among top 100 Indian institutes on NIRF list 2020||The fifth National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) list was released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development on Thursday and the University of Mumbai (MU) has ranked among the top 100 colleges in the country, a big leap from its ranks last year. In 2019, MU had made it to the 101-150 rank list after spending two previous years in the 151-200 ranks of NIRF.The university improved its position from the 81st rank in 2019 to the 65th rank among universities in the country in 2020.“We are very proud of the improvement in our scores and we attribute it to better research and patents. Our work will keep shining through,” said MU vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar.This year as well, the top 10 ranks in the overall list were ruled by the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) with IIT-Madras taking the lead followed by the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science at second position, IIT-Delhi in third position, and IIT-Bombay taking the fourth place. The only two state universities which made it into the top 10 list were Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University and IIT-Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi.Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director of IIT-Madras said the consistent work by the institute’s faculty and students as well as the overall improvement of work by all those involved in the institute has resulted in good ranks. “This is the fifth year in a row that we have maintained the top position in NIRF rankings, ever since it was launched. We will continue to display excellence in the future as well,” said Ramamurthi.Other institutes from Mumbai making it to the list of top 100 institutes in the country include the Institute of Chemical Technology, Matunga, which ranked 34th, rise by 3 places from 37th rank in 2019. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Deonar, and SVKM’s Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies, Vile Parle bagged the 57th and 92nd overall ranks, respectively. DY Patil Vidyapeeth, Pune, stood at 77th place in the universities list this year.As per data shared by the HRD ministry, over 1,600 colleges across the country participated in NIRF this year, however, only five colleges from the state showed up in the top 100 college list 2020. While the top five spots were taken by Delhi-based colleges, Nirmala Niketan’s College of Social Work, Churchgate bagged the 62nd rank and St Xavier’s College was placed 90th in the top colleges list.Launched in September 2015, the NIRF adopts a methodology by the Union HRD ministry to evaluate and rank universities and institutes on various parameters including teaching and learning resources, research work, graduation outcome, outreach, and inclusivity, as well as perception. It features a separate list of rankings for universities, colleges, engineering institutes, management institutes, law, and pharmacy institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-ranked-among-top-100-of-institutes-in-india-nirf-list-2020/story-5mUpRnYp2ySazo12vPB5SI.html
11-06-2020||City||Police, MC to restart anti-encroachment drives in Ludhiana from June 25||Put on hold after the imposition of curfew in the state, the police and the municipal corporation (MC) have decided to restart drives to remove encroachments made by street vendors and shopkeepers on city roads.The police would first hold awareness drives in the city for 15 days before starting the anti-encroachment drives from June 25.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has recommended strict action against the violators, who encroach upon roads and disrupt the smooth movement of traffic, especially in old city areas.Sandhu said, “Street vendors and shopkeepers have encroached upon the city roads as the anti- encroachments drives were put on hold in March. I have taken up the matter with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and both the departments would commence drives from June 25. Strict action would be taken against the violators and FIRs would also be lodged.”Patron of the Akalgarh Market Association Maninderpal Singh (Prince) Middha said, “The market shopkeepers are also facing problems due to encroachments by a few of the shopkeepers outside their shops. The encroachers cover most part of the road resulting in traffic bottlenecks.”The police department has also shared the information through its Facebook page urging shopkeepers and street vendors to remove encroachments from city roads.Agrawal said, “It has come to light that many shopkeepers and street vendors have again encroached upon the city roads in different areas of the city. FIRs would be lodged against the violators, if they fail to remove encroachments by June 25.”Earlier, in the last week of February, the police had announced the third phase of the anti-encroachment drive and 60 roads of the city had to be covered. The authorities had covered 40 roads in the initial two phases and lodged FIRs against around 100 shopkeepers and vendors.The drives were opposed by different vendor associations stating that the MC had failed to establish vending zones in the city and before removing the vendors from roads, the MC should set up a zone for vendors, where they could earn their livelihood.Sandhu said the MC was working on establishing permanent vending zones in the city. However, 100 proposed vending zones have been identified by the MC and the lists have also been provided to the vendors. The vendors could install their vends at these sites, he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-mc-to-restart-anti-encroachment-drives-in-ludhiana-from-june-25/story-541rItIUf0VSZ1ukYzffcJ.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 casts shadow on Kurukshetra’s solar eclipse fair||In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Kurukshetra administration has decided against holding grand-scale celebrations during the solar eclipse fair on June 21. An official spokesperson said that a small religious ceremony is proposed to be held on the banks of the Brahma Sarovar in keeping with the ancient traditions. The spokesperson said that in line with the guidelines issued by Central and state governments, people have been asked to refrain from visiting the fair or taking a holy dip during the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-kurukshetra-s-solar-eclipse-fair/story-w0NkjYSxxiU9UHCObBIxAJ.html
11-06-2020||City||There will be no shortage of labour during apple season: HP minister||Himachal Pradesh education minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Thursday said adequate arrangements are being made to ensure that there is no shortage of labourers in Shimla district during the apple season.While presiding over a meeting at the Bachat Bhawan here, Bhardwaj said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will be talking to the Nepal government and other states with the help of the Centre to ensure availability of labourers. He added that the state government will also make proper travel arrangements for migrant labourers coming to Shimla district.Bhardwaj has directed the public works department to repair all roads in Shimla district so that orchardists do not face any inconvenience while transporting their produce to fruit markets.He said the PWD has been directed to repair Rohru-Shimla road, Chaila-Guripul, Dhalli-Shoghi road and Kingal-Dhami roads and inspect all bridges constructed in the district. He has also directed the SDMs to discuss about transportation fares and availability of vehicles with truck and pick-up unions as well as local orchardist associations so that a notification can be issued in this regard.Bhardwaj has also assured that there will be no shortage of apple cartons and boxes during the season. He has directed concerned officials to regularly inspect fruit and vegetables markets during the season and ordered SDMs to quarantine drivers and conductors coming from other states to avoid spread of Covid-19.Officials have also been directed to set up control rooms and sub-control rooms before July 15. The main control room will be set up at Fagu in Shimla district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/there-will-be-no-shortage-of-labour-during-apple-season-hp-minister/story-BA1OWpoNyYwIlvRKVgzwAI.html
11-06-2020||City||12,000 litres of illicit liquor found near Sutlej river in Ludhiana||The anti-smuggling wing of Ludhiana police recovered 12,000 litres of illicit country made liquor from the banks of Sutlej river on Wednesday evening. The liquor was found dumped on the banks in drums.Wing’s in-charge sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma said in another case, they arrested a man for carrying 19 bottles of illicit liquor near Daba.The accused was identified as Ronki Badshah of Giaspura flats. He was booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act at the Daba police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-000-litres-of-illicit-liquor-found-near-sutlej-river-in-ludhiana/story-HPljixmFVYeIQAkXBzjuzL.html
11-06-2020||City||Farmer killed in stray bull attack in Jind||A 56-year-old farmer was killed in a stray bull attack in Jind’s Lajwana Khurd village on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Balwan Singh. His nephew, Shiv Kumar, said that Balwan had gone to water the crops when a stray bull suddenly entered the fields and attacked him. He died on the spot.Investigating officer, Sanjay Kumar of Julana police station, said the victim’s body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-killed-in-stray-bull-attack-in-jind/story-cKdSi0axaQjz2amjMJHG1H.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Mumbai’s Crawford Market, fire engines at spot||A fire broke out at Mumbai’s Crawford Market, a British-era market in the metropolitan city, however there were no reports of any injuries.“It is a level two fire and around eight fire engines have been rushed to the spot,” a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation official said.The incident took place at around 6 pm. Six fire engines and three jumbo tankers have been rushed to the spot. Additionally, personnel of the BMC ward office and police and ambulances have also reached the site.Mumbai Fire Brigade Chief, Prabhat Rahangdale, said that fire fighting and search operation is still on. The cause of the fire is being ascertained, said the official.The market houses several shops and the fire is confined in four of the commercial spaces. The iconic market is at a walking distance from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-crawford-market-reports-fire-incident-fire-engines-at-spot/story-A4DoZpr9DhxNlXPyvbUF0J.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Jama Masjid closed till June 30 due to ‘critical’ Covid-19 situation in Delhi: Shahi Imam||The historic Jama Masjid will be closed for devotees with immediate effect till June 30 in view of “critical” conditions in the city due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the mosque’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Thursday.Bukhari said he took the decision after consulting public and Islamic scholars.  The development comes after the Shahi Imam’s secretary Amanullah died due to the novel coronavirus at the Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday night.The Shahi Imam said, “If the situation arises where the human life is at risk, it becomes obligatory to protest ones life.” “Majority of the opinion is that saving of the human lives is paramount and the Shariah (Islamic jurisprudence) has ample excuse for this,” he said.  After taking public opinion and consulting scholars, it has been decided that from ‘maghrib’ (sunset) on Thursday till June 30, no congregational prayers will be performed in the Jama Masjid, Bukhari said.“A select few people shall perform the daily five times namaz while the general worshippers will perform the prayers at their homes,” he added.The mosque had opened on June 8 after a gap of over two months with the government allowing further relaxations as part of “Unlock-1”, the first phase of a calibrated exit from the novel coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. As religious places along with several other establishments, like shopping malls and offices, opened across the country on June 8, Bukhari asked governments to reconsider their decision in view of the rapid spread of the coronavirus. According to latest official figures, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is over 32,000 including 984 deaths. The number of active coronavirus patients in the city is over 19,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jama-masjid-closed-till-june-30-due-to-critical-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-shahi-imam/story-mtWD4emXhD9qtdtSR4sAAN.html
11-06-2020||City||Srinagar MC mayor to face no confidence motion again||Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu on Thursday said a no-confidence motion has been moved against him at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and asserted that he enjoyed majority in the municipal corporation and would take on the challenge democratically and legally.“Been informed that BJP has sought a ‘Vote of No Confidence’ in the SMC against me. Those who have submitted the motion are either elected members/office bearers of BJP or unambiguously associated with BJP. This is the second such motion by BJP against me within six months,” Mattu said.In December last year, he had defeated a similar attempt by a group of corporators to vote him out of position. BJP’s media in-charge for Kashmir, Manzoor Bhat, said 27 corporators affiliated with the party have moved the motion and that around 15 more members have extended support to it. The SMC has 74 wards.Srinagar MC secretary also confirmed that a no confidence motion has been moved against the mayor by some corporators.In a series of tweets, he blamed the National Conference, Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for joining hands to move a no-confidence motion against him. While hinting that the corporators of the three parties are coming together to topple him as the city mayor, Mattu tweeted:” If @BJP4India @INCIndia and @JKNC_ are actually coming together to vote me out — I wear it as a badge of honour! BJP and Congress have never allied in the country’s history and if they want to ally now against us, I couldn’t ask for a greater validation of my dignity.” Shortly after the SMC mayor’s tweet, the National Conference spokesperson had denied it. “The party has no understanding or inclination to have an understanding with the BJP. Neither in the SMC nor elsewhere,” the spokesperson said.BJP state spokesperson, Altaf Thakur said majority of corporators are not happy with Mattu and they want former deputy mayor Sheikh Imran as the SMC mayor. “We have nine members and they will support Sheikh Imran. This time, the no confidence motion will be successful as corporators of all parties are not happy with Mattu and feel he is neglecting their wards,” he said. Jammu and Kashmir Congress Committee president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Mattu became the mayor with help of former governor Satya Pal Malik. “We have nothing to do with his position as a mayor. Some people having roots in Delhi are trying to dislodge him. A few months ago, he had managed to defeat the no confidence motion with the help of these corporators who are now trying to defeat him.”Mir said the Congress has 17 corporators in the SMC and they have nothing to do with the BJP. “The BJP has only three members. How can they bring him down. However, there are many disgruntled corporators in the SMC who want Mattu out because according to them he is not an able leader.”Mattu, 35, had resigned from the National Conference only to participate in the polls in 2018. A former financial analyst who returned from the US barely a decade ago to join politics, he is also one of the senior leaders of the People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone.The term of the mayor and the deputy mayor is 30 months and both office bearers have to seek a fresh mandate from the corporators. They have more than 18 months to seek a fresh mandate within the corporation. Interestingly, Mattu had secured 40 votes to win the election in 2018 and the BJP corporators had supported him. He bagged more than 45 votes last year to defeat the no confidence motion and then deputy mayor Sheikh Imran who was in jail was also removed. However, Imran has been released and he is now trying to topple Mattu.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-mc-mayor-to-face-no-confidence-motion-again/story-VgS1vGMz8Cb3ptJsgwOqoO.html
11-06-2020||City||Udhampur infants’ death: NHRC issues notice to J&K chief secy, Union health ministry||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary and the Union ministry of health and family welfare on a complaint lodged by eminent social activist Sukesh C Khajuria related to the deaths of a dozen infants due to consumption of a spurious cough syrup in Ramnagar tehsil of Udhampur district in January this year.Dissatisfied over official apathy to the tragedy, Khajuria had moved the NHRC on April 3 seeking its intervention for action against delinquent government officials and compensation to the aggrieved families.At least a dozen infants had died after consuming a toxic cough syrup manufactured by a pharmaceutical company Digital Vision in Kala Amb area of Himachal Pradesh.The NHRC has asked J&K chief secretary and the Union ministry of health and family welfare to submit a report in this matter within four weeks.In its order, the NHRC stated that in case the reports are not received within the stipulated time, the commission will be constrained to invoke coercive process under Section 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 for personal appearance of the authorities concerned.Khajuria said the deceased at Ramnagar tehsil include Shreyansh, 18 months, son of Madan Lal, Kanikshak Dogra, 3, son of Susheel Dogra, Janvi, 11 months, daughter of Anil Kumar, Luxmi, 18 months, daughter of Raj Kumar, Amit, 4, son of Rattan Chand, Surbhi Sharma, 3, daughter of Govind Ram, Anirudh, 2, son of Ashok Kumar,Panku (jeevan), one-year-old, son of Ramesh, Akshu, 18 months, son of Sanjay Kumar, Niju, one-year-old, son of Kuldeep and Jannu, 2, son of Thakur Dass.A high-level team of experts from the Union health and family welfare ministry had visited the area after the tragedy and confirmed that the children died due to presence of diethelene glycol in the cold best syrup procured from a local chemist and manufactured by Digital Vision, a pharmaceutical company in Himachal Pradesh.In a report dated March 2, the Regional Drugs Testing Laboratory (RDTL) said the samples of the cold best – PC syrup were “not of standard quality” as defined in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. “Cases were registered against the company but no concrete action has been taken. It has been alleged that the same company has been found involved in such discrepancies from 2014 onwards but continue to operate risking the lives of patients,” Khajuria said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/udhampur-infants-death-nhrc-issues-notice-to-j-k-chief-secy-union-health-ministry/story-fnzbCgs5VSkpb2WZPMzOwO.html
11-06-2020||City||1,379kg of spurious desi ghee seized in Ludhiana||A food safety team seized 1,379kg of spurious desi ghee following inspection at two godowns of a desi ghee trader at Dashmesh Nagar near Gill Road on Thursday.The team comprising food safety officer Yogesh Goyal and Dr Rajesh Garg also inspected sweets shops, a mustard oil manufacturing unit, departmental stores and a milk tanker, and destroyed expired soft drinks.They collected eights samples of desi ghee, mustard oil, masoor dal and milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-379kg-of-spurious-desi-ghee-seized-in-ludhiana/story-7ju3ZPXodtX5DxiQlWHYRK.html
11-06-2020||City||Ensure availability of labour in Himachal’s apple belt: Jai Ram to officials||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday directed officials to ensure availability of labour in the apple belt of the state so that horticulturists do not face any difficulties.The labourers coming from other states must be tested for Covid-19 and should be quarantined for the specified period before being allowed to work in the orchards, the CM said, while addressing the deputy commissioners, superintendent of police and chief medical officers of the districts.He said adequate manpower should also be provided in mango growing areas as the season is drawing closer.The CM said each and every person visiting the state from other parts of the country should be traced and tested to prevent spread of Covid-19.He said Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for entry and screening of persons visiting the state should be strictly adhered to and special care must be taken to diagnose the persons arriving from the hotspots.“People coming from hotspots should be invariably tested for coronavirus and allowed to be under home quarantine only after they are tested negative,” he said.Thakur said special emphasis should be on Information Education and Communication (IEC) regarding taking fundamental precautions such as use of face mask, social distancing and seeing a doctor in case of any Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) symptoms. He said people should also be sensitised to avoid unnecessary visit to public places and maintaining proper social distancing at work places as well. “Home quarantine facility must be made more effective and violators must be dealt with strictly. A team of health workers, ASHA workers, Anganwari workers and PRI representatives should adopt pro-active approach to keep a vigil on home quarantined people to check spread of the virus in case they test positive for Covid-19,” the CM said.He said about 1.92 lakh people of the state working in different parts of the country have returned to the state and all of them were kept under quarantine. “Therefore, people of the state need not fear about the sharp hike in number of COVID-19 positive cases,” he added.Chief secretary Anil Khachi has directed the DCs to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the Union government as well the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ensure-availability-of-labour-in-himachal-s-apple-belt-jai-ram-to-officials/story-LjKHrWBjfhFLJ6vkpHiI0M.html
11-06-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath asks for special emphasis on health services in 10 districts of UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to give special emphasis to health services in 10 districts of the state and said steps should be taken on priority to improve these facilities, if needed.In a meeting with senior officers, the chief minister asked for special attention to the health services in Agra, Meerut, Aligarh, Moradabad, Kanpur Nagar, Firozabad, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahar, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Basti, an official statement issued here said.Adityanath said reports should be taken from district magistrates and chief medical officers of those districts where health services were not up to expectations and steps should be taken steps on a priority basis to improve them.He expressed satisfaction over the rise in testing capacity to 15,000 per day, and said this should be increased further. Mortality rate should be checked, he added.The chief minister also asked for a medical review of the deaths from coronavirus infection so as to improve its treatment. He called for making the surveillance system more effective by further activating the monitoring committees in rural and urban areas.He directed that development schemes of the Centre and the state government should be implemented, saying on one hand, this would provide employment to the labourers and workers, and on the other, it would help in ‘Navnirman’ of Uttar Pradesh.Adityanath asked all commissioners to review the development schemes in their districts while also looking into the progress of these initiatives before the lockdown came into effect.He asked them to hold regular dialogues with the DMs on the implementation of development schemes.Stressing on strict compliance of social distancing norms, the chief minister said it should be ensured that people use face masks and that police patrolling continues.It should also be seen that there is no crowding at any place, the CM ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-asks-for-special-emphasis-on-health-services-in-10-districts-of-up/story-lDDjw0ZXL5TFfumrmdtf5I.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Murrah man’ Dr Inderjeet Singh takes charge as vet varsity vice-chancellor in Ludhiana||A week after his appointment, Dr Inderjeet Singh took charge as Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) vice-chancellor on Thursday. He is replacing Dr AS Nanda whose four-year tenure ended on February 15, 2019. However, he continued to occupy the position on ad-hoc basis as the government had not decided on his successor.Singh, who was chosen for the post on June 4, has been working as Punjab Animal Husbandry Department director since November, 2018.He has been working in the veterinary sciences and animal husbandry sector for the last three decades. Singh is known for his research and expertise in breeding and management of Murrah buffalo, which is widely reared in Punjab and Haryana, earning him the sobriquet ‘Murrah man.’ He has previously served as the director of the Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes, Hisar, from 2013 to November 2018.After joining GADVASU, Singh addressed the officers of the university in a meeting. He acknowledged his predecessors DS Bains, Dr VK Taneja and Dr AS Nanda for their contributions to the university. ‘COLLABORATION IS KEY’ He stressed on collaboration and cooperation with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), state department of animal husbandry and other departments to ensure the development of the livestock sector in general and farmers in particular.Singh said he will focus on improving academic quality, ensuring good quality research work and strengthening extension activity services.“The university will train students to be future entrepreneurs who will become job providers,” he said. In wake of the pandemic, Singh exhorted the staff to work together to combat the situation and help all stakeholders involved in the value chain of livestock, poultry and fisheries sector by offering advisories and services by means of ICT tools.Singh holds a bachelor and master degree in veterinary science and animal husbandry from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. He pursued his PhD in animal reproduction at the University of Liverpool, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/murrah-man-dr-inderjeet-singh-takes-charge-as-vet-varsity-vice-chancellor-in-ludhiana/story-fnFQAOXuO8TghlvlKt65sN.html
11-06-2020||City||PuLa’s handwriting highlights digital font domain||Pune: The memories of multi-talented Purushottam Laxman Deshpande, popularly known as Pu La, will remain alive among his followers in the digital world.City-based digital agency Be Birbal will launch the digital font of Pu La’s handwriting on June 12 — the death anniversary of on eof the most popular and adored multifaceted personality that Maharashtra ever had. Besides being a writer and humourist, Pu La was stage actor, script writer, composer, musician, singer, orator and music director. The font, titled PuLa100, available for free download, is a digital replica of the legendary author’s handwriting and will let its patrons experience what they write in the penmanship of their favourite humourist.Gandhaar Sangoram, founder-director, Be Birbal, said, “The idea to pay tribute to the legendary author by developing a digital font of his handwriting was conceived in his birth centenary year. Therefore, the name — PuLa100. The font is fruition of our one and a half years of efforts.” The work to develop a digital font of Marathi author’s writing started as an in-house exercise with data sampling of the letters written by PL Deshpande procured from Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune. Later, a font expert was brought on board to finalise the font.”Considering the huge following of Pu La across the world, creating a digital font of his handwriting was a task loaded with responsibility. The basic challenge was to capture the essence of his writing in the font”, said Sangoram.“PL Deshpande’s handwriting had a flow derived from the speed of his thoughts and the curves of his letters is a visual testament to a hand trying to keep up with the mind. To take the physicality and tangibility of something as personal as someone’s handwriting, and making it digital and to immortalise the essence of that person, is our biggest achievement so far. Dinesh Thakur, Jyoti Thakur and Niranjan Abhyankar from IUCAA along with Kimya Gandhi contributed in the font development”, said Sangoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pula-s-handwriting-highlights-digital-font-domain/story-lLxYgcBZo7dXtSLSyVmI2K.html
11-06-2020||Viral||Kumartuli artist sends Durga idol made of fibreglass all the way to Australia||An idol maker from Kumartuli, a potters’ hub in north Kolkata, has shipped a fibreglass idol of Goddess Durga to Australia, becoming the first artisan from the area to send his artwork overseas amid the COVID-19 outbreak.Soon after shipping the fibreglass idol to Melbourne on Wednesday, Koushik Ghosh has become busy in making arrangements for sending another to Germany.The fibreglass idol was sanitised before being shipped to Australia, he said.Ghosh’s shipment has given some hope to the artisans of Kumartuli who are getting lesser orders and facing cancellation of bookings this year due to the pandemic.Lightweight fibreglass idols are in demand among NRI Bengalis during Durga Puja.Ghosh said he has received only nine orders from abroad this year, a sharp dip from 30-32 in the previous years.It would have been 12 but three organisers cancelled their bookings, said Ghosh, who has been making idols for Durga Puja organisers abroad for the last 15 years.Apart from Australia and Germany, the idols made by him will be shipped to Canada, the US and the UK this year.“The fact that an idol has been shipped abroad like previous years brings hope that the jinx brought about by COVID-19 has been broken,” Ghosh said.Earlier, in April, five overseas customers of another famous Kumartuli artisan, Prodyut Pal, had cancelled their bookings citing the COVID-19 situation, disheartening him and other idol makers.“Most of the customers were from the US. Two of them have promised me that they will organise Durga Puja next year and buy idols from my studio,” Prodyut Pal said.Kanchi Paul, one of the few female artisans in the potters’ hub, said, “The jinx has been broken. I have got confirmation from five Durga Puja committees in Kolkata. We will start work in full swing once the artisans return to Kumartuli from their villages.” “Other artisans are also getting orders for idols, albeit smaller in size, from local puja committees but the numbers so far are lesser than last year’s. We badly want things to look up,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/kumartuli-artist-sends-durga-idol-made-of-fibreglass-all-the-way-to-australia/story-ceRryzKPpUcLSCBEEd8A4K.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with 42 kg cannabis worth Rs 53 lakh in Kullu||A man was arrested with 42.05 kilograms of cannabis worth Rs53 lakh in Banjar district of Kullu on Thursday. This is the largest consignment of cannabis to be recovered in the last 17 years, as per the Himachal Pradesh Police. The accused, Leeladhar, is a resident of Rewalsar, Mandi. Leeladhar’s pick-up truck was stopped for checking near Fagu Pul, Banjar. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said a case had been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. “Around 218 kilograms of cannabis has been seized since July 2019 in Kullu,” he said. Kullu valley is known for high-quality cannabis, which attracts domestic as well as international addicts. Residents cultivate hybrid seeds of marijuana, which were brought to the valley by foreigners who visited in the 70s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-42-kg-of-cannabis-in-kullu/story-Re2zz56mWOlsOBhXiCjS5L.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two youngsters from Punjab’s Talwandi Sabo and Malout with travel history to Delhi test positive for Covid-19||Bathinda: A 27-year-old resident of Talwandi Sabo sub division in Bathinda tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said the patient had returned from Delhi to his native village of Lehri in a taxi recently. He was in home quarantine since then.Dr Sandhu said five primary contacts, including parents of the patient and the taxi driver, have been identified and their samples have been sent for testing.In another case from Muktsar district, a newly married woman from Malout town tested positive for Covid-19. During the lockdown, the 20-year-old was stuck at her parents’ house in Delhi and came back to her in-laws recently.The district health officials have zeroed in on her seven primary contacts, including her husband and in-laws, and their samples are being collected.Meanwhile, three people were discharged in Muktsar district after they were cured of coronavirus infection.The district now has two active cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youngsters-from-punjab-s-talwandi-sabo-and-malout-with-travel-history-to-delhi-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-dA6oCy0ZH2AoTkEPQBPLKN.html
11-06-2020||City||Uttarakhand to monitor movement of people arriving from other states||The Uttarakhand government has recently allowed people to perform ash immersion rituals in Haridwar, due to which many people are coming to the holy city. To keep a tab on such people, a monitoring system will soon be installed at the inter-state border post.Through this monitoring system, complete data of people from other states reaching Haridwar will be compiled and registered along with their movement, place of destination, stay and workplace.Along with the travel history of such people, their health check-up, screening and residential details will be maintained while data of those who are directed for quarantine will be provided to local health and police for ensuring proper compliance of quarantine norms.According to district officials since lockdown imposition on March 23 in the state and later sealing of border with Uttar Pradesh, the need was being felt of having a specialised full-fledged monitoring setup to maintain a record of people coming from other states through Haridwar.District officials further added that this monitoring system will be of immense help to the health and police authorities in maintaining, tracking location and movement of people, particularly those whose report comes Covid-19 positive or those who have developed related symptoms so that they can be immediately traced and shifted to quarantine centres.“We have also prepared a micro plan to ensure the safety of senior citizens, children and weak immunity patients. A door-to-door survey will be done as part of our micro plan. Jointly health, education, women and child development departments will carry out a survey from June 15 onwards to be completed within a fortnight in the entire district,” said district magistrate C Ravi Shankar.Hotel association and Dharamshala committee has welcomed the decision of the administration of the door-to-door survey and to put up a monitoring mechanism at the border itself which will ensure information about people, pilgrims and tourists from other states is easily accessible and they can be tracked if the need arises.Local hotel association president Ashutosh Sharma said that compilation and monitoring of data of people from outer states is a right step and even hoteliers have decided to ensure screening, registration, travel history and mandatory installation of Arogya setu app among hotel customers and staff personnel also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-to-monitor-movement-of-people-arriving-from-other-states/story-qz6wSepf9u4Gcs5psakMzK.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon arrives in Maharashtra, coastal areas receive showers||The southwest monsoon arrived in Maharashtra on Thursday with rains lashing some coastal parts of the state, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official here said.The IMD has forecast heavy rainfall in some parts of the state in next 48 hours.The southwest monsoon has arrived in Maharashtra.The onset line is passing over Harnai, Solapur, Ramagundum (Telangana) and Jagdalpur (Chhattisgarh),” IMD Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K S Hosalikar said.“Conditions are favourable for further advancement in some more parts of Maharashtra in next 48 hours. Heavy rainfall warnings are issued, he said.Rains lashed parts of the coastal Sindhudurg district, which is located at the southern end of Maharashtra, including Amboli, Vengurla and other neighbouring areas, since 11 am on Thursday, another official said.In the last few days, pre-monsoon showers hit several parts of the state, including Mumbai and its suburbs.The Mumbai civic body last week issued an advisory fearing rise in monsoon-related diseases in addition to the coronavirus infections.It asked citizens to visit nearby clinics or inform community health volunteers if they experience symptoms like fever with chills, joint pains, rashes, cough, breathlessness, diarrhoea, vomiting and sore throat.The civic body also appealed to citizens to keep premises of their residential buildings and surrounding areas clean to prevent breeding of mosquitoes in any disposed articles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-arrives-in-maharashtra-coastal-areas-receive-showers/story-Rs3qkJFL9iAuTorjf6q2gP.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three LeT workers held with 21kg heroin worth Rs 100 crore in J&K||J&K Police on Thursday busted a narco-terror module and arrested three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) workers with 21 kg of heroin, estimated to be worth Rs 100 crore, and Rs 1.34 crore cash. Those arrested are Abdul Moomin Peer and Islam-ul-Haq Peer of Waskura, Handwara, and Syed Iftikhar Indrabi of Laribal Rajwar, Handwara. Handwara SSP GV Sundeep said Rs1.34 crore, heroin and a cash counting machine were found in their possession.“Other members of the module, who are absconding, have been identified. The module was in close contact with Pakistan-based terror handlers. They were providing financial aid to active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit LeT,” the SSP said, adding the raid had exposed the nexus of drug dealers and terrorists. “This module was working for LeT outfits who are misguiding the local youth of the Valley and encouraging them to join ranks of militants,’’ he said. A case has been registered at the Handwara Police Station. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to probe the accused’s ties with terrorist outfits, radicals, smugglers and other anti-national elements.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-let-workers-held-with-21kg-heroin-worth-rs-100-crore-in-j-k/story-hqSo7vCB8xQMGXSEO2l0eL.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Pune company develops digital font of popular Marathi writer PL Deshpande’s handwriting ‘to make him immortal’||A Pune-based digital agency has developed a digital font of popular Marathi writer Purushottam Laxman Deshpande’s handwriting. The agency ‘Be Birbal’ said that it has been done so that Pu La - as the writer is popularly known - remains alive among Marathi audience forever.The agency will formally launch the font on June 12th - the death anniversary of Pu La. Besides being a writer and humourist, Pu La was also a music director. The font, titled PuLa100, will be available for free. ‘Be Birbal’ said the font will let its patrons experience what they write in the penmanship of their favourite humourist.Gandhaar Sangoram, Founder and Director of Be Birbal, said, “The idea to pay a tribute to this legendary author by developing a digital font of his handwriting was conceived in his birth centenary year (2019). Therefore the name - PuLa100. With a meticulous effort of about one and a half years today we are happy to see it become a reality.” The process to develop the font started as an in-house exercise with data sampling of the letters written by Deshpande, which were procured from Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA). Subsequently, a font expert was brought on board to realise this dream.“Considering the huge following of PuLa all across the world, creating a digital font of his handwriting was a task loaded with responsibility. The basic challenge was to capture the essence of his writing in the font,” said Sangoram.“PL Deshpande’s handwriting had a flow which was derived from the speed of his thought and every curve of every letter is a visual testament to a hand trying to keep up with the mind. To take the physicality and tangibility of something as personal as someone’s handwriting, and making it digital and to immortalise the essence of that person, is our biggest achievement so far. Dinesh Thakur, Jyoti Thakur, and Niranjan Abhyankar from IUCAA along with Kimya Gandhi contributed in this process of font development,” said Sangoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-company-develops-digital-font-of-popular-marathi-writer-pl-deshpande-s-handwriting-to-make-him-immortal/story-XvtP5VcdoBzHHsUaVbjE0I.html
11-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand government to give grant to surrendered maoists||Twelve naxals of the CPI (Maoist) and two rebels of another banned outfit, who have shunned violence and surrendered to the police, will get grant of varying amounts under Jharkhand government’s scheme, official sources said on Wednesday.Chief Minister Hemant Soren approved the proposal to release the grant amounts under Surrender and Resettlement policy, an official statement said here. The CPI (Maoists) Regional Committee member, Nakul Yadav, of the Chatra district and the self-styled zonal commander of the banned Jharkhand Janmukti Parishad, Rajendra Oraon, of Gumla district, will get Rs 4 lakh each, the statement said.The other former perpetrators of violence will get Rs 2 lakh each, it added.Meanwhile, the state government announced ex gratia of varying amounts for eight CRPF personnel, who were injured in an encounter with the maoists in Latehar in 2013.The personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force were injured in the encounter with the left-wing guerrillas during a search operation in the areas under Barwadih police station of Latehar district, a statement released from the Chief Ministers Office (CMO) said.The chief minister cleared the proposal sent by the ex gratia committee headed by Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh, it said.While five CRPF men will get Rs 1.5 lakh each, two others will get one lakh rupees each and one will get Rs 50,000, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-government-to-give-grant-to-surrendered-maoists/story-bZ1ZdnSH3vFsk6L1QDdXPO.html
11-06-2020||Jaipur||With 51 fresh cases, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally reaches 11,651||Five deaths and 51 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 11,651 on Thursday, according to the State Health Department.Out of the total number of cases in the state, 8,596 have recovered while 2,791 are active cases.India recorded the highest single-day spike of 9,996 more Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 2,86,579, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Out of the total number of cases, 1,37,448 are active, while 1,41,029 have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/with-51-fresh-cases-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-11-651/story-XdeSAvK7Ncv4Al2HZ72mkM.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Water released from Pandoh Dam in Himachal, people told not to go near Beas river||Hamirpur: The district authorities on Thursday warned people, especially tourists, against venturing towards the Beas river banks as a huge quantity of water was released from Pandoh Dam in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district in view of the alarming situation of silt in the reservoir due to heavy rain.The Beas flows through the districts of Kullu, Mandi, Hamirpur and Kangra and ultimately its water goes into the Pong Dam, also known as Maharaja Pratap Sagar, located on the boundaries of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab near Talwara town.It originates from Beas Kund near Rohtang Pass of Kullu district and flows into the Pandoh Dam on the way to Kangra and Hamirpur districts.A spokesperson of the district administration has advised people not to go near the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-released-from-pandoh-dam-in-himachal-people-told-not-to-go-near-beas-river/story-5CGDVNZJCI4r3X2qy4qoxH.html
11-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: 128 more test positive for Covid-19; tally now 1,551||Jharkhand reported 128 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s infection tally to 1,551, the health department bulletin said. Thirty-three patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, the bulletin said.Of the total cases, 1,186 are migrants, it said.The state’s active cases now stand at 951. Eight people have died, while 592 people have been discharged from hospitals after they were cured.East Singbhum district with 152 cases followed by Simdega (143) and Ramgarh (85) continue to hold the top spots in the state’s coronavirus chart.Till date, a total of 99,129 swab samples have been collected and 97,572 tests have been conducted, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-128-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-tally-now-1-551/story-NOhMHzGOmXTfDpiPDoM2sK.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Man, 26, attacked in Delhi over spitting, dies. Accused in police custody||A man was killed in Delhi reportedly after an argument with another person over spitting in public, the police said on Thursday.“The victim and the accused fought and both sustained injuries. The former succumbed to his wounds,” a police official said.The police said that the incident happened on Wednesday at Shaheed Bhagat Singh complex in central Delhi. The police control room received a complaint at 8.30 pm.The two men involved in the quarrel have been identified as Ankit (26) and Parveen (29). Both were injured in the quarrel and admitted to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital by a police van. A case of attempt to murder was registered.While Parveen sustained injuries on his left arm and lower and upper back, Ankit received injuries on his left armpit and chest.Ankit later succumbed to his injuries due to excessive bleeding after which murder charges were added, the police said.They also said that Praveen has been arrested and investigation launched.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had appealed to all states and union territories last month to impose a ban on spitting in public. He had urged a ban on the sale of tobacco products so that spitting can be stopped to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.After his appeal, many state governments had issued orders in this regard and banned the sale of tobacco products. Delhi is among those more than 20 state which has imposed fine for spitting in public, according to news agency PTI.The health ministry had on Tuesday brought out a list of dos and dont’s during the coronavirus pandemic.Titled ‘COVID Appropriate Behaviours’, the list was posted on Union health ministry’s Twitter feed.Among other things, it asked people to not chew tobacco, khaini etc or spit in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-26-attacked-in-delhi-over-spitting-dies-accused-in-police-custody/story-VoevSeOdVwlwGqyudZmvoJ.html
11-06-2020||Kolkata||Reopening shops inside malls an expensive business for owners in Kolkata||The expenses to run the shops inside malls have increased in Kolkata as the shops are adhering to health guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Subrata Roy, a salon owner in the mall said that expenses to run the salon have increased.“We are under tremendous financial pressure. Now, our expenses have increased as we have to buy Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) kits, thermal guns and sanitizers. We are following health guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19” Roy told ANI.“We are also facing problems as there is no cash flow in the market. We can not increase the rate of services as people are also facing financial problems. The cost to run the shops increased a lot, so We have requested mall authorities to waive off some amount from our rents for sometimes,” he added.Earlier, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said that religious places and places of worship for public, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services along with shopping malls will be permitted to open from June 8.However, these facilities will not be able to resume operations inside containment zones designated by authorities in states, said a government notification. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/reopening-shops-inside-malls-an-expensive-business-for-owners-in-kolkata/story-5u60CRGKa1KfggL6QBF0zH.html
11-06-2020||City||Health scam, slow pace of development amid corona crisis dominate Himachal BJP meeting||Corruption in the health department and the slow pace of development amid the Covid-19 pandemic dominated the discussion at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislature meet in Shimla, which was convened to draw up a strategy to counter the opposition Congress after it escalated its attack on chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The meeting held at the government-run Hotel Peterhoff on Wednesday evening lasted four hours. Thakur faced a volley of questions from BJP legislators over issues, including the bribe for health equipment scam that triggered the exit of Rajeev Bindal as state BJP chief after his name was dragged into the controversy.Thakur reiterated that the party is clean and said that his government has zero tolerance for corruption as legislators repeatedly sought clarification from him on Bindal’s resignation.“If the party has nothing to do with the graft case being investigated then why did the state president resign? The resignation has sent out a wrong signal,” a BJP legislator at the meeting said. Some even favoured Bindal’s reinstatement.Most legislators were keen that the party appoint the new party chief at the earliest. The names of former Naina Devi legislator and acting president Randhir Sharma, the chief minister’s political secretary, Trilok Jamwal, and Kangra Cooperative Bank chairman Rajeev Bhardwaj were discussed.RESUME DEVELOPMENT GRANT: MLASLegislators expressed concern about developmental works coming to a standstill due to the coronavirus crisis. They called for resuming the development grant that has been stopped since the pandemic broke out.A few legislators referred to the chief minister’s helpline, saying “it’s rather proving to be a boon for Congress workers who call up to complain about the works initiated in constituencies. Consequently, the officers take cognizance and works are stopped during these corona times,” said another legislator.ACTIVE CASE FINDING HELPEDThakur focused his address on the steps taken by his government to combat Covid-19. He highlighted the efforts to bring back more than 1.8 lakh stranded people of the state in other parts of the country. This did lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases, he said, adding that still the situation is under control as the state government has made arrangements to ensure people arriving from other states are examined and kept in institutional or home quarantine according to their travel history and medical status.He said that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appreciated the state’s active case finding campaign and asked other states to emulate the example. The chief minister also asked the legislators to counter the Congress campaign against the BJP after the pandemic gets over. It was decided that the legislators will hold press conferences in their constituencies for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-scam-slow-pace-of-development-amid-corona-crisis-dominate-himachal-bjp-meeting/story-DHiBxPHK0rySs4mIaxyXgJ.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two succumb to Covid-19 in Amritsar||Two patients succumbed to Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Wednesday.The victims are a 45-year-old resident of Bazaar Gorian, Lahori Gate and a 62-year-old woman, who is a resident of Nawan Kot area. The 45-year old man was admitted to GMCH in a critical state around 3.15am through the flu corner. He passed away soon after, said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.The patient’s swab samples were collected posthumously and came out positive Thursday morning, he said. “A 62-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away around 11.15pm,” Kishore said. The woman was admitted to the hospital on June 9. Her condition was critical and she was being administered high-flow oxygen and put on a ventilator, the civil surgeon said. “The bodies have been wrapped in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and kept in the mortuary. The last rites will be performed on Thursday as per protocol”, said Dr Kishore.TWO TEST POSITIVE IN MOGATwo people have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga district on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 69.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said one of the patients, a Moga resident, is undergoing treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. He was admitted to the civil hospital on June 9 and later referred to Faridkot hospital as he was having trouble breathing. The second, a resident of Daudhar village was admitted to the community health centre (CHC) at Bagahpurana. Now, there are four active cases in the district. As many as 65 patients have recovered, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-succumb-to-covid-19-in-amritsar/story-nPVTiQQL1KdqpUj8iVgZaI.html
11-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally surges to 6,041 with 120 new cases||Karnataka reported 120 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 6,041, said the health department on Wednesday.There are 3,108 active cases in the state, while 69 people have succumbed to the infection so far.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe total number of people discharged in the state has climbed to 2,862.According to the health department, 14 people in the state are admitted to the ICU. India on Wednesday reported a spike of 9,985 more Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s Covid-19 count to 2,76,583, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-s-covid-19-tally-surges-to-6-041-with-120-new-cases/story-1IU2yQ5QFaD3hfYZzJPYKK.html
11-06-2020||Bangalore||Covid-hit Bengaluru court complex sealed for 2 days||The Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 11’s court at Mayo Hall complex here has been sealed for two days from Thursday, as a police constable posted there tested positive for coronavirus, a court official said on Wednesday.“As the constable attached to the magistrate’s court tested positive on Wednesday, the Karnataka High Court Chief Justice has ordered sealing the entire Mayo Hall complex on June 11-12,” said High Court Registrar General Rajendra Badamikar in an order here.As the entire complex will be sanitised, all appointments granted to the members of the bar for physical filing, payment of court fee and process fee and hearing shall be cancelled in all courts in the complex on Thursday and Friday.“The Principal City Civil & Sessions Judge, Bengaluru, will ensure that in case of urgency, the matters may be heard only through video conferencing,” said Badamikar in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-hit-bengaluru-court-complex-sealed-for-2-days/story-frJxw08pb5Y55h8qGN736L.html
11-06-2020||Patna||JD(U) attacks Lalu Prasad Yadav by putting posters alleging him of corruption||The Janata Dal (United) attacked jailed Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) President Lalu Prasad Yadav on his 73rd birthday by putting up posters alleging the latter of corruption and misappropriation of property.A list of 73 properties acquired by Lalu Prasad Yadav and his family using political influence were enlisted in posters put by JD(U) in Patna.The poster further read: “The list of properties acquired by political muscle power is still being compiled.” Meanwhile, posters were put up by RJD leaders, wishing Lalu Prasad Yadav on his birthday. It is Lalu Yadav’s 73rd birthday today.The poster war between JD(U) and RJD has been going on since last year in view of the upcoming Assembly polls in Bihar which are expected to be held later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/jd-u-attacks-lalu-prasad-yadav-by-putting-posters-alleging-him-of-corruption/story-nHVb7HSr8WCMpnoiDdRONK.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Bars, restaurants allowed to do home delivery of foreign liquor in Mumbai||Mumbaikars have been allowed to order liquor from their nearest bars and restaurants via home delivery amid the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed since mid-March to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again campaign to restore a semblance of normalcy in the city, despite the pandemic.On Tuesday, the Bombay high court (HC) was informed by the state government that the collectors of Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban districts have issued orders, allowing FL-III licence holder bars and restaurants to sale liquor by home delivery in sealed bottles.Additional government pleader Abhay Patki, however, clarified that the permission has been given to clear the existing liquor stock of licenced bars and restaurants.Patki’s submission to the court was in response to a petition filed by the Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association, which had complained that home delivery of liquor by restaurants holding FL-III licences in a bid to clear their existing stock was prevented by the authorities, despite the state excise department’s order to that effect issued on May 19.The plea also pointed out that the collectors of Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban districts, however, issued an order on May 22, allowing liquor shops to do home delivery of foreign liquor to their customers.The plea, filed through advocate Veena Thadani, stated that though bar and restaurant owners across Mumbai have paid hefty licence fees, their businesses have suffered massive losses because of the prolonged lockdown restrictions due to the viral outbreak.The liquor items, which have sell-by dates, will become unfit for human consumption soon, the plea added.Later, advocate Thadani withdrew the petition after Patki informed the court that Mumbaikars have been allowed to order liquor from their nearest bars and restaurants via home delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bars-restaurants-allowed-to-do-home-delivery-of-foreign-liquor-in-mumbai/story-cilsQgQnzYhb5aMZZujRyK.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab’s Dera Bassi town, Mohali district count climbs to 143||Three people tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali’s Dera Bassi, taking the district’s count to 143.The patients are a 57-year-old Preet Nagar resident, a 25-year-old resident of Shivam Complex and a 22-year-old woman, who is a resident of Bhera village.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 25-year-old patient had returned from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh on June 8, while the 22-year-old woman reported to the hospital with flu-like symptoms. We are yet to trace the contacts of the 57-year-old patient. We will collect samples of his family members. All three have been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.“All patients are stable and responding well to treatment,” he said.So far, the district has reported 143 total cases, of which 112 have recovered, three have died and 28 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dera-bassi-count-climbs-to-143/story-3dARd7avORGqvpQnNTomaP.html
11-06-2020||Latest||Shikhar Dhawan credits trust factor for successful ODI opening partnership with Rohit Sharma||Left-handed batsman Shikhar Dhawan on Wednesday credited the trust factor with Rohit Sharma as the reason behind their successful opening partnership for India in one-dayers. With 16 century stands between them, the Indian duo are joint second with Adam Gilchrist and Matthew Hayden in the most hundred-run partnerships in the list led by compatriots Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly (21).“I know him (Rohit) from U-19 days. He was a junior by one-two years and we have camped together. We trust each other and have a great friendship, it works for us,” Dhawan said in an Instagram chat hosted by his IPL franchise Delhi Capitals. “We both know each other’s nature and characters. I know how he is exactly. It’s a proud feeling that we have done so well for India.” The 34-year-old said their off-the-field chemistry has worked well for them.Also read: Windies cherishing test return after coronavirus hiatus says Jason Holder“It brings you positive energy and vibes when everything is in sync. Whenever I face any problem with my batting, I ask him. We have a strong communication going in the middle. We travel 230 days a year together. That’s why the whole Team India is a big family.” The stylish India opener, who spent eight years at Sunrisers Hyderabad, returned to his hometown in the last IPL and racked up 521 runs in 16 matches at an average of 34.73 in his very first season with them.Dhawan’s move to Delhi also changed Delhi Capital’s fortunes as they made the play-offs for the first time after seven years and finished third, going down to Chennai Super Kings in the play-offs. Keen to win the IPL trophy for his home team, Dhawan said: “I always think of winning IPL, especially our team is so good. The vision becomes stronger day by day.Also read: ‘I have moved on’: Younis Khan on allegations that Misbah revolted against his captaincy“Definitely we will win the IPL and bring the trophy home. The fans truly deserve it. They have always packed the stadiums, supported us throughout. We did so well we will keep bettering from here on.” Former captains Ricky Ponting and Sourav Ganguly also played a big role off the field as head coach and mentor as Dhawan said there was a lot to learn from them.“It was a great experience with them. Both of are great legends, great captains. I learnt a lot about leadership quality from them, how they back their players and build the team,” said Dhawan. “They always gave the same attention to everyone, be it seniors and juniors, there was equal treatment to all. They’re always ready to put in hard work whenever the team needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/shikhar-dhawan-credits-trust-factor-for-successful-odi-opening-partnership-with-rohit-sharma/story-A6c4dyrq3TYFtqweSTjUuM.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Farewell, lockdown silence||It was never so quiet. So quiet that one could clearly hear the chirping of birds at noon time, as if this were a bird-filled orchard.For more than two months, the extraordinarily noisy Old Delhi went soundless. The coronavirus triggered lockdown sapped out all its voices. The Walled City lanes that never slept went into a long slumber. Residents would use the haunting word ‘sannata’ to describe the deathly stillness that would pervade the narrow alleyways from morning to night, and night to morning.But now the lockdown is officially over in the Capital and on Monday, for the first time in the area around Jama Masjid, non-essential shops opened—the cloth traders sat in their cramped stores with topi on their head and mask on their face.The lanes again stirred with the cries of itinerant hawkers, including of those men selling cheap masks from door to door.As the old life wafted back, there was also the sense of a renewed loss—felt at least by one Walled City dweller. Shaheena, who describes herself as a woman first and then as “a wife, mother and grandmother.”In her 50s, she lives near Matia Mahal bazar and admits she is relieved that things appear to be getting back to normal “but I had started liking the khamoshi (silence).”Talking on WhatsApp video, she recalls the recent afternoons of the lockdown days when “I would hear nothing, everything seemed peaceful.... just the opening of fridge by someone in the house would feel a sound too loud for the ears.”Shaheena spends most of her waking hours either in praying and reading newspapers or in cooking food for the family. “I feel sukoon (calm) these days”—she is of course worried about the pandemic but at least, for now, all her relatives and friends are reported to be well. In the pre-corona days, the bedroom window in her second-floor home would be shut “due to the noise coming from the street below... the cries of the machhli walla, kebab walla, biryani walla, kharbooj walla....”But these days she tended to leave the window open.“Late in the afternoon, just before the evening,” says Shaheena, “I would, without fail, start to hear the ho-ho sounds of people on rooftops flying their kabutars.” Pigeon-flying would take place in the pre-corona era too “but amid all the din during the old days, I would never hear that sound.”During the lockdown, the ho-ho would be as clear to her as if it were emanating from within her own home. Which can’t be ruled out because Shaheena’s husband, Guddu bhai, is a pigeon lover and is himself a proud owner of a vast collection of birds, that he lovingly maintains on the roof of their house.The only disconcerting bit of the lockdown silence, apart from the dreadful awareness of the virus that caused it, was the occasional “sobbing” of dogs in the area that would fill Shaheena’s heart with forebodings of fear. “We often used to hear their barking but never their crying.”Regardless, the old sounds of the BC (Before Corona) era are coming back, Shaheena says. “I will miss the silence.”But the next moment she partially contradicts herself, insisting that “silence is fine but I’m glad that the poor shopkeepers are finally able to open their businesses even if their shops are still empty of shoppers.... I’m truly happy for all the people who were fearing for their rozgaar (employment).”Now she stands by her window for a photo shoot, as her son holds the phone steady.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-farewell-lockdown-silence/story-ny0uria1KEpFeIxTu9yEYM.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Maharashtra govt announces compensation to affected people in Konkan||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday announced Rs 5,000 each for purchasing essentials to those who have been affected due to the Nisarga cyclone in Konkan.Pawar said that damage assessment has been done and the government will give Rs 15,000 each to the people whose slums were damaged.“Assessment of damages due to Cyclone Nisarga was done, there was a lot of damage. To help people of Konkan, every family there will be given Rs 5000 each for purchasing clothes and essentials, those whose houses in slums were damaged will be given Rs 15,000 each,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-maharashtra-govt-announces-compensation-to-affected-people-in-konkan/story-Xv3QpMFC7NjWSYuh2sR9AI.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||HC asks AAP govt, civic bodies for action plan to deal with earthquakes||In the wake of several minor earthquakes in and around the national capital in since April, the Delhi High Court asked the AAP government and civic authorities on Tuesday as to how well prepared they are if a major tremor hits the city.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar asked the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, cantonment board, DDA and New Delhi Municipal Council to file affidavits explaining steps taken or proposed to be taken to ensure safety of people in the event of a major earthquake.The bench gave the Delhi government and the civic authorities one week to file their affidavits and listed the matter for hearing on June 15.The court also directed the authorities to make the public aware about the action plan in place, if any, for their safety in the event of a major tremor in Delhi.A detailed order of the court is awaited.The order came on an application moved by advocates Arpit Bhargava and D K Sharma claiming that the authorities and Delhi government have not done anything despite several directions by the court to develop an action plan.In their application, they have sought directions to the Delhi government and civic bodies to put in place an action plan in a time bound manner.The application was filed in Bhargava’s main petition filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be large number of casualties.The petition is still pending before the high court which from time to time has directed the Delhi government and civic authorities to develop an action plan.In the application, Bhargava has contended that around 11 earthquakes have struck Delhi since April 12 and according to experts a big one was imminent which is why he has moved the court now for urgent directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-asks-aap-govt-civic-bodies-for-action-plan-to-deal-with-earthquakes/story-dvB4Tfuph6DPhZ4l6P8RGI.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||‘Save gyms’: Owners in Delhi say for 70% of them it’s now or never||Seventy per cent of Delhi’s gyms may shut down for good if they don’t resume business next month, a survey conducted by the Delhi Gym Association revealed.The survey, which was conducted over five days with the sample size of over 1,000 gyms, further stated that if gyms are not opened in August as well, as many as 87% gym owners will have to wrap up their businesses because of huge losses they incurred during the lockdown.Gyms and wellness centres in the city have been closed for over 80 days due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The gym association has appealed to the central and the state governments to allow these facilities to restart operations so the industry can survive. There are around 5,500 registered gyms across the city, including small, medium and branded ones.Gym owners have also demanded financial assistance from the government to tide over the crisis. Nearly 50 gym owners and trainers staged a protest at the Delhi Secretariat on Wednesday demanding that fitness centres be reopened and the industry receive a special relief package. “Gyms should be allowed to operate. It’s a matter of our survival,” Parvinder Singh, a member of Indian Gym Welfare Federation, the body which held the protest, said.The Delhi government is yet to decide on the reopening of gyms and fitness centres across the city. The central government, in an order on May 30, had said that they would take a decision on the reopening of gymnasiums and swimming pools during the “third phase” of the unlocking plan. Though there is no exact time specified for the third phase, it cannot take place before July because the state governments are yet to decide details of the second phase, which will deal with the reopening of schools and colleges, that month.Chirag Sethi, vice-president of the Delhi Gym Association, said that gyms were shut even before the lockdown was announced on March 25 and they have had no business for last 84 days. “Despite there being no business, owners have had to pay a hefty amount in rent, water and electricity bills, and maintenance charges,” Sethi said.“It will result in large-scale unemployment in fitness centres and gyms as owners will not be able to recover the financial losses,” the survey report stated.Nikhil Kakkar, CEO, Gold Gyms India, said that the Covid-19 crisis has impacted the fitness industry adversely across India, irrespective of the class and brand of gyms, and the road ahead is tough even for big fitness chains. “With steep rentals and payrolls, survival is tough in this crisis. Nearly 70% to 75% gyms will bear the brunt of Covid-19 if they are not opened soon,” Kakkar said.Smaller gyms are likely to be hit the worst due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Prateek Chaudhary, the owner of several small-scale gyms in Shahdara and Dilshad Garden, said that local gyms are more vulnerable as they have no financial backing. “At gyms, people build their immunity and strength, hence they should be considered as important as salons and restaurants. We are ready to follow all social distancing and safety measures along with proper sanitisation of our centres,” Chaudhary said.Jugal Kishor, head, community medicine, at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Gyms can be made safer when social distancing norms are followed strictly. Gym premises and equipment should be sanitised thoroughly at regular intervals. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/save-gyms-owners-in-delhi-say-for-70-of-them-it-s-now-or-never/story-F3tRRCPiFzBgS1IcDKYyQL.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Bukhari seeks opinion on shutting Jama Masjid||The historic Jama Masjid in Old Delhi is likely to be temporarily shut again amid fears over the spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the mosque’s Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari said on Wednesday, two days after it reopened because of the nationwide easing of lockdown restrictions.Bukhari is looking at temporarily shutting down the Jama Masjid because of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital, which also led to a personal tragedy for him on Tuesday night, when his personal assistant for over 20 years, Amanullah (57), died at Safdarjung Hospital.“Amanullah was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on June 3 after he had tested Covid-19 positive. He had a heart condition, diabetes, and also liver ailment. He was at home for the past three-four months, as he wasn’t keeping well,” Bukhari said.An official from the Shahi Imam’s office said on Tuesday night Bukhari had sought the opinion of the people on temporarily shutting down the Jama Masjid until the viral outbreak is reined in. “A message was circulated on Tuesday night seeking people’s opinion on the matter. Most people have been in favour of shutting down the mosque until the Covid-19 crisis blows over,” the official said.On Monday, around 200 people offered namaz at the Jama Masjid after it reopened following the easing of lockdown restrictions.“I’ve also urged other mosques to appeal to people to offer namaz at home. All social gatherings should be strictly avoided,” said Bukhari.Delhi reported 1,336 new Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday night, as the overall tally rose to 31,309, including 905 deaths, the health authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bukhari-seeks-opinion-on-shutting-jama-masjid/story-LefNna2ckA22FtIgd7TlnJ.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||In rush to save lives, firefighters are exposed to Covid; 7 positive so far||On June 3, a 32-year-old personnel of the Delhi Fire Services (DFS), stationed at the Shankar Road fire station, tested positive for the infectious coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Over the next 48 hours, the fire station, located amid popular and busy markets, offices and residential areas, was cordoned off. But despite the risk, all personnel were asked to continue their duties.Till Monday, at least seven from the DFS had tested positive for the virus infection. Cases were reported from stations on Shankar Road, in Naraina, Paschim Vihar, the Fire Safety Management Academy in Rohini, and from the control room in Connaught Place.But unlike other government departments and emergency services, where if an employee is tested positive, large-scale contact tracing is carried out to isolate those at risk of infection before the building itself is shut, the fire department is only able to do the bare minimum to prevent the spread of the virus within its teams.The already short-staffed DFS is now facing the daunting task of managing an increased number of fire-related calls with several of its personnel benched.Officials said that along with the necessity of having to maintain close proximity with victims during rescue operations and the inability to wear personal protective equipment (PPE), they are attending to calls blindly with no information as to how many Covid-19 cases were reported from the fire spots. This, officials said, was putting them in danger of contracting the infection.Fire chief Atul Garg said even though it was inevitable that the infection would hit the fire department, unlike the Delhi Police or any other government agency, the fire services cannot afford to take any more personnel off active duty. The 2,700-strong department attends to nearly 40,000 to 50,000 calls a year, translating to nearly 120 calls daily. This number, however, increases to 200-250 a day during summer.“The number of Covid-19 infections has surged so much that we treat every call with caution. We are majorly short-staffed but we cannot ignore calls from containment zones. But we are facing a huge risk,” Garg said.Sukhi Ram, a fireman at the Narela fire station, said even though personnel are equipped with their uniform of overalls, gumboots and breathing apparatus while dousing a blaze, they are forced to touch unknown objects with their hands during cooling operations.“It is difficult to know who is infected because many could be asymptomatic. We go in blind with no information on whether the occupants of a burning structure are patients or carriers. Who will ensure our safety?” he said.On May 23, a fire at a Covid-19 hospital in South Delhi was attended by the DFS and it wasn’t until they reached the hospital that they were told that there were at least five Covid-19 patients in the building, who had to be evacuated. Of those in the building, three were critical and on oxygen support and had to be carried out by the rescuers.Senior fire officials said the chances of a fire personnel catching the disease are high not only because of the nature of their job and the number of calls they attend, but also because of the close proximity in which they have to operate with their team mates.Of all cases that have been detected within the department till now, the source of the infection is unclear and that worries them. “We have to work for 24 hours and then we are off duty for the next 24 hours. During our duty, we stay with our team members in a hostel-like set-up where beds are closely lined together and there is barely any scope for social distancing,” an official said, on condition of anonymity.The official said many DFS officials travel to and from neighbouring states, covering long distances. Exposure during travel has also become a concern.Citing the example of Mumbai, where at least 60 firefighters have already been infected, former Delhi fire chief SK Dheri said the period of duty can be increased for fire officials so that any symptoms that appear can be tracked.“At present, the duty schedule is 24 hours of duty and 24 hours off, but if we allow four or five days of duty and the next four or five days off, then they can assess the symptoms and use the leave period to quarantine themselves. While staying at the station, officials will also have to ensure ample distance among themselves. Meanwhile, since this infection does not look like it is going anywhere at least for some time, the administration can expedite the recruitment process of the DFS, which is so short of hands that it cannot afford to lose people,” Dheri said.The officials said with more and more pockets of the city being marked as containment zones, they are treating each call with extreme care. They are also sanitising their buildings and equipment themselves.Accepting the increased risk faced by emergency teams, a senior government official said the city is struggling with poor data management of the daily tally of Covid19 cases and the death toll from each area. This means that any information passed on to the DFS would be useless by the time it reached them. “We get data from hospitals and labs after a delay of one or two days. At least we manage to release the daily bulletin with updated figures,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-rush-to-save-lives-firefighters-are-exposed-to-covid-7-positive-so-far/story-9Za0I2HDZ0m1lo2xcq0o3H.html
11-06-2020||City||19 more test Covid positive in Ludhiana||As many as 19 persons tested positive for coronavirus here on Wednesday.Among them are an employee working in a prominent cycle manufacturing unit of the city, two pregnant women and a foreign traveller. A 62-year-old man from New Shimlapuri and a 20-year-old woman of New Model Town have also tested positive. A 32-year-old woman and a 29-year-old male from Chhawani Mohalla were also among those who tested positive, taking the total count in the containment zone to 24.The 54-year-old male from Satjot Nagar, Dhandra Road, who works in a bicycle manufacturing unit, is currently admitted at Oswal Hospital, said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.A 23-year-old male who returned from Abu Dhabi also tested positive. A 45-year-old woman from Mundian Khurd and a 57-year-old man from Hata Sherjung who displayed influenza-like illness tested positive today.Five patients including two women aged 37 and 21, and three men aged 19, 38, and 60 all from Fieldganj were tested positive.Meanwhile. two pregnant women, one aged 23 from Dhillon Nagar and other from Gobindpura area, have tested positive.An 18- year- old male from Dhuri Line, a 58-year-old woman from Mallah village in Jagraon also tested positive. A 42-year-old woman from Atam Nagar, who returned from Delhi recently, and a 57-year-old male from Sahnewal are both admitted at DMCH after they tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-more-test-covid-positive-in-ludhiana/story-nbsjtpIMU0HBG3tF8vpooM.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to take strict action against fake news being circulated around examinations||Taking serious note of the fake news being circulated around examinations, Panjab University has said it will take strict measures against those involved.In the last few days many posts regarding PU examinations have been doing the rounds on social media, creating panic among the students. On Tuesday, a fake date sheet for the undergraduate fourth semester exams was circulated on social media prompting the university to immediately clarify that it was not an authentic document.In their response, the university on its official Twitter handle clarified that PU had not issued any date sheet. “Beware of fake news. PU has not issued any date sheet. A fake one is being circulated which is not available on authentic PU websites. Students are advised to follow news alerts and notice boards of PU portal only. Strict action will be taken against mischievous elements,” said the university in a late night tweet on Tuesday.Earlier too, an unknown official of the university was (mis)quoted and some fake news around the examination dates was widely shared on social media. PU controller of examinations, professor Parvinder Singh, said, “We have already reported these matters to the police and we have made a few complaints to the cyber cell as well. We are taking serious note of the fake news around exams. Students should only follow the information given on university’s website only.”PU’s dean of university instructions (DUI), professor RK Singla, said, “The university is preparing for the conduct of examinations, but they will be held when the directives of the government are received.”Days after a fake email was sent to the university employees in the name of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, someone sent another email impersonating professor Ashwani Koul of the biophysics department to some teachers on Wednesday. “I have sent a formal complaint to the cyber cell regarding the email impersonating me as the sender,” said professor Koul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-take-strict-action-against-fake-news-being-circulated-around-examinations/story-jTTM94eaSzW0JMH5tFP9MK.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Missing’ woman found dead in hospital toilet||An 82-year-old woman from Bhusaval, who went missing from Jalgaon Civil Hospital on June 2, was found dead inside the toilet of the hospital on Wednesday morning.The woman, who stayed with her daughter-in-law in Bhusaval, had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 27 and was first admitted to a railway hospital at Bhusaval by her nephew and relative. “Her daughter-in-law died two weeks ago due to the virus, while her son is still in quarantine at Nashik. After her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to Jalgaon Civil Hospital on June 1,” said Akbar Patel, inspector at Zillapeth police station. “On June 2, she left her bed without informing the nurse or hospital staff. The family told us she was missing, after which we registered a missing person’s complaint on June 6. On Wednesday morning, a ward boy of JCH found her partially decomposed body inside the toilet. The family was informed and they identified her.”The body was handed over to the local authority and the last rites were conducted in the presence of her grandson. In a video message, her distraught grandson has appealed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to order a probe into the incident, reported IANS. Kishor Pawar, assistant police inspector at Zillapeth police, said: “We have filed an accidental death report and are questioning the hospital staff. We are also checking the footage obtained from the CCTV cameras on the hospital premises.”Gulabrao Patil, guardian minister of Jalgaon, said the guilty will be punished. “I have complained about the incident to deputy chief minister [Ajit Pawar] and will also complain to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The guilty will have to face action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/missing-woman-found-dead-in-hospital-toilet/story-KJSktf2SnsUnhJyc1DAO6J.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||No touching, please: Decades-old Sukhna Lake akhada being tilled back to life in Chandigarh||After a gap of almost two-and-a-half months, the age-old ritual of tilling the soil, preparing it for wrestling and praying to the idol of Hanuman has returned to the Sukhna lake akhada—the only traditional wrestling centre in Chandigarh.Almost five decades old, the akhada lies on a roadside between the lake and the golf course and is the oldest active akhada keeping the tradition of mud wrestling alive in the tricity.Though wrestling is a physical contact sport, and has not been allowed after sports activities resumed in a post-lockdown Chandigarh, life is returning back to normal at the akhada. Except for slugging or doing group exercises in the mud pit, the wrestlers dressed in the traditional loincloth have started doing regular workouts outside the pit.“For a wrestler, akhada is a sacred place. So I am really happy to be back here after a gap of two months. Because of social distancing we can’t wrestle, but we are able to workout. Nothing can match the atmosphere of training at the lake akhada,” says 15-year-old Sahil, who competed in the 55kg freestyle event at the under-15 national championship held last year at Kota, Rajasthan.ONLY SENIOR WRESTLERS ALLOWEDBefore the lockdown on any given day there used to be an attendance of over 50 wrestlers, but now only 15-20 wrestlers are allowed in the morning and evening sessions.“We are only allowing senior wrestlers or the ones who have played at the national-level to come for training at the akhada. After the daily rituals, the wrestlers do their workouts outside the pit. Even during individual workouts we are taking care that proper distancing is maintained and there isn’t any sharing of equipment like weights, dumbbells, without sanitizing,” said Raja Phelwan, who works with Chandigarh Police and maintains the akhada.In the 60s, there used to be a police post adjoining the akhada and the personnel who were posted there started training here. Since then the akhada has been maintained by the Chandigarh Police. The country’s top wrestlers including Olympic medallists Sushil Kumar and Yogeshwar Dutt have trained here.“The akhada is almost fifty years old. Even the legendary wrestler, Mehar Din, used to train here. Even during the time of terrorism, our seniors used to prepare the akhada (by tilling the mud) on a daily basis. For the first time during the lockdown, the tradition was put on a hold. Time we even missed the Hanuman Jayanti on April 27, which otherwise is a time for celebration here,” added Raja Phelwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-touching-please-decades-old-sukhna-lake-akhada-being-tilled-back-to-life-in-chandigarh/story-aKiuzxIhNNnfuZjoXuOqFK.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Theme-based plants to come up on sector-dividing roads in Chandigarh||The environment and city beautification committee of the Chandigarh municipal corporation in its meeting on Wednesday decided that theme based plantations will be done on V-3 roads that divide sectors.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Hardeep Singh and attended by other members of the committee namely Davesh Moudgil, Rajesh Kumar, Ravi Kant Sharma, and Davinder Singh Babla.During the meeting, it was discussed and decided that tertiary treated water supply be made available in all the big parks and green belts throughout city. The members were of the view that all five entry points of Chandigarh be beautified and agenda in this regard be prepared.The committee asked the engineers concerned to communicate their recommendations regarding pruning of trees inside the school premises, whose branches falls either on road or road berms.The members directed preparation of proper schedule for plantation of trees and shrubs throughout city and put up in the next meeting.The members asked the engineers to maintain proper cleanliness inside the parks in southern sectors specially Sectors 47 and 48 to avoid mosquito breeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/theme-based-plants-to-come-up-on-sector-dividing-roads-in-chandigarh/story-oEg8zJKZWgjafBI7x4B7XP.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||113-hectare Lonar Lake in Buldhana turns pink||The water at the 113-hectare Lonar Crater Lake in Buldhana district turned reddish-pink over the past week. A similar phenomenon was reported from the Talawe wetlands in Navi Mumbai on May 16 as one section of the wetland patch had turned pink. In the Lonar case, after local residents shared photographs with the Maharashtra forest department, the latter on Wednesday asked the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur to assess why there has been a change in colour.“We will be collecting water samples and sending it to NEERI soon. We will know the exact reason within two weeks,” said MS Reddy, additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and field director, Melghat Tiger Reserve.Other officials said some local residents had informed the department about a similar change in water colour last year during this period as well. “The colour, however, was not this dense. Although this needs to be verified by scientists, but this is most likely due to algal growth. During late summer season when water levels reduce and there is high salinity, an algal bloom results in such changes in colour,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra.There are several examples of such a phenomenon across the globe due to high salinity and action by algae, but it needs to be confirmed based on scientific studies, said Reddy.In Talawe’s case, researchers and microbiologists had attributed the change in colour to vigorous growth of algae or bacteria (halobacteria) growing in an extremely high saline environment having beta-Carotene, which gives this type of characteristic colouration to the water.“The uniqueness of this lake is that it is alkaline as well as saline at the same time, and the water level parameters change as we move from one end to the other making it a complex ecosystem home to large biodiversity,” said Kakodkar.Located 500km from Mumbai and over 90km from Buldhana city, the oval-shaped Lonar Lake is a part of the 383-hectare Lonar Wildlife Sanctuary declared on June 8, 2000 as part of the Deccan plateau. The lake has an average diametre of over 6,000 feet, while it is 449 feet deep. According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, it was said to have formed as a result of a meteorite impact that occurred between 35,000 and 50,000 years ago. It was identified as a unique geographical site by a British officer C J E Alexander in 1823, and also declared a notified National Geo-heritage Monument in 1979. A combined area of 366-hectare of Lonar Lake and surrounding regions was first proposed to be declared as a Ramsar site, a wetland of ecological importance, in 2017 by the state forest department. “The area is expected to soon be declared as a Ramsar site as the final documentation process is underway,” said a joint secretary from the Union environment ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/113-hectare-lonar-lake-in-buldhana-turns-pink/story-E87FKz9i4xRFaWDSR8bLEO.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon session of state pushed to August 3; plan to hold it online||The state government has decided to postpone the monsoon session of the legislature, scheduled for June 22 in Mumbai, to August 3, against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to contain its spread. The legislature is also preparing for an online mechanism to enable members to participate from their constituencies in the remotest areas of the state.A business advisory committee (BAC) which comprises chairman of the legislative Council Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar, speaker of the Assembly Nana Patole, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leaders of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, decided to postpone the session by six weeks in its meeting held on Wednesday. The session is likely to be held for two weeks. Before that, the government may also call for a special session of a day to get supplementary demands passed, enabling expenditure on health care infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The government expenditure needs approval of the legislature. The government has, however, not yet decided if the monsoon session will be held online or will it be a hybrid seating arrangement. The state legislature has, however, started preparations to hold the session online with a capacity of allowing 1,000 people to participate at a time. The legislature administration held presentations of at least five software companies over the past few days. “We have taken presentations from leading players providing videoconference platforms. Cisco, Google, Microsoft, Blue Jeans, Alcatel have shown interest in providing high-end platforms for such an online session. The platform will have facility of even voting on any motion if need be. The legislators will be able to participate from the remotest areas of the state or even by using video-conference facilities at district headquarters. Our system will be user-friendly, enabling legislators to participate using their smartphones,” said an official from the state legislature.The officer said that they expect the platform to incur much less expenditure than spent when the sessions are typically held with the physical presence of all members. He said that the total expenditure would not be more than ₹4 lakh, including the additional workforce needed to be engaged for it. The decision about the form in which the session needs to be conducted is expected to be taken next month. “It all depends on the pandemic situation by the end of July. If it is well in control, we may allow the members to participate physically, or otherwise only ministers and officials with mandatory physical presence will only be allowed to attend it personally. Others will be asked to participate online. Next meeting is expected to be held in the last week of July to take a decision over it,” an official from CMO said.Leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis suggested to hold a day-long session to get supplementary demands passed in the wake of the rising expenditure on the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-session-of-state-pushed-to-august-3-plan-to-hold-it-online/story-KXvLXBEjzf4iZ56SnehIZM.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Plasma therapy trials soon for state’s serious Covid patients||In a significant development, the Maharashtra government received permission to conduct multi-centric trials of convalescent plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients. For the first time in the country, trials will be conducted by a state on serious Covid-19 patients. The trials will be conducted at 21 medical colleges across Maharashtra, which is the most affected state in the country, with 94,041 Covid-19 cases. Currently, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting trials of convalescent plasma therapy on mild and moderate patients. In Maharashtra, they are being held at five government colleges and six private medical colleges.“There is no ongoing trial for serious patients. The state medical education department has decided to sponsor multi-centric trials for serious patients. Around 21 medical colleges have been shortlisted,” said Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, medical education department. “The Drug Controller General of India has approved it. This would be the largest trial in the world for the use of convalescent plasma as therapy for severe patients. If it is successful, plasma therapy will become standard practice in treatment of severe patients.”In Mumbai, the trials will be conducted at Grant Medical College, Topiwala National Medical College at BYL Nair Hospital, KEM Medical College, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College at Sion, and Cooper Hospital Medical College.While Mukherjee will act as the sponsor, Government Medical College in Nagpur will be the lead institution and Dr Shushant Meshram will be the principal investigator.In convalescent plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient are used to treat an infected patient. The process involves transfusion of plasma, a blood component, from a recovered patient to an infected patient. The therapy can also be used to provide immunity to those at high risk of contracting the novel coronavirus.“We will be building a facility to conduct the trials at the colleges. It means infrastructure will also be created there, which will come as another advantage for the state,” said Mukherjee. “We are all excited as it is happening in the country for the first time.”Officials said the trials will start immediately after approval from the ethics committee of the medical colleges. However, it will take 15-20 days to procure machines and equipment for places where it is not available. “Trials can be conducted on around 2,000 patients at a time in the beginning at all 21 medical colleges,” said a senior official, on condition of anonymity. “The process of making a list of donors, too, has already started.”Who can donate plasma?There are three criteria to make a person eligible to become a donor. The person has to have been infected with Covid-19 and completely recovered. He/she has completed 28 days from the time of testing negative for the virus and has haemoglobin level of 12.5 grams per decilitre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/plasma-therapy-trials-soon-for-state-s-serious-covid-patients/story-6bDqvXPNaF2cvK8uQsw5KI.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest one-day spike in cases and deaths||As Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases yet with 3,254 fresh Covid-19 infections, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday reiterated his demand to resume local train services for those working in essential and emergency services. Thackeray also warned that relaxations would be withdrawn if norms to reduce crowding are not followed, adding that the threat of Covid-19 still persists.With the fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stands at 94,041. Maharashtra also recorded is 149 new fatalities, of which 66 occurred in the past two days, while the remaining 83 were recorded between April 18 and June 6.Mumbai recorded 1,567 new Covid-10 cases and 97 deaths, its highest for a day. Besides Mumbai, 15 deaths were recorded in Thane, 10 in Pune, seven in Aurangabad, five each in Navi Mumbai and Jalgaon, three in Ulhasnagar, two each in Vasai-Virar and Akola, one each in Beed, Amravati, and Gadchiroli. The state also saw 1,879 patients discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of people recovered and discharged to 44,517. The active cases in the state stand at 46,074.Thackeray, while speaking to the media at Vidhan Bhavan, said the state government was insisting on the resumption of suburban services in Mumbai. “We have been demanding from the Centre the resumption of rail services. The hospital staff and other workforce engaged in essential and emergency services are finding it difficult to commute from far-off areas to Mumbai. Some of them are not even able to report for duty. The resumption of locals is very important for the facility of this workforce,” he said.However, senior railway officials in Mumbai have stated there have been no directions from the railway ministry on the starting operation of local trains. “There has been no discussion regarding local trains during any of the video conferences. The outstation train services that have been started are only after discussions and approval from the ministry of home affairs. A decision regarding local train operations will also be taken post discussion with the ministry of home affairs,” said a senior railway official who did want to be named.Thackeray had demanded the resumption of suburban railway services for Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), during his video conference with prime minister Narendra Modi a month ago.The chief minister said that the government is moving “cautiously” on unlocking the curbs it had put in March to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state. The current phase of the lockdown with restrictions will remain till June 30, he said. However, he warned that the government would be compelled to withdraw relaxations if crowding does not reduce and if norms are flouted.The statement comes after there was crowding seen in Mumbai and parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) after restrictions were lifted from Monday. Crowding was seen at bus stops, at promenades during morning and evening walks, etc.Mumbai, and MMR, which includes Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, Palghar, Panvel, Raigad, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, was the latest to see relaxationS in curbs. Mumbai and MMR, which crossed the 70,000-mark, have been Covid-19 hotspots since the outbreak.“The threat of Covid-19 has not passed, it still persists. As we continue to battle corona[virus], we cannot put the brakes on wheels of the economy. We were shocked looking at the crowd on the first day. Outdoor physical activities are permitted for your good health and not to spoil it. People will have to keep physical distance [while stepping out]. Public transport, including buses and suburban trains, have not been started. The government is evaluating it. If we feel that the lifting of lockdown is life-threatening, then we will be forced to impose the lockdown again,” Thackeray said, adding that he is confident that the people of Maharashtra will continue to listen to the government’s rules and guidelines.Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, said that the unlocking of activities would definitely give rise to the number of cases in the state. He added that the people should still continue to only venture if it is essential. “I think there would definitely be a rise in cases. The graph [of cases] is still upward. The unlocking should also be accompanied by adequate educating of people. Unlocking is an economic decision and not because we are confident that all is well. Unfortunately, people do not understand this; they assume that because restrictions are lifted they can go all out. The wise thing is to still step out only if one is doing essential work even though if it is not mandated by law. People are seen walking on promenades; this is luxury,” Pinto said.(with inputs from Aroosa Ahmed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-one-day-spike-in-cases-and-deaths/story-KNqN4PHOTRCRvE83WeioZL.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three vehicles reported stolen in Chandigarh||The police on Wednesday registered three cases of vehicle theft in the city.In the first case, Magru Parsad of Small Flats Housing Board Complex in Mauli Jagran reported that his e-rickshaw had been stolen. Parsad told the police that he had parked the three-wheeler in the back parking of GMSH-16.In another case, a Sector-52 resident, Mitwa, reported the theft of his Hero Splendor motorcycle from outside his house. Meanwhile, one Kirpal Singh of Phase 5, Mohali, told the police that his Honda Activa scooter that was parked near his shop in Sector 41, Chandigarh, had been stolen.Immigration fraud: Man duped of Rs 40,000The police have booked one Satish Kumar, owner of Shirgul Rudra Tourism Private Limited, Sector 34A, for duping a Sector-20 resident of Rs 40,000 on the pretext of getting him a job in the UK. Complainant Surjit Singh in his complaint to the police said despite the payment, Satish had failed to update him about the visa or refund the money. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 24 of the Immigration Act was registered.Vehicles burnt, damaged in ChandigarhMiscreants set ablaze three two-wheelers and damaged two cars parked in Mauli Complex, police said on Wednesday. In his complaint, Ajay Yadav of Mauli Complex, Chandigarh, said that some unidentified persons had burnt his CT-100 motorcycle on the intervening night of June 8/9. He said two Activa scooters parked nearby were also burnt while two cars parked nearby were damaged. The police are scanning the CCTV footage to get clues. A case under Sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-vehicles-reported-stolen-in-chandigarh/story-V8Tikv3STuxC7P1GObdNbL.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Families of Covid-19 patients stock up on oxygen cylinders||Amid the shortage of beds with oxygen facilities, families of Covid-19 patients are providing oxygen therapy at home, even as they wait for a vacant spot in hospitals. Doctors, however, have prohibited the use of oxygen cylinders at home without medical supervision or prescription.Almost 10% of patients, especially those suffering from asthma and cardiac ailments, need oxygen support as Covid-19 is a respiratory infection that affects the lungs, leading to low oxygen saturation levels. While oxygen saturation level for most healthy individuals is around 95% — meaning at least 95% of the blood in the body carries oxygen – it can drop to as low as 75% among Covid-19 patients and cause death. With the cases rising each day, most hospitals are flooded with patients. Currently, 3,424 of the 4,650 beds with oxygen are occupied across city hospitals. The scale of the outbreak has resulted in patients being forced to wait for hours – stretching to days at times – which can lower oxygen saturation among patients. Consequently, many families are stocking up portable oxygen bottles as a precautionary measure. According to the All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF), the demand for oxygen cylinders and bottles in the past one month alone has gone up by 70%.Nidhi Salvi, a 61-year-old resident of Sion Koliwada, developed fever with breathlessness on May 29. She took over-the-counter medicines, but her condition started to deteriorate soon. On calling the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) helpline number (1916), Salvi was placed 53rd on the waiting list. “She was struggling to breathe. We then rushed to a nearby medical store and rented an oxygen cylinder to aid her breathing. The shopkeeper, through a video call, helped me set up the machine,” said Surendra, Salvi’s 39-year-old son. After waiting for 34 hours, she finally got a bed at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital. Having received oxygen supply, her saturation level didn’t fall below 90%. “On hospitalisation, the doctor told that my mother had developed pneumonia, but she survived due to the oxygen provided,” said Surendra.Non-profit organisation NESH (Nobody Ever Sleeps Hungry) that supplies oxygen cylinders in five wards (A, B, C, D and E) stretching from Nariman Point to Mumbai Central receives more than 50 calls every day. “Other than hospital beds, finding an ambulance on time is a struggle. In order to save time, we started an oxygen facility. We guide families on how to use it via video calls. With growing awareness, we have also begun getting orders from people from far-off locations,” said Zohar Diwan, founder, NESH.NESH provides oxygen on the basis of doctor’s prescription. “Doctors mention the amount of oxygen required and we provide the cylinder accordingly and guide them,” said Diwan. “Family members are instructed to regulate the knob according to the markings on the cylinder.”A user has to give a refundable security deposit of ₹4,000 and a charge of ₹400 has been fixed for every cylinder. However, the service is free for people who can’t afford it. “The growing fear of Covid-19 is resulting in many people developing breathlessness, which further adds to the panic and leads to stocking up of portable oxygen bottles at home,” said Abhay Pandey, national president, AFDLHF.“If oxygen is supplied inappropriately, a patient can even die from oxygen toxication. Families of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease need to be more careful. I don’t recommend home-based oxygen therapy. Oxygen is a harmful drug,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director of Chest Research Foundation.“We are focusing on increasing ward-wise supply of oxygen. We have installed portable oxygen units at different wards. At K-ward, we have installed 15 oxygen concentrators for patients with breathlessness,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/families-of-covid-19-patients-stock-up-on-oxygen-cylinders/story-CLtoFZGcI6jStyyi5AwiBL.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn seeks 50% reservation for locals in Diplomate of National Board courses at GMSH-16||The Chandigarh administration has sought 50% reservation for residents of the city in Diplomate of National Board (DNB) courses at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Seats for the course are filled through centralised counselling conducted by the Office of National Board of Examination (NBE), New Delhi, for departments of obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatric, medicine, surgery, orthopaedics, anaesthesia, ENT and pathology.DNB specialists get their medical postgraduate degrees from the NBE and are principally trained at hospitals which don’t have medical colleges.If this policy is implemented, it will benefit residents of Chandigarh who fulfil specified criteria and shall be eligible to apply in the future.The criteria is that the candidate must have studied for a period of five years in the city at any time prior to the last date of submission of application. The candidate should submit a certificate issued by the deputy commissioner to the effect that the candidate or his parents have been residing or have resided in Chandigarh for at least five years.Children of persons who hold immovable property in the city for a period of five years at any time prior to the last date of the submission of the application will also be eligible.The property should be in the name of the parents or the candidate himself/herself and the candidate must submit a certificate issued by deputy commissioner-cum-estate officer or tehsildar to this effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-seeks-50-reservation-for-locals-in-diplomate-of-national-board-courses-at-gmsh-16/story-gMc1GTCtDH36HIagSw1tVI.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Another constable dies; Mumbai Police toll at 22||A 54-year-old head constable from the city police force died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number deaths in the Mumbai Police to 22. However, city police on Wednesday also revealed that of the total of 1,908 infected personnel, 1,077 have recovered from the disease. Nearly 25% (258) of the recovered cops have also resumed duty.Ankit Goyal, deputy commissioner of police, zone 10, confirmed that the head constable posted at Meghwadi police station died of the Covid-19 on Wednesday.Sudhir Nigudkar, senior inspector of Meghwadi police station, said, “On June 1 his mother, aged 72, tested positive. She is still under treatment at the National Sports Club of India (NSCI), Worli Covid care centre. Since then, he was also home-quarantined.”The constable, a Jogeshwari resident, lived with his mother, wife and a 26-year-old son. His wife and son are fine, Nigudkar said.The police said the head constable started having health issues while in home quarantine and was admitted to Hindu Hruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackerey Trauma Care Municipal Hospital in Jogeshwari (East) on June 7.A police officer said, “The day he was admitted in the hospital his swab was collected for Covid-19 test and his report on Wednesday revealed that he was positive. On Wednesday, his condition worsened and he started experiencing breathing problems. He succumbed to the infection in early afternoon.”Police suspect that he contracted the virus from his mother.One of his colleagues requesting anonymity said, “He was a good human being and was very helpful. He used to handle station house related work.”The pace of cops recovering from the disease is improving. Pranaya Ashok, Mumbai Police spokesperson and DCP (operation), said, “Continuous follow ups, ensuring better availability of beds for cops, developing Covid care facilities, quick response, strictly following social distancing and the spirit of the police force are some of the key reasons for quicker recovery of cops.”82 personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, another police officer said. SRPF personnel had been called in Mumbai for assisting already exhausted city police force. Five burglars test positiveFive of the seven burglars arrested by Nehru Nagar police for allegedly committing burglary at an electronic shop in Kurla (East) have tested positive for Covid-19. According to the police, the accused had stolen electronic equipment worth ₹5.5 lakh. A team of Nehru Nagar police arrested all the accused by June 6 and their swab samples were collected for testing. On Wednesday, reports of five of the seven accused came positive.An officer said the accused have been shifted to Sir JJ Hospital for further treatment. Police is in process of identifying the close contacts of the accused while the police personnel who arrested the accused have been asked to be in home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/another-constable-dies-mumbai-police-toll-at-22/story-wdQrrT3IMpJPaKiJ4BIkcL.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration sets up committee to control overcrowding at PGIMER||The UT administration has formed a committee under the director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to suggest guidelines for inter and intra state referral system among hospitals.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said so far there was no policy document laying down the categories of patients that should be referred from primary or secondary hospitals within Chandigarh and from the neighbouring states to PGIMER. The committee is expected to design a protocol and prepare a system so that overcrowding at the institute can be controlled. Health representatives from the nearby states will also be a part of this committee. UT spokesperson in a press release said that a committee with representatives from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multispecialty Hospital, Sector 16, has been approved by the UT administrator to formulate a protocol to ensure that there is no overcrowding or congestion of patients.The committee will also recommend how Chandigarh can be developed to emerge as an ideal medical hub for the northern region. Earlier, PGIMER had said that despite repeated requests, non-serious cases were still coming in from neighbouring states, including some infected with Covid-19. The UT adviser was then asked to take up the matter with other states, so that patients who could be locally treated needn’t be referred to PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-sets-up-committee-to-control-overcrowding-at-pgimer/story-jLxJFVe34LLxriIG0wogmJ.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Amid suspected Wuhan wet market link, Centre issues rules for import, possession of exotic species||The wildlife division of the Union environment ministry has issued rules for dealing with the import of exotic species and will assess the existing scale of possession within the country.The Centre intends to streamline the process by officially identifying those handling such species or involved in their legal trade, as per mandates of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), which India is a signatory to. Exotic live species are both plants and animals that are moved from their source (original) habitat to a new one due to human intervention.The decision comes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, its suggested linkage with wet markets in China, and the zoonotic factor, said Soumitra Dasgupta, inspector general of forests (wildlife), Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC). He added that the advisory, a copy of which HT has, is yet to be officially released to the public. “There are many reasons for creating these guidelines but the Covid-19 pandemic is the primary one. So far there was no mechanism to regulate this, with the chief wildlife wardens (from different states) not in the loop. Things were haphazard,” said Dasgupta. “We are now trying to develop a mechanism wherein genuine importers do not suffer and all levels of the government machinery are aware of the exotic species present in their jurisdiction. This will also allow us an overall control over the possible zoonotic disease transmissions,” he added.The advisory highlights a period of six months (from the date of the official order) to be given for voluntary disclosure for persons in possession of exotic live species in India. The disclosure needs to be made before the chief wildlife warden of each state.“Forest officials will physically verify the submissions, check whether the facilities where the species are being housed are safe, and issue online certificates to owners within another six months from the date of disclosure,” said another senior MoEFCC official. “State chief wildlife wardens have been given the power to take action as they see fit for any violations.”For import of live exotic species, a license needs to be obtained from the Director-General of Foreign Trade along with a no-objection certificate from the chief wildlife warden of the respective state. “Those intending to import have to obtain a health certificate from the national health agency of the country of origin from where the species is being brought, indicating that they are free from any diseases, and also carry health cards for each exotic species being imported,” the official said, adding that concerned authorities need to take note of submissions, ensure the safety of species, and avoid contact or breeding with any indigenous species. Prescribed formats for all processes will be provided in the Centre’s final order, and details will be made public on the ministry’s online portal - Parivesh.Experts said this is a welcome step towards curbing illegal exotic wildlife trade in India. “These regulations will act as deterrents for both, buyers and sellers. We hope more measures follow which further help strengthen these regulations,” said Jose Louies, deputy director and chief of the wildlife crime control division at Wildlife Trust of India (WTI).Dr Neil D’Cruze, head (wildlife research), UK-based group World Animal Protection, said, “Covid-19 is understandably bringing the import of wild animals for commercial purposes under increasing scrutiny. Any steps to improve information on exotic species imported into India should be welcomed. However, there will always be some degree of risk, both, to animal welfare and public health, when non-native species are imported.”Others said the regulations were needed long ago. “Some non-license holders may have been misusing this trade channel for a long time. It is long overdue that we needed to be aware of the source of exotic species being brought to cities without any safeguards, that may have a potential health threat,” said Ravi Singh, secretary-general and chief executive officer, WWF-India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-suspected-wuhan-wet-market-link-centre-issues-rules-for-import-possession-of-exotic-species/story-kKmzOD5hRLqjDnLyiW4trN.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-based consumer body urges aviation minister to issue fresh advisory for air travel refunds||Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), a non-government organisation for consumer protection, has written to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to issue fresh advisories to airlines and travel portals for air travel refunds in view of the June 4 United Nations (UN) guidelines. Referring to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)’s uniform guidelines for all UN member states, MGP on Tuesday requested the government to protect the rights of consumers by directing airlines to offer full refund on air tickets without cancellation charges on flights that did not operate due to government restrictions (even if the passengers have not applied for refund) and the ones who had to cancel their flight journey because of Covid-19. It also asked the government to offer credit vouchers with extended validity only if it is acceptable to passengers. Currently, airlines are offering credit vouchers that are valid up to one year for the same sector. For instance, a passenger who had booked a Mumbai- Delhi flight for May 15 can fly until May 15, 2021 with no change in the destination airport along with additional ticket charges if applicable. However, UNCTAD guidelines, issued last week, ask airlines to be fair to the consumers. MGP had earlier requested UNCTAD for the same in the interest of consumer rights. The NGO had requested UNCTAD to consider issuing uniform guidelines to UN member states to issue advisory for airlines protecting consumers’ right to refund and at the same time consider making the financial burden of airlines lighter by offering more flexible, transferable credit vouchers with longer validity without making it compulsory. MGP in the letter to the minister said, “We are very happy to inform you that UNCTAD secretariat has acceded our request and has issued guidelines dated 4th June 2020 for the UN member states (Copy enclosed herewith) which, in short, wants airlines to respect air passengers’ right to refund for flights cancelled due to lockdown and says that airlines should not deny refund of ticket amounts. Taking note of difficulties faced by airlines, UNCTAD guidelines also state that airlines may issue credit vouchers, on more attractive terms, for those passengers who are willing to accept the same.”The Union ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had on April 16 directed airlines to refund ticket amounts to passengers without levying cancellation charges. However, the directions have not been seen to be followed by the airlines. MGP urged Puri to refund the amount for passengers who booked the tickets not only during lockdown but also pre-lockdown and extended periods. The body has, hence, asked Puri to issue new revised guidelines for refund on air tickets for the flights which could not operate during lockdown period and also for the passengers, who had cancelled their travel plans as per government’s advisories. MGP had conducted a seven-day online survey of air passengers from India, the UAE, Kuwait, Georgia, France, the UK, the USA and Canada. The findings of the survey showed that 86% of respondents insisted on cash refund only and rejected the option of credit voucher. “The Survey has also revealed that large numbers of air travellers are contemplating to go to court of law for seeking legitimate refund. We are attaching herewith the important findings of this survey for your information,” said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman of MGP. MGP also suggested that the minister arrange a meeting with all the stakeholders, including all domestic and international airlines, travel agents and travel web portals by the ministry, within a week to discuss a mutually-accepted solution in the passenger’s interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-based-consumer-body-urges-aviation-minister-to-issue-fresh-advisory-for-air-travel-refunds/story-A1OYELSvbV9PvzOvXZseRJ.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Despite price cap, private hsopitals continue to overcharge Covid patients||While complaints continue to come in against private hospitals who are overcharging patients for Covid-19 treatment, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tasked five bureaucrats with ensuring beds in private hospitals are made available to Covid-19 patients.On May 21, the state capped the treatment price for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. The charges for a bed in isolation ward cannot be more than Rs 4,000 a day. The maximum charge for treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) is ₹7,500 a day, and for those on ventilators, the charge is capped at ₹9,000 a day. These amounts include drugs, doctor’s consultation fees, nursing, food and bed charges, but exclude tests for Covid-19, personal protective equipment (PPE), the cost of expensive drugs like Tocilizumab, and certain scans.Despite this, some private hospitals are continuing to charge patients over ₹50,000 a day. One of the reasons for the inflated prices is that hospitals are ignoring the state’s guidelines and continuing to charge more than 10% of the net procurement cost for items like PPE, pacemakers, stents, catheters and medical implants.After 31-year-old homeopathic doctor Dr Mithlesh Singh succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, his family was given a bill of ₹6,28,000 for 12 days of treatment. He had been admitted to KJ Somaiya Hospital on May 28 and was immediately kept under ventilation. Despite repeated calls and messages, Dr VA Sabnis, dean of the hospital, did not respond. On June 2, 36-year-old Asma Anwar Shaikh was admitted to MH Saboo Siddique Maternity and General Hospital at around 4pm. On June 3, approximately 19 hours after admission, she was declared dead. Shaikh’s family was charged ₹45,000. The charges in the hospital bill included Rs 4,000 for “disposable Covid”; ₹12,000 for “disposal kit”; ₹3,000 for disposable masks. In addition to charging ₹7,500 for a bed in ICU, the hospital charged ₹3,000 for the ventilator, ₹3,010 for oxygen and ₹3,000 for intubation.Dr Nazir, administration head of the hospital, said, “We have charged the patient according to protocol. We can’t pay the money for disposable items from our pockets.”Activist Jitendra Tandel of Rugna Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha, who has filed a complaint to the state health department about overcharging at private hospitals, said that there was a need for a protocol to monitor hospitals that are violating rules of the Epidemic Diseases Act. “The state health minister announced patients will be provided treatment free of cost, but it hasn’t been implemented yet,” he added.Dr Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, said, “We are planning to start a helpline number for people to register complaints if they are charged more than the capped amount.” Shinde also said, “At present, district collectors are given the responsibility to hear complaints about overcharging at private hospitals.”Meanwhile, responding to complaints about the unavailability of beds at private hospitals, BMC commissioner IS Chahal has assigned five Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers with the task of ensuring private hospitals make beds available to Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-price-cap-private-hsopitals-continue-to-overcharge-covid-patients/story-oK3cEkkrP0VI2C8KeWNn9H.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 500 more ICU beds||Anticipating a rise in Covid-19 cases in the coming days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to add 500 more intensive care unit (ICU) beds to boost the capacity by 40% by the end of the month. The current ICU bed capacity is 1,164, with 99% occupancy. Experts feel the current capacity of ICU beds is not enough, considering the number of cases that require immediate ICU attention.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “By the end of this month, we will add 500 more ICU beds to the existing capacity. A total of 300 beds will be added in the next 10 days and 200 will be added by June 30.”The city witnessed 97 deaths on Wednesday, the highest number of fatalities recorded so far, taking the toll to 1,855. It recorded 1,567 cases, which took the count to 52,667. Of the total, 26,178 cases are active.BMC, however, said the situation is under control, as the doubling rate has increased to 24.5 days from 11 days at the start of May.Clarence Pinto, a health activist, said, “As the lockdown is being lifted, the number of patients will definitely go up. At least 10% of the total cases [which would be 2,617, considering the total number of current active cases] would require ICU attention. There are cases where patients are travelling a distance in ambulances just to find ICU beds. The current capacity is definitely not enough.”The total number of completely or partly sealed buildings has reached 4,538. The highest number of sealed buildings, 443, is in F-North ward which includes Matunga, King’s Circle and Sion. The total number of containment zones has gone up to 798, of which a majority (116) are located in R-North ward, which comprises Dahisar and Borivli.In what seems to be a good sign, Dharavi continues to show a decline in the number of cases. On Wednesday, 11 cases were reported in Dharavi, bringing the total to 1,964. The G-North ward (Dharavi-Dadar-Mahim) has so far reported 3,111 cases and 100 deaths. After 10 days, two deaths were recorded in Dharavi and one in Mahim on Wednesday.Chahal also said Mumbai has not seen a single death due to unavailability of dialysis procedure in the past 20 days. Unavailability of dialysis procedure for Covid and non-Covid patients was a major cause for concern for BMC, and was adding to mortality in Covid-19 patients.The chaos was mainly due to lack of clarity among hospitals on handling Covid-19 patients who come for dialysis. The Union Health Ministry’s guidelines for dialysis of Covid-19 patients says they are a “vulnerable group because of their existing comorbidities, repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immunosuppressed state...”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have streamlined the entire process for those in need of dialysis, by issuing guidelines to hospitals and all others concerned. Due to our efforts, we have not got any complaints in the past 20 days. Complaints came earlier because there was no clarity, but we have worked on it.”By May 26, BMC had also started a dashboard for bed management for dialysis patients, so doctors could refer patients to those hospitals. In a video-conference with the media, Chahal had said BMC had managed to bring down the mortality rate in Mumbai, which hovered around 6% in March and April, to 3.2% by the end of May, due to reasons that included greater care toward Covid-19 patients on dialysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-500-more-icu-beds/story-K7pFIcwuPEFB0rCRoCWQsO.html
11-06-2020||City||Two fresh cases in Panchkula take district’s total to 43||A man with travel history to Delhi and a woman who recently delivered a baby were tested positive for coronavirus disease in Panchkula on Wednesday, taking the district’s total count of confirmed cases to 43.As many as 17 cases have been reported in the past eight days, and account for all the active cases at present.The 30-year-old woman from Sector 16 was tested while she was admitted for her delivery at a private nursing home.The other case is of a 55-year-old man from Sector 8 who had recently returned from Delhi.Both are admitted in the isolation ward of the civil hospital, Sector 6. Looking at the spike in cases, the Panchkula health department has decided to take samples of every resident returning from red zone areas, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-take-district-s-total-to-43/story-Z8GMY5zdMKKyGbwMYFQ9fI.html
11-06-2020||City||Thieves uproot ATM containing ₹16 lakh in Lalru||Some unidentified masked men on Wednesday decamped with an automated teller machine (ATM) containing over ₹16 lakh from a Punjab National Bank kiosk in Lalru on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway here.Lalru station house officer Gurcharan Singh said at 2.15am on Wednesday, four persons came in a Mahindra pickup jeep and broke open the shutter of the ATM kiosk. Then, two of them got down and with the help of a rope, tied the ATM machine and with the help of the jeep, uprooted the machine, the SHO added.Before uprooting the machine, the thieves damaged the CCTV cameras installed in the kiosk, police said. At the time of the incident, no guard was present there. “We are trying to check the footage of the CCTV cameras installed nearby. We are hoping to nab the accused soon,” said the SHO.A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (house breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Lalru police station.Locals said that the sirens went on but the police did not reach the site on time. The police said they were alerted by the Maharashtra headquarters of the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-uproot-atm-containing-16-lakh-in-lalru/story-R69FdaYpKTbpJo3S7CcgBN.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy transplantation begins on a slow note in Punjab, labour cost goes up||Farmers in Punjab started paddy transplantation on a slow note on Wednesday due to the shortage of labour as the bulk of migrant workers have returned to their home states in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Field reports suggested that the new method of direct seeding rice (DSR) was preferred by a large number of farmers over transplantation by traditional way of sowing saplings in puddled fields. Several farmers complained of increase in labour costs by at least 50% this time as they are relying on local farmhands who are demanding more wages. With a view to staggering paddy transplantation to contain the spread of virus, transplanting was allowed from June 10, advancing it by 10 days from June 20, as was done in the previous kharif seasons.In the last kharif season, the average rate for transplantation of paddy on an acre was ₹3,000, which has now has gone up to ₹5,000 this year.Secretary (agriculture) KS Pannu said, “Nearly 10 lakh migrant labourers worked in Punjab during the previous paddy-sowing seasons. Now, the state has only 1 lakh of them engaged in potato harvest in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala districts. But we will manage the operations comfortably and as did with wheat procurement even as we are facing acute shortage of labour.”“There is no doubt that paddy will be sown within the stipulated time, i.e. up to July 31, but the cost will go up for the farmers. Who will compensate for that?” asked Balbir Singh Rajewal, head of a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).The DSR method of paddy sowing was recommended by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, due to labour shortage. The state agriculture department has proposed to bring 12 lakh acres under the DSR system. PAU has also suggested PR 126 as a DSR variety.“The farmers have welcomed the new method which will help save time, money and groundwater,” Pannu said.Also, the number of mechanised paddy transplantation machines has doubled to about 1,200 this year, said director (agriculture) Sutantar Kumar Airi.Also, the farmers are opting for crop diversification due to the shortage of labour. The area under basmati is expected to increase by 5-7 lakh acres, said agriculture department officers.The rise in demand for aromatic variety of rice in international markets will play a key role in growers increasing area under basmati.GFXAREA UNDER CULTIVATION• 66 lakh acre: Expected area under paddy cultivation this season• 72 lakh acre: Area under paddy cultivation in Punjab last year• 17 lakh acre: Expected paddy sowing with DSR method• 17 lakh acre: Area expected to be under basmati cultivationFARMHANDS:• 10 lakh: Migrant labourers engaged in kharif sowing till last year• 1 lakh: Migrant labourers available this year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-transplantation-begins-on-a-slow-note-in-punjab-labour-cost-goes-up/story-l2MM7AbntMyzILkbUjoiGM.html
11-06-2020||City||NCP corporator from Kalwa in Thane succumbs to Covid-19||A Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator from Kalwa in Thane district succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday night. The 58-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago and was on a ventilator at a private hospital in Mumbai since then.The Kalwa corporator’s death comes soon after a Shiv Sena corporator from Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation died from Covid-19 on Tuesday. “He had gone to the hospital to help a Covid-positive patient get admitted. Two days after this incident he developed symptoms like fever. He got a test done immediately and admitted himself to a private hospital in Thane. As soon as the reports came positive he was shifted to Mumbai. As he had comorbidities like diabetes and blood pressure problems, he was on a ventilator since the day he was admitted,” said an NCP worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-corporator-from-kalwa-in-thane-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-eLETDn379tm34PXMmZ5KTI.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Screening returnees: Chandigarh wants common strategy for tricity||The UT administration will devise a common policy in coordination with governments of the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana to ensure screening of people returning to the tricity, which includes Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula.The decision was taken on Wednesday amid Covid-19 cases crossing the 500 mark in the tricity following a spike in infection reported among people arriving here through various modes of transport with easing of restrictions on interstate movement.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore has directed the UT officials to coordinate with the neighbouring states to formulate the common strategy.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana follow different policies regarding quarantine and testing of passengers. There is a need to have a synergistic policy to contain the spread of infection due to interstate movement of people.”Significantly, while Mohali has advised home quarantine to domestic fliers, the Panchkula administration has decided to test all people returning from red zones.“The policy will be devised for passengers coming through all modes of transport. After screening at different entry points to the tricity, including the airport, bus stands and railway stations, a list can be exchanged of such persons travelling within the three cities,” said Parida.UT health secretary will be heading the committee formed for the purpose, which will also comprise Panchkula and Mohali deputy commissioners besides and medical experts.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity stand at 511. Chandigarh, at 328 cases, has witnessed a surge in infections being reported from outside containment zones, including Sectors 16, 18, 21 and 41.A similar trend is being seen in Mohali. For instance, of the three men reported positive on Wednesday, two have returned from other states. The total count stands at 140. Panchkula reported its first case on March 21 and was on the road to recovery when it witnessed a spike in the past one week with majority of the cases among people having a travel history. On Sunday, all the four cases had travel history. On Tuesday, two of the five cases had travel history. At present, the district’s total stands at 43.“Better coordination within the three districts will help to track people coming from different hotspots. The spread of virus within the community will be restricted by better communication and coordination within the tricity,” said Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, a community health expert at the PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/screening-returnees-chandigarh-wants-common-strategy-for-tricity/story-tqSNqrWy4Ap3BPSiYCvztL.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram Police to get 6 new stations by January under modernisation scheme||Six Gurugram police stations will start operations from newly constructed buildings from January next year.The new stations will come up at Sushant Lok 1, Sector 53, DLF Phase 3, Kherki Daula, Sector 65, and Pataudi to ensure better policing. These police stations will become operational in January next year. Police said construction of Badshahpur and Rajendra Park police station which is planned in next phase will also begin soon.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that under the new stations are part of the force’s modernisation scheme. “These police stations required a modern facility and proper structure for police personnel. They were operating from very old structure and the condition was in a dilapidated state. The premises will be landscaped and electrified adequately for ensuring smooth functioning of the police station,” he said.The police infrastructure is being built by Haryana Police Housing Corporation at a cost of ₹114.34 crore at different locations and police lines across the state. The project includes the construction of 300 apartments for police personnel in Bhondsi, police lines Manesar and Gurugram.Akil said up-gradation of police infrastructure would also help in ensuring safety and security with the active cooperation of general public.The areas in the city are witnessing rapid urbanisation with thousands of residents moving in every year. The area’s population is expected to increase in near future as majority residential projects in the area have reached the completion stage, so we need to expand the police station area and facilities for the residents, said Akil.The project includes a double-story building and 50-space parking lot, nearly the size of 12,000-square-foot for each police station.The construction work had held due to the lockdown and have restarted last month, the buildings are likely to get ready before January 2021, said police.Last year, the state government had announced the construction of the police stations in the city. At present, there are nearly 6,000 police personnel serving in 41 police stations apart from special branches.Construction of a new and improved police station will feature an exercise room, crèche, and a recreational activity room, said police.The new police station will have around 50 personnel, including officers who have served with various crime units.Over the last year, the city police have been opening more police stations in newer areas of Gurugram because of large-scale expansion and urbanisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-to-get-6-new-stations-by-january-under-modernisation-scheme/story-OFv2c07t38lU8MTqTcZUiI.html
11-06-2020||City||10 Virar villages remain safe with zero Covid cases||While the twin cities of Vasai-Virar recorded 50 deaths and 1,477 positive cases, 10 villages in Virar taluka have not been affected by the disease.The 10 gram panchayats in Virar — Aadne, Bhinar, Bhatane, Khanivade, Mede, Saiwan, Shirwali, Tokre, Sakwar and Virar(rural) — have not reported a single case of Covid-19 despite of being located near the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway and having a string of resorts. The total population of nearly 50,000 in these 10 gram panchayats are safe from Covid-19 said, Dr Sushma Mullick, medical officer, primary health centre (PHC), Virar. “We took measures including putting a ban on entry from Mumbai and nearby areas as these villages often see crowding in the resorts during weekends,” said Sunil Gharat, a farmer from Khanivade. “We followed the lockdown with discipline and ensured that no one entered or left the villages besides sand carting and other small jobs,” said Gharat.The respective sarpanches of these villages started a campaign to educate the residents by putting posters, conducting door-to-door campaigns to educate people about Covid-19, said Pravin Nalawade, another resident. “We also told the residents to rush to the nearest PHC if they have any symptoms,” he said. He added that a majority of resort owners had called their families from Mumbai to stay in the resorts, but they were subsequently advised not to venture out of their homes for fear of spread of the infection. “We also advised them to be in self-isolation in the resorts itself as a precaution. The resort owners agreed and obeyed the gram panchayat orders,” he said.“We will continue to obey discipline and follow all instructions until the lockdown is lifted and ensure that the infection does not enter these 10 gram panchayats,” said Dr Mullick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-virar-villages-remain-safe-with-zero-covid-cases/story-2UESg3cvwFcPcHNTtaIZ9I.html
11-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records 2 more Covid-19 deaths, toll now at 13||The district on Wednesday recorded two Covid-related deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 13. The two deaths included a 64 -year-old man who was admitted in Delhi and a 55-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at a Manesar hospital. Health officials said that both the patients had co-morbidity issues.“A 64-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension, who was tested Covid-19 positive, was admitted to a private hospital in Delhi for treatment. Another 55-year-old male, who was admitted at Medeor Hospital, Manesar, had asthma and hypertension,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. In the last three days, a total of nine deaths due to SARS-CoV-2 virus have been reported in the city, while the total fatality count of the state stands at 52. At least 10 Covid-19 patients are in critical condition and admitted in three hospitals of the city, the officials said. On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded 217 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 2,546. Of the total Covid-19 cases, 1,709 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or are home isolated, while 824 have been discharged so far.Gurugram’s Covid-19 burden on the state has increased to 51% this week. Of the 3,339 total active cases in Haryana, 1,709 are from the district, the officials said.Meanwhile, a group of volunteers appointed by the district administration visited 25 private hospitals on Wednesday to explain them about the data collection procedure. The hospital management team constituted by the administration has prepared a proforma to collect statistical information about suspected cases, confirmed cases, ICU beds, ventilators, dialysis machines and ambulances. All the collected data will be incorporated on the GMDA portal to have a record on the availability of beds like which are occupied by confirmed or suspected cases. It will also incorporate details like total and occupied ventilators, availability of PPEs and N95.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-2-more-deaths-toll-now-13/story-ZYESRClTxMWU8l9FsSw9GJ.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gang of robbers busted, five held||Panipat police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers by arresting five of its members for their involvement in 19 cases of dacoity, loot and snatching.The accused are Rajesh and Sandeep of Sonepat, Anil and Sonu of Jind and Aman of Panipat. Panipat DSP (headquarters) Satish Vats said the accused were arrested by a team of crime investigation agency when they were hatching the plan to execute a robbery. He said during their interrogation, the accused confessed to their involvement in 19 cases of robbery, loot and snatching in Panipat, Sonepat and Jind districts. They used to target salesmen after holding them hostage at gunpoint, the DSP added. The cop said the accused were produced in a local court, which sent them in two-day police remand for further questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gang-of-robbers-busted-five-held/story-uZtOdMCfhc7TUt0Z5G2PzJ.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Give list of Class 11 students opting for science by June 15: BSEH||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Wednesday asked school authorities across state to provide a list of students aspiring to choose medical and non-medical stream in Class-11, by June 15.The decision was taken after the board, on Monday, revoked its decision not to declare results for Class-10 due to technical reasons.Board secretary Rajiv Prasad said that they have directed the school authorities to submit a list of students who want to pursue medical and non-medical education by June 15.“Students going for medical and non-medical stream will have to appear for science exam in the last week of June. They will be promoted to the next class only after passing the science exam. Other students’ results will be evaluated on the basis of average marks scored by them in the four exams that they had appeared for,” he added.The board secretary said that schools not sending the list will be held responsible for their students’ results. The board had postponed the Class 10 and 12 exams on March 19 in wake of coronavirus pandemic. In Haryana, nearly 7.41 lakh students are enrolled for Class 10 and 12 board exams this time.Board chairman Jagbir Singh had announced to conduct exams for class 12 students from July 1 to 15.“The date sheet for the pending exams for Class 12 board students will be released soon. A lot of work needs to be done for conducting Class 12 exams – from how students will come to exam centres to the seating arrangement. Our top priority is to conduct pending exams by maintaining social distancing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/give-list-of-class-11-students-opting-for-science-by-june-15-bseh/story-8klvmhSg7sE8fcqJucttqM.html
11-06-2020||Noida||District administration to increase beds to 1,000 in GB Nagar||With a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has started exploring all avenues to increase the number of beds for coronavirus patients to 1,000 across hospitals. Currently, the district has around 700 dedicated Covid-19 beds but with number of cases rising every day, the administration want to have additional beds ready to accommodate the patients.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said the fifth Covid-19 facility (L-1 category) at the Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), with 200 beds, has been made operational recently. “We have already started the process to increase the number of beds from 50 to 150 at the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (Child PGI). Among other Covid-19 facilities, we have 200 beds at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, 150 beds at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and 100 beds at Kailash Hospital. With this, a total of 700 beds are already available for Covid-19 patients in the district and 100 additional beds will be available soon at Child PGI,” he said.Suhas further said the district administration will take care of Covid-19 patients in an effective manner. “To cope with any emergency, we have plans to take number of dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients to at least 1,000. Talks are already on with many super speciality private hospitals and nursing homes in the district in this connection. The hospitals have also shown keen interest in developing exclusive facilities for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. I hope that a systematic price cap will be determined for treatment in private hospitals,” he said.The DM also said all private and government hospitals have been asked to ensure that patients, coming to the emergency and other wards, must be treated without delay. “If any hospital has any difficulty in treating the patient, they can refer him/her to hospitals with better health care facilities. But, before referring these patients, that hospital will have to properly co-ordinate with the referral hospital so that the patients does not suffer. However, the standard protocol for Covid-19 will be followed at every step by all hospitals,” he said.The DM also said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, has been assigned the task of training medical personnel on Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-administration-to-increase-beds-to-1-000-in-gb-nagar/story-WZ1TzucEzRpTYwAx8kS4EM.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s position dips in QS ranking 2021; MU out of the list||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) is among the only three institutes in the top 200 Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings 2021. However, its performance has dipped as the premier institute dropped 20 ranks in the list - from 152nd position in 2020 to 172 in the 2021 list. The QS World Rankings are announced a year in advance. Though overall rankings have been announced, other lists based on employability, subject-wise rankings will be released over the next few months. This year, QS revealed that their work was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The only two other institutes making into top 200 are Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science (IISc) at the 154th position from 184th rank last year and Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi on the 193rd position, down from the 182nd rank it held in the 2020 list.“While IIT-B is pleased to have retained the number one position in India, the drop in global rankings is something we are concerned about. It appears to be linked to the Academic Reputation (AR) portion of the rankings which constitute 40% of the total score. Our AR score remained close to last year’s so we will take this up with QS,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B. He added that the institute’s student-faculty ratio has also dropped due to the introduction of the category for economically weaker section, which is likely to have affected the overall score.Surprisingly, University of Mumbai (MU) has no mention in the list this year. Last year, the varsity was placed between 801-850 ranking, but the university does not reflect anywhere on the list this year.The performance of universities is measured on various parameters such as academic reputation, employer reputation, citation per faculty, faculty-student ratio, international faculty and international students.Other institutes making it into the QS Rankings list this year include IIT-Madras and IIT-Kharagpur, both institutes witnessing a drop in their rankings. While IIT-Madras has dropped four spots and stands on the 275th rank this year, IIT-Kharagpur has dropped 33 spots from 281 to the 314 rank this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-s-position-dips-in-qs-ranking-2021-mu-out-of-the-list/story-7nbMwCeY6NI2HhmJzLOXnK.html
11-06-2020||City||Ambernath civic body unable to trace 3 Covid-positive persons||The Ambernath Municipal Council has reported that three people who had tested positive for Covid-19 are missing from their registered address. Council had officials gone to check the patients after they were informed about their results, however, in all three cases did not find anyone living at the address mentioned. They have now asked the police to trace the infected persons.The three individuals (two men and a woman) are from different areas of Ambernath, with no relation to one another. Ambernath Municipal Council has their mobile numbers but none of them are reachable.“We received information about people who got tested for Covid-19, through the Indian Council Medical Research portal. Accordingly, our team reached the residences of these three persons twice but no one was present there. We have informed the police to search for them,” said Ambernath Municipal Council’s CEO, Shridhar Patankar.As soon as Ambernath police officers received the alert from the council, they sent a team to search the three persons. Assistant police commissioner, V Narale said, “Our team is searching for them since afternoon. Neighbours don’t know have any detailed information about these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-civic-body-unable-to-trace-3-covid-positive-persons/story-Sj1QhdMj2am4V1YPvsZSoN.html
11-06-2020||Noida||Despite open OPDs, hospitals witness negligible turnout of patients||Even as several hospitals and clinics have resumed their out-patient department (OPD) treatment, fewer patients are approaching them, said doctors in the district.The Uttar Pradesh government had relaxed curbs on movement that were in force since the nationwide lockdown from March 25, following central government orders allowing for these restrictions to be lifted in a phased manner in light of the coronavirus pandemic.However, people are still keeping away from places that are, in normal times, crowded. Doctors in Gautam Budh Nagar report that clinics now see mostly pregnant women, while those with other ailments prefer home treatment.Dr. N K Sharma, the president of Noida chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that people fear contracting the coronavirus disease at hospitals. “Online doctor consultations and prescriptions has increased. Presently only extreme emergency cases are coming to hospitals. Several patients have also delayed their surgeries as it has been mandatory now to conduct Covid-19 test before any surgery,” he said.Echoing similar views, Dr KC Sood, the president of Association of Medical Clinics of Noida, said that patients are refraining to visit even doctors’ clinics. “As per the standard Covid-19 protocol, Covid-19 test is mandatory before admitting a patient in the hospital,” he said.However, Noida-based gynaecologist Dr. Pratibha Singhal said that the OPD at her clinic was unaffected. “Many pregnant women regularly came for their check-ups. However, we are following all safety norms. We are screening their temperature, maintain social distancing and sanitisation measures,” she said. Paediatrician Dr VK Gupta who has his own clinic said that, anecdotal evidence suggested that even the routine vaccination of children has been down by 50% in GB Nagar district, during the lockdown. “Parents preferred to delay vaccinations. Even for other ailments in children, their parents are still not bringing them to clinics,” he said.Patients like 67-year-old Suraj Sharma of sector 34, said that they are now banking on home remedies instead of visiting the clinics and hospitals. “I had a knee pain. I prefer to exercise at home and apply oil. Since it has brought relief, there is no need now to go to hospitals,” he said.Rupali Gupta, another resident of sector 34, said that when her son had complained of stomach pain, she preferred to treat him with traditional home remedies like ajwain (carom seeds). “Earlier, I used to take him to doctor for treatment for any ailment. Now, I fear he may get Covid-19 infection there,” she said.Meanwhile, GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, also admitted that turnout of patients in different hospitals have come down. “It is very natural during the pandemic times. And, if the patients are not visiting hospitals and clinics for petty issues, it is not a bad phenomenon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/despite-open-opds-hospitals-witness-negligible-turnout-of-patients/story-UcpeAYTxlegCLTHj8TlWpM.html
11-06-2020||Noida||16 new cases, GB Nagar now has more than 700||Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday witnessed 16 new Covid positive cases. Besides this, at least 54 Covid-19 positive cases have been cross-notified from other states and neighbouring districts, taking the effective tally of positive Covid cases in Gautam Budh Nagar to 761.The district chief medical officer Dr. Deepak Ohri said that 707 people had tested positive in the district, of which 477 have been discharged from different hospitals, and 10 patients have so far succumbed to the virus. “Apart from this , at least 54 others have been cross-notified from other districts and states. As a result, the district now has 220 active cases,” he said.On Wednesday, 54 patients – 20 each from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), nine from Kailash hospital and five from Sharda hospital– were discharged after being cured.The CMO further said that a 70-year-old female patient, who was the resident of sector 15A, succumbed on Wednesday morning. “She had a kidney disease and was on dialysis for a long time. Though she died of multiple organ failure, her death audit is still awaited,” he said.Ohri further said that the call centre of the district today started special services, wherein patients testing positive through private laboratories, can call the centralised number and get themselves registered. “Their details will be uploaded immediately through the portal which can be accessed by a team of doctors and all necessary action taken. Till 3pm on Wednesday, at least 34 self-reporting entries were made, of which only 24 patients were updated and 10 classified as duplicate entries and junked. Of the 24, at least 21 belong to GB Nagar and three are from other districts. They were later admitted to various isolation centres in the district,” he said.Giving specific details of the patients admitted in GIMS, the CMO said that at present 12 patients are in intensive care units (ICUs), besides 21 have been on oxygen support. “Five patients — two in ICU and three in the suspected Covid ward — are on ventilators,” he said. Health camps were organised in 12 places in the district on Sunday, including Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 664 patients were screened , of whom 19 had fever and one had symptoms of SARI. They were all been referred to the district hospital,” he said.Giving details of 54 cross-notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said that while 16 of them are from Delhi, one patient each was from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. “While nine patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 26 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh —seven each from Bulandshahr and Ghaziabad, two from Hapur and one from Agra,” he said.Meanwhile, as per the information given by police nodal officer (Covid-19), the total number of Covid-19 positive cases found among police personal is 19. “Of them, 13 have been discharged and the remaining six are admitted in different hospitals,” the nodal officer stated in its press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/16-new-cases-gb-nagar-now-has-more-than-700/story-saYz3dPCp4pPRny2bbZs7I.html
11-06-2020||City||Major fire breaks out in Khanna godown, no casualty||A major fire broke out at a feed godown in Baghaur village of Khanna on Wednesday morning. No casualty was reported from the spot.The exact time and reason behind the blaze is unknown.Officials said they received an alert at around 8am, following which three fire tenders were pressed into service from Khanna fire station.As per the fire fighters, the godown, which is spread over 2,000 yards, housed a large quantity of animal feed. The owner had made no fire safety arrangements there.Khanna fire station officer Yashpal Rai said, “Material in large quantity was stored at the godown. The fire could have engulfed the plant adjoining the godown, but the fire fighters contained the flames. Even in the absence of safety arrangements at the godown, the owner restricted the brigade from calling more fire tenders from other districts as it would have cost him extra.”Rai said they had to bring down the walls of the godown with the help of JCB machines for dousing the flames. The owner claims to have suffered loss of ₹1 crore due to the fire.The fire-fighting operation was going on till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/major-fire-breaks-out-in-khanna-godown-no-casualty/story-0wlnCEIO8woTx0Ji31rvnL.html
11-06-2020||Mumbai||NCP marks 21st anniversary with low-key celebrations||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) led by Sharad Pawar kept celebrations low-key on the 21st anniversary of the party, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown restrictions. NCP chief Sharad Pawar was on a tour of cyclone-hit areas in Ratnagiri district, which ended on Wednesday.Senior leaders held a flag hoisting ceremony at party headquarters in Mumbai and the party also asked its workers to organise blood donation camps to tide the shortage of in the state. State NCP chief Jayant Patil, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Baramati MP Supriya Sule, food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal and other senior leaders attended the flag hoisting event.NCP was formed on June 10, 1999, after Pawar quit the Congress following fallout with the then Congress president Sonia Gandhi.On Tuesday, Pawar had urged all party workers to dedicate the entire year to welfare of the society as the coronavirus has created life-threatening difficulties for many people. He also suggested that district chiefs and other cells should take up various welfare programs every month across the year.On Thursday, Pawar will meet the Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray over providing relief to the cyclone-affected people from Konkan region. “I had a telephonic conversation with the CM on the issue and he has invited me for a meeting on June 11. Guardian ministers from the affected districts will also be present,” he said.Pawar taunts the GovernorThe NCP chief also taunted Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his objection to cancel final-year examinations in universities. “The [education] minister has decided to cancel the final-year examinations. Oxford University and many IIT’s in the country too have cancelled their examinations [due to coronavirus outbreak]. May be the Governor’s knowledge is more than all of them,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-marks-21st-anniversary-with-low-key-celebrations/story-c2GF1Ne9zL44nYTSSitMzM.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi government to double beds in state-run hospitals by July 15||While an expert committee had said Delhi would need over 40,000 beds by the end of July to treat Covid-19 patients, the Delhi government has said it envisions requiring 150,000 beds, after factoring in outstation patients who arrive in the city.The Delhi government has been working on scaling-up health infrastructure at a rapid pace owing to the steady increase in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city. So far, there have been 31,309 cases of the contagious infection, which has also claimed 984 lives in the national capital.“Data shows Covid-19 cases will significantly increase in Delhi in the coming days; we have a big challenge ahead. Now, we will need a total of 1.5 lakh beds after factoring in those coming from other states. I will get started on this and go to stadiums, banquet halls and hotels to make arrangements. We will try everything, do whatever we can to ensure enough hospital beds in Delhi,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday.Not only is the government working on getting more private hospitals on-board, but it is also planning on expanding its own healthcare infrastructure to match the need.The government is in the process of procuring 30,000 additional beds, according to a senior official from Delhi’s health department. Of these, around 1,200 hospital beds will be in the three newly constructed hospitals in Burari, Ambedkar Nagar, and Dwarka, which are still to open.“The construction of the hospitals in Ambedkar Nagar and Burari are finished and the out-patient department of the Dwarka hospital is also ready to be opened up. So, around 1,200 of these beds will be placed in these three hospitals, with the rest being utilised for the make-shift hospitals the government plans to set up in stadiums, banquet halls, and AC halls,” the official said, asking to stay anonymous.A committee, headed by divisional commission Sanjeev Khirwar has so far suggested the possibility of adding the beds in Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor stadium, Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, Dhyanchand National Stadium. The government plans to do this by mid-July, another official said.The move is expected to boost Delhi’s health infrastructure in a matter of.The five-member panel set up suggest measures to augment the city’s health infrastructure headed by Dr Mahesh Verma had said most beds should be equipped with oxygen or ventilators, necessary to treat patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms. The government’s plan is to add 500 ventilators by mid-July. Of these, 200 are expected to come from the Centre.“The Centre has already provided 75 ventilators that are to be installed in Lok Nayak hospital. Another 75 of the 200 promised ventilators are soon to arrive. In addition, the Delhi government will procure 300 more ventilators. The ventilators will be placed in the hospitals, with oxygen concentrators and high-flow nasal canula attached to oxygen cylinders providing support in the make-shift hospital,” the first official said.Currently, there are about 306 ventilators in government hospitals, according to the first doctors’ panel set-up in March headed by Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.All such make-shift hospitals will be linked to existing hospitals for quick transfer of patients in case someone’s condition deteriorates. To provide oxygen in the make-shift hospitals, the government has already ordered 2,000 oxygen concentrators – a device which selectively removes nitrogen from the ambient air to concentrate it to 93% oxygen and provide a flow of about 5lts/min. “The government is also in talks with manufacturers of oxygen cylinders to ensure adequate supply,” the official said.The government has also ordered 15,000 pulse-oxymetres that will help the doctors in monitoring the oxygen concentration of patients not only in hospitals, make-shift hospitals, but also those under home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-government-to-double-beds-in-state-run-hospitals-by-july-15/story-YcyBhHWz4mzLmvGqYCp5uK.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||L-G Baijal orders Delhi hospitals to display number of beds, prices outside gates||All major hospitals, clinics and nursing homes in Delhi will have to display the number of available beds, and room charges at their entry gates on a real-time basis from now on, the Lieutenant Governor’s office said on Wednesday. In a directive issued to chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal also asked him to deploy officials to conduct random inspections across all hospitals to check malpractices such as overcharging or false refusal of beds. The L-G is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.The order read, “In order to increase transparency and to facilitate the public, all major hospitals, clinics and nursing homes of Delhi should be directed to display on LED boards in large letters outside their establishments, at the entry point itself, the availability of beds (both Covid and non-Covid, wherever applicable), along with charges including for rooms/beds and details of the contact person for admission.”Baijal also asked the Delhi health department to ensure the data displayed on the boards is reconciled with data on the Delhi Corona app and delhifightscorona.in web portal. “Further, periodic surprise checks may also be conducted by the officers deputed by the DDMA to ensure that correct data is displayed by hospitals/clinics/nursing homes concerned and no eligible/genuine patient is denied admission or is overcharged,” Baijal’s order further read. The L-G’s order will stand alongside a similar order issued by the state health department on Tuesday, in which the Delhi government had asked all hospitals with 50 beds or more to put up a 12x10-feet flexboard at the entry gate. At the same time, the order issued by the Delhi government on Tuesday stated that the flexboard has to say: “Important Notice. 1) For latest information on vacant beds in this hospital: Download Delhi Corona mobile app. Go to www.delhifightscorona.in/beds. Call 1031. If a hospital refuses a bed even though the app shows there are vacant beds in the hospital, you can call 1031 to file a complaint.”The message further reads, “2) If you have tested positive for corona and your symptoms are mild, then you can recover at home though home isolation. If you do not have sufficient facilities at home to undergo home isolation, you can be admitted to our Covid Care Centre. Only Patients with severe symptoms need to be admitted to the hospital. 3) If you have severe symptoms of corona but have not been tested yet, or if the results are pending, do not panic. Hospitals cannot refuse to admit a patient with severe symptoms of corona. If a hospital refuses to admit you, call 1031 and file a complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-baijal-orders-delhi-hospitals-to-display-number-of-beds-prices-outside-gates/story-2tdEAbphlQMvwGUjosx7TM.html
11-06-2020||Delhi||Nizamuddin unsealed after 70 days, but stays shut||The once-bustling lanes of Nizamuddin Basti lay deserted on Wednesday. The stringent restrictions in the area — that was a containment zone for 70 days, after at least 1,080 people of the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive between March and April this year — were eased three days ago.The fear of the virus continued to loom large in the shadowsThe Markaz building, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat from where close to 2,000 participants were evacuated, remains closed. Some civil defence volunteers were still deployed around the area.A majority of shops and eateries in the area remained shut in the area, with very little movement of people, as the area continued to be under ‘strict vigil’ of the district administration.Residents of the area, who had been demanding the opening up of the area for long, said that there was a sense of relief among them.One carriageway on Mathura Road leading to the Basti continues to remain barricaded.Even though the Basti has been de-sealed, the Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah, which attracts visitors from all faiths and is located a stone’s throw away, has decided to remain shut at least till June 13, as a precautionary measure given that the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise.So far 32,810 cases have been reported from Delhi, as per the health bulletin released by the government on Wednesday, of which 19,581 are active . On April 16, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain had said that at least 1,080 Covid positive cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat (Markaz ) event. Delhi so far has also witnessed 984 deaths (as per the health bulletin) due to the virus.In Nizamuddin, most of the flower and chadar shops (offerings bought by devotees to the dargah) have also remained closed. The market houses a number of eateries, books, perfume and flower shops. For a number of Basti residents, their livelihoods depend on income from these shops.The Basti, which houses at least 25,000 people, was a containment zone for more than two months after the area was declared a Covid-19 hotspot and sealed on March 30. On June 7, the south-east district authorities decided to scale down the restrictions, after no new cases were reported from the area. However, as per the relaxation order, a team of district administration officials, along with local police, were to maintain strict vigil for the next 14 days.Mohammad Saleem, owner of a small biryani outlet in the area, said that many who had rented shops have run out of their businesses. “We struggled to run our houses during the lockdown. Now that the area has been de-sealed, we hoped that people will start visiting again. But even now, shops are not being allowed to open. People have put measures in place but some of the outlets are too small to maintain social distancing. Many of those running eateries out of rented spaces had to shut down, as they couldn’t pay the rent,” he said.Many locals also said that though Urs — commemorating the death anniversary of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, a 14th century Sufi saint — is observed from June 9-13, when a number of people from all faiths gather at the dargah, this year the management committee has decided not to organise any celebrations.“All the entry-exits of the dargah complex have been closed and we have announced that people must pray at home. We will take a decision on whether to open the dargah or not after June 13. The situation is not getting any better and controlling the crowd will be challenging. We do not want another controversy ” said Altamash Nizami, member, Dargah management committee.Residents said that they are not just running out of jobs and savings, but are also faced with the stigma of belonging to a Covid-19 hotspot. “Even though there were no fresh cases reported from the Basti after March, the whole area was contained. Most people depended on NGOs for food and other essential supplies, as the arrangements made by the government were inadequate. The bazaar near the Markaz is still not allowed to be open. Even those who have started going out for work are looked down upon with suspicion,” said Abdur Rahman, a resident, who leads of group of volunteers from the area.Moinuddin Ahmed, a resident and social worker, said that even as the area was sealed, there were many people — employed at the shops and eateries — who started out on foot for their homes states. “During the night when there was less deployment of police, a number of daily wagers started walking for their homes, as they were uncertain for how long the area would remain locked. These have been the toughest few months for people living here,” he said.According to a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, the barricading has been done as per a decision taken by the district administration for heightened vigil. “The shops can open. We haven’t stopped anyone from doing so. Only eateries, which do not have adequate precautionary measures in place, will not be allowed to open,” the official said.Yasmin Kidwai, the local councillor, said that despite de-sealing, there was a lack of clarity on the issue because of involvement of different agencies. There have been requests from people to allow reopening of shops. “I met the district magistrate in this regard. We had a positive meeting and we hope the issue will be resolved soon.”The sitting MLA from the area Praveen Kumar, too said that people were hassled because of not being able to resume their businesses. “We have requested the district magistrate to allow removal of barricading and reopening of shops after disinfecting the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nizamuddin-de-sealed-after-70-days-but-stays-shut/story-4Y0TL5CrUHYfrncV7E5sTK.html
11-06-2020||Lifestyle||Gurugram teens help migrant women keep menstrual hygiene amid Covid-19 pandemic||Zoya, Ishaan, Zaara, Tanya, Sana, Arjun and Aryaman — these 13-15 year olds are no ordinary kids. Unlike youngsters of their age, this group of seven, who are all classmates in Std IX, have started a fund-raising initiative called ‘We Stand by Her’. Zoya Sethi describes the initiative as an “effort to uphold dignity and comfort of migrant women who are making an arduous journey home, on foot.”The campaign aims to raise funds to provide hygienic reusable sanitary napkins to women. Ask how they came by the idea, the teenagers say that they had been constantly discussing the plight of the migrant workers with their parents while spending their days at home. “Many, we know, were helping out migrants with food, water, and ration kits, but no one was providing sanitary pads for women,” adds Zoya. “We did not come across any initiative that was specially for women who would probably get their periods while walking home,” says Sanaa while Ishaan Mittal, another young member of the campaign adds, “We wanted to provide reusable cloth napkins that are biodegradable because they can be used multiple times, and do not harm the environment since they are biodegradable.’’Their search for a partner, to help them in their campaign, led them to Udaipur-based not-for-profit organisation Jatan Sansthan, which runs project Uger — to locally source cotton that is stitched by women to make reusable cotton pads. “We understood that the regular challenges of periods were enhanced by Covid-19 for migrant women. So we subsidised our pads highly, so that they could reach the most marginalised women. Each cloth costs around ₹90 and can be used for 1.5 years,” says Smriti Kedia, co-creator of Uger. She adds that the project allows women to create pads at home, in a safe environment, and also breaks the taboo around menstruation.The group’s classmates and individual donors have rallied for the kids by sharing their initiative on social media. “So far, we have raised over one and a half lakh, and are inching closer towards our initial goal of two lakh. We have provided almost 600 sanitary napkins to the Red Cross Society, which is making kits inclusive of food and sanitary pads for the migrant women,” informs Tanya Malhotra. These kids have no intention of stopping anytime soon. Zoya shares, “We had initially planned to raise two lakh, but now we are gunning for more so that the campaign benefits as many as possible.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallika For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/gurugram-teens-help-migrant-women-keep-menstrual-hygiene-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-6Dknd0o20EDDrWj6o4qeOP.html
11-06-2020||Education||Govt should provide EWS students devices to attend online classes: Schools to HC||Four private schools in the national Capital have told the Delhi High Court that it is the responsibility of the central and the state governments to provide students from the economically weaker section (EWS) with logistics to help them attend online classes during the Covid-19 lockdown.In separate affidavits filed in the Delhi High Court, these four private schools said that they are not obliged to provide free devices such as laptops, smartphones and tablets and Internet facilities to students belonging to the EWS and disadvantaged groups. The submissions were made before a bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula while they were hearing a plea filed by Justice For All, an NGO working in the education sector, which had contended that several students belonging to the EWS and disadvantaged groups (DG) were unable to access classes online due to the lack of the aforementioned devices. The court had, on May 8, issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government, municipal corporations and 10 private unaided schools seeking a response on a plea.Advocate Khagesh Jha, the president of Justice for All and counsel for the petitioner, said, “The court, on Wednesday, directed the central government, state government and remaining private schools to file their responses within two weeks.”A detailed order of the hearing on Wednesday is yet to be uploaded on the Delhi High Court’s website. The matter will be heard next on July 15.A senior DoE official said that they are yet to receive responses of show-cause notices the government had issued on May 8 to 15 schools on this matter. This was following complaints from students that they were not getting any logistical assistance from schools to attend online classes, which had been started after the schools had to close down due to the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. In Delhi, the schools have been shut since March 16, but both government and private schools have continued holding classes online.Reacting to the affidavits filed by these four schools, a senior official in the directorate of education said, “We have already informed the court that it is the responsibility of private schools to provide all facilities to EWS/DG students under the Right to Education Act. We will comment only after the court pronounces an order on the matter. It’s still sub-judice.”Under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 25% seats are reserved for children from the EWS and DG category at the entry-level classes —Nursery, KG and Class 1—in all private schools. The students are entitled to free education, books and uniforms till Class 8 as per the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-should-provide-ews-students-devices-to-attend-online-classes-schools-to-hc/story-bVOsBL5iZ1YEABuuPdz5EL.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Pune city reports three deaths, 304 fresh Covid-19 cases||The city reported three deaths on Wednesday and 304 fresh positive cases of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. The death count in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now 406 and the progressive positive count is 8,509.The number of those cured and discharged has gone up to 5,575, including 271 patients who were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 2,528 active cases in the city, 214 are in critical condition.Two more deaths were also reported on Wednesday from outside city limits.The deaths in the city include two reported from Sassoon General Hospital; that of a 62-year-old female residing at Janata Vasahat. The patient was admitted to the hospital on June 8 and declared dead on Wednesday. The patient also suffered from diabetes, hypertension and morbid obesity. The cause of death is said to be type I respiratory failure and secondary to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) due to Covid-19 positive pneumonitis.Another death from the hospital includes that of a 69-year-old female, a resident of Yerawada. The patient was admitted to the hospital on May 22 and declared dead on Wednesday. The cause of death is reported to be multi-organ distress syndrome (MODS) with acute respiratory failure, myocarditis, hepatitis, hypertension, Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD), atrial fibrillation and cardiogenic shock.The third death reported on Wednesday was from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital; a 50-year-old male, residing at Aundh gaon. The patient was admitted on June 8 and also suffered from retroviral disease and hypertension. The cause of death was subacute respiratory tract infection with Covid-19.Two deaths reported of residents from outside Pune include that of a 61-year-old male reported dead from the Bharati Vidyapeth hospital. The patient was a resident of Haveli taluka and was admitted to the hospital on May 27 and declared dead on Wednesday. The patient also suffered from septic shock, MODS and Covid-19 positive pneumonia.The second death is of a 64-year-old male residing at Jalgaon, reported from Poona Hospital. The patient was admitted on May 24 and declared dead on Wednesday. The cause of death is said to be an acute coronary syndrome, Covid-19 positive, diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, Ischemic heart disease (IHD) and bronchial asthma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-city-reports-three-deaths-304-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-Ni0scYcd0hWiLol8junLgI.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Pune police inspector arrested for cheating, extortion||An inspector of Pune police has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the extortion and cheating of a 58-year-old person in Pune.The inspector, whose identity is being withheld at this point in time, is currently posted with the special branch of Pune police.He was booked along with four others for threatening a 58-year-old man and his family into signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that transferred the ownership of a house owned by the complainant to the sister of one of the accused.The arrested officer also allegedly forged documents about the sale of the said flat to one of the accused men. The four others booked in the case are witnesses in the allegedly forged document.The complainant has claimed that he was forced to sign a cheque worth multiple lakhs. Whether the cheque was encashed or not could not be confirmed immediately.The series of incidents took place between 2017 and 2019. In the meantime, the officer has served in various posts and departments of the city police.The exchange of money and extortion happened in the office of the economic offence wing (EOW) in Sangamwadi, according to the police.A case under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged as genuine), 474 (having documents knowing it to be forged and intending to use it as genuine), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station. Assistant commissioner of police Sudhakar Yadav of Vishrambaug division of Pune police is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-inspector-arrested-for-cheating-extortion/story-pEeyPerEJfCLUkBQyqq6gP.html
11-06-2020||City||Five arrested for robbing health worker of ₹35,000||The five men, who assaulted and robbed a healthcare worker of Rs 35,000 on Tuesday, have been arrested, the Sohana police said on Wednesday. The accused were identified as Harjant Singh, alias Dimple, Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu, and Sukhjant Singh, all residents of Seou village in Mohali; and Shami Mohammad and Gurpreet Singh, residents of Manauli village, Mohali. Their accomplice, Sukhjant Singh, who is Dimple’s brother, is at large. Police said the victim, Amit Kumar, who works for Fortis Hospital, Phase 8, was travelling in an ambulance to attend to a patient near Banur village. The accused, who were in a black Maruti Brezza and a mini truck, waylaid the ambulance near the railway crossing at Chilla village. The men assaulted Amit and snatched his cash and medicine kit before fleeing in their vehicles. The victim was able to jot down the registration number of the car, which led to the arrest of the accused. The car has been recovered by the police. “The accused will be produced in a local court on Thursday. Further investigation is on to nab their absconding aide,” said sub-inspector Barma Singh from the Sohana police station. A case under relevant sections was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-robbing-health-worker-of-35-000/story-CZmjCNXW2RIWDDRMpWSFdI.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||MC team issuing notices for water misuse attacked in Chandigarh||Three waterworks employees were injured after three members of a family allegedly attacked them in Sector 39 on Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, Ashok Kumar, a junior engineer at waterworks, Sector 37, said that he, along with his team, including Barinder Singh and driver Munni Lal, were conducting routine checks against misuse of water, as the UT administration had banned use of drinking water for washing cars and watering lawns from June 1. Kumar said as they reached House Number 1224, they found the occupants of the house washing the verandah using a hose.When Kumar issued a notice to the house owner, three persons from the house attacked his team with sticks and wipers. This left Kumar’s both hands bleeding and Singh bleeding from the chest, while Lal was also injured.As police reached the spot, the attackers fled, but cops arrested one Nimmi Sharma, 55. She was sent to judicial custody by a court on Wednesday. A case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-team-issuing-notices-for-water-misuse-attacked-in-sector-39/story-mXI58utZ0xHgF9xLXhmM2N.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Dengue in the time of Covid: PMC, hospitals geared up to deal with dual health challenge||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now looking at another health challenge, that of dengue in the light of the Southwest Monsoon forecast to hit Pune this week.As city hospitals and laboratories are already burdened with Covid-19 cases, the monsoon-borne dengue disease brings a new challenge. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, the civic insecticide department chief said, “We have enough staff and also we have floated tenders to buy insecticide for fumigation to control the spread of dengue and malaria. We have enough manpower and machinery. Most cases start coming in by July and so we will start spraying insecticide in high-risk areas. For corona we spray disinfectants and for dengue and malaria we spray insecticide, so we need difference chemicals for which we are prepared.” As per data from PMC’s health department, in 2018 the city saw 2,943 suspected dengue cases of which, the NIV confirmed 682 samples and two deaths were reported.In 2019, the number of suspected cases went up to 6,040, of which 1,407 were confirmed cases and 10 deaths were recorded.In 2020, 123 suspected cases have been found as of March, of which seven were confirmed and no deaths have been reported as yet.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director, Sahyadri hospitals, said, “I think that the city hospitals will be able to take the load of dengue, malaria and Chikungunya cases, which are reported annually. Most of these infections are not so severe and those who come to the hospitals come only in case of severe infection. They will be treated in non-Covid-19 wards.”Dr Rao did cite two cases of dual infection – dengue and Covid-19.“Sahyadri has two cases - dengue and Covid-19 infections. Both these infections have no particular medicines and have to be treated based on symptoms. However, the hospitals will be able to tackle the situation efficiently and labs will be able to deliver, as the process of identification for dengue and Covid-19 is completely different,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dengue-in-the-time-of-covid-pmc-hospitals-geared-up-to-deal-with-dual-health-challenge/story-tikAsOIiScqvRb04aSiD3L.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Jalgaon, Solapur need to bring mortality rate down: central team||Two districts in Maharashtra have drawn the concern of the Kunal Kumar-led central team that ended its two-day visit to Pune on Tuesday, leaving the city on Wednesday.Solapur district, till June 9, recorded 1,350 Covid-19 positive cases with 125 deaths.Jalgaon, till June 4, recorded 1,281 Covid-19 positive cases with 112 deaths.It is this death rate that is now worrying officials, with Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope recently holding a meeting to address the issue as well.The central team, headed by Kunal Kumar, joint secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs; AIIMS professor Dr Arvind Kushwaha; and AIIMS assistant professor Dr Sitikanta Banerjee, held video conference calls with the various districts from Pune.“Both the districts need to work hard and need to bring the mortality rate down,” was the team statement after the conference calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalgaon-solapur-need-to-bring-mortality-rate-down-central-team/story-LHhluCn31eiUAbCZOLvGFK.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Pune man helps 5 grief-stricken Nepal nationals get home||It was a difficult morning for Joseph Monis on Sunday when he received a desperate call from the out-of-work migrants he had been sponsoring during the lockdown. “We can’t stay in this tiny room anymore. Please help us get back home,” said one of the five workers on the phone.​In a single room in Ramnagar area of Balewadi, a group of seven men from Nepal lived through three months of the lockdown. However, only five of them could make their way back home on Tuesday, after Monis arranged for their return. While one of them died in his sleep, another preferred leaving the only accommodation he had rather than spending another minute in the dingy room where one of his temporary roommates had died.​Vijay Parihar, 24, a native of Nepal looked sleep-deprived with swollen red eyes as he recollected waking up to the cold body of his roommate Chandra Monatat Chaudhury, 23, also a native of Nepal, on Saturday morning. His four nephews - Saroj, Prem, Milan and Vishal - looked to him for mental support. They called Monis for help after cremating Chaudhary’s body at an electric crematorium.​Monis, who works in a multinational company (MNC) in the city, posted for help on social media to arrange for five tickets to send these Nepal nationals back home. In two days, Monis was able to gather enough funds to buy bus tickets costing Rs 5,500 per person and finally helped the five workers from Nepal board a bus back to their country on Tuesday.​Vijay worked at restaurant-bar in Balewadi and knew Monis from when he had visited the place. “At 4am that day (Saturday), Chandra said that he wanted to go home and started feeling restless. The room where we stay is small and so, we all sleep close to each other. In the morning around 9am or 10am, we all woke up to find him immobile. I immediately called the person from his village in Nepal who also lives in Pune,” said Vijay.​“They called me early in the morning. I could only reach them after a few hours. Chandra is from the same village where I come from. He had a heart condition and died of a heart attack, the doctor later told me,” said Yamlal Damai, a man who works at a dentist’s office in Aundh and was the closest person Chandra had. ​Chandra had been taken to the Aundh Hospital where his post-mortem was conducted.The body of Chandra remained in the crammed room with one bulb and a barely functional fan as the boys - all below the age of 24 - waited for the ambulance to arrive. “When we realised what had happened, none of us could stop crying out of fear. It was scary to be in the same room. None of us have been able to eat or sleep since then,” said Milan. ​The five relatives were living in an accommodation provided by their employer before coming to this room when the lockdown began and the restaurant temporarily closed for business. The small room cost them Rs 6,000 per month.​“From living in a building, we were moved here. Then, a fellow national brought Chandra to us and one other person. The other person ran away when Chandra died. We would eat whatever little we could buy during the lockdown. Monis provided us some support with weekly supplies. We were hoping to stay back till work started again, but now we just want to go home. Even if we die in the process, at least we will die with family; not like this,” lamented Vijay, while fighting tears.​The boys have left for Nepal and will spend 14 days in quarantine once they reach their village. They hope to return to India some day under better circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-man-helps-5-grief-stricken-nepal-nationals-get-home/story-os65CumA9tAOUkqVJ5DjBL.html
11-06-2020||Pune||‘Safe zones’ in Pune see rise in cases; PMC ready to tackle spread||As the city progresses into its ‘Begin Again’ phase, areas that did not see any Covid-19 positive cases for some time have begun reporting fresh cases.PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “As the lockdown ends, we will see more positive cases and we are prepared for it. With 100 hospitals eligible for the fixed price cap on 80% of beds our medical needs will be met. We have our Covid Care Centre (CCC) at National Institute of Construction Management and Research (Nicmar) and also at Balewadi. Our CCCs have a 5,000-bed capacity which will be enough to house all those who need isolation.”The Aundh-Baner area, which was on the verge of being declared a green zone, as of June 6, has 97 progressive Covid-19 cases, of which 80 are active cases.Kothrud-Bavdhan, which also reported single-digit cases until mid-May, as of June 6, has 26 active positive cases and 54 progressive cases.The Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward, has 194 active cases, of the 655 progressive Covid-19 positive cases reported. Deccan Gymkhana and the Model colony area, both under the Shivajinagar-Ghole road ward, have 127 active cases and 246 progressive positive cases.The Aundh-Baner ward covers the slums in Bopodi, which have reported 84 fresh cases, while in the Kothrud-Bavdhan area, 24 positive cases have been reported from the Kothrud depot area. The slums in Koregaon Park have also reported 486 progressive positive cases, of which 278 are active cases currently undergoing treatment. Active cases are patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19, yet to be declared cured and discharged.Progressive positives are total number of people who have tested positive for Covid19 once. This includes active cases, deaths and discharged cases. Under control?The city’s containment zones of Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road, which were earlier reported double-digit positive cases on a daily basis, are now reporting between five-seven cases daily.PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “This is due to various measures taken in containment zones, which also include early isolation and regressive testing in the entire area. We also focused on elderly patients, comorbid patients and pregnant women. We also provided timely ration kits to each house to ensure that there is restricted movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cases-reported-from-safe-zones-in-pune/story-8Mx95MtNVbNWRwrk6PsxLP.html
11-06-2020||Pune||Online classes at PCMC schools from June 15||With uncertainty looming over when schools will reopen due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to conduct online classes for its school students from June 15.In PCMC, there are 105 primary and 18 high schools. The civic body decided to begin online classes with a view that PCMC school students should not miss out on education. The private schools in PCMC have already begun online classes.The decision to conduct classes was taken after a survey done by PCMC education department regarding the availability of internet with all students.“In our survey, we found out that 50 per cent students from PCMC schools have Android mobile phones. For other students, we have arranged 6,000 volunteers who will visit students’ homes and follow up,” said Jyotsna Shinde, administration officer, education department, PCMC.Books distribution has begun in various PCMC schools from Wednesday.“We have given books to respective schools so that parents and teachers can collect books as classes will start from June 15. At the moment, the education department has no fixed time table for conducting classes and teachers are allowed to conduct sessions at any time of the day,” explained Shinde.The classes will be conducted via WhatsApp, YouTube channels, and blogs. The education department is also planning to deliver lectures via radio community channels. The channels will be operated internally by teachers to conduct audio classes. The PCMC education department has asked for its approval to the state government. If required, the PCMC education department will also use cable channels to deliver lectures.For teachers’ guidance, the PCMC education department has created WhatsAapp groups and teachers are being guided on how to conduct online classes.“Students will definitely benefit from online classes. Education cannot take a backseat due to Covid-19 pandemic,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-classes-at-pcmc-schools-from-june-15/story-2JPcrxQd5EHtYnjeW25hfK.html
11-06-2020||Pune||33-year-old in custody for molesting minor in Pune||Pune: A 33-year-old man was arrested on Monday night after the grandmother of an 11-year-old girl accused him of molesting the minor.The arrested man has been identified as Somnath alias Sonya Raghuji Kale, 33, a resident of Nanoli, Maval. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by the grandmother of the minor girl.The incident allegedly occurred on Sunday around 11am in the arrested man’s house where he took the minor, and molested her, according to the complaint.The complainant claims to have caught the man in the act as she walked into the room. She submitted to the police that he ran away as he saw her enter the house. The woman called the child’s parents and told them what had happened. The next morning, the family approached the local police and lodged a complaint.“It is a case of molestation. He is in police custody till June 11. The complainant, as well as the accused, come from poor families,” said assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Naik Patil of Dehuroad division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 354(b) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Sections 3(1)(w)(i), 3(2), 3(v), 3(2)(va) of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/33-year-old-in-custody-for-molesting-minor-in-pune/story-DPPbJTRDXSRLEh8VL8W2LM.html
11-06-2020||Pune||2 children among 3 of a family killed after their car falls into well in Pune||A woman and her two children were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in met with an accident and fell into a well in Falevasti area of Ashtapur village of Maharashtra’s Pune around 10:30pm Tuesday night, police said. The woman’s husband, who was behind the wheel, however, survived the accident.The 35-year-old woman, identified as Sheetal Sachin Kotwal of Ashtapur village in Haveli region of Pune, was travelling with her nine-year-old daughter Srushti and six-year-old son Shaurya in a Maruti Eeco car being driven by her husband Sachin Shrikari Kotwal.The family was returning to their home after visiting Sheetal’s family in Rahu village of Daund Taluka.Pratap Mankar, senior inspector at Lonikand police station where the accidental death was registered, said the car fell into a well on the side of the road when Sachin tried to avoid a dog sitting on the road.“The road is at the border of the village. It is not a wide road - not more than 8-9 feet. There was a dog sitting on the left side of the road. In an attempt to ride past it, he (survivor) moved his vehicle to the right. But as the vehicle approached the spot where the dog was sitting, it got up and moved towards the vehicle. The man turned the vehicle towards the right where the well is situated,” said Mankar.While the woman and her son were sitting in the back seat, the man and their daughter were in the front seat of the car, according to the police.Mankar added that Sachin did not immediately realise that they had fallen into a well. The road is narrow and does not have streetlights or road shoulders near it.“His window was open so he could get out after some time. But he did not immediately realise that it was a well that they had fallen into,” he said. “Some of us (police) reached there and asked him what had happened. He said that when the car fell, he did not realise that it was a well. But as the water started gushing in from his open window, he got out through the window and tried to scramble for the back door but the car started drowning quickly. The back doors of the car were also sliding doors which did not open underwater. He rushed to the nearest inner surface of the well and used the stone-surface to come up. It all happened within split seconds, he told us. We do not know how deep the well is but it was filled,” said Assistant sub inspector Sadashiv Gaikwad of Lonikand police station who was present on the spot.After failed efforts to try pulling his family out of the well, Sachin raised an alarm following which locals gathered at the spot The bodies were recovered after hours of efforts by the locals who called for a crane and brought the car to the surface for long enough to pull the bodies out.However, the car remained submerged in the well until Wednesday afternoon, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-children-among-3-of-a-famil-killed-after-their-car-falls-into-well-in-pune/story-Dn1i4OEwObBC3pdd2ng0wI.html
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Appointment of new SSP: Chandigarh evaluating names suggested by Punjab||The Chandigarh administration has started evaluating annual confidential report (ACR) dossiers of three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers whose names are in the panel suggested by the Punjab government for the post of UT senior superintendent of police (SSP).The post of Chandigarh SSP is reserved for Punjab-cadre IPS officers. The term of incumbent SSP Nilambari Jagadale, a 2008-batch officer, ends in August. She took charge on August 22, 2017.The Punjab home department has sent the names of Kuldeep Singh Chahal, a 2009-batch officer who is currently serving as the Mohali SSP; Patil Ketan Baliram, a 2010-batch officer serving as the AIG, counter intelligence, in Amritsar; and Vivek Sheel Soni, a 2011-batch officer who is currently the SSP, Ludhiana Rural.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said the administration has started evaluating the ACR dossiers of the three officers and will send its recommendations to the Union home ministry soon.The Chandigarh administration had sent a request for a panel of names for the SSP post to the Punjab government more than two months ago, and again sent a reminder last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-government-suggests-three-names-for-the-post-of-chandigarh-ssp/story-igpVjRpSyHjKqEdghLQhAP.html
11-06-2020||World||‘Capture not possible’: France’s desert operation against Al-Qaeda chief||In a desert wilderness in Mali, close to the Algerian border, pitted with isolated rocks and weighed by oppressive heat, French special forces and combat helicopters begin an operation.At its climax, they claim one of the greatest successes of France’s deployment in the Sahel region of north Africa -- the killing of the head of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) Abdelmalek Droukdel.The French military, for the first time, provided details on Thursday of how late last week it “neutralised” the man it has called “the third deputy” of Al-Qaeda’s leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri.Officials describe the death of the Algerian Droukdel as the fruit of meticulous intelligence work.This was concluded by a military intervention in broad daylight, about ten kilometres (6.2 miles) from the Algerian border, east of the Malian town of Tessalit.A source close to the operation said about fifteen French special forces were dropped by at least two transport helicopters, as well as a Tiger combat helicopter and a Gazelle multipurpose helicopter, with a drone in support.“The capture of Droukdel was not possible,” said the source, who asked not to be named.“The goal is not necessarily to kill,” said the official. But “in combat, the men see just rocks” with combatants cowering behind them. “They don’t know who is behind the gun”. The source added: “This type of individual does not surrender”.- ‘Building intelligence’ -The army is not giving details of the exchanges that took place during the operation, merely confirming that fighting took place at close quarters. “We knew that there was a target of interest in the region for two days. After that, it was all a work of mutual support, between the different sources of intelligence,” said the source.“It is a case of building it up,” said the official, without revealing the origin of the information but confirming the help of the United States.Once the objective was identified and located, conditions in northern Mali at the beginning of the rainy season slowed down the progress of forces on the ground.In the operation, one individual was captured and handed to the Malian authorities after being interrogated by the French forces.But the soldiers also seized important digital material, including phones, cards and computers. Analysing them may help explain what Droukdel, who was usually very discreet, was doing in the region.- ‘Buried at the scene’ -There has for some time been major fighting between groups affiliated with Al-Qaeda with those of Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (IS-GS). These have been “violent” fights with “losses on both sides”, according to the French source.It is has not been ruled out that this could have prompted Droukdel’s presence in the area.“It’s a real question,” said the source, expressing hope that analysis would shed more light on this. The IS-GS was designated in January as the number one enemy of France’s 5,000 strong anti-jihadist force Barkhane and its G5 Sahel allies of Mauritania, Chad, Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso. But, in the end, it was an Al-Qaeda figure who was killed in this operation. “The fact that today we have focused a certain number of our forces on the most virulent and urgent threat has not distracted us from the surveillance of other branches”, said the source.Once the operation was finished, the special forces “applied the standards of armed conflict: the enemy combatants were buried at the scene”.Meanwhile the prisoner taken “will answer for his actions before the courts”, said the source.The official praised the operational efficiency of the French forces on the ground and in the air, saying they were capable of deploying in a clandestine situation in full gear in temperatures of 45 degrees Celsius (113 degrees Fahrenheit).In military terms, these are “extremely rustic conditions”, said the source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capture-not-possible-france-s-desert-operation-against-al-qaeda-chief/story-vzpJ6fu8hprp43qAvfwZKI.html
11-06-2020||World||Gunmen kill 10 Ivory Coast soldiers near Burkina Faso border||Gunmen have attacked a security post in northern Ivory Coast near the border with Burkina Faso, killing at least 10 soldiers and injuring six others, Ivory Coast’s army chief said Thursday.It was the first major jihadist attack in the West African nation since 2016, when al-Qaida’s North African branch killed at least 19 people at the Grand-Bassam beach resort area.Thursday’s early morning assault targeted an army and gendarmerie post in Kafolo in Sikolo prefecture, according to a statement by Armed Forces Chief Lassina Doumbia.President Alassane Ouattara said investigations are underway to determine “the nature, circumstances and definitive toll of this attack,” the statement said. “In the interim, urgent measures are being taken,” including putting all troops on high alert and sweeping the region to find the attackers.In May, Ivory Coast and Burkina Faso launched joint operations along the border region. Fighters affiliated with al-Qaida and the Islamic State group have staged a growing number of attacks and gained more territory in the past year in Burkina Faso, displacing more than 750,000 people in that country’s north.There have been growing concerns over the possible presence of Islamic militants in Ivory Coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-kill-10-ivory-coast-soldiers-near-burkina-faso-border/story-Dz4VnvMWF7ypu8fWPHBnyH.html
11-06-2020||World||US economy will stay open even in second coronavirus wave: Steven Mnuchin||US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Thursday there will be no more shutdowns to stop the coronavirus pandemic, even as the outbreak flares in some states.“We can’t shut down the economy. I think we’ve learned that if you shut down the economy, you’re going to create more damage,” Mnuchin said in an interview on CNBC.His comments were echoed by President Donald Trump, who tweeted “We will have a very good Third Quarter, a great Fourth Quarter, and one of our best ever years in 2021. We will also soon have a Vaccine & Therapeutics/Cure. That’s my opinion. WATCH!”The president’s tweet came after the Federal Reserve on Wednesday predicted an economic contraction of 6.5 percent this year, while warning the outlook remained uncertain.“The Federal Reserve is wrong so often,” Trump said. “I see the numbers also, and do MUCH better than they do.”Orders to close businesses to stop the virus’s spread beginning in mid-March have badly harmed the world’s largest economy, leading to tens of millions of layoffs and an unemployment rate of 13.3 percent in May, a figure reminiscent of the Great Depression 90 years ago.Yet the virus remains deadly across the United States, with more than 112,900 deaths reported as of Wednesday and two million cases, while some states like Texas and North Carolina are seeing more hospitalizations from Covid-19 than they did a month ago.Wall Street stocks reversed days of gains on Thursday, with major indices plunging into the red after the Labor Department reported another 1.5 million people filed new claims for unemployment benefits last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-economy-will-stay-open-even-in-second-coronavirus-wave-steven-mnuchin/story-H0VAIjQQAPr23oJH6tjwTN.html
11-06-2020||World||Top US general Mark Milley regrets park walk with US President Donald Trump||General Mark Milley, America’s top military officer, on Thursday expressed regret for accompanying President Donald Trump on his controversial walk through a park outside the White House violently cleared of peaceful protestors on June 1 by law enforcement forces.“I should not have been there,” Milley, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said in a pre-recorded video commencement address to National Defense University. “As a commissioned uniformed officer, it was a mistake that I have learned from, and I sincerely hope we all can learn from it.”Defense Secretary Mark Esper had earlier sought to distance himself from the controversial walk that some are saying will be a watershed moment for the Trump presidency.President Trump had strode out of the White House accompanied by a large entourage of officials and walked through a park swept clean of protestors with the heavy use of pepper spray canisters, tear gas shells and flash-bang grenades, to pose for pictures in front of a church damaged in protests earlier. He had just held up a copy of the Bible, but said nothing.Esper, Milley and Attorney General Willam Barr were in the president’s entourage. Milley’s’ presence in military fatigues, which he wears every day to work, had attracted a lot of criticism as it was taken to indicate the US military was taking sides in a political event, contrary to its standing as an apolitical, non-partisan institution.“That sparked a national debate about the role of the military in civil society,” Milley said. “My presence in that moment and in that environment created a perception of the military involved in domestic politics.”“We who wear the cloth of our nation come from the people of our nation, and we must hold dear the principle of an apolitical military that is so deeply rooted in the very essence of our republic,” he added.US military leaders have differed with the president also on the issue of renaming army bases names after general of the confederate army, in the wake of countrywide protests triggered by the death of George Floyd and the fierce debate that is under way to deal with persisting racism in the country. Esper and Milley were “open” open to discussions about renaming these bases. But the president shut it down in a string of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-general-regrets-park-walk-with-trump/story-j3g03ZMzvTpGxXZzdWzU8J.html
11-06-2020||World||Still time for China to reconsider Hong Kong security law: UK||There is still time for China to reconsider, step back from the brink and respect Hong Kong’s autonomy and respect its international obligations, the Boris Johnson government said on Thursday, referring to Beijing’s plan to extend a security law to the former British colony.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said he remained “deeply concerned” by China’s intention to implement the security law on Hong Kong. According to him, this would undermine the ‘One country, two systems’ framework agreed at the time of the former colony’s 1997 handover.Raab wrote in a foreword in the Foreign Office’s latest six-monthly report on Hong Kong to parliament: “As I announced to parliament on June 2, if China enacts this legislation we will amend the arrangements for those with British National Overseas status in Hong Kong”.“If China follows through with its proposed legislation, we will put in place new arrangements to allow BN(O)s to come to the UK without the current 6 month limit, enabling them to live and apply to study and work for extendable periods of 12 months, providing a path to British citizenship”, he added.Beijing has rejected London’s criticism as interference in China’s internal affairs. Prime Minister Johnson has also confirmed London’s intention to offer BNOs a path to British citizenship if Beijing implemented the security law in Hong Kong.According to Raab, public trust in the Hong Kong police is allegedly at an all-time low. The UK, he wrote, will not look the other way when it comes to the people of Hong Kong, will stand by them and will live up to its responsibilities.“For the Chinese Government, rather than Hong Kong’s own institutions, to directly impose national security legislation would lie in direct conflict with Article 23 of Hong Kong’s Basic Law, and with China’s obligations under the Sino-British Joint Declaration”, Raab wrote.“At the time of writing, we have not seen the text of the legislation. However the law, as it has been described, raises the prospect of prosecution in Hong Kong for political crimes, which would undermine existing commitments to protect the rights and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/still-time-for-china-to-reconsider-hong-kong-security-law-uk/story-r6zs7SKvns8UlvL59fZRPK.html
11-06-2020||World||Teacher killed in stabbing attack at Slovakia school||A teacher died in a stabbing attack in an elementary school in central Slovakia on Thursday, police said, adding that officers responding to the incident killed the assailant.Police identified the killer as a 22-year old male, a former student of the school in the town of Vrutky, some 180 kilometres (110 miles) northeast of the capital Bratislava.The assailant stabbed and killed the deputy principal and injured several others, including a female teacher and two children.Officers opened fire on the man, killing him near the school as he attempted to escape.The killing sent shock waves through Slovakia, a central European eurozone country of 5.4 million people, where the incident was the first violent attack of its kind in a school.“He broke the glass door to get in, the staff tried to stop him and he used a knife he had brought with him,” Slovak police chief Milan Lucansky said on his official Facebook page. “He dealt a lethal injury to a deputy principal and injured the caretaker, then he got inside the building where he caused a serious injury to a female teacher and then injured two kids with multiple stab wounds,” he said.“He then tried to escape with the caretaker running after him. A policeman chased him, but he tried to defend himself with the knife so they used their guns and killed him.” Although he did not go into detail about the attacker’s motives, Lucansky said the young man appeared to have “struggled with mental health problems”.All the injured were conscious and in a stable condition en route to a hospital in the nearby city of Martin, an emergency services spokesperson said.Health Minister Marek Krajci said the teacher and children had “severe stab wounds”.Prime Minister Igor Matovic conveyed his “sincere condolences” to the victim’s family.The interior minister was flying to the scene, Matovic told journalists on the sidelines of a meeting of central European leaders in the neighbouring Czech Republic.President Zuzana Caputova offered her condolences and support for “all the teachers, police officers, children and their parents affected by this difficult and fearful time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teacher-killed-in-stabbing-attack-at-slovakia-school/story-7bQ6J3vpJ1BwX91UdLD5CJ.html
11-06-2020||World||US Covid-19 cases over 2 million, expert warns of 100,000 more deaths||The United States now has more than 2 million Covid-19 infections with over 27,000 reported in the last 24 hours and a spike in hospitalisation has been reported from 12 states triggering fears of a second wave and, in a grim reminder that it is far from over yet, an expert has forecast 100,000 more fatalities by September. More than 112,000 fatalities had been reported till Thursday morning, with 935 in the last 24 hours. Ashish Jha, a Harvard physician, has argued the United States could see around 25,000 deaths a months, with the average of around 800 a day, at the minimum, going up to 200,000 by mid-September.“Even if we don’t have increasing cases, even if we keep things flat, it’s reasonable to expect that we’re going to hit 200,000 deaths sometime during the month of September,” Jha said. in an interview to CNN Wednesday. “And that’s just through September. The pandemic won’t be over in September.”Ramped up testing, contact tracing, strict adherence to social distancing norms and widespread use of masks could help prevent spiraling fatalities, he has argued.Anthony Fauci, the top US epidemiologist who has also said the epidemic is not done with the United States yet, told ABC Wednesday he is worried about the impact of ongoing protests and demonstrations. “Masks can help, but it’s masks plus physical separation and when you get congregations like we saw with the demonstrations, like we have said — myself and other health officials — that’s taking a risk,” he said., adding, “Unfortunately, what we’re seeing now is just an example of the kinds of things we were concerned about.”Covid-19 hospitalizations — a number far more worrying than infections — have been spiking in 12 states (21 states have seen a surge in new infections) and there is talk already of a second wave hitting states after they reopened. Such as Florida, Arizona, and Texas.Texas recorded a single-day high of more than 2,500 new cases and Florida logged a seven-day total of 8,553 cases, according to Bloomberg, which was told by Eric Tanner, a Johns Hopkins University scholar, “There is a new wave coming in parts of the country. t’s small and it’s distant so far, but it’s coming.”Public health officials have been most worried about Arizona, where the number of new cases has doubled — up by 211% — over the past two weeks, the states health department has said. Its healthcare system, which is up to 83% occupancy, is in danger of being overwhelmed soon.But the epidemic appears to have slipped off the radar of the president, the White House and US congress partly because of President Trump’s hurry to reopen the country, put businesses back at work and turnaround rising unemployment numbers (another 1.2 million filed for unemployment benefits last week) , which was has happened to an extent with hirings taking off. The other reason has been antiracism protests and unrest ripping through the country after the death of George Floyd, an African American man, under a knee of a white police officer, with three others holding him down.President Trump has announced plans to return to the campaign trail with public rallies; some of them in states that are experiencing a spike in new infections: Florida, Texas, Arizona, and North Carolina. He starts on June 19 in Oklahoma, which is relatively safer, but Tulsa, where the rally is to take place, is in a county that has seen a modest rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-19-cases-over-2-million-expert-warns-of-100-000-more-deaths/story-VMiI0h1zXGc0j6NYMahhzJ.html
11-06-2020||World||UK’s Queen Elizabeth joins first public video conference call to mark carers week||Queen Elizabeth has taken part in her first public video conference call to mark Carers Week, adding another first for the British monarch during her long reign.Elizabeth and her daughter Anne spoke to four carers who have the primary responsibility of looking after family members to hear about their experiences and lives during the Covid-19 outbreak and the challenges the pandemic has brought.“Interesting listening to all your tales and stories,” the 94-year-old queen said. “I’m very impressed by what you have achieved already. I’m very glad to have been able to join you today.”The video was released on Thursday to mark Carers Week and highlight the sacrifices made by the approximately 7 million unpaid carers in the United Kingdom, many of whom have had to take on extra roles during the lockdown brought about by the novel coronavirus pandemic.Last month, Buckingham Palace released audio of a telephone call the queen made to thank nurses for their work during the pandemic, another first for the British monarch during her 68-year reign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-queen-elizabeth-joins-first-public-video-conference-call-to-mark-carers-week/story-zTsvugXnB8LKqBbcH8uZvI.html
11-06-2020||World||Remdesivir being considered for ‘restricted use’ on severely ill Covid-19 patients: Report||Anti-viral drug remdesivir and tocilizumab, an immunomodulator, are being considered for “restricted use” on severely ill Covid-19 patients on “emergency and compassionate grounds”, according to revised clinical management guidelines to be released soon.The much-touted anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine will continue to be used while azythromycin may be dropped from the treatment protocol, sources in the know of the developments told PTI.A clinical management guideline issued on March 31 had recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin on Covid-19 patients who require ICU management.“Since Covid-19 is a new disease and there is no drug or vaccine for it as of now, treatment protocols are being revised from time to time based on emerging evidences,” a source said.Tocilizumab, an immunomodulatory drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, will be used on experimental basis. Based on evidence, some more drugs to be used in combination with hydroxychloroquine may be added to the protocol, but no consensus has been reached regarding them as yet, the source said.The new clinical management guidelines for Covid-19 is in the process of being finalised by the experts of the National Task Force on Covid-19, which last held its meeting on Sunday.India’s drug regulator had last week granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences the marketing authorisation for its drug remdesivir for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalised Covid-19 in the country, sources said.The approval process for remdesivir was accelerated in view of the emergency situation and the unmet need for medicines in light of the coronavirus outbreak.“This medicine, which is administered in the form of an injection, has been approved to be sold by retail on the prescription of specialists for use in a hospital or in institutional set-up only. It has been approved for use for a maximum of five days,” a source said.India currently does not manufacture remdesivir. The four companies -- Hetero, Jubilant Life Sciences, Cipla and Mylan NV -- with which Gilead Sciences Inc have entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements are still awaiting permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for manufacturing and distribution remdesivir in the country. Remdesivir has been issued an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of hospitalized patients with severe Covid-19 illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remdesivir-being-considered-for-restricted-use-on-severely-ill-covid-19-patients-report/story-5ueUVfCa39wWc9uPyuXkZI.html
11-06-2020||World||Nepal will get back land from India through dialogue: PM Oli||Nepal’s Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has said that his government will seek a solution to the Kalapani issue through diplomatic efforts and dialogue on the basis of historical facts and documents.“We will get back the land occupied by India through holding a dialogue,” Oli said while responding to questions in Parliament on Wednesday.He claimed that India built a Kali temple, created “an artificial Kali river” and “encroached the Nepalese territory through deploying the Army” at Kalapani. The river defines the border between the two countries.Oli’s claim comes in midst of a raging boundary row between the two countries with India sternly asking Nepal not to resort to any “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims after Kathmandu released a new political map laying claim over Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura.The ties between India and Nepal came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Nepalese officials say that Nepal had control over the area before 1962, when the India-China war took place. At that time India stationed its army seeking permission from then Nepalese rulers for temporary purpose, but it never removed its forces, they claim.Although there are border issues in other areas such as Susta but the government has given priority to Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepali territories have not been captured by deploying army in other parts of its international border, Oli said in response to a question in Parliament.Earlier this week, the Nepalese Parliament unanimously endorsed a proposal to consider a constitution amendment bill to pave way for putting the new political map that includes Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura in Nepal’s national emblem.A discussion on the issue started in the Parliament since Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Shivamaya Tumbahanfe tabled a bill for the second amendment to the Nepalese Constitution to incorporate the new political map of Nepal on May 31.Prime Minister Oli said he was happy to learn that the unprecedented unity has been shown both within and outside the Parliament on the issue of national unity and territorial integrity.“Our ancestors founded and saved this country through their struggles. We will be able to establish our territorial integrity if we remain firm,” he said.Prime Minister Oli also raised objection to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s reported remark that Nepal should not repeat the mistake which Tibet made.“If Adityanath spoke about that, it was not appropriate,” he said.“It is not appropriate to threaten Nepal in that way... This should not have been spoken by a chief minister of UP,” he said. “It is a deplorable matter, if he spoke so.” Oli also complained about India’s unwillingness to receive the joint report prepared by Eminent Persons’ Group (EPG) of India and Nepal.Nepal is ready to receive the report, but it would be meaningless unless both the governments receive it, he said. “As per the condition, India should first receive the report but it has not shown any interest to receive the report which was prepared two years ago,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-will-get-back-land-from-india-through-dialogue-pm-oli/story-vjT4RRClqeWU7KANlYqaOI.html
11-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests: Gandhi statues in UK among targets of ire||Mahatma Gandhi’s alleged views about Africans during his time in South Africa have been dredged to target his statues in the UK as protestors demand that statues of historical figures linked to racism and slavery trade be removed from public spaces.Gandhi’s statue in Parliament Square was targeted during the Black Lives matter (BLM) demonstration on Sunday, when the word ‘racist’ was written near its plinth. On the same day, the statue of 17th century slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down in Bristol.Now thousands of people have signed an online petition to the Leicester City Council for the removal of Gandhi’s statue in the east Midlands city with a large population of Indian origin. It was installed on the arterial Belgrave Road in 2009.Indian circles believe that the BLM campaign is being exploited by anti-India elements based in the UK, where six Gandhi statues have been installed in five cities in recent decades, including two in London: Tavistock Square (1968) and Parliament Square (2015). There were mixed views when the statue in Parliament Square was installed.BLM campaigners have drawn up a ‘hit-list’ of at least 78 statues and memorials across the UK that they believe should be removed, including those of Henry Dundas, who was president of the Board of Control of the East India Company from 1793 to 1801 (in Edinburgh), and of Robert Clive, first governor of the colonial Bengal Presidency (in Shropshire).The BLM campaign has also revived the demand to remove the statue of imperialist Cecil Rhodes from the Oriel College in the University of Oxford, where intense debate continues over its fate amidst growing support for its removal.In London, mayor Sadiq Khan has ordered a review of statues and public spaces for statues and items related to slave trade. Soon after his announcement, the statue of noted slaveholder Robert Milligan was removed from outside the Museum of London Docklands.Many Labour-controlled councils have initiated such reviews, including the Ealing Council in west London, where a consultation is being launched to rename Southall’s Havelock Road – named after Henry Havelock, general in the colonial army involved in suppressing the 1857 Uprising – as Guru Nanak Road.Khan, said: “Our capital’s diversity is our greatest strength, yet our statues, road names and public spaces reflect a bygone era. It is an uncomfortable truth that our nation and city owes a large part of its wealth to its role in the slave trade and while this is reflected in our public realm, the contribution of many of our communities to life in our capital has been wilfully ignored”.“This cannot continue. We must ensure that we celebrate the achievements and diversity of all in our city, and that we commemorate those who have made London what it is – that includes questioning which legacies are being celebrated”.“The Black Lives Matter protests have rightly brought this to the public’s attention, but it’s important that we take the right steps to work together to bring change and ensure that we can all be proud of our public landscape,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-gandhi-statues-in-uk-among-targets-of-ire/story-LTGXElGMpSIRHU4cseRtHN.html
11-06-2020||World||Britain publishes Covid-19 safety guidance for airlines and airports||Britain published new guidance for airlines and airports on how to operate safely to minimise the risks from coronavirus, adding to hopes that the country will soon agree deals to allow quarantine-free travel. Passengers and staff should wear face coverings in airports and on aircraft, while passengers should check in all luggage including hand bags and remain seated for as much of the flight as possible, said the Department for Transport on Thursday.Since the outbreak of coronavirus, there has been minimal flying into and out of Britain. Airlines had been hoping for a recovery in July, but they say new UK rules requiring international arrivals to quarantine for 14-days have pushed this back.Britain has said work is continuing on “air bridges” between countries with low infection rates, something which the industry says is vital to kickstart travel demand and avoid further job losses on top of the tens of thousands already announced. The new aviation guidance shows the government is preparing for a restart. “We are taking the necessary steps to ensure a framework is in place for the aviation industry to bounce back when it is safe for restrictions on travel to be lifted,” said transport minister Grant Shapps in a statement. Many airlines including easyJet, Ryanair and British Airways have already said that customers must wear face coverings onboard. The guidance to put most baggage in the hold could be problematic for some low-cost airlines such as Ryanair which formerly charged a premium for customers to keep larger bags with them in the cabin.The government also said in its guidance that there should be extensive cleaning of the aircraft, and more availability of handwashing and hand sanitiser facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-publishes-covid-19-safety-guidance-for-airlines-and-airports/story-MYESRpt7UH2Rxd8cSiOYOJ.html
11-06-2020||World||Missing Indian student’s body found in Scotland||The body of Indian student Prajwal Pandharinath Guhagarkar, who was missing since Saturday, has been found, the police in Scotland said on Thursday after a forensic search in and around the town of Stirling that included a remotely piloted aircraft system.Guhagarkar, 21, was a student of the University of Stirling, which is located about 60 km from Edinburgh in central Scotland. He fell into River Forth while celebrating a birthday, reports said.Chief inspector Gill Marshall, Stirling srea commander, said: “I can confirm that a body has sadly been recovered from the River Forth at Stirling today (Thursday). Formal identification has yet to take place, but the family of missing 21-year-old Prajwal Pandharinath Guhagarkar has been informed”.“Prajwal was reported to have fallen into the River Forth near Bridgehaugh Road, Stirling, in the early hours of Saturday, 6 June, in what appears to have been a tragic accident and we have been utilising extensive resources as part of our search since then”.“Our inquiries are ongoing to establish the full circumstances surrounding the death and we continue to offer support to Prajwal’s family. As is the case with all sudden deaths, a report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal,” she added.The search for Guhagarkar included air units, police, fire, ambulance and coastguard crew, and the use of the remotely piloted aircraft near Alloa, 12 km downstream from Stirling along the River Forth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/missing-indian-student-s-body-found-in-scotland/story-l0EftUenQht3hUbrM6ckeO.html
11-06-2020||World||Moderna to start final testing stage of coronavirus vaccine in July||Moderna Inc on Thursday confirmed it plans to start a trial of 30,000 volunteers of its much-anticipated coronavirus vaccine in July as the company enters the final stage of testing.The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotech said the primary goal of the study would be to prevent symptomatic Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. The key secondary goal would be prevention of severe disease, as defined by keeping people out of the hospital.Moderna said it has selected the 100 microgram dose of the vaccine for the late-stage study. At that dose level, the company is on track to deliver about 500 million doses per year, and possibly up to 1 billion doses per year, starting in 2021 from the company’s internal U.S. manufacturing site and strategic collaboration with Swiss drugmaker Lonza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-to-start-final-testing-stage-of-coronavirus-vaccine-in-july/story-uZ4K0UkhBYpTRWf91Ha9WP.html
11-06-2020||World||Beijing reports 1 new locally transmitted Covid-19 case after nearly 2 months||A new confirmed case of Covid-19 was reported in Beijing on Thursday for the first time in nearly two months, leading to the sealing of a residential complex in the city and contact tracing in the locality.The 52-year-old man doesn’t have a history of travelling outside Beijing or any contact with anyone returning from outside China, officials said.Beijing health authorities said the man from Beijing’s Xicheng district showed symptoms such as chill and fatigue but no cough, sore throat or chest tightness. “The patient reported that he had no history of leaving Beijing or close contact with foreigners in the past 2 weeks. The sample nucleic acid test was positive, and the expert diagnosed as new coronary pneumonia confirmed cases,” the official was quoted in state media.Beijing lowered its emergency response to the novel coronavirus epidemic from the second level to the third on Saturday, a local official had announced Friday.Beijing, local government spokesperson, Xu Hejian said had not reported any locally transmitted or imported case of Covid-19 for 50 consecutive days, signalling that prevention measures had worked.Overall, Beijing had reported 420 local and 174 imported cases of Covid-19, Xu said, adding that the death toll stood at nine.Oveall, the Chinese mainland reported 11 new imported Covid-19 cases for June 10, bringing the total number of imported cases to 1,797, the national health commission (NHC) said Thursday.Of the 11 imported cases, six were reported in Shanghai, three in Guangdong Province, one each in Tianjin and in Fujian province, the commission said.Of all the imported cases on the mainland, 1,736 had been discharged from hospitals after recovery, and 61 remained hospitalized.No deaths had been reported from the imported cases, official news agency, Xinhua reported Thursday.China has reported over 83000 cases and 4634 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-reports-1-new-locally-transmitted-covid-19-case-after-nearly-2-months/story-5q84tauVRch99Cqlmy8NvN.html
11-06-2020||World||Joint inflammation drug may be repurposed to treat Covid-19: Study||A drug used to treat joint inflammation can be repurposed to treat patients with Covid-19, according to a study which may lead to a new treatment option for the deadly disease. Researchers, including those from Imperial College London in the UK, noted that baricitinib is an oral drug used for treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis -- a chronic inflammatory disorder which affects the joints, causing pain and stiffness. According to the study, published in the journal EMBO Molecular Medicine, the drug may lower inflammation and the quantity of the virus particles present in patients with COVID-19. Using AI-algorithms, the scientists identified existing drugs capable of blocking both inflammation and infectivity, and they found baricitinib to be a promising repurposing candidate for COVID-19. They said the drug acts as an inhibitor of janus kinase, a type of molecule in the body that acts as an “on” or “off” switch in many cellular functions. Baricitinib interferes with the inflammatory processes of the immune system and may be a potential treatment candidate for COVID-19, the study noted. The drug also previously demonstrated ability to inhibit the activity of cell-cell messenger molecules called cytokines, the researchers said. In test tube studies, and in miniature liver models, the scientists showed that the drug inhibited signalling of cytokines, which are known to overreact and drive inflammation in severe COVID-19 cases. According to the study, baricitinib also helped reduce the quantity of the novel coronavirus in infected cells, and the level of the signal molecule interleukin-6 (IL-6) -- a predictor of mortality from acute respiratory distress syndrome associated with COVID-19. When a small pilot study of the drug in three men and one woman with COVID-19 was conducted in Italy, all four patients showed improvements in signs and symptoms such as cough, fever, with reductions in quantity of the virus particles, and blood IL-6 levels after 10-12 days of treatment, the study noted. “Collectively, these data suggest that baricitinib may lower inflammation and viral load in COVID-19,” said Ali Mirazimi, a co-author of the study from Karolinska Institutet in Sweden. The scientists said more trials of baricitinib are currently underway in 85 hospitalised COVID-19 patients across three hospitals in Northern and Central Italy, with “encouraging initial results in patient outcomes.” “We are integrating and carefully analysing these trial data and providing functional and mechanistic follow-up studies to scrutinise baricitinib’s mode of action,” said Volker Lauschke, another co-author of the study from Karolinska Institutet. PTI VIS VIS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joint-inflammation-drug-may-be-repurposed-to-treat-covid-19-study/story-qzGQLMZNyE997BledHOhQI.html
11-06-2020||World||Nepal government to ease coronavirus lockdown in some areas||The Nepal government has decided to ease the ongoing nationwide coronavirus lockdown in some low-risk areas, including the Kathmandu valley. The government had enforced the lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of the deadly virus. On May 30, it extended the lockdown for the seventh time till June 14.Nepal has recorded over 4,360 cases and 15 deaths due to the disease.A Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday decided to change the modality of the lockdown in an attempt to gradually resume economic activities, sources said. The meeting has decided to allow operation of businesses, industries and private vehicles in Kathmandu Valley and other districts that have recorded fewer cases of COVID-19.However, the decision is yet to be officially announced and is expected to come into effect from Friday onwards.According to the sources, private vehicles will be allowed to operate on an odd-even basis in a bid to avoid traffic congestion. Private four-wheelers will be allowed to carry only two passengers, including the driver, while two-wheelers will not be allowed to carry pillion riders. The Cabinet laid an emphasis on adopting precautionary measures, including social distance in order to check further spread of the the coronavirus. The movement of people to Kathmandu from other districts will be halted until the situation in the country improves further. The Cabinet meeting has decided not to allow long-route passenger bus services. Schools, colleges, cinema halls and other places of public gathering will continue to remain closed. The restrictions on international and domestic flights will also continue. Meanwhile, hundreds of youths on Thursday staged a demonstration in front of the prime minister’s official residence in Baluwatar, demanding easing of the lockdown, making purchase of coronavirus-related medicine transparent, expanding COVID-19 tests and implementing effective measures to control the spread of the disease.The protesters were chanting anti-government slogans and carrying placards that read “Disease or hunger?”, “We don’t need MCC; don’t sell the country”, “No transparency, no farsightedness, why is there always incompetency?” and “Sanitise the government.” In another development, 150 Nepalese female labourers, who were stranded in Kuwait, were repatriated to Kathmandu on Thursday on a chartered flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-government-to-ease-coronavirus-lockdown-in-some-areas/story-dnz5M6wKFSEMQ1b1oRsibK.html
11-06-2020||World||Russia rolls out first approved Covid-19 drug as infections pass 500,000||Russia on Thursday rolled out a drug approved to treat patients suffering from the novel coronavirus, its state financial backer said, as the number of infections there surpassed half a million.The first deliveries of the new antiviral drug, registered under the name Avifavir, were made to some hospitals and clinics across the country, Russia’s RDIF sovereign wealth fund said in a press release. RDIF has funded trials and has a 50% share in the drug’s manufacturer ChemRar.The health ministry gave its approval for the drug’s use under a special accelerated process while clinical trials, held over a shorter period and with fewer people than many other countries, were still underway. There is currently no vaccine for Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus, and human trials of several existing antiviral drugs have yet to show efficacy.RDIF chief Kirill Dmitriev last week told Reuters the plan was for ChemRar to manufacture enough of the drug to treat around 60,000 people a month. Dmitriev on Thursday said more than 10 countries had made requests for Avifavir supplies. Negotiations were underway to supply the drug to almost all of Russia’s regions, with seven of its more than 80 regions receiving Thursday’s initial deliveries, Dmitriev added. With 502,436 cases, Russia has the third highest number of infections in the world after Brazil and the United States, but has a relatively low official death toll of 6,532 - something that has been the focus of debate.The Moscow health department on Wednesday raised its death toll for the month of May, citing changes in the way it determines the cause of death for patients suffering from other health problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-rolls-out-first-approved-covid-19-drug-as-infections-pass-500-000/story-fgVuxKeI7Bgu5MdnUWziYJ.html
11-06-2020||World||South Korea hit by human rights watch over leaflet crackdown||A top official at a global human rights organization criticized South Korea for trying to shut down two activist groups who sent anti-Kim Jong Un leaflets by balloon across the border into North Korea.Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch, said a decision by South Korea to revoke the licenses and seek prosecution for the groups is a blow against the campaign to hold North Korea accountable for its human rights violations for the sake of political expediency.The moves against the activists are “a blatant violation of freedom of association that cannot be justified with vague appeals to border security and relations with the North,” he said in a statement Thursday.His comments came the day after South Korea’s Unification Ministry said the government plans to cancel the licenses of two groups -- Fighters for Free North Korea and KeunSaem -- that sent balloons with leaflets across the border, and ask prosecutors whether they can bring charges on suspicion of violating an inter-Korean exchange law. Officials from the groups have not responded to requests to comment.‘Wicked Act’While millions of leaflets have been flown across the border for more than a decade, Pyongyang in recent days slammed South Korean President Moon Jae-in for letting groups that include North Korean defectors send the leaflets into its territory.On Tuesday, it cut off communications links set up with its neighbor about two years ago, in an expression of its anger. Kim Yo Jong, the younger sister of North Korea’s leader, previously accused South Korea of tolerating a “sordid and wicked act of hostility.”North Korea Cuts Off Communications With Seoul Over LeafletsMoon’s office expressed “deep regrets” over activists groups that send leaflets condemning Kim Jong Un toward North Korean territory and will actively seek legal procedures to punish them, Kim You-geun, a senior official at the National Security Council, said at a Thursday briefing.South Korea’s Unification Ministry in a text message Thursday said its official position hasn’t changed from the previous day, when it announced it would seek legal action against the two groups.“Rather than kowtow to threats from Kim Jong Un’s sister, South Korea should call for Pyongyang to open uncensored and unrestricted channels for communication between people across the 38th parallel,” Robertson said.Moon, a former human rights lawyer, has made a fresh push to restore economic and other exchanges with North Korea after his ruling progressive camp scored a supermajority in parliamentary elections in April.But Moon doesn’t have much he can offer North Korea without prompting a blowup from the Trump administration, which has repeatedly rejected Seoul’s calls for sanctions relief. The US has refused to relax United Nations penalties and other measures against the regime without greater commitments on arms reduction from Kim Jong Un.The United Nations special rapporteur for North Korea has said the country systematically abuses the rights of its citizens and denies them basic freedoms, while the US State Department accuses Pyongyang of a brutal campaign to crush dissent through political prisons, torture and executions.South Korean activist groups have accused Moon of downplaying abuses north of the border so as not to upset relations with Kim Jong Un.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-hit-by-human-rights-watch-over-leaflet-crackdown/story-N6nk3hZwnEWTV1gF8x8VuJ.html
11-06-2020||World||Former Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif’s brother tests positive for Covid-19||PML-N President and leader of the opposition in the National Assembly Shehbaz Sharif has tested positive for coronavirus, party spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb confirmed on Thursday to Dawn.Shehbaz Sharif has self-quarantined himself at home after his report came out. A PML-N party leader Ataullah Tarar said that Sharif’s “life had been endangered in this situation by NAB’s summoning of him”.“NAB was informed multiple times in writing that Shehbaz Sharif has suffered from cancer and compared to other people, his immunity system is weak,” Tarar was quoted as saying.“Imran Niazi and NAB will be responsible if something happens to Shehbaz Sharif,” he added.When asked about the news, Hamza Shehbaz, Sharif’s son and PML-N leader, said: “This is a difficult time for Pakistan. May Allah grant health to everyone’s parents.”The PML-N president had appeared before the National Accountability Bureau on Tuesday in connection with investigations pertaining to money laundering and income-beyond-means.Earlier this month, he had also appeared before the Lahore High Court to obtain a pre-arrest bail in cases regarding money laundering and assets beyond means. Sharif had filed the appeal in the high court a day before a NAB team raided his residence to arrest him on June 2, after he refused to appear before the accountability watchdog.Sharif had thrice refused to appear before NAB citing health reasons. In a statement submitted to the bureau, he said: “It has been widely reported in the media that some NAB officials have tested positive for Covid-19.“Please appreciate [that] I am a cancer survivor and 69 years old. I have been advised limited exposure on account of the peculiar background of low immunity,” he said.He added that he was available to answer any queries by the investigation team via Skype.Sharif is the latest PML-N leader to have tested positive for the virus. Multiple other members of PML-N’s top-tier leadership have been diagnosed with the disease, including Aurangzeb, Tariq Fazal Chaudhry, Ahsan Iqbal and former prime minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-pakistan-pm-nawaz-sharif-s-brother-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-9iJD47CmLXy95jBjYvKgBM.html
11-06-2020||World||China second pollution survey shows progress in battling emissions||China’s second national survey of pollution showed major air and water pollutants dropped significantly in the ten years since 2007, though the region surrounding Beijing still remains one of the most polluted in terms of air quality.The census, which China began in 2017 and concluded in 2019, is based on information collected from more than 3.5 million sources of pollution. It showed that the amount of three major pollutants -- sulfur dioxides, chemical oxygen demand and nitrous oxides -- dropped by 72%, 46% and 34% respectively from ten years earlier, when the first census was done.The findings showed major polluting industries also did less damage to the environment. The paper-making industry produced 84% less chemical oxygen demand than in 2007, sulfur dioxide from the steel industry dropped by 54% and nitrogen oxides from the cement producing industry dropped by 23%.China’s leaders are grappling with how to maintain the nation’s momentum in battling pollution as attention turns to reviving an economy battered by the coronavirus. China was either on track to meet or had already met most of its 2020 climate goals before the pandemic, but is struggling to curb coal power and has already delayed tightening emission controls on vehicles to help automakers.Coronavirus Deaths Stir Calls in China to Clean Up Air PollutionEmissions from agriculture, industry, households and motor vehicles have become harder to control compared with ten years ago, deputy environmental minister Zhao Yingmin told reporters at a briefing where the census was released. China’s countryside and its western region still lag behind in terms of the number of environmental protection facilities and more money will be invested there, he said.The census showed that emissions of four major pollutants -- chemical oxygen demand, nitrous oxides, particulate matter and volatile organics emissions -- were all above 10 million tons in 2017. Almost half of industrial pollutants were produced by the fabricated metal industry, manufacturing of non-metallic mineral products, manufacturing of general machinery, rubber and plastic products and the textile industry, the report showed.The census pointed to three regions -- the area surrounding Beijing, the Yangtze River Delta and the Fenhe-Weihe River Plains near Xian -- as having the highest intensity of air pollutants.Zhao also said the number of domestic waste disposal facilities in China had increased by 86% from 2007 to 2017.China generates hundreds of millions tonnes of urban household refuse daily. Since most Chinese families do not sort garbage, 97% of the rubbish is either buried or incinerated. The country plans to roll out a mandatory waste sorting system across 46 major cities by the end of this year, modelled on one launched in Shanghai in 2019 with surveillance cameras and volunteers checking for compliance at dumping sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-second-pollution-survey-shows-progress-in-battling-emissions/story-zlrO2xoLNuPQbl0gi6MOFO.html
11-06-2020||World||Beijing city reports first confirmed Covid-19 case in nearly two months||Beijing has confirmed a new coronavirus case on Thursday, Chinese official and ruling Communist Party-backed media reported, the first confirmed Covid-19 case in the capital in nearly two months.The patient, a 52-year-old man, checked into a clinic on Wednesday due to a fever, according to the official party newspaper People’s Daily. The patient said he has not left Beijing or been in contact with anyone who travelled from overseas in the last two weeks, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-city-reports-first-confirmed-covid-19-case-in-nearly-two-months/story-5HagKrqgBw2Xejp4HOOCkP.html
11-06-2020||World||British Airways to put artworks on sale in Covid-19 cash crunch||British Airways will sell at least 10 works of art from its extensive collection, a source said, to try to raise millions of pounds to boost its cash reserves as it struggles through the coronavirus pandemic.The airline has come under fire from British politicians for plans to cut 12,000 jobs. But with planes grounded and no revenue, it says the job losses are necessary because travel demand is set to shrink in coming years.The BA collection includes works by Damien Hirst, Peter Doig and Bridget Riley, and selling off some of the works, which usually hang in executive lounges at airports, was an idea from a BA staff member, a source familiar with the situation said on Thursday.At least one work has been valued at more than 1 million pounds ($1.27 million), the source added.BA boss Alex Cruz said last week that with its parent company IAG burning through 178 million pounds ($223 million) a week, he could not guarantee BA’s survival and urged unions to engage over the job cuts.The airline has said it is taking steps now to reduce up to 28% of staff numbers to protect as many jobs as it can in the long term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-airways-to-put-artworks-on-sale-in-covid-19-cash-crunch/story-HkhI1q654BRsupNaN2mCWI.html
11-06-2020||World||Prince Philip marks quiet 99th birthday in lockdown||Britain’s Prince Philip marked a quiet 99th birthday in lockdown with his wife, Queen Elizabeth II, at Windsor Castle in south-east England.Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, and the 94-year-old monarch, who have been married for 72 years, have been isolating together since March when the UK went into lockdown in the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.Buckingham Palace released a new photograph of the royal couple, which was taken on June 1 in the quadrangle at the castle, to mark the birthday on Wednesday. No visits were planned due to the lockdown restrictions for the elderly but the royal family has been connecting with each other through Zoom and other online mediums and are likely to have done so for the birthday as well.Various divisions of the UK’s Armed Forces took to social media to wish the prince, who has an active history with the forces, a happy birthday.The Royal Marines official Twitter page read: “Happy 99th Birthday to the #DukeofEdinburgh #PrincePhilip from the Royal Marines.“In honour of this day, we wanted to share some images from the Duke of Edinburgh’s time as the Captain General of the Royal Marines.” It included photos of the Duke of Edinburgh involved in several military ceremonies in the past.The Intelligence Corps projected a birthday message for the prince onto one of their officers’ buildings and said: “His Royal Highness has been Colonel-in-Chief of the Intelligence Corps since 1977. We wish him many happy returns and send him this birthday message projected onto the Priory Officers’ Mess at Chicksands.” Prince Philip has not been seen in public since he spent four nights in hospital in December last year for what royal officials said was a planned “precautionary measure” for a pre-existing condition.Born in Corfu, Greece, in 1921, the royal is the longest-serving monarch’s consort in British history. He retired and stepped down from frontline royal duties in May 2017.The Queen also celebrated her 94th birthday in April quietly, cancelling the traditional gun salute because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-philip-marks-quiet-99th-birthday-in-lockdown/story-rZ5pnvBTi5lHiUOOCJxL9O.html
11-06-2020||World||A booming airline business: shipping pigs to China in 747 jumbo jets||Volga-Dnepr Group has flown more than 3,000 breeding pigs to China from France this year. The animals -- transported 6,450 miles (10,400 kilometers) in wooden crates in the hold of a Boeing 747 cargo plane -- are being used to restore local livestock levels to help mitigate shortages in the world’s largest pork market after an outbreak of African swine fever decimated China’s hog herds.Measures to stem the spread of the coronavirus amplified those swine shortages and accelerated attempts to boost the population of domestic herds. China imported a total 254,533 tons of pork in the first four months of the year from the US, which overtook Europe to become China’s largest pork supplier. That’s already more than the 245,000 tons China bought for the whole of 2019.The cargo is a sign of the shifting demand that Isaykin’s company -- known for transporting everything from satellites to emergency bridges -- is experiencing as the pandemic reshapes his industry.The company is also shipping masks, hazmat suits, medical equipment and even street-disinfecting vehicles to countries like Russia, France and Germany as they battle to contain the virus. Volga-Dnepr’s sales rose 32% to $630 million this year through April compared with the same period in 2019.“Global aviation is going through its most challenging time ever, but for cargo carriers like us it’s a chance,” Isaykin said in a Zoom interview from Moscow. “Previously, more than half of all aviation cargoes were carried in the luggage compartments of passenger planes. With this supply vanishing from the market, demand for cargo airlines surged and prices more than doubled.”While demand for air freight dropped 28% in April compared with a year earlier, capacity fell by 42%, according to the International Air Transport Association. Isaykin’s stake in closely held Volga-Dnepr is estimated to be worth around $700 million, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. The Russian company’s revenue may increase by a third this year to $2 billion, Isaykin predicts.Expanding GeographyThe overall rise in sales has come even as some revenue streams shrink. Shipments for the aerospace industry have fallen by about a third compared with last year, Isaykin said.Medical goods now account for more than half of global air freight, with e-commerce cargo for firms like Amazon.com Inc. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. another growing category.Volga-Dnepr’s footprint is also shifting, Isaykin said.“The geography of our shipments is expanding, following the spread of coronavirus,” Isaykin said. “We just started shipping Chinese medical goods to Africa and are getting first inquiries from Latin America. I think India will be next.”Some of this demand may prove to be short-lived. Freight rates have started to decline, and the market for shipping health-related cargo may drop in the second half of the year, Isaykin said. Still, he expects volumes and prices to stay above the “pre-virus” level with fewer passenger planes expected to be flying.Some new business may herald lasting changes to the world economy. While his carrier is shipping pigs to China, it’s also ferrying assets the other way. The company recently transported a production line for making masks to Russia’s Tatarstan region from China.“An interesting trend is gaining traction now -- we call it the medieval period of the 21st century -- when strategically important production facilities are being relocated to reduce dependence on China,” Isaykin said. “I am expecting this trend to accelerate toward year-end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-booming-airline-business-shipping-pigs-to-china-in-747-jumbo-jets/story-v7DWJK08446uQSlUWEryKK.html
11-06-2020||World||Troubled Iran struggles to maintain sway over Iraqi militias||Iraqi militia factions expected the usual cash handout when the new head of Iran’s expeditionary Quds Force made his first visit to Baghdad earlier this year, succeeding the slain Gen. Qassim Soleimani. Instead, to their disappointment, Esmail Ghaani brought them silver rings. For his second visit, Ghaani had to apply for a visa, something unheard of in Soleimani’s time — a bold step by Baghdad’s new government effectively curtailing Iran’s freedom of movement inside Iraq. The episodes, relayed to The Associated Press by several Iraqi officials, illustrate Iran’s struggles to maintain sway over Iraqi militias six months after America assassinated Soleimani and top militia leader Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis in a drone strike. Iran at the same time is grappling with the economic fallout from US sanctions and the coronavirus outbreak. Without imposing figures like Soleimani and al-Muhandis to unify disparate factions, divisions have emerged in the Popular Mobilization Forces, the umbrella group of mainly Shiite forces. Their deaths also disrupted a trajectory to institutionalize the militias, which al-Muhandis had been meticulously planning with Soleimani’s blessing. “With al-Muhandis gone, there is an absence of an anchor around which (PMF) politics revolves,” said Fanar Haddad, an Iraq researcher. Among Iraq’s Shiite political and militia factions, Soleimani, a chief architect of Iran’s proxy groups across the region, held almost legendary status. Charismatic and a fluent Arabic speaker, his rapport with Iraqi officials was unmatched. He slipped in and out of Iraq regularly to plan, mediate and give out cash assistance. One surprise visit by him was sufficient to broker agreement between rival factions, officials said. Since his death, Shiite factions have shown discord, arguing over a premier candidate twice before they settled on Mustafa al-Kadhimi. Soleimani’s successor as Quds Force commander, Ghaani, is less familiar with Iraqi militia leaders and speaks to them through an interpreter. Meetings in Iraq have increasingly been handled by Iranian Ambassador Iraj Masjedi, himself a former Quds Force member. Ghaani’s gift of silver rings — symbolically important in Shiite Islam — rather than cash came during a meeting in April with leaders of several militia factions, according to three officials. They spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the press. Ghaani told them that, for the moment, they would have to rely on Iraqi state funding, they said, a sign of Iran’s economic crisis. The PMF are paid primarily through the state — $2 billion in the 2019 budget — but the funds are not dispersed equally. Smaller Iranian-backed groups rely on other informal means of revenue and receive extras from Iran, roughly $3-9 million, two Iraqi officials close to the militias said. The PMF was created in 2014 as a framework to organize and pay the thousands who volunteered to fight the Islamic State group after a fatwa by Iraq’s top cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. Since then, its political and military might has soared. Under the staunchly pro-Iranian al-Muhandis, it became a channel for Tehran’s influence. His death opened the door for factions opposed to that influence — particularly ones associated with al-Sistani — to break from the PMF leadership. Militias complain that Iran-friendly groups receive preferential treatment. The man seen as al-Muhandis’ likely successor, Abdulaziz al-Mohammadawi, known as Abu Fadak, met opposition from factions who saw him as the Iranian-backed choice. He has not been officially recognized by the prime minister, though he has assumed some administrative duties, according to officials. Some of the most Iran-friendly militias under the PMF have shown signs of splintering. Attacks against US forces in March were claimed by a purported new group, Usbat al-Thairen, believed to have emerged from the powerful Kataib Hezbollah, which the US accused in previous attacks. Recently, four militias affiliated with the shrines connected to al-Sistani said they would take orders directly from Iraq’s premier, bypassing the PMF leadership. A senior official from Kataib Hezbollah said the move has weakened the PMF and its legitimacy among the public. For many Iraqis, the group’s credibility is derived from al-Sistani’s fatwa. The fissure was plain to see when, weeks into his leadership, Prime Minister al-Kadhimi visited the PMF headquarters. To his right, sat figures friendly with Tehran, to his left, those affiliated with al-Sistani. It marks a “major wrench” by the Shiite establishment led by al-Sistani into Iran’s broader plans, said Randa Slim, director of the Conflict Resolution and Track II Dialogues Program at the Middle East Institute. “They are basically saying we do not want an organ that takes its orders from Iran,” she said. (AP) CPS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/troubled-iran-struggles-to-maintain-sway-over-iraqi-militias/story-Xz50fSFLxOxDugi0PmjuEM.html
11-06-2020||World||Is it safe to go swimming during the coronavirus pandemic?||Is it safe to swim at a beach or pool during the coronavirus pandemic? Health officials say it can be safe, as long as swimmers stick to social distancing guidelines in and out of the water.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there is no evidence that the virus that causes Covid-19 can spread from person to person in water in pools, hot tubs, oceans or lakes.Pool disinfectants like chlorine should also kill the virus, providing another layer of protection.But crowds still pose a risk. That’s why communities that are reopening pools and beaches are instituting temporary rules limiting capacity and requiring facial masks.Health authorities say people heading to the beach or pool this summer should follow the same advice for anyone in public: stay at least six feet from people you don’t live with, wear a facial covering around others, wash your hands frequently and stay home if you’re not feeling well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-it-safe-to-go-swimming-during-the-coronavirus-pandemic/story-X43Y7zguv3ol3FeW5XOYjM.html
11-06-2020||World||Christopher Columbus statue pulled down in St. Paul during Black Lives Matter protest||Protesters have pulled down a statute of Christopher Columbus outside the Minnesota State Capitol.A rope was thrown around the 10-foot bronze statue Wednesday afternoon and they pulled it off its stone pedestal.The protesters, including Dakota and Ojibwe Indians, said they consider Columbus as a symbol of genocide against Native Americans. They said they had tried many times to remove it through the political process, but without success.State Patrol troopers in helmets, who provide security in the Capitol complex, stood by at a distance but did not try to stop the protesters, who celebrated afterward with Native American singing and drumming.The troopers eventually formed a line to protect the toppled statue so it could be taken away.The protest followed a similar incident Tuesday night in Richmond, Virginia, and another in Boston.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/christopher-columbus-statue-pulled-down-in-st-paul-during-black-lives-matter-protest/story-7tlsz3mG76tci0HRdpnO7N.html
11-06-2020||World||Australian PM draws criticism for ‘no slavery in Australia’ comment||Australian officials warned Black Lives Matter supporters they could be arrested if they breach coronavirus restrictions to take part in public protests, as debate erupted over the country’s own indigenous history.Prime Minister Scott Morrison drew strong criticism on Thursday after he said “there was no slavery in Australia” during a discussion of the early days of British settlement, which he acknowledged was “pretty brutal.”Historians, Aboriginal activists and some lawmakers expressed shock and dismay at the comments.“Slavery of indigenous, men, women and children is well documented,” said Sharman Stone, a former federal lawmaker and now politics professor at Monash University. “Slaves worked in pearling, fishing, the pastoral industries and as domestic labour.” The Black Lives Matter movement has refocused attention in Australia on the mistreatment of indigenous Australians, including Aboriginal deaths in custody.Victoria state officials confirmed on Thursday that one of eight new cases of Covid-19 reported on Thursday was a man who attended the Melbourne weekend rally. More unauthorised protests are planned for Friday. “We will start writing tickets of A$1,000 ($700) and we can use all of our powers to move people on,” New South Wales Police Commissioner Mick Fuller told 2GB Radio. “If you don’t move on, well then you’ll be arrested.” Morrison rejected growing calls to remove statues of white leaders, including one of the country’s first prime minister, Edmund Barton, which is located near an Aboriginal burial site. Barton played a key role in drafting the national constitution, which negated Aboriginal rights. Morrison said the initial motives of protesters were “fair”, but the push for removal of the statues was being driven by political agendas.Australia on Tuesday recorded its first day without any community transmissions of Covid-19 since the crisis began. It has recorded 7,285 cases, including 102 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-pm-draws-criticism-for-no-slavery-in-australia-comment/story-Xqet0keXfbZIlRKwjLz7nL.html
11-06-2020||World||‘WHO assesses situation only through health lens’: Pak official defends govt’s Covid-19 strategy||A top Pakistani health official asserted that the government is following a “holistic” strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Health Dr Zafar Mirza, however, ruled out adopting World Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommendation of implementing a two-week strict lockdown, intermittently, to stem the exponential spike in the coronavirus cases.“We have made best sovereign decisions in the best interest of our people. We have to make tough policy choices to strike a balance between lives and livelihoods,” Mirza said on Wednesday on the government’s decision to ease lockdown when cases are increasing.He said that Pakistan has consciously but gradually eased generalised lockdowns but at the same time has focused on enforcement of standard operating procedures (SOPs) in shops, industry, mosques and public transport.Mirza said Pakistan’s choice of policies has been guided by the best evidence available about the disease spread and the best assessment of the fast deteriorating socio-economic conditions in the country.“WHO is a UN specialised technical agency on health... we understand that it is their role to provide recommendations to member states but understandably theirs is the health lens, whereas governments have to take into account a holistic picture and make decisions on relative risk assessment basis and this has been the case in Pakistan all along,” he said.Mirza said that the government has made wearing face masks compulsory. It has also developed a robust tracing, testing and quarantine policy to identify hotspots and cordon-off them, he added.Several media outlets in Pakistan reported that the WHO had written a letter to the health minister of Pakistan’s Punjab province last week, in which the global health body said that the virus has spread all over the country, and a large number of cases had been recorded in big cities.The letter appreciated Pakistan’s efforts in fighting Covid-19, but warned that recent statistics suggest its current strategy was not paying off.It recommended that the government adopt a two-week-on, two-week-off lockdown, as it offered the most chance of continuing economic activities while ensuring public health, media reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-assesses-situation-only-through-health-lens-pak-official-defends-govt-s-covid-19-strategy/story-77YqDTdFTdwDpSCX0zZTFN.html
11-06-2020||World||NASCAR’s Bubba Wallace races with ‘Black Live Matter’ scheme on car||Bubba Wallace, the only African-American driving in the NASCAR Cup Series, used a #BlackLivesMatter livery on his Richard Petty Motorsport Chevrolet for a race at Martinsville Speedway on Wednesday.Wallace, wearing an American flag mask, clapped his hands when asked about the decision before the start of the race.“It’s been a stressful couple of weeks,” Wallace said in an interview. “This is no doubt the biggest race of my career tonight. I’m excited about tonight. There’s a lot of emotions on the race track.”Wallace wore a black “I Can’t Breathe” t-shirt - which were George Floyd’s last words to officers restraining him - but did not kneel during the national anthem.His Chevy had “Compassion, Love, Understanding” emblazoned on the hood.In a video posted on Richard Petty Motorsports’ Twitter account earlier, Wallace had said, “I think it’s going to speak volumes for what I stand for, but also what the initiative that NASCAR, the whole sport, is trying to push.”Ahead of the race, NASCAR outlawed the display of the confederate flag at its events. The flag was a common and complicated sight at NASCAR races. Through the civil rights era right on through the season opener at Daytona in February, the flag dotted infield campsites and was waved in grandstands by fans young and old.Floyd, a black man, died May 25 after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee into Floyd’s neck while Floyd was handcuffed and saying that he couldn’t breathe. His death sparked protests that have roiled the nation for days, and Confederate monuments are being taken down across the South - the traditional fan base for NASCAR.The decision had Confederate flag loyalists howling in protest and vowing to swear off the sport.Fans have not been allowed back at races yet amid the coronavirus pandemic. It won’t be long: NASCAR plans to welcome a small number of fans at a race Sunday near Miami and more later this month in Alabama.NASCAR has had a checkered history with race and it took another blow when driver Kyle Larson was fired in April after he uttered a racial slur during a live-streamed virtual race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nascar-s-bubba-wallace-races-with-black-live-matter-scheme-on-car/story-JmmAfhoNWSCYAJ5PBVN1wN.html
11-06-2020||World||Indian-origin doctor couple begin legal battle with UK govt over PPEs||An Indian-origin husband-wife doctor couple have launched judicial review proceedings against the UK government over what they say is a refusal to address safety issues around personal protective equipment (PPE) for doctors and healthcare workers during the coronavirus pandemic.Dr Nishant Joshi and his pregnant wife, Dr Meenal Viz, had initiated the legal action in April with a pre-action letter seeking answers from the UK’s Department of Health and Social Care and Public Health England. They decided to push ahead with the case in the High Court in London on Wednesday because they feel they are “no longer willing to wait”.“We don’t want to be doing this. We didn’t plan on doing this. We’re doctors in a pandemic. We want to focus on saving lives and stitching this country back together,” the couple said in a statement.“But we have been pushed into taking action by the government’s refusal to address the issues we have raised,” they said.Their law firm, Bindmans, said the judicial review challenge highlights the “mismatch” between the government’s guidance on PPE and the guidance set out by the World Health Organisation (WHO), including in respect of when “full” PPE is required, as well as with respect to the reuse and reprocessing of PPE - which includes items such surgical gowns, face visors and gloves. The doctors’ case claims that the government’s guidance also fails properly to warn healthcare and social care workers of the risks they face with different levels of PPE and their legal rights to refuse to work when inadequate PPE is available.“As frontline doctors, Dr Viz and Dr Joshi understand the operational pressures faced by government better than most, but they, along with all other health and social care workers, remain entitled to lawful and transparent guidance on the use of PPE and the risks they are facing on the frontline of responding to this national crisis,” said Jamie Potter, Partner at Bindmans LLP and solicitor for Dr Viz and Dr Joshi.“Accordingly, we have today [Wednesday] filed judicial review proceedings seeking to challenge that guidance with a view to bringing into line with WHO guidance as well as human rights legislation. This is important not just in the current crisis, but also to any ‘second spike’ or future pandemic,” he said.The couple highlight that a disproportionate number of the COVID-19 victims are from ethnic minority backgrounds, and the challenge also raises the government’s failure properly to consider the impact on black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) health and social care workers across the state-funded National Health Service (NHS). “The government have also refused to allow Dr Viz and Dr Joshi to publish their initial responses to the pre-action correspondence so that others can assess the adequacy of their approach to PPE. Our clients will push in any proceedings to ensure such documents are made public,” their law firm said.The couple’s online crowdfunding initiative for the legal case has raised over 61,000 pounds in pledges. Viz, who is eight months pregnant, has also been leading protests outside Downing Street and last month she and her colleagues observed a 237-second silence - one second for every healthcare worker who died in the line of duty during this pandemic in the UK.The Department of Health said it cannot comment on “ongoing legal proceedings” but has in the past stressed that safety factors have been taken into account with its guidance. PTI AK PMS RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-doctor-couple-begin-legal-battle-with-uk-govt-over-ppes/story-SNv5wd6yoKCyMhLZCFZUSJ.html
11-06-2020||World||Authorities probe radio, website disruptions during Black Lives Matter protests||Authorities are investigating interference with police radio communications, websites and networks used by law enforcement and other officials during recent US protests over the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis.Although the efforts to disrupt police radios and take down websites in Minnesota, Illinois and Texas aren’t considered technically difficult hacks, federal intelligence officials warned that law enforcement should be ready for such tactics as protests continue.Authorities have not yet identified anyone responsible or provided details about how the disruptions were carried out. But officials were particularly concerned by interruptions to police radio frequencies during the last weekend of May as dispatchers tried to direct responses to large protests and unrest that overshadowed peaceful demonstrations.During protests in Dallas on May 31, someone gained access to the police department’s unencrypted radio frequency and disrupted officers’ communications by playing music over their radios, according to a June 1 intelligence assessment from the US Department of Homeland Security.Dallas police did not respond to questions about the incident.The assessment, which was obtained by The Associated Press, attributes the Dallas disruption to “unknown actors” and does not say how they accessed the radio frequency. It warned that attacks of various types would likely persist.“Short-term disruptive cyber activities related to protests probably will continue — various actors could be carrying out these operations — with the potential to use more impactful capabilities, like ransomware, or target higher profile networks,” the assessment warns.The assessment noted similar problems with Chicago police’s unencrypted radio frequencies during large downtown protests on May 30 followed by reports of arson, theft and vandalism. Chicago police also have not said how the radio frequencies were accessed, but an official with the city’s Office of Emergency Management and Communications told the Chicago Sun-Times that the tactic was “very dangerous.”Police around the country have encrypted their radio communications, often arguing that it’s a way to protect officers and block criminals from listening in on widely available phone apps that broadcast police radio channels. But media outlets and local hobbyists have been frustrated by the changes, which also prevent them from reporting on issues pertaining to public safety.The Department of Homeland Security issued a separate warning this week reporting that personal information of police officers nationwide is being leaked online, a practice known as “doxxing.” According to the report obtained by the AP, information shared on social media included home addresses, email addresses and phone numbers.Law enforcement agencies have been targeted by online pranksters or hackers in recent years, including by some who claimed to be motivated by on-the-ground protests against police tactics. For example, the hacking collective Anonymous claimed responsibility for the defacement of local police departments’ websites in 2012 as protesters clashed with officers during the Occupy Wall Street movement.Individuals who self-identified as being part of the collective also claimed to have accessed dispatch tapes and other Ferguson Police Department records in 2014 after a white police officer shot and killed Michael Brown, an 18-year-old black man.Like other government entities, law enforcement agencies in recent years have been frequently targeted by ransomware attacks, in which a perpetrator virtually locks up a victim’s computer files or system and demands payment to release them.The prevalence of cyberattacks — which can cause physical damage or far-reaching disruption — and less severe online trickery, such as stealing passwords, has given law enforcement agencies more experience at fending off efforts to take down their websites or access critical information. But hackers adapt too, and governments with fewer resources than private companies often struggle to keep up, said Morgan Wright, chief security officer for the cybersecurity company SentinelOne.“The biggest concern they have right now is the safety of their communities, the safety of their officers,” Wright said of how law enforcement agencies view cyberthreats amid large demonstrations and unrest. “But if you look at what underpins everything we use to communicate, collaborate and operate, it’s all technology.”As large protests gathered steam after the May 25 death of Floyd, a handcuffed black man who died after a white Minneapolis police officer used his knee to pin his neck down for several minutes, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said state networks had been targeted. He described the activity as a “a very sophisticated denial of service attack.”But experts said the strategy of bombarding a website with traffic is common and doesn’t always take a high level of skill, counter to Walz’s description. Minnesota’s Chief Information Officer Tarek Tomes later said state services weren’t disrupted.But the efforts got a lot of attention, partly due to unverified online claims that Anonymous was responsible after years of infrequent activity. The decentralized group largely went quiet in 2015 but is still known globally based on headline-grabbing cyberattacks against Visa and MasterCard, the Church of Scientology and law enforcement agencies.Twitter users also made unverified claims that Anonymous was behind recent intermittent outages on the city government’s website in the Texas capital of Austin. Their posts indicated that the disruption was retribution for police officers shooting a 20-year-old black man in the head with a bean bag during a May 31 protest outside of police headquarters.The injured protester, identified by family as Justin Howell, remained hospitalized Wednesday in critical condition.The city’s IT department was looking into the site’s issues, but a spokesman said Monday that he couldn’t provide any information about the cause. He said the website was still experiencing a high volume of traffic.“You should have expected us,” an account purporting to be Anonymous’ posted on Twitter. It also warned that “new targets are coming soon.”The collective’s approach — anyone can act in its name — makes it difficult to verify the recent claims of responsibility. But Twitter accounts long affiliated with Anonymous shared them, said Gabriella Coleman, a professor at McGill University in Montreal who has studied the Anonymous movement for years.People with more advanced and disruptive hacking skills often drove peak instances of attention for Anonymous, and it’s not clear whether that type of activity will resume, she added.“There’s a lot of things going on in the background, people are chatting,” Coleman said. “Whether or not it materializes is another question. But certainly people are kind of aroused and talking and connecting.”___Foody reported from Chicago. Associated Press writer Jake Bleiberg in Dallas contributed to this report.___Acacia Coronado is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/authorities-probe-radio-website-disruptions-during-black-lives-matter-protests/story-R47Bcx8mRgUP3VG1UrcxYL.html
11-06-2020||World||Retired judge calls effort to drop case against ex-Trump aide ‘gross abuse’ of power||A retired judge urged a federal court on Wednesday not to allow the Justice Department to dismiss its criminal case against President Donald Trump’s former adviser Michael Flynn, citing evidence of a “gross abuse of prosecutorial power.”The US district judge hearing the case, Emmet Sullivan, tapped John Gleeson last month to serve as a “friend of the court,” after the Justice Department abruptly asked the court to dismiss the criminal charge against Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general.The stunning move by the Justice Department followed a pressure campaign by Trump and his allies and came even though Flynn had twice pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about conversations with former Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak. “The Department of Justice has a solemn responsibility to prosecute this case — like every other case — without fear or favor,” Gleeson wrote. “It has abdicated that responsibility through a gross abuse of prosecutorial power, attempting to provide special treatment to a favored friend and political ally of the President of the United States.”He said Sullivan should proceed with sentencing Flynn. A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment beyond what the government has already argued in court filings.Flynn was one of several former Trump aides charged under former Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation that detailed Moscow’s interference in the 2016 US presidential election. Gleeson said there was “ample evidence in the record that Flynn committed perjury,” or lied under oath.He recommended that Sullivan take Flynn’s perjury into account when sentencing him for lying to the FBI, rather than commencing a follow-on prosecution.Despite admitting twice under oath to lying to the FBI and agreeing to cooperate, Flynn later changed legal tactics and his attorneys now allege the FBI entrapped him.The Justice Department now says the FBI investigation that led to the charge lacked an adequate legal basis and that Flynn’s statements, even if untrue, were not material. “The reasons offered by the government are so irregular, and so obviously pretextual, that they are deficient,” Gleeson wrote in response. “They reveal an unconvincing effort to disguise as legitimate a decision to dismiss that is based solely on the fact that Flynn is a political ally of President Trump.”Gleeson highlighted the conversations that Flynn had with Kislyak that led to the false-statement charge, and compared them against how Flynn portrayed them during his January 2017 FBI interview.A transcript showed Flynn telling Kislyak he wanted to avoid a “tit for tat” over sanctions the United States imposed on Russia for its interference in the 2016 election.Flynn has also asked an appeals court to force Sullivan to accept the request to drop the case. Arguments in that case are set for Friday.“This Court must stop him (Sullivan) before he further jeopardizes the legitimacy of the federal judiciary,” Flynn told the appeals court in a court filing on Wednesday.Sullivan has said he cannot serve as a “rubber stamp” and must carefully review the facts in this “unprecedented” request.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/retired-judge-calls-effort-to-drop-case-against-ex-trump-aide-gross-abuse-of-power/story-FZUENgqJDT5OxuFljyDBUN.html
11-06-2020||World||Prez Trump rejects removing names of Confederate leaders from US military bases||President Donald Trump ruled out renaming US military bases that are named for Confederate leaders on Wednesday even as NASCAR banned the Confederate flag from its races and Democrats sought the removal from Capitol Hill of statues of people representing the pro-slavery South in the 1860s Civil War.With Americans more conscious about race issues in the wake of the death of African American George Floyd while in Minneapolis police custody, Trump drew a line in favour of keeping the names of 10 military bases from Virginia to Texas that are named for Confederate military leaders.Trump’s announcement via tweet basically slapped down those Pentagon officials open to discussing the issue, which has emerged as a way of achieving racial reconciliation.In the past few days, officials have said that the Pentagon, including Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy, was open to having a bipartisan conversation about renaming the Army bases named for Confederate leaders.In a series of tweets, Trump argued the bases have become part of a “Great American Heritage.”“The United States of America trained and deployed our HEROES on these Hallowed Grounds, and won two World Wars. Therefore, my Administration will not even consider the renaming of these Magnificent and Fabled Military Installations...,” Trump wrote in a tweet.The issue of the enslavement of African Americans tore the United States apart when Southern states broke away to form the Confederate States of America to protect slavery. Northern states defeated the South in the Civil War to restore the Union.But slavery’s legacy continues to haunt race relations in America. In recent history, controversies over symbols of the Confederacy, such as statues of its leaders and its battle flag, have erupted. Those arguing for their removal say they symbolize racism and oppression, while those opposing such action call them signifiers of Southern heritage and pride.NASCAR, whose races frequently feature fans waving the Confederate battle flag, said on Wednesday it would ban the “stars and bars” flag from its events.On Capitol Hill, House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi urged Congress to immediately take steps to remove from the US Capitol 11 statues representing Confederate leaders and soldiers. Among the statues is one of Confederate military commander Robert E. Lee.“Their statues pay homage to hate, not heritage. They must be removed,” Pelosi, a Democrat, said in a letter to leaders of a congressional committee in charge of managing the statues on display at the Capitol. US military bases named for Confederate military leaders are all located in former Confederate states. Many of those states helped elect Trump in 2016, and he is counting on them again for the Nov. 3 election.In an article published Tuesday in The Atlantic, retired General and former CIA chief David Petraeus called for renaming the bases, pointing out that the men they are named for “committed treason, however much they may have agonized over it” by fighting for the Confederacy. At a news briefing Wednesday, White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany noted that the HBO Max streaming service had withdrawn the Civil War movie “Gone with the Wind” and asked “Where do you draw the line?”“Should George Washington and Thomas Jefferson be erased from history?” she said of the first and third American presidents, both of whom owned slaves.She said renaming the bases was “an absolute non-starter for the president.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-trump-rejects-removing-names-of-confederate-leaders-from-us-military-bases/story-vHpUAqSKKJP2w0LbzljuGO.html
11-06-2020||World||‘Unprecedented infodemic’: EU slams China, Russia for misinformation campaign||China and Russia were blamed for spewing out false and misleading online information about Covid-19 in a European Union report that seeks to stem the “unprecedented” spread of fake news amid the pandemic.The two nations are among “foreign actors” that sought to “undermine democratic debate” and enhance their own image through “targeted influence operations and disinformation campaigns around Covid-19 in the EU,” the bloc’s executive authority said in the report published on Wednesday.“It would be too dangerous not to act,” European Commission Vice President Vera Jourova told reporters in Brussels. She said the pandemic “showed us that false information could do serious harm, could kill citizens even and could undermine the public authorities’ response and therefore also weaken the measures taken.”The commission has in recent months stepped up pressure on platforms such as Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. to help stem the flow of misleading content about the virus, vaccines or alleged cures on their sites. It’s part of a broader goal to fight hate speech and disinformation online that could lead to new EU regulation to make tech giants more accountable and responsible.The EU said in the report there’s been an “unprecedented infodemic” that has fed on “people’s most basic anxieties” as most of them were forced to stay socially confined and revert to an increased use of social media to access information. “Given the novelty of the virus, gaps in knowledge have proven to be an ideal breeding ground for false or misleading narratives to spread.”Propaganda CampaignThe EU’s findings on China and Russia are based on a separate study by the commission’s foreign and diplomatic wing, which said it had evidence of a “coordinated push” by official Chinese sources to deflect blame for the coronavirus pandemic and promote its response to the virus. EU foreign-policy chief Josep Borrell, who heads the service, has worked with Jourova over the last few weeks on the latest plans.The accusations against Russia and China reflect EU efforts to find an “external enemy” to paper over European divisions exposed by the pandemic, Leonid Slutsky, head of the foreign affairs committee of the Russian lower house of parliament, said according to state news service RIA Novosti. China’s foreign ministry didn’t respond to a request for comment.State-sponsored foreign propaganda preys on people’s “fears and doubts,” said Jourova. A “geopolitical EU can only materialize if we are assertive and name the issues we face. But we also have to put our own house in order” and “beef up our own strategic communication” to prevent others from claiming this space online.Online platforms will have a key role to play by being more transparent about what’s happening online and where misleading information is coming from. A code of conduct on disinformation that five tech giants, including Twitter, Facebook and Google, signed up to so far, is only a first step, said Jourova, adding that ByteDance Ltd.’s social media app TikTok said they also plan to sign up to the code, and that the EU is in negotiations with Facebook’s WhatsApp too.‘Not Good Enough’“We only know as much as platforms tell us” and “this is not good enough; platforms have to open up,” she said.Companies that are part of the code will have to publish monthly reports that include data on policies aimed at limiting ad placements related to Covid-19 disinformation, both on their own sites and on third-party websites, the EU said. While the commission is unlikely to propose hard legislation to regulate harmful disinformation, it’s working on a more “balanced proposal,” Jourova said.The report comes as Hungary -- an EU member state -- faces criticism for preparing a national survey that includes a question on a coronavirus crisis proposal by investor George Soros that “experts say will force nations into debt slavery.”In the “national consultation” due to be mailed to all Hungarian citizens, the government asks whether people should “reject George Soros’s plan, which would in-debt our homeland for an unforeseeable long time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unprecedented-infodemic-eu-slams-china-russia-for-misinformation-campaign/story-zMg7dm1GQE2I1VAnJy4ibK.html
11-06-2020||World||China offers shots to workers going abroad amid Covid-19 vaccine race||China is offering employees of some large state-run companies the option of being inoculated with two coronavirus vaccines currently in development, showing how quickly the country is moving to test the viability of its homegrown shots.Employees intending to travel overseas for work can volunteer to be administered vaccinations developed by China National Biotec Group Co. or CNBG, a subsidiary of Beijing-based Sinopharm Group Co., according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the offer hasn’t been made public. The proposal was relayed to state-owned companies by the government body that oversees them, the people said.CNBG is among the Chinese companies bidding to create a successful vaccine against the new coronavirus. There are currently five Chinese vaccine candidates in the human trial stage, competing with products being developed by global pharmaceutical companies such as AstraZeneca Plc and Moderna Inc. that can bring an end to the pandemic and allow countries to reopen more fully after economically-punishing lockdowns and travel curbs.Beijing has mobilized its health authorities, drug regulators and research institutes to work around the clock with local companies to come up with the world’s first effective vaccine for Covid-19. If China is successful in the race, it would wield immense geopolitical clout. President Xi Jinping has promised to share any vaccine globally.CNBG’s experimental shots have been tested on 2,000 people with no reported “obvious adverse effects,” Sinopharm Chairman Liu Jingzhen told local media last month. A CNBG spokeswoman said she was not aware of the vaccine offer and declined to comment further.The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, which oversees China’s government-run companies, didn’t immediately respond to a Bloomberg query.Generate DataIf state-run company workers avail themselves of the vaccination, not only will they potentially be protected against the virus but their experience could help generate data on the shots’ efficacy in beating the pathogen that has sickened over 7.2 million people and killed more than 411,000 worldwide.It isn’t yet known whether CNBG’s vaccines, which employ a dead strain of the novel coronavirus to elicit an immune response from the body, can prevent the infection.The experimental vaccines are currently in Phase II trials and being evaluated for their safety on humans. Their ability to prevent infection of the virus will only be clear in Phase III trials -- the final hurdle to clear for securing marketing approval -- in which thousands of people take the shot to see how effective it is in an active outbreak environment.With China’s cases dwindling to only a handful a day, the vaccines will need to be tested overseas where infections are still growing.It’s uncertain how many employees of state-run firms have taken up the offer and whether they will be tracked for adverse reactions and their immune response. However, their exposure abroad may give an early view into the vaccines’ potential in places where the virus is not yet under control.In addition to the ongoing clinical trial, Sinopharm’s Liu and hundreds of the company’s senior managers and employees have voluntarily taken the shots, according to Chinese news reports. CNBG is building factories that will enable the vaccine maker to churn out more than 200 million doses annually, it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-offers-shots-to-workers-going-abroad-amid-covid-19-vaccine-race/story-l8SUtEQhHl6EI2Fn6wHTgN.html
11-06-2020||World||US could reach 200,000 Covid-19 deaths in September, says expert||The United States may see 200,000 deaths because of the coronavirus at some point in September, a leading expert said, while total US coronavirus cases surpassed 2 million on Wednesday as governments relax restrictions.Ashish Jha, the head of Harvard’s Global Health Institute, told CNN in an interview on Wednesday that without drastic action, the number of US deaths would march on.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Even if we don’t have increasing cases, even if we keep things flat, it’s reasonable to expect that we’re going to hit 200,000 deaths sometime during the month of September,” Jha said. “And that’s just through September. The pandemic won’t be over in September.”Jha added: “I’m really worried about where we’re going to be in the weeks and months ahead.”Total US coronavirus-related deaths totaled 112,754 on Wednesday, the most in the world. Jha said that was directly tied to the fact the United States was the only major country to reopen without getting its case growth to a controlled level - a rate of people testing positive for the coronavirus remaining at 5% or lower for at least 14 days.He said the deaths were not “something we have to be fated with” and could be prevented by ramping up testing and contact tracing, strict social distancing and widespread use of masks.Several US states have seen coronavirus cases jump in recent days, causing great concern among Jha and other experts who say authorities are loosening restrictions too early.New Mexico, Utah, and Utah each saw its number of cases rise by 40% for the week ended Sunday, according to a Reuters analysis. Florida and Arkansas are other hot spots.Nationally, new infections are rising slightly after five weeks of declines, according to a Reuters analysis that showed total cases at 2,003,038.Part of the increase is due to more testing, which hit a record high last Friday of 545,690 tests in a single day but has since fallen, according to the Covid-Tracking Project https://Covidtracking.com.It is also likely a result of more people moving about and resuming some business and social activities as all 50 states gradually reopen after lockdowns designed to curb the spread of the coronavirus.Health officials urged anyone who took part in nationwide protests for racial justice to get tested. Experts fear that the protests, with no social distancing, that have occurred since the May 25 death of George Floyd in Minneapolis police custody could lead to another spike in cases.But Vice President Mike Pence said he saw no sign of that.“What I can tell you is that, at this point, we don’t see an increase in new cases now, nearly two weeks on from when the first protests took effect,” Pence said in an interview on Fox Business Network. “Many people at protests were wearing masks and engaging in some social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-could-reach-200-000-covid-19-deaths-in-september-says-expert/story-vwliQq2D6OcCriHtIDhVhK.html
11-06-2020||World||Road named after general who put down Revolt of 1857, could be renamed ‘Guru Nanak Marg’||A road in West London, named after the British Army general who ruthlessly put down the could be renamed after the founder of Sikhism as part of a wider push to recognize the UK’s diversity and address the more pernicious aspects of Britain’s colonial past.Havelock Road in Southall is named after Sir Henry Havelock who is widely considered a military visionary for his systematic dismantling of the Revolt of 1857, also known as first Indian war of Independence from the rapacious rule of the East India Company. On Tuesday it was revealed that a consultation is underway which could lead to road being renamed Guru Nanak Road. Southall is home to a large Sikh community and Havelock Road is home to the Sri Guru Singh Sabha, which is considered the largest Gurdwara in the world outside India.The consultation is part of a wider process, launched this week by the Mayor of London Sadiq Khan, to re-evaluate memorials - including statues and public spaces - that commemorate British colonialism sparked by the global Black Lives Matter protests.Several statues of British slave traders have been removed in the UK whilst protestors defaced a statue of Winston Churchill - revered by some for his role in defeating Nazism and reviled by others for his part in tragedies such as the Bengal Famine of the early 1940’s as well as his opposition to Indian independence.In a video message to residents of the area, Councillor Julian Bell, leader of Ealing Council said he welcomed the Mayor’s initiative to represent London’s diversity.“I welcome the Mayor’s announcement today of a review of our public spaces across the city to make sure that they do represent London as it is today. Our diversity is our strength and we need to make sure that our public realm, our statues, our road names, our buildings, reflect our diversity and do not reflect a frozen past where colonialism, racism and the slave trade were present and celebrated,” Bell said.The change of names will “symbolise the huge contribution of our Sikh community in Ealing and also diversity as a borough, and also it will represent our unity as a borough too”, he added.The move was also welcomed by the long-standing MP for the area Virendra Sharma.“As the Member of Parliament for Ealing Southall and a Councillor for 25 years before that I have often been ashamed the names of empire still pervade our streets. I have long campaigned for schools to teach more about our Imperial past, not just the great strides made but also the shameful thuggery and violence, names like Havelock belong in books, classrooms and museums, not on the streets to be celebrated,” Sharma said.“The community should come together to decide how we rename this road, but celebrating Guru Nanak Dev Ji in his 550th anniversary, and erasing a white man who killed Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus, would be a sign of our multiculturalism and our diversity,” he added. ‘a sign of our multiculturalism’: UK’s Havelock Road, named after general who dismantled India’s first war for Independence, to be renamed Guru Nanak MargA consultation to rename Havelock road will begin “very shortly”, according to Councillor Bell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/road-named-after-general-who-put-down-india-s-1st-battle-for-independence-could-be-renamed-guru-nanak-marg/story-jceUjvA2G3IZaRjpcoNnSK.html
11-06-2020||World||Coronavirus: Disney eyes to restart California theme parks in July||Disneyland in California announced plans Wednesday to reopen next month -- but at “significantly limited” capacity, and with no opportunities to hug Mickey Mouse or high-five Donald Duck for the time being.Under the plans -- which still require government approval -- the resort near Los Angeles, including Disneyland and Disney California Adventure, would welcome visitors back beginning July 17. Disneyland is the world’s second-most visited theme park, drawing tens of thousands of visitors each day, but it closed in mid-March due to coronavirus concerns.The move comes on the heels of the successful reopening of Shanghai Disneyland last month, and follows a similar timetable to the restart of Disney World in Florida, which has already received government approval.Theme parks provide a significant portion of the Mouse House’s revenue. Last month, Disney said the division’s quarterly operating income fell 58 percent from a year earlier, largely due to the coronavirus pandemic.When the California parks reopen, all guests will need to book reservations in advance, and social distancing measures mean no parades or “nighttime spectaculars” until a later date.“While character meet-and-greets will be temporarily unavailable, characters will be in the parks in new ways to entertain and delight guests,” Disney said in a statement.Hotels at the site would reopen the following week under the scheme.The plans were unveiled as calls on social media and a Change.org petition grew for Disney’s parks to rebrand their “Splash Mountain” rides. The popular log flumes are based on the controversial 1946 Disney film “Song of the South” -- a movie long accused of peddling racist tropes about the post-Civil War South, and never released on home video in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-disney-eyes-to-restart-california-theme-parks-in-july/story-hUpNtNVzRXlNaRg1XV1qIJ.html
11-06-2020||World||‘Post coronavirus, US is on its way to a very big comeback’: Trump||Now that people are getting their jobs back and the stock market is booming after the crisis triggered by coronavirus, the United States is on its way to a “very big comeback”, President Donald Trump has said. “We are on our way to a very big comeback,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Wednesday. The US, he said, is doing well in “so many ways”. “You see what’s going on with NASDAQ. We just broke another record yesterday. Some good news came out of the Federal Reserve today, I think some very good news,” the President said. “We’re really doing a financial comeback. The jobs numbers were fantastic. Now we’ll have some other job numbers come up over the next few weeks, and we’ll see how that goes, but I think it’s really good,” Trump said. Trump asserted the next year will be “maybe the best ever economy” that the US has seen. “You can already see it with the stock market how it’s been going up because you have a lot of smart people that are betting on exactly what I’m saying because the stock market is almost as high as it was prior to the plague floating in from China,” he said. “It was a plague that floated in from China. Now they’re learning that it may have been much earlier, which bears out exactly what I’ve been saying. You saw that word yesterday that it may have come in a lot sooner than we were told,” he added. Earlier during a news conference, White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said the President is encouraged because what “we’re seeing is a belief in the Trump economy and the Trump presidency”. “What we’re seeing is the market soar. We’re seeing the S&P have its best 50-day track record in history, because they believe in a President that has free-market policies that got us to the hottest economy in modern history and will get us there again,” she said. However, the Federal Reserve Wednesday offered a pretty grim economic outlook, saying unemployment is going to be elevated for years. Early this week, the National Bureau of Economic Research said that the US officially entered a recession. McEnany asserted that the US economy is back on track. “We believe that next month’s jobs report will be robust. The President has been clear that he expects Q3 to be a transition period, Q4 to be robust, and next year to be a very hot year. I would note that those in the prediction business, they were off by 10 million. That’s not too good,” she said. PTI LKJ AQS AQS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/post-coronavirus-us-is-on-its-way-to-a-very-big-comeback-trump/story-rEihlD2OgumsdBdjYnHusM.html
11-06-2020||World||Trump administration proposes sweeping asylum restrictions||The Trump administration on Wednesday proposed sweeping — though somewhat vague — restrictions on asylum, seeking to align a legal framework with the president’s efforts to limit immigration to the United States.The moves are only the latest in a series of measures that Trump has taken to limit asylum — this time aimed at changing complicated procedures governing immigration courts.The Justice and Homeland Security departments said asylum-seekers who clear initial screenings will have claims heard by an immigration judge in “streamlined proceedings,” replacing longstanding rules in immigration law. They did not elaborate in a brief press release.The rules also will allow judges to dismiss cases without court hearings if supporting evidence is determined to be too weak. They will define when a claim may be declared “frivolous” and raise the threshold for initial screenings under the United Nations Convention Against Torture.The administration will propose new definitions for some ways people qualify for asylum, specifically “political opinion” and membership in a “particular social group.” Asylum is for people who face persecution for their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a social group, a loose category that may include victims of gang or domestic violence. Narrowing those ways to qualify would mean more rejected claims.The administration said the changes would bring more efficiency to an immigration court system with a backlog of more than 1.1 million cases.The rules will “more effectively separate baseless claims from meritorious ones,” the departments said. “This would better ensure groundless claims do not delay or divert resources from deserving claims.” Details will be published in the Federal Register with time for public comment before they take effect. Lawsuits may delay or derail the effort.The administration effectively put asylum out of reach for many people at the Canadian and Mexican borders in March under a 1944 public health law aimed at preventing spread of the coronavirus. The move, intended to be temporary, allowed the government to immediately expel people from Mexico and Central America to Mexico before they make an asylum claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-proposes-sweeping-asylum-restrictions/story-PmwIvp4NxNy781X48U3gYN.html
11-06-2020||World||Twitter abuzz with anxious users claiming IAF activity over Pakistan||Twitter was abuzz in Pakistan on Tuesday night with several users claiming that fighter jets belonging to the Indian Air Force (IAF) were seen flying near Karachi. “Dear @IndiainPakistan, rumors are rife about Indian Air Force incursions into Pakistan-administered Kashmir and the Sindh-Rajasthan sector. Recommend you put out a statement to clarify. Also recommend that everybody chill and enjoy the week,” tweeted Waj Khan, a former reporter at NBC News.“I definitely saw jet planes, live near airport. Whats up,” said Laraib Mohib from Karachi“There were a lot of fighter jets flying around in Karachi probably,” added Ayesha Zafar, also from Karachi.However, IAF sources have denied any such activity by its fighter aircraft over Pakistan.Some social media users expressed concern over the reported activities along the India-Pakistan border. “Its not #Indianairforce jets infact it were #PakistanAirForce jets violating #indian airspace near #Rajasthan border.#PAF jets went in2 Flag of India on reconnaissance mission and successfully came back,” claimed another user. A few also tried recollected the capture of IAF Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman when he crossed the border. During a counter-attack to the Balakot strikes last year in February, Varthaman managed to let off a short-range R73 missile against an intruding F16, which brought it down.During the engagement, his MiG21 crossed the Line of Control (LoC) to retain the lockin on the target and was shot down either by a surface-to-air missile or another Pakistani jet. However, the Pakistani jets had retreated without causing any damage in India.“Since you are (or were) too close with the Pak Army, your words can be taken as solid. Anyways, we are not worry. We have ready some more cups to tea to welcome our neighbours,” tweeted Salaar Suleyman from Lahore.“Pakistan Air force is ready for Cool Surprise,” said Rafi Khan from Layyah, Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-abuzz-with-anxious-users-claiming-iaf-activity-over-pakistan/story-T4mdo6a8qn1ojzB09rFPjL.html
11-06-2020||World||Two Brazil governors under fire over alleged corruption related to Covid spending||Two Brazilian governors came under more fire Wednesday over allegations of corruption related to Covid-19 spending, with one having his home raided and another set to face an impeachment process.Federal police raided the government palace of Para state in the Amazon region as well Governor Helder Barbalho’s home as part of an investigation into alleged fraud in the purchase of ventilators for treating Covid-19. The search order targeted a total of 23 addresses in six states and Brazil’s federal district in Brasilia, police said in a statement.Barbalho is the second governor to be investigated in relation to suspect medical expenditures during the pandemic.On May 26, police searched the residence of Rio de Janeiro state Governor Wilson Witzel as part of an investigation into alleged irregularities in contracts awarded for the construction of emergency field hospitals. Rio legislators voted nearly unanimously Wednesday to begin impeachment proceedings against the governor.Witzel has promised eight emergency field hospitals, but only one has opened, near the Maracana soccer stadium.He denied any wrongdoing and said he was the victim of political persecution.“I am at ease about my innocence. I will keep on working as governor and will prepare my defense. I am sure that the deputies will judge the facts as they really are,“ said a statement from Witzel, who will continue in office unless the legislative process leads to his impeachment and removal.Both Witzel and Barbalho have criticized President Jair Bolsonaro’s rejection of quarantine measures to contain spread of the coronavirus.The alleged fraud in Para stemmed from the acquisition of ventilators worth millions of dollars, done so without a call for bids as allowed by state of emergency protocols during the pandemic. The equipment deployment was delayed and ultimately useless for patients with Covid-19, according to the police statement, which said investigators are looking into alleguations of money laundering and corruption.The judge who ordered the raid froze $5 million in the bank accounts of Barbalho and seven others, prosecutors said. They said there are indications the governor has a close relationship with the executive who supplied the ventilators and also knew they were inadequate.“I am at ease and available for any clarification. I acted in time to avoid damage to the treasury, since the resources were returned to the state,” Barbalho said on Twitter. “I am not a friend of the businessman and obviously did not know that the ventilators would not work.” During the operation, police found dozens of bundles of cash in a home belonging to Peter Cassol, former secretary of administrative management at the state health department, according to images shown by TV Globo. In the afternoon, the government announced Cassol’s dismissal.The Para government said in a statement that it had already gone to court to file for compensation from the suppliers for damages.Para is Brazil’s fourth hardest-hit state, with about 62,000 confirmed coronavirus cases and more than 3,900 deaths, according to official data, which is considered by experts to be a significant undercount.Bolsonaro changed the head of the federal police in April, sparking suspicion of political interference in the force as alleged by former Justice Minister Sérgio Moro, who resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-brazil-governors-under-fire-over-alleged-corruption-related-to-covid-spending/story-Zeqg6kS9Pf8TpL7GX8ZUKL.html
11-06-2020||World||Facebook video removed for anti-Hindu slur in South Africa||A Facebook video showing a young Indian-origin South African allegedly criticising Hinduism has been removed after the Hindu community members lodged an official complaint.In the video, Simeon Bradley Chetty, a self-proclaimed Christian evangelist, criticised the Hindu faith.He was seen addressing about a dozen people standing outside a block of flats in the sprawling Indian township of Chatsworth, south of Durban.“We are lodging a formal complaint against both Mr Chetty and the Church he represents, and have taken the necessary steps to remove the video from Facebook,” the South African Hindu Maha Sabha (SAHMS) said in a statement.“The South African Hindu Maha Sabha notes the retraction and the unconditional apology that has been made and cautions others that Hindus will not tolerate this kind of behaviour from anyone,” the statement added.His remarks triggered a flood of reactions on social media, including from members of other religious groups, condemning his attack on Hinduism.There have also been calls for police to charge Chetty for having contravened national lockdown regulations introduced as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic. The regulations prohibited any public gatherings, including religious services, at the time the video was made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-video-removed-for-anti-hindu-slur-in-south-africa/story-TUy02jibMxpZAim4cMJLUM.html
11-06-2020||World||Pakistan concerned over Israel’s plan of annexing portions of West Bank||Pakistan on Wednesday voiced concern over Israel’s plan of annexing a large portion of the West Bank and urged it to refrain from taking any unilateral action.Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi attended a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to discuss Israel’s threat to annex territories in the West Bank.Israel was “urged to refrain from taking any unilateral action that would lead to the annexation of any occupied Palestinian territory in violation of relevant UN resolutions and international law,” the Foreign Office said.While reaffirming Pakistan’s solidarity with the people of Palestine, Qureshi reiterated call for the establishment of a viable, independent and contiguous State of Palestine, on the basis of internationally agreed parameters, the pre-1967 borders with Jerusalem as its capital.The OIC is a 57-member grouping of Muslim majority nations, including Pakistan.Qureshi also raised the Kashmir issue during the meeting and called upon the international community to play an active role in resolving the outstanding disputes.Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 and bifurcating it into two Union territories.India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-concerned-over-israel-s-plan-of-annexing-portions-of-west-bank/story-ZJhlhHnlOqbR3tJUnXRNFJ.html
11-06-2020||World||WHO hopes to work with US on Ebola despite Donald Trump’s criticism on Covid-19||The World Health Organization hopes to work “side by side” with the United States to contain an outbreak of Ebola in Congo, its chief said on Wednesday, despite their differences over the new coronavirus.President Donald Trump said last month he was ending the US relationship with the WHO over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.But WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he had met U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar last week. The meeting appeared to be the first sign of high-level cooperation between Tedros and the Trump administration since the president said he was cutting ties.“We had a very good discussion with the secretary as of last week and he assured me of U.S. continued commitment to support in the fight especially against Ebola,” Tedros said.The WHO said on Monday 12 people had been infected with Ebola in the outbreak of the deadly disease in the Democratic Republic of Congo.Tedros said the meeting with Azar did not mean the WHO was receiving money directly from Washington, until now its top donor.“It’s not about the money. The relationship (with the United States) is more important,” he said.It is not clear when Trump’s decision on cutting ties will come into effect and the WHO has not confirmed receiving official notification of withdrawal.Trump has accused the WHO of issuing bad advice on the coronavirus and pandering to China, where the pandemic was first reported. The WHO has defended its handling of the crisis.Mike Ryan, head of the WHO’s emergencies programme, said on Wednesday there were equipment shortages for fighting the coronavirus in some regions including Central and South America.Asked about a Harvard Medical School study using satellite images that suggested the coronavirus might have been spreading in China in August 2019, he urged caution.“It’s really important that we don’t speculate too much,” he told the virtual briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-hopes-to-work-with-us-on-ebola-despite-donald-trump-s-criticism-on-covid-19/story-n28hHir2YFbqIZT6cAzkMK.html
11-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter protests: London’s Southall road to be renamed Guru Nanak Road||The Ealing Council is preparing to rename Havelock Road – named after Henry Havelock, general in the colonial army involved in suppressing the 1857 Uprising in India – as Guru Nanak Road, as London reviews public spaces following the Black Lives Matter (BLM) protests. The Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha is located on Havelock Road in Southall, which has long had a significant presence of people of Indian origin. Its MP, senior Labour leader Virendra Sharma, welcomed the council’s decision.He said: “I welcome the decision by Ealing Council to finally rename Havelock Road - decolonising our streets. As the Member of Parliament for Ealing Southall and a councillor for 25 years before that I have often been ashamed the names of empire still pervade our streets”.“I have long campaigned for schools to teach more about our Imperial past, not just the great strides made but also the shameful thuggery and violence, names like Havelock belong in books, classrooms and museums, not on the streets to be celebrated”.“The community should come together to decide how we rename this road, but celebrating Guru Nanak Dev Ji in his 550th anniversary, and erasing a white man who killed Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus, would be a sign of our multiculturalism and our diversity,” he added.London mayor Sadiq Khan (Labour) this week called for a review of statues and other public spaces in the capital following growing protests in the UK linked to the killing of George Floyd in the US. Some statues of individuals historically linked to slave trade have been removed.Julian Bell, leader of the Labour-controlled Ealing council, said in a video message to residents that he welcomed Khan’s plans to look at how public spaces in London represent the city in the present day.He said: “Our diversity is our strength and we need to make sure that our public realm, our statues, our road names, our buildings, reflect our diversity and do not reflect a frozen past where colonialism, racism and the slave trade were present and celebrated.”“Havelock Road is where the largest Sikh gurdwara in western Europe is cited and as part of its 550-year celebrations of the birth of Guru Nanak this year, we want to make this name change to Havelock Road to Guru Nanak Road”.“This will symbolise the huge contribution of our Sikh community in Ealing and also diversity as a borough, and also it will represent our unity as a borough too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-protests-london-s-southall-road-to-be-renamed-guru-nanak-road/story-GpxRE9Wv1zjHgYsAdfJ3OO.html
11-06-2020||World||Search intensifies for Indian student in Scotland who fell in river||The police in Scotland have deployed a remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS) to help locate Indian student Prajwal Pandharinath Guhagarkar, who has been missing since Saturday after falling in River Forth in Stirling while celebrating a birthday. A search has been underway for the 21-year-old student of the University of Stirling involving air units, police, fire, ambulance and coastguard crews, reports from Scotland said. The emergency services are treating the incident as a “tragic accident”.The central Scotland university town of Stirling is located about 58 km from Edinburgh.Chief inspector Gill Marshall, commander of the Stirling area, told the local media: “Emergency services are continuing to search for a 21-year-old man who was reported to have fallen into the River Forth near Bridgehaugh Road, Stirling, in the early hours of Saturday, 6 June”.“It appears to have been a tragic accident that happened on a night out and a number of police and partner agency resources are being used as part of this, with the man’s family being kept fully updated on our search”.“We would like to thank the public for their co-operation and assistance with our inquiries so far.”The air unit of Police Scotland said it has deployed RPAS near Alloa, 12 km downstream from Stirling along the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-intensifies-for-indian-student-in-scotland-who-fell-in-river/story-uTSIexrpnFrYVneb4hTYrL.html
11-06-2020||India||Black man’s picture used to describe ‘ugly’ in text book triggers row in Bengal||The picture of a black man was used to illustrate the word ‘ugly’ in a text book that was being taught in a government school in Bengal’s Burdwan district.West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said that two teachers of the school have already been suspended.“The book was not recommended by the government. The school’s teachers had selected it as a reference book. Two teachers have already been suspended,” said Chatterjee on Thursday.On May 25, George Floyd, a black man was killed when a white Minneapolis officer pressed his knee on his neck. The incident triggered a wave of protests in the US and other countries.The book called Child’s Study was being taught in the pre-primary section of Burdwan Municipal Girls’ School.“As the English book was meant for children studying in pre-primary section, it used pictures to illustrate each alphabet. For example an apple’s picture was used to illustrate the alphabet ‘A’. When it came to ‘U’ a black man’s picture was used alongside the word ‘ugly’ written below. The picture of an umbrella was also used to illustrate the alphabet U,” said an official of the state education department.The school’s teachers who were involved in selecting the book have apologized saying they overlooked the picture.“It is a very unfortunate incident. The teachers have apologized. They should have been more careful,” said S Mullick, the headmistress of the school. Mullick, too has been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-man-s-picture-used-to-describe-ugly-in-text-book-triggers-row-in-bengal/story-CrarJK3xyI1XnaLtvM8vgI.html
11-06-2020||India||BJP’s Sambit Patra gets HC protection from coercive action over remarks against former PMs||Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra has been shielded by the Chhattisgarh High Court from any ‘coercive’ action in two cases registered against him in Raipur and Bhilai till the next date of hearing in the case.HT has a copy of the HC’s Thursday order, which said, “Considering the contention of petitioner that the petitioner is patient of COVID-19 and has been discharged from hospital and is in quarantine for 14 days, it would be expedient to direct that till the next date of hearing, no coercive steps shall be taken against him in police station of Bhilai…” The HC granted four weeks time to the state to file a counter-affidavit in the case.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNational Students Union of India (NSUI) state president Akash Sharma and Youth Congress president Purna Chandra Padhi had lodged a complaint in Bhilai and Raipur against Patra.In the FIR, Padhi alleged that on May 10, Patra tweeted unsubstantiated allegations against two former prime ministers-- Jawahar Lal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi—both belonging to the Congress party.Patra in a tweet had noted that a complaint had been filed against him by some men from the Congress party for calling former prime ministers, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi, corrupt.He had further alleged that India’s first prime minister had mismanaged Jammu and Kashmir situation and also accused Rajiv Gandhi of corruption in Bofors gun purchase deal and involvement in 1984 Delhi riots.Rajiv Gandhi was exonerated of wrongdoing by the Delhi High Court in 2011||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-sambit-patra-gets-hc-protection-from-coercive-action-over-remarks-against-former-pms/story-DOJtxp46vcmwtsivhqSKdP.html
11-06-2020||India||No need to panic due to recent quakes in Delhi-NCR: Seismology Centre||There is no need to panic due to the recent earthquakes in Delhi-NCR but it is vital to undertake preparedness and take precautionary measures, Director of the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) B K Bansal has said.Speaking at a meeting convened by the National Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday, Bansal said given the seismic history of Delhi, minor earthquakes in Delhi-NCR are not unusual, according to a Home Ministry statement.There is no need to panic but it is important to undertake preparedness and mitigation measures to reduce the risks, he said, adding there is no proven technology in the world to predict earthquakes with certainty in terms of location, time and magnitude.The NDMA has requested the state governments to take steps that included ensuring compliance of building bye laws to make upcoming constructions earthquake resilient and avoid addition of vulnerable building stock.It suggested them to identify the vulnerable structures, especially lifeline buildings, and retrofit them. Private buildings should also be retrofitted in a phased manner.The NDMA advised the state governments to conduct regular mock exercises and come out with SoPs for immediate response after an earthquake.Undertake public awareness programmes regarding ‘dos and don’ts’ during an earthquake, it said.The meeting, convened to discuss the various mitigation and preparedness measures to reduce the earthquake risk in Delhi-NCR region, was attended through voice conferencing by NDMA members, Director General of the National Disaster Response Force and senior officers of Governments of NCT of Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Nearly a dozen low-intensity earthquakes have jolted the Delhi-NCR region in last three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-due-to-recent-quakes-in-delhi-ncr-seismology-centre/story-FbdmAyIdig8VHoSzNbJecI.html
11-06-2020||India||Missing person in Delhi tests positive on arrival in Goa, goes missing again||Goa police was left stumped when their search for a man, absconding after testing positive for coronavirus upon his arrival from Delhi, led them to the discovery that he was also registered as a missing person in the national capital.The man, who upon arrival in Goa gave a “very vague address” which led policemen to a ‘taverna’ (bar) in the Panaji market, has yet not been traced. “There is one case which was found positive (who cannot be traced)… Because that person has given a very vague address and when we have inquired into it we have not found the address to be a valid address. In a parallel development, because we had activated the police and they did the call tracing… wherein the location of a sim card is traced… they have got to know that in Delhi police there is a record that this person is officially registered as a missing person,” Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said. “We have the self declaration form where he said he arrived here on a train from Delhi,” Mohanan said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier in the day, the Mayor of Panaji had claimed that the missing person was a waiter at a tavern. “A person running a bar has tested positive and he has gone missing soon after he was informed about his status by the authorities,” the mayor Uday Madkaikar, said.This is the second instance of a person absconding after testing positive. In an earlier case, a person from Vasco da Gama fled to his native place at Bagalkot in North Karnataka no sooner than he received an sms confirming he was positive. The Goa authorities contacted their counterparts in Karnataka who ensured that he was admitted to a hospital in his home state. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Panaji city corporation has announced four day shuttering of the Panaji municipal market until Monday following the detection of a positive case.On Thursday, Goa added 30 fresh positive cases to take the tally of active cases in the state to 350. Goa is now adding an average of 30 cases a day to its Covid tally and has prompted the state government to requisition additional premises as Covid care centres where asymptomatic patients are being treated till they test negative. The state’s designated Covid19 hospital has been reserved for symptomatic patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-person-in-delhi-tests-positive-on-arrival-in-goa-goes-missing-again/story-NIKCPB7H1kC68mJfKGWMlN.html
11-06-2020||India||Coronavirus cases cross 22,000-mark in Gujarat, state reports 513 new patients||Gujarat on Thursday reported 513 fresh Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths due to the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s total tally to 22,067, according to data released by the Gujarat Health Department data.With 38 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the state’s death toll has now climbed to 1,385. There are currently, 5,573 active coronavirus positive cases in the state, of whom 61 patients are on ventilator and need critical care.According to the health department data, at least 366 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries in Gujarat to15,109.At least, 2,72,924 people have been tested for the infectious disease so far. ALSO READ | Difference with UK narrows as India records big jump in Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths in 24 hoursIn Ahmedabad, a coronavirus hotspot, the number of positive patients rose to 15,635 after 330 more people tested positive for the infection on Thursday, the state health department said.With the death of 25 more people due to the virus, the tally of victims has now reached 1,117.In the last 24 hours, 231 patients were discharged from hospitals in the district after recovery, the health department said.Out of the total 513 Covid-19 cases recorded across Gujarat on Thursday, 330 were from Ahmedabad, while of the 38 fatalities in the state, 25 were from Ahmedabad, the health department data read. India came a step closer to the Covid-19 tally of fourth worst-hit country, the UK, on Thursday after the total number of cases reached 2,86,579. The United Kingdom has 2.9 lakh Covid-19 cases till date.According to Union health ministry data, the country recorded a staggering 9,996 cases in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths touched 8,102 while 1,41,028 patients were cured and discharged.The country has been recording close to 10,000 cases for the last 10 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-cross-22-000-mark-in-gujarat-state-reports-513-new-patients/story-OhwC1EiYjjqhrlMqWJPcYN.html
11-06-2020||India||India launches third phase of Vande Bharat Mission, more than 165,000 repatriated so far||The Indian government on Thursday launched the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission, the largest operation to repatriate stranded citizens, after more than 165,000 Indians returned to the country in the first two phases.The third phase of the programme will continue till August 2 and more than 400,000 Indian nationals have registered with missions abroad for repatriation on compelling grounds, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.“The focus of the ministry continues to be on the repatriation of stranded Indians,” he said. “As of Thursday, 165,375 Indians have returned. They include 29,034 migrant workers, 12,774 students and 11,241 professionals.”More than 61,000 Indians have also returned through land border immigration checkpoints from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, he said.The government launched Vande Bharat Mission in April to repatriate Indians who had been stranded around the globe because of Covid-19-related restrictions. The initial phases of the programme focussed on West Asian countries, which are home to some 8 million expatriates.Besides flights operated by Air India, the Indian Navy sent warships to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Iran to bring back Indian citizens. On Thursday, the warship INS Shardul brought 233 Indians to Porbandar port in Gujarat from Bandar Abbas in Iran.Some Indians also returned on flights operated by foreign carriers coming to India to evacuate their citizens while more came back on chartered flights.The third phase of Vande Bharat Mission will significantly accelerate the rate of repatriation in June as there will be 432 flights from 43 countries to 17 Indian states and union territories, Srivastava said.Besides Air India, private carriers will operate 29 flights – Indigo will have 24 flights from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states and Malaysia, Go Air three flights from GCC states and Vistara two flights from Singapore.There will also be flights from six countries in Africa, 53 flights from the US, 24 flights from Canada, a total of 170 flights from GCC states, and 16 flights each from Paris and Frankfurt, which will serve as hubs in Europe for Vande Bharat Mission.Before the launch of Vande Bharat Mission, a total of 2,468 Indians and 48 foreigners were evacuated by India between February and April from areas severely affected by Covid-19. The government also facilitated the evacuation of more than 99,000 foreigners to 113 countries from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-launches-third-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission-more-than-165-000-repatriated-so-far/story-TyJgYM1VX9MnHrNShyVyWI.html
11-06-2020||India||Asthma patient dies after ambulance staff declines to take him to hospital citing Covid-19 fears||A 52-year-old man, an asthma patient,died in Medak district of Telangana allegedly due to non-availability of timely treatment after ambulance staff declined to take him to hospital citing Covid-19 apprehensions and lack of PPE kits, police said on Thursday.There was delay in the ambulance reaching the spot for shifting the man to a hospital and also the ambulance staff, who suspected him to be having Covid-19 symptoms, declined to take him to the hospital saying they did not have Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, they claimed.According to police, the incident happened in Chegunta of Medak district on Wednesday evening when the man was returning to Hyderabad from Kamareddy district in a bus and got down from it to visit a hospital after he suffered difficulty in breathing.“After the man suffered breathlessness he got the bus stopped saying he will go to a hospital, alighted and started walking towards the hospital but suddenly collapsed near the roadside,” a police official said.Police rushed to the spot and called up an ambulance which according to them reached there after an hour, but the ambulance personnel fearing that the man had Covid-19 symptoms “refused” to shift him to the hospital, saying they did not have PPE kits.Police called up another ambulance, meant for shifting Covid-19 patients, which reached the spot after 45 minutes, but by the time it arrived the man had died, the official said.The man’s family members and relatives were informed and the police arranged another ambulance to shift his body to Hyderabad, the police official said, adding, as it was a natural death the kin did not file any complaint with police. When asked whether the man had Covid-19 symptoms, the police official said there was no clarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asthma-patient-dies-after-ambulance-staff-declines-to-take-him-to-hospital-citing-covid-19-fears/story-XTJo3dNt2j0WcpnBtPI3lL.html
11-06-2020||India||Kanpur medical college principal shunted for remarks against Tablighi Jamaat||Kanpur’s Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College principal Dr Arti Lalchandani has been transferred and attached to the directorate general of medical education in Lucknow, almost 10 days after a controversy broke out over her alleged remarks against Tablighi Jamaat members, made in a video clip.Principal secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey confirmed that Dr Lalchandani had been attached to DG Medical Education office, Lucknow and was replaced at the medical college in Kanpur by new principal Dr RB Kamal. Dr Kamal was an officer on special duty at the medical college prior to his new appointment.Kanpur district magistrate Brahm Deo Tiwari on Thursday said Dr Lalchandani’s transfer orders were received on Wednesday, according to the news agency PTI. Dr Lalchandani was not available for comment.After assuming charge, Dr Kamal said to reporters he would try to live up to the expectations.In these ‘trying times’, his priority would be providing better health care to non-Covid patients at medical college-run hospitals, he added. He also said the responsibility given to him was big and that he would take everyone along.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier, Dr Lalchandani landed in a controversy after a video clip showed her making objectionable remarks about members of Tablighi Jamaat who were admitted at Kanpur’s Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital in April. LLR Hospital is one of the nine hospitals run by the Kanpur medical college.In her purported remarks, she had also accused the Yogi Adityanath government of pursuing “appeasement” policy by providing Jamat members free treatment for Covid-19 in government hospitals.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19After the video went viral, Lalchandani initially maintained the video was a ‘tampered one’ and leaked as part of a blackmailing effort. She later released a video apologising profusely for “hurting the sentiments of Muslims”, whom she described as her “brothers and sisters”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-medical-college-principal-shunted-for-remarks-against-tablighi-jamaat/story-BeGbANNggK8JGcdR9tgw1N.html
11-06-2020||India||Sabarimala temple shut for devotees for now; Kerala CM, BJP trade barbs||The Kerala government on Thursday decided not to allow devotees at Sabarimala hill temple and dropped the annual festival after the temple ‘tantri’ (supreme priest) expressed serious reservations.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was a right decision but the Bharatiya Janata Party termed it a victory of devotees. “People who vociferously sought for temple opening backtracked after the government took a decision. Anyway, it is a good decision but many stand exposed in the process,” the CM said without naming anyone. The government had called a meeting after the temple board and the priest differed over the opening of the hill shrine. “We have decided not to allow devotees in view of the fluid situation. There are no differences between the priest family and the Travancore Devaswom Board,” said state devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran after the meeting.The minister blamed cheap politics behind the confusion and the prolonged drama.Tantri Kandararu Mohanararu also played down differences over the issue, saying it was ideal not to allow devotees at this juncture. He cited the increase in the coronavirus cases in Kerala and the neighbouring states behind his decision. However, all daily poojas will be held at the shrine as per tantric customs. The temple was planning to open on June 14 and a week-long festival was to follow from June 19.The BJP termed the move a victory of the believers and said the government was forced to defer its decision. “The state government’s ploy to put the blame on the Centre was defeated. It always eyed temple income not the safety of devotees,” said state president K Surendran.Earlier, the government said it took the decision as per the directive of the Union home ministry. The TDB, a government-appointed body, runs Sabarimala and other major temples in south and central Kerala.Meanwhile the state has reported 83 fresh cases taking the total to 2244, said the CM adding that out of 84 cases 27 are expatriates, 37 came from other states and 14 infected from primary contacts.Five health workers and four cleaning employees are among the infected, he said. The state has reported 18 deaths and more than 2 lakh people are under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-shut-for-devotees-for-now-kerala-cm-bjp-trade-barbs/story-ZfyG4LTakmDPVPwzRTf7IL.html
11-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: India, China engaged in talks to resolve border standoff, says MEA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, China engaged in talks to resolve border standoff, says MEAIndia and China are continuing with their diplomatic and military engagements in an effort to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh to ensure long-term peace in the area, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Read moreAmid spike in Covid-19 cases, 3 states seek isolation coaches from railwaysAmid rising Covid-19 cases, the Delhi, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh governments have sought help from the railways for allocating coronavirus isolation coaches prepared by the national carrier, the railway ministry said on Thursday. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: Chronicle of a death foretoldSome estimates of the damage to the restaurant sector in the UK suggest that when the Covid crisis ends, something like 40 per cent of all restaurants may not re-open. Read moreDelhi Metro’s sassy post about Twitter’s Fleets may leave you in splitsThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) connects people from all over the capital by providing frequent and reliable train services. Recently, they took to Twitter to show their funny side through a sassy post on the micro-blogging site’s new feature Fleets. Read moreNIRF Rankings 2020: IITs, IIMs and Delhi colleges dominate HRD Ministry’s India Rankings listIIT Madras was again chosen as the top institution to study in the country while Bangalore based Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and IIT Delhi bagged the second and the third spot in the India Rankings 2020, the HRD ministry’s rankings of Indian colleges and universities. Read moreNokia 5310 Xpress Music phone to launch in India on June 16Nokia earlier this week teased the launch of its new feature phone in India. It posted another teaser today confirming the launch date for the Nokia 5310 feature phone. Read moreShah Rukh Khan said his jodi with Kajol can be replaced by AbRam-Aaradhya, Amitabh Bachchan gave his blessingsIt seems both Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan can’t wait to see the little ones in the family – AbRam and Aaradhya – on screen. A few years back, Shah Rukh was asked to choose between Ranbir Kapoor-Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh-Deepika Padukone, Alia Bhatt-Sidharth Malhotra and Fawad Khan-Sonam Kapoor as the onscreen couple who can replace his jodi with Kajol. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-china-engaged-in-talks-to-resolve-border-standoff-says-mea-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BldJ7qO8pjjOE5ZT9P9biO.html
11-06-2020||India||Maharashtra on brink of another grim Covid-milestone with highest single day spike||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded another instance of highest-single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 3,607 new infections that took the state’s coronavirus tally to 97, 648--within touching distance of the one lakh infections mark. The state also reported 152 deaths taking the death toll to 3,590. Mumbai alone reported 1,418 of all new infections registered in the state in the last 24 hours.Mumbai also registered 97 new deaths that have taken the death toll to 1,954 from amongst the maximum city’s total Covid cases of 54,085 registered till date. Of the 152 deaths reported by Maharashtra health department today, 35 had taken place in the last two days while the remaining are pending cases from the period between April 1 and June 8.Maharashtra approaches the grim landmark of 1 lakh cases in the backdrop of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s statement a day ago warning of imposing a hard lockdown if the situation worsened and if the people in the state didn’t respect the restrictions put in place to contain the spread of the disease.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever on Thursday, the chief minister was reported to have expressed confidence that the scaled-up health infrastructure in the state was adequate to meet with the demands of the current crisis. While speaking at the inauguration of a Covid care centre developed by Wipro at the Hinjawadi IT Park in Pune, Uddhav credited his government for “succeeding” in setting up adequate number of health care facilities for treatment of Covid-19 patients in a short span.“During the initial stage of the Covid-19 outbreak, the health care infrastructure in the state was not adequate. But we have now succeeded in developing enough facilities,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by PTI.The agency also quoted state health minister Rajesh Tope said the government was committed to invest money for raising similar facilities in rural areas of the state.Also Read: Palghar lynching case: SC notices to Centre, Maharashtra govt on fresh pleaThe state government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Wipro to provide treatment to coronavirus patients for a year.Maharashtra is India’s worst-affected state from the coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-on-brink-of-another-grim-covid-milestone-with-highest-single-day-spike/story-xugqYzALpQGOxeFicN1ZWJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Delhi records 65 deaths,1,877 new Covid-19 cases take capital’s count to 34,687||The national capital on Thursday reported 1,877 new Covid-19 cases in the highest single-day spike so far and 65 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, taking Delhi’s total tally to 34,687 according to Delhi Health Department data.With 65 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the capital’s death toll has now climbed to 1,085. There are currently, 20,871 active coronavirus positive cases in the city.At least, 12,731 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease and been discharged from various hospitals in the capital. A total of 486 coronavirus patients were discharged in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | Difference with UK narrows as India records big jump in Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths in 24 hoursThe earlier highest single-day spike of 1,513 fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded on June 3.The current doubling rate of the coronavirus infection in the national capital is 14 days, so Delhi is likely to see over 56,000 cases by the end of the next two weeks, the Delhi health ministry has predicted.Except for June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day from May 28 to June 10, the highest being 1,877 positive cases detected in the last 24 hours.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi’s premier healthcare facility, has decided to convert its newly-built ‘Burns and Plastic Block’ into a dedicated facility to treat coronavirus patients.With the number of Covid-19 positive cases surging both in the national capital and across the country, especially after lockdown restrictions were eased and inter-state travel was permitted by the Centre, the need for more hospital beds and ventilators has also been on the rise.The new dedicated Covid-19 facility is likely to start by the end of this week.The decision by AIIMS to expand and add to its existing Covid-19 healthcare infrastructure comes after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that Delhi will need at least 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31, once people from neighbouring states begin coming to Delhi for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-65-deaths-1-877-new-covid-19-cases-take-capital-s-count-to-34-687/story-4sB7solKaHhhBq53dTrYLN.html
11-06-2020||India||Rajya Sabha secretariat tells MPs to cancel train bookings in time or pay||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has asked the members of the Upper House to cancel well in advance those train bookings which are not likely to be utilised, so that money incurred on purchasing the tickets does not go waste. Expenses for journeys that are paid for but not undertaken are borne by the secretariat. In a communication to all MPs on Thursday, the secretariat pointed out that non-cancellation of bookings, which are not actually utilised will have to be paid for by the MPs.The decision comes in the wake of the secretariat stemming losses incurred on paying for journeys not undertaken.“It has, however, been noted from the details of debit claims raised by the Ministry of Railways that multiple bookings are being made by some members in various trains departing from same/different stations to different destination stations for the same day. Rajya Sabha Secretariat has to make payments to the Ministry of Railways even for those bookings which are actually not utilised by the Members,” the secretariat said in the letter to MPs.Urging members to cancel in time, the communication signed by secretary general Desh DeepaK Verma said, “…Members would appreciate that non-performance of journey on reserved berths and non-cancellation thereof in time lead to unnecessary expenditure and avoidable drain on Rajya Sabha budget. It also put the public to inconvenience as they fail to get confirmed berths/seats.” As per the rules of Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, every member shall be provided with one free non-transferable first class air-conditioned or executive class of any train pass which shall entitle him to travel at any time by any railway in India; and one free air-conditioned two-tier class railway pass for one person to accompany the member when he travels by rail; and free travel by any railway in India in first class air-conditioned or executive class in any train with the spouse, if any, of the member from any place in India to any other place in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-secretariat-tells-mps-to-cancel-train-bookings-in-time-or-pay/story-lj5crGeoJmPNxuYPdgIwNI.html
11-06-2020||India||SC asks states to report on safety measures to protect kids from Covid-19 in child care homes||With 35 children of a government-run child care home in Tamil Nadu getting infected with Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Thursday took it as a wakeup call to take stock of the preventive measures being undertaken by states to prevent such a spread in child care institutions (CCI) across the country. Two months ago, the top court on April 3, had warned of such a scenario and directed a slew of steps to be undertaken by all states.Viewing the incident as a possible lapse on the part of the Tamil Nadu government, the bench of Justices LN Rao, Krishna Murari, and S Ravindra Bhatt ordered the Health Secretary of the state to prepare a report on the incident and submit it to the court before Monday, the next date of hearing. From media reports, the court gathered that the warden working at the child care home got infected and passed it on to the children.The bench said, “We want to know why precautions were not taken in respect of our April 3 order and what steps are now in place to protect the remaining child inmates.” The home situated at Royapuram, Chennai had some 57 children. Following the incident, the remaining children were shifted to an adjoining facility.The incident threw up several questions among the judges. The bench remarked, “We are not sure whether our orders (of April 3) are being implemented.” In that order, the court had directed the Juvenile Justice Committees (JJC) of every High Court to ensure all CCIs carry out “regular hand washing with safe water and soap, alcohol rub/hand sanitizers or chlorine solution.” As a minimum requirement, all CCIs were to have daily disinfection and cleaning of various surfaces.In addition, the court had directed that “staff or any other individual found to be exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19 should not be permitted to enter the CCI.” The CCIs had to conduct regular screening of children and staff and check for symptoms of fever, cough, and shortness of breath.To ensure strict compliance of these orders, the bench came out with a questionnaire and directed states to circulate the same to all JJCs. “The JJCs will ensure states provide information sought for in the questionnaire and submit responses…..We would like to get feedback of states on care and protection of children in various child protection homes.” The court will take up the matter next on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-states-to-report-on-safety-measures-to-protect-kids-from-covid-19-in-child-care-homes/story-0WByp8kYK8glAIH1FB5l8M.html
11-06-2020||India||Karnataka to let non farmers buy farmland to boost corporate farming||The Karnataka government has decided to remove restrictions governing the purchase of farmland in the state through amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act (KLRA) 1961 and section 109. The government has said that it would cement this far-reaching policy decision by soon bringing a legislation before the assembly.Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, minister of law, parliamentary affairs and legislation J C Madhuswamy said the proposed amendments to sections 5, 63, 79A, 79B and 80 of KLRA would enable anybody to directly purchase farmland in the state.Till now, only farmers were allowed to directly purchase farmland. Even industry had to go through agencies like the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) to acquire land. It was not possible for private businesses to acquire land even for corporate farming.Also Read: Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally surges to 6,041 with 120 new casesThe state government expects the amendments will bring in a reform giving industries easier access to farmland and better price discovery opportunities to farmers looking to sell their land without middlemen.Explaining the rationale for the amendments, Madhuswamy said, “Ever since the law was enforced in 1974 about 83171 cases have been registered with regard to farmland sale and acquisition disputes. The law has been used to just harass both sellers and buyers.”He claimed that the neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh, TN, Kerala, Maharashtra and several other states across India didn’t restrict the sale of farmland.For Coronavirus Live Updates“This law was only being misused, so, to prevent that, we have brought in these amendments,” Madhuswami said.The minister also claimed that several citizens in the urban areas wanted to invest and take up farming. “Why should we prevent them? Our people are going and buying land in neighbouring states, why can’t they invest in their own state which will help both farm landowners who want to sell and the government hopefully will get some revenue,” he reasoned.He claimed that Karnataka had 98.95 lakh hectares of agricultural land including 22 lakh hectares that were not being used for farming. He said the amendments will help unlock farm land for better utilization. As per the proposed amendment, if the district deputy commissioner doesn’t give permission within a month of an application being submitted, it will be deemed to have been granted automatically.With these amendments, earlier barriers like ceiling on income, the quantum of landholding and non-leasing of agricultural land will be removed.These measures are being seen as chief minister Yediyurappa’s continued push to attract investments to the state. A special task force to lure companies wanting to exit China and invest in the state is being headed by the Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-let-non-farmers-buy-farmland-to-boost-corporate-farming/story-9OblOZA1j5hTpstKDqf32L.html
11-06-2020||India||Do not consider Vijay Mallya’s asylum request, India messages UK||India on Thursday said it has asked the UK not to consider any request for asylum from businessman Vijay Mallya, currently on bail pending his extradition, as there are no grounds for his persecution in the country.A week ago, the UK had said a “confidential” legal issue was holding up Mallya’s extradition but that it is trying to deal with the matter as quickly as possible. Britain’s stance gave rise to speculation that the 64-year-old businessman, wanted in India to face charges of financial irregularities, could have applied for asylum in the UK.Asked about the possibility of Mallya applying for asylum on humanitarian grounds and a timeline for his extradition, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing: “After Vijay Mallya’s leave to appeal to the [UK] Supreme Court, that application was rejected, we have been in touch with the UK side for his early extradition.“And we have also requested the UK side not to consider his asylum, if requested by him, because there appear to be no ground for his persecution in India.”Mallya lost his appeal against the 2018 order to extradite him in the UK high court in April. Last month, the high court also refused Mallya permission to appeal in the UK Supreme Court.He is wanted in India to face charges of financial offences involving Rs 9,000 crore borrowed by his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines from several Indian banks.People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the UK side had no further comments on Mallya’s case beyond the statement made by the spokesperson of the British high commission on June 4, and this position was in line with long-standing policy.The British mission’s spokesperson had said that “there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mr Mallya’s extradition can be arranged”. The spokesperson had added, Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail.”The spokesperson had also declined to “estimate how long this issue will take to resolve”, and said: “We are seeking to deal with this as quickly as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-consider-vijay-mallya-s-asylum-request-india-messages-uk/story-z67fMt5NLMsmt73jAWVGoM.html
11-06-2020||India||Fear of community transmission in northeast’s gateway Guwahati||The Assam government is concerned about possible community spread of Covid-19 in Guwahati, the northeast region’s biggest city, after 13 people without any travel or contact history tested positive for the Coronavirus.“We are a bit worried about Guwahati. Till Wednesday, we have found nearly 13 Covid-19 cases in the community level,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Wednesday, after a fresh case without any history of travel or contacts with other infected people was detected at Hari Sabha in the Panbazar neighbourhood of the city.Earlier, two similar cases were detected in the same area, a hub of wholesale medicine dealers for the region. Guwahti’s first Covid-19 case, detected in April, was a businessman with no history of travel or contacts with infected people.The possibility of community spread in Guwahati, which has a population of nearly 2.3 million and is the gateway to other northeastern states, has worried Assam’s health department and the local administration. “We will have to collect more samples from areas where cases with no history have been detected. We have to enforce strict containment for around seven days in order to break the chain of transmission,” Sarma said.There are currently 26 containment zones spread across Guwahati, three of them declared on Wednesday following the detection of fresh cases.Biswajit Pegu, the deputy commissioner of Kamrup (metro), said: “We have identified some areas in the city where localised cases have been recorded. These are contiguous areas. If we enforce lockdown in those areas and conduct tests on a large scale, we may be able to cut the chain of spread.“We are contemplating conducting community surveillance in those areas and checks for residents having fever and respiratory problems. A decision will be taken soon.”Assam has recorded more than 3,300 Covid-19 cases till Thursday afternoon. There have been 1,250 recoveries and six deaths.“We have had a few cases with no history of travel, contact or exposure. The cases in Guwahati are not huge, not detected within a day or in a same locality. But a pattern is emerging of people who are symptomatic who got tested on their own and were detected as positive,” said S Lakshmanan, director, National Health Mission (NHM) Assam“Definitely it’s a matter of worry. The number of cases may not be sufficient to say that community spread has already happened. But the fear is very real. People need to be extra careful and follow social distancing and other safety measures to prevent spread,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-community-transmission-in-northeast-s-gateway-guwahati/story-wmSoaIg2bYBfjJd3DxAfyI.html
11-06-2020||India||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, 3 states seek isolation coaches from railways||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the Delhi, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh governments have sought help from the railways for allocating coronavirus isolation coaches prepared by the national carrier, the railway ministry said on Thursday. The demand for the special coaches has come nearly two months after they were prepared.Trains with a composition of 10 coaches and patient capacity of 16 people have been made ready. A total of 5,231 coaches were modified to be used as ‘Covid Care Centres, the ministry said. The first such Covid Care Centres was deployed at Shakur Basti railway station in New Delhi on May 31 consisting of 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds and three AC coaches, for healthcare staffers, including doctors.This comes at a time when the national capital till Thursday reported 31,309 Covid-19 positive cases and 905 deaths, while Uttar Pradesh has 11,335 positive cases with 301 deaths and Telangana 3,920 positive cases with 148 deaths.The UP government has asked for Covid coaches to be stationed across 24 locations with a minimum of 10 coaches as Covid Care Centres at railway stations including Varanasi City, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Gonda, Bareilly City, Saharanpur, Sonbhadra and Azamgarh among other stations. Telangana has sought 60 Covid coaches to be stationed at three locations; Secunderabad, Kachiguda and Adilabad and 10 coaches have been stationed at Delhi’s Shakur Basti station, officials said.“Sustaining the fight against Covid-19, Indian Railways is making an all out effort to supplement the health care efforts of the Government of India. Indian Railways has geared up to provide its 5,231 Covid Care Centers to the state. Zonal Railways has converted these coaches for quarantine facility,” the ministry said on Thursday. “The coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid Care Centres as per guidelines issued by the MoHFW. These coaches can be used in areas where the state has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases. These facilities are part of the integrated Covid-19 plan developed by MoHFW and Niti Aayog,” it added. The coaches that had been languishing for nearly two months with no takers were also deployed by the railway board to be used for Shramik Special trains. The railway board had written to zones in May seeking to take back 60% of the Covid-19 coaches to be utilised as Shramik trains.“The board desires that 60 per cent of isolation coaches (amounting to 3,120 coaches) meant for intervention of Covid-19 cases, railways may utilise them for running of Shramik Special trains. It is permitted by board,” the order issued on May 21 said.The national carrier had initially decided to convert 5,000 coaches for over 80,000 patients and later had said it will convert 20,000 coaches for over 3.16 lakh Covid-19 patients.The Centre in May had drafted a plan to deploy 5,231 railway coaches as isolation wards across 215 stations in 15 states “considering the possibility of an increase in cases of Covid-19.”“Out of 215 stations, the Railways will provide healthcare facilities in 85 stations, in 130 stations, states to request Covid Care Coaches only if they agree to provide staff and essential medicines. Indian Railways has kept 158 stations ready with watering and charging facility and 58 stations with watering facility for these Covid Care Centres,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-3-states-seek-isolation-coaches-from-railways/story-kcSRCGKZ4PZggLArAfVk6O.html
11-06-2020||India||Assam gas well fire continues to rage on; extent contained to the well||The fire at the natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) at Upper Assam’s Baghjan in Tinsukia district is still raging on Thursday amid fears of widespread damage to the eco-sensitive area, two days after a blaze broke out and claimed two firefighters’ lives while attempts were underway to plug uncontrolled gas and condensate release.The fire billowed to nearly 100 feet above the well, located barely a kilometre away from the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the eco-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland, situated a few hundred metres from the site.While the fire had spread to a nearby village and destroyed over 50 houses and many trees on Tuesday and Wednesday, the blaze was largely contained on the third day, according to OIL authorities.“The extent of the fire has been contained to the well. No flash fire is reported from nearby areas on Thursday,” OIL said in a statement on Thursday.The well, which had a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas or oil when pressure systems fail – on May 27, caught fire on June 9 and two firefighters, who were engaged in spraying water to the well to prevent the “uncontrolled” release of gas and condensate from catching fire, lost their lives.The OIL statement said that the team of experts from the Singapore-based firm, Alert Disaster Control, which specialises in controlling blowouts, is preparing a road map to control the fire and plug the uncontrolled release of gas. The experts had arrived on Monday, a day before the fire broke out.“The area near the well has to be first cleared. One option is to drill another well close to the site and connect it with the blowout well to divert the gas. Then, a blowout preventer (BOP), a large valve weighing up to three tonnes, can be used to cap the old well,” said a retired drilling expert, requesting anonymity. The process could take several weeks, he added.Earlier in 2005, when an abandoned oil well of OIL caught fire in Assam’s Dikom, it took around six weeks to control it.OIL officials said that it would take about four weeks for the blowout to be plugged.The process required a large amount of water, which needs to be poured on the wellhead to control the spread of fire.The officials said that a high discharge water pump would be placed to contain the spread of the fire.On Thursday, the Assam government ordered an inquiry into the blowout and subsequent fire. Maninder Singh, additional chief secretary (ACS), Assam, has been asked to submit a report within 15 days.“We want the inquiry to ascertain how did the blowout happen and if there was a human error, which led to it, and the subsequent fire that broke out,” Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Thursday.The industrial disaster has led to protests by local student organisations, who have alleged that OIL’s mismanagement triggered the blowout, forcing the state-run oil firm to suspend their drilling operations at three locations and no work could be carried out in eight sites across Assam on Wednesday.“OIL lost 467 metric tonnes of crude oil production from 59 producing wells on June 10 due to blockade by local people and various student organisations,” an OIL statement said.The incident has raised questions about the role of John Energy, a Gujarat-based company that was conducting a workover operation at the well under the supervision of OIL when the blowout occurred.Workover is an intervention in an existing oil or natural gas well that requires invasive techniques such as wireline, coil tubing, or snubbing.The Baghjan well was producing one lakh standard cubic metre per day (SCMD) of gas at a depth of 3,870 metres. The blowout occurred when the workover operation was underway to produce gas from new sand (oil and gas-bearing reservoir) at a depth of 3,729 metres.An OIL employee alleged on condition of anonymity that when the blowout occurred several senior and mid-level officials and senior employees of John Energy were not present at the site.On Wednesday, OIL authorities had suspended two officials on charges of dereliction of their duties during the blowout.“The company is carrying out an internal inquiry and two officials responsible for the well have been placed under suspension. The probe will reveal if they were responsible or not,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-fire-continues-to-rage-on-extent-contained-to-the-well/story-6TiisoODHOCXcpD5RLxhsJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand man found dead in suspicious circumstance after forced double quarantine||Body of a 30-year-old Uttarakhand man, who was under home quarantine, was found in suspicious circumstances in his village in Bageshwar district on Thursday, police said. He had returned to the state from Mumbai.“We arrived on the information of villagers and found the body of the man was lying near a nullah (drain). The body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of his death,” said Pankaj Joshi, in-charge, Baijnath police station in Bageshwar district.Jitendra Singh Negi, a resident of Bund village under Baijnath police station in Bageshwar used to work in a resort in Mumbai. He had returned home in the last week of May due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. After his return, he was put in institutional quarantine in Kausani by health officials for 14 days, police said.Also Read: Uttarakhand health dept starts preparing for dengue outbreakAfter completing the quarantine, he returned to his village on Tuesday, where he was again put under home quarantine for another 14 days. On Thursday, his body was found near a nullah close to his own house, said police.“We are still waiting for a complaint from his family. Action will be taken as we receive the complaint and the post mortem report,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-found-dead-in-suspicious-circumstance-after-forced-double-quarantine/story-vLtZSwRqyNIFwWIxsIeJMP.html
11-06-2020||India||PM Modi to launch auction for commercial coal mining next week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on June 18 launch the auction of coal mines for commercial mining at an event here via video conferencing. The launch of auction will be with the theme “Unleashing coal: New hopes for Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, the coal ministry said in a statement. “We are launching first-ever commercial coal auctions in country on 18th June. Event will be graced by PM @NarendraModi Ji. It is his vision & guidance to make #AtmaNirbharBharat in coal. I am proud that we are well on our way to achieve it,” Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said in a tweet. As India has recently embraced the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the coal and mining sector has started gearing up to make the country self-reliant in coal mining through structural reforms, the ministry said. The commercial coal mining auction is completely different from the earlier regime of restricted sectors, use and price. Now there are no such restrictions at all. The proposed auction has business-friendly terms and conditions, including reduced upfront amount, adjustment of upfront amount against royalty and liberal efficiency parameters to encourage flexibility to operationalise the coal mines. Besides, 100 per cent FDI through automatic route has been allowed and there are reasonable financial terms and revenue sharing model based on National Coal Index. The successful bidders will also have flexibility in coal production unlike the past and have provision for incentives for early production and coal gasification. Around 50 coal blocks are likely to be auctioned for commercial coal mining, a source had said earlier. The mines to be put up for auction would be in three categories -- small, medium and large. Some of the mines would come into production within a year of being auctioned, the source had added. The government had last month approved a methodology for commercial mining of coal on revenue sharing basis. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), chaired by the Prime Minister. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the stimulus package for the coronavirus-hit economy, had said coal mines would be auctioned to the private sector for commercial mining to end reliance on imports and improve local production. The methodology approved by CCEA provides that bid parameter will be revenue share, the government had said, adding that bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue payable to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-auction-for-commercial-coal-mining-next-week/story-Yei1NA4iK08h9NPG6RJWvL.html
11-06-2020||India||Helicopters land heavy equipment to expedite work of strategic road near India-China border||Helicopters have landed heavy road-building machinery in the tough Himalayan terrain of Uttarakhand’s Johar Valley to help speed up construction of the strategic Munsiyari-Bugdiyar-Milam road near the India-China border, an official said. After several failed attempts in 2019, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) recently succeeded in carrying heavy road building equipment by helicopters to Laspa, raising hopes of the road’s faster completion, BRO Chief Engineer Bimal Goswami said.The absence of heavy stone cutting equipment at Laspa near the alignment site of the 65-km road had delayed its construction. The Munsiyari-Bogdiyar- Milam road, which is being constructed in the high Himalayan region of Johar Valley in the state’s Pithoragarh district, will be a link to the last posts on the Indo-China border. “After several unsuccessful attempts last year, we succeeded this month in landing helicopters carrying heavy machines to Laspa. We now hope that cutting work of the challenging stretch will be completed in the next three years, Goswami said.Cutting of hard rocks, which are standing straight on a 22-km portion of the road, will now become easy as heavy machines can be transported by helicopters to the spot.  “Construction of the road was started in 2010 with an amount of Rs 325 crore sanctioned for the project, the BRO chief engineer said.He said the road is being constructed from both ends and except the 22-km hard portion, cutting work has been completed on 40 km of the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helicopters-land-heavy-equipment-to-expedite-work-of-strategic-road-near-india-china-border/story-jJVwwWz8sQ9dpth2MhcPhJ.html
11-06-2020||India||India, China engaged in talks to resolve border standoff in eastern Ladakh: MEA||India and China are continuing with their diplomatic and military engagements in an effort to reduce border tensions in eastern Ladakh to ensure long-term peace in the area, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday.“Both sides are maintaining their military and diplomatic engagements to peacefully resolve the situation at the earliest to ensure peace and tranquility in border areas,” Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson said.A day earlier, on Wednesday, army delegations from both countries held talks in eastern Ladakh to ease tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where Indian and Chinese soldiers have been locked in a standoff for more than five weeks now.ALSO READ | For India, a tipping point with China | OpinionThe delegations led by senior army officials met at Patrolling Point 14 near Galwan as part of continuing efforts to resolve the border confrontation.Border tensions have eased slightly in the area over the last few days, after both sides agreed to limited disengagement of their soldiers along the Line of Actual Control.Wednesday’s meeting in eastern Ladakh was the fourth round of talks between the two countries to break the standoff that had begun with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.In an encouraging move, China has started withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along the contested LAC, with India pulling back its army unit deployed in those pockets.ALSO READ | Reached positive consensus, says China on talks with India over border tensionAround 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving many soldiers injured. Although an immediate conflict was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols, tensions rapidly spread to other pockets along the Line of Actual Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-engaged-in-talks-to-resolve-border-standoff-in-eastern-ladakh-mea/story-Q07LNGN51aS6ixZMWuwE5O.html
11-06-2020||India||Indian researchers develop new low-cost RT-nPCR test for coronavirus detection||Researchers at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) have developed a new test to detect coronavirus named reverse transcription nested PCR (RT-nPCR) test based on a low-cost and low-tech model, said a Thursday release from union science and technology ministry.The main Covid testing protocol currently sanctioned by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is called RT-qPCR tests, which expands to mean reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and according to the ministry, the newly developed test has given comparable results with the standard RT-qPCR test.“This test does not require real-time quantitative RT-qPCR. The RT-nPCR developed by the CCMB research team has shown comparable performance to the standard RT-qPCR test. The nested PCR (RT-nPCR) approach does not depend on RT-qPCR but uses standard RT-PCR as part of an endpoint assay,’’ a statement from the ministry said of the new testing protocol.Less than 1% have Covid-19 infection, says ICMR’s 15-district sero surveyWhile comparing the results of both types of tests, researchers found that the standard RT-qPCR test can have low detection efficiency-- less than 50%--in a real testing environment. It was attributed sometimes to low viral load in many samples. The new RT-nPCR test was able to make positive detections even in samples found to be negative in two RT-qPCR tests, the statement says. “It also detected 13% samples as positive among samples that were negative by the standard RT-qPCR test (likely false negatives). Based on the experimentally measured false negative rate by RT-nPCR tests from this study, it was estimated that as many as 50% of positive samples may escape detection in single pass testing by RT-qPCR in an actual testing scenario,” the statement from the ministry states.It must be added though that RT-nPCR test was able to identify 90% of the positive samples detected together by both standard RT-qPCR tests.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe experiment was conducted using the RNA isolated from nasopharyngeal swab samples previously tested using one of the two RT-qPCR tests.“This finding brought home the importance of monitoring detection efficiency directly in test environments,” the ministry says.This new test is awaiting approval from ICMR and the lab that developed the new test says that RT-nPCR test could be deployed in those places where RT-qPCR test machines are not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-researchers-develop-new-low-cost-rt-npcr-test-for-coronavirus-detection/story-HRg6Hbj17ocg7dbgJtlMCM.html
11-06-2020||India||Adam Gilchrist’s shout-out to Kerala nurse in Australia during Covid crisis||Celebrated cricketer Adam Gilchrist’s video praising an India-born nurse Sharon Verghese, working at a care home in the coastal city of Wollongong in Australia, for practising “active kindness” has gone viral on social media.“Congratulations Sharon, on your selfless act. You gave your time to work as an aged-care worker throughout that time [pandemic],” Gilchrist thanked Sharon on behalf of the Australian society, in a video released by the Australian Trade and Investment Commission, a government agency to promote business and education down under.Lauding the contributions of foreign students and workers in the country at the time of the pandemic, he added: “Just want to let you know, all of Australia, all of India and more importantly your family will be very proud of your efforts.” Adam Gilchrist gives a shout out to Sharon Vergese a nurse from @UOW who has been working as an #agedcare worker during #COVID-19. https://t.co/NfT0Q7G6P8To discover more stories like this follow #InAusTogether #InThisTogether. #studyaustralia @gilly381 @AusHCIndia @dfatLater, Verghese told an online portal that she was really bowled over by the legendary wicket keeper and batsman’s congratulatory note. She said her father was a big cricket fan and these words made him really proud.Sharon, who came to Australia in 2016, hails from Kottayam in central Kerala. Her friends said after completing nursing graduation from the University of Wollongong she has been working at an aged care home there.During the pandemic, Australia has given special care to aged homes and isolated them to prevent a possible infection. Speaking to a Malayalam news channel, Sharon said she wanted to work in a Covid hospital but got an opportunity in an aged care home, but really enjoyed her stint there. She now plans to pursue her masters in nursing. The United Nurses Association (UNA) has lauded the young nurse, adding that out of 20 lakh registered nurses at least 15 lakh are from Kerala.“At least two lakh of our nurses are abroad. Besides the Gulf, they are also in the US, Australia and other countries. Nurses from Kerala are most sought after because service is in their blood,” said UNA general secretary Sujanapal Achuththan.Last month the state had rushed 1,000 medical workers, mostly trained critical care nurses, to the UAE and Saudi Arabia as requested by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adam-gilchrist-s-shout-out-to-kerala-nurse-in-australia-during-covid-crisis/story-kiJJBCcckEXxSe2mzUwQKM.html
11-06-2020||India||In Rajasthan, Unlock 1 sees surge in Covid-19 cases, over 2,600 cases added in 10 days||With restrictions easing under Unlock 1.0, Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan have surged by over 2,600 in the first 10 days of June, prompting a worried government to clamp down on inter-state movement.Between June 1, when Unlock 1.0 came into force and restrictions were eased on travel, malls, hotels, offices and restaurants, and June 10, Covid-19 positive cases in the state have risen by 2620.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also expressed concern about the rise in coronavirus cases.He said the government will regulate inter-state movement as people are not getting tested or they get tested but reports come after they travel, which is leading to the spread of the infection.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the health department is studying the causes for this unprecedented rise in coronavirus cases.“After Unlock 1, it has come to our notice that people are violating the guidelines. They are gathering in crowds, not maintaining social distance and not wearing masks. At this rate, infection will rise,” he said.He said the government will not shy away from strict measures to control the spread of the virus as this was in the people’s interest.Sharma also stressed that the state has a commendable recovery rate of 75 percent while the mortality rate is low at 2.25 percent. The rate of doubling of cases is 22 days, he said adding that overall the situation in the state is under control and some harsh steps are being taken to keep the situation under control.Dr Sudhir Bhandari, SMS Medical College principal said the main reason for the spike in cases is carelessness by people.“After the lockdown ended, people have become careless and casual. They are not adhering to social protocols such as social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing of masks. As restrictions are relaxed, everyone should cooperate and be careful,” he said.The health department data shows that from April 1 to May 1, the total increase in cases was 2,541. Between May 1 and June 1, the number of cases rose by 6,363. On May 1, the total cases were 2,617 and on June 1, the total cases were 8,980.Data shows that between May and June, almost 40 percent of cases were those of migrants who started returning to the state from end of April.Of the total 6,363 positive cases between May and June, 2,543 or 39.9 percent were migrants.On June 1, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 8,980 and on June 10, this increased to 11,600, an addition of 2,620 cases.The total number of migrants who have tested Covid-19 positive in this period is 735. On June 1, the number of Covid-19 positive migrant cases was 2,543 which rose to 3,278 on June 10.A majority of the Covid-19 positive cases in these 10 days have been reported from Bharatpur, Alwar, Baran, Jaipur, Jodhpur and Pali districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-unlock-1-sees-surge-in-covid-19-cases-over-2-600-cases-added-in-10-days/story-O1OOKwNtRdBfhHinnTwOKK.html
11-06-2020||India||Put new gas wells on hold until OIL has a disaster plan: Wildlife Institute||A preliminary report by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) on the environmental damage caused due to Oil India Limited’s (OIL) gas well blowout at Baghjan in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, which started on May 27, has found that oil has leaked into adjoining Lohit river, polluting the water and adjoining Maguri-Motapung wetland with toxic pollutants. Maguri-Motapung is located less than 10 km from Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and is a part of the Dibru-Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve (DSBR). The report, which has been submitted to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and seen by HT, has recommended that the approved new wells and further exploration in the area should be put on hold until OIL authorities put in place their disaster-handling capabilities.The report said a WII team conducted the survey from May 29 to June 4 and found several dead fish and insects that may have died due to oxygen depletion in the water following the oil spill.The survey found the presence of at least five endangered Gangetic dolphins in the 20-kilometre stretch of the Lohit river, a tributary of the Brahmaputra river, indicating that the species will be at grave risk from the ongoing spill. The team has collected samples of tissue and blubber from a Gangetic dolphin carcass found in Maguri beel, which is being analysed for presence of various contaminants.“The toxic fumes and oil coating has universally affected the area’s flora and fauna. The contaminants and oil are continuing to be released in the surrounding areas and immediate steps are needed to contain this spillover. The released toxins are known to have long-term persistence in soils and sediments, which will not only affect current life conditions, but due to sustained release, pose a serious health risk for a longer-term,” the report said.The WII team has also gathered from the local residents that OIL authorities did not have a mitigation plan for such a disaster, and consequently suggested a comprehensive impact assessment of their field operations in the biodiversity-rich Dibru Saikhowa National Park.“It’d be not only prudent but also essential for the well-being of all life forms that the approved new wells and further explorations in this area should be initiated only after a thorough investigation of potential impact, as well as evaluating disaster handling capabilities in place, with appropriate technology and trained manpower,” the report added.WII has flagged that the environmental impacts of the oil spill will linger on for long.This is because an oil well blowout spews hundreds of chemical particles in the air, water, and soil. The hydrocarbon component comprises hundreds of organic compounds, many of which are hazardous when released into the environment such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) that are also carcinogenic.Local residents have complained of severe difficulty in breathing, headache and nausea to the visiting WII team, who, too, experienced similar symptoms due to the oil spill.The entire landscape, including the wetland, is coated in layers of oil, according to the team.The area, where blowout has taken place, is rich in biodiversity and one of the important remaining refuges for several endangered and range-restricted species, the report said.DSBR is home to tiger, elephant, wild buffalo, leopard, hoolock gibbon, capped langur, slow loris, Ganges River dolphin besides critically endangered bird species such as the Bengal florican, white-winged wood duck, greater adjutant stork, white-rumped vulture, slender-billed vulture as well as the very rare and endemic black-breasted parrotbill.The report has also pointed out that the entire region has undergone frequent changes in morphology due to recurrent earthquakes, which are known to have caused extensive landslides and ground fissuring, making the area disaster-prone.On May 11, the MoEFCC had granted environmental clearance to OIL for extension pf drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations under Dibru Saikhowa National Park.“The lowland forests of the region are unique. We’ve found leakages from other wells as well and they can have long-lasting impacts. We’ve recommended a thorough assessment of disaster mitigation possibilities before implementing further exploration projects,” said Qamar Qureshi, a scientist at WII.WII will come out with a detailed report on the impact on biodiversity by the end of June.“The wetland is affected, especially the aquatic species. The national park is slightly away from the accident site. We’re waiting for the detailed WII study and response from the Assam forest department. We’ve already written to them,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general (wildlife), MoEFCC.“We aren’t aware of the WII report. Whatever condensed oil had been released earlier has been burnt off. There’s no contamination from that spill anymore. We’re trying to contain the releasing gas within four weeks,” said an OIL spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-new-gas-wells-on-hold-until-oil-has-a-disaster-plan-wildlife-institute/story-6HMCWjkuKJZYGlTOfQgNKN.html
11-06-2020||India||Less than 1% have Covid-19 infection, says ICMR’s 15-district sero survey||India’s apex medical research body on Thursday revealed the findings from the sero-surveys conducted to gauge the extent of the spread of coronavirus infection in the general population and also in Covid-19 containment zones. According to the results shared by ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), less than one per cent of the population – 0.73%--in non-containment zone districts was found to have contracted the deadly contagion.A sero-survey is conducted by testing the blood serum of a group of people in a community to detect the presence of antibodies in the system which aids in finding out the prevalence of a disease. ICMR said it conducted sero-survey in districts to monitor the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus. This testing allows the health authorities to study the trend of the infection and ascertain if it has reached the community transmission phase. ALSO WATCH | ‘Risk higher in urban areas’: ICMR reveals sero-survey findingsICMR said the sero-surveys were conducted in two parts, and the first part comprising a fraction of the general population, who had contracted Sars-Cov-2, had been completed.The sero-survey was conducted using both anti-body/instant test and the lengthier RT-PCR test, to detect current virus carriers and also those who recovered after contracting the disease.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to its findings, the risk of people contracting the virus in urban slums was 1.89 times higher than the rural areas, while the risk in other urban areas was 1.09 times higher compared to rural areas.ICMR said that the study also revealed that the infection fatality rate was very low at 0.08 per cent.According to the council, the findings demonstrated that the nationwide lockdown and adjutant restrictions had been successful in keeping the rate of coronavirus spread low.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19However, in a corollary to the above findings, the ICMR said that a large proportion of India’s population was still susceptible to the disease. Part 2 of the sero-survey was to estimate the fraction of population infected with the virus in containment zones of hotspot cites and it is still ongoing, said ICMR.These sero-surveys were started by ICMR in May 2020, in collaboration with state health departments, NCDC, and the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-1-of-population-outside-containment-zones-infected-by-coronavirus-icmr/story-btv5RFF1mwjeLygPl85ibI.html
11-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sabarimala board puts freeze on temple opening, Kerala calls for talks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sabarimala board puts freeze on temple opening, Kerala calls for talksThe Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs the Sabarimala hill temple, on Thursday decided not to allow devotees and dropped the annual temple festival after the temple ‘tantri’ (supreme priest) expressed serious reservations. Read more‘Covid-free’ document in hand, Bengal migrants back to jobs in other statesThousands of workers in West Bengal’s Murshidabad districts are queuing up at medical centers to get ‘Covid-free certificates’ so that they can return to their workplaces, both within and outside, the state, officials said. Read more‘He loves the fight’: Rahul Dravid weights in on Matthew Wade’s remarks that he would not sledge Virat KohliIndia are scheduled to visit Australia for a series at the end of this year. Recently, when speaking about the series, Australia batsman Matthew Wade said that he would not be indulging in any verbal conversations with India captain Virat Kohli and the rest of the Indian team as it might spur them on. Read moreKiara Advani feels Kabir Singh criticism was unfair, reveals what could have been done differently to tone down backlashActor Kiara Advani had a very successful 2019, with back-to-back hits Kabir Singh and Good Newwz. But even with several new projects lined up for 2020, the actor is finding it hard to escape from under the shadow of the controversial Kabir Singh, which starred Shahid Kapoor in the title role. Read moreIndian cousins set stage on fire with outstanding dance moves at America’s Got TalentSpilling magic through their outstanding dance moves, a cousin duo Shakir and Rehan has now mesmerised people. Read moreHere’s how to take care of your lips this summer seasonMaintaining smooth, hydrated lips is a must during the summer season. If your lips become dry, spend some extra time in your routine and exfoliate them with a mix of a little sugar and olive oil. Read moreWatch: Ashok Gehlot accuses BJP of horse-trading ahead of RS polls Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has accused the BJP government of indulging in horse trading ahead of Rajya Sabha polls. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sabarimala-board-puts-freeze-on-temple-opening-kerala-calls-for-talks-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HPTuegNBJWJiGZ1Cc1MsLP.html
11-06-2020||India||3 elephants found dead in 3 days in north Chhattisgarh, cause of death still unclear||The carcass of one more female wild elephant was found in the jungles of Rajpur in Balrampur district of Surguja on Thursday morning taking the toll to three in the last three days.Two female wild elephants were found dead in the jungles of Pratapur forest range of Surajpur on Tuesday and Wednesday. Officials believe that all the three female elephants were from the same herd.“The body has been found in Rajpur forest range of Balrampur district on Thursday morning. We are yet to conduct the third post-mortem, however, the postmortem of the two other elephants have been conducted and prima facie doctors told us that the death was due to toxicity” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey talking to Hindustan Times adding that complete reports are awaited.“All three were young animals and they could not die like this at this age hence we suspect that these are not natural deaths,” said Pandey adding that no injury mark was found on the elephants.Meanwhile, forest officials have also collected samples from nearby ponds and water bodies to check if it was poisoned. “We don’t think that they have been poisoned through water bodies because then many deaths of wild animals would have taken place,” said Pandey.Two carcasses of elephants were found in separate places of Pratapur forest range of the district on Wednesday and Tuesday and the post-mortem report of both the elephants is still pending.A herd of some 18 elephants had ransacked some mud houses in Karwa village before moving toward Pratapur on June 6-7.“As per preliminary information, this herd was coming from Rajpur and then moved towards Pratapur. Near Rajpur they entered a village where they destroyed some mud houses. We are also investigating the villages which the herd crossed to ascertain what they have eaten,” a senior official said.Earlier, the forest department told HT that it seems that the pregnant elephant died due to cardiovascular failure and some cysts were also found in her body. However, the exact cause of death will come out after the post-mortem report, which will arrive on Thursday.Forest officials believe the dead jumbos belonged to the herd of elephants roaming in the area since the last one month.North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in the coal rich forest lands in Surguja region of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts have surfaced in last few years in the region.Amalendu Mishra, member of the State Wildlife Advisory Board, who tracks elephant movement in Surguja region said, “In this region there are about 90 out the total 240 wild elephants in Chhattisgarh. There is much need of training and capacity building of forest department’s ground staff for the management of wild elephants.”According to Mishra, for tracking the live movement of elephants, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) was radio collaring the pachyderms. However, currently only 3 out of 240 wild elephants have been radio collared.He further says when it comes to wild elephant deaths in Surguja region the deaths are mostly due to random reasons. For example, people lay live wires in jungles for trapping wild boars or for saving crops and elephants get electrocuted.“Though there has been a slow increase in the numbers of wild elephants in Chhattisgarh, but as compared to a state like Karnataka it is still very less. Karnataka has about 6,000 elephants while in Chhattisgarh it is around 230-240 only,” he said.As per Chhattisgarh’s forest department figures, during the financial year 2018-19, a total of 56 people were killed by wild elephants in northern Chhattisgarh. In 2017-18, 74 people died due to elephant attacks in the state.“We have ordered a high-level probe into the deaths of these elephants which will be headed by former principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF),” Mohammad Akbar, Chhattisgarh’s forest minister told Hindustan Times.The minister further added that the first death was reported on Tuesday in Ganeshpur forest of Surajpur district and doctors have said that the elephant died due to cardiac issues.“The second death took place on Wednesday and the doctor said the elephant probably died due to toxicity but the post-mortem report is awaited. The post-mortem of the third elephant is yet to be done. A case of poisoning has not been detected in any of these deaths. We have also used sniffer dogs to detect any foul play but nothing has been found,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-elephants-found-dead-in-3-days-in-north-chhattisgarh-cause-of-death-still-unclear/story-wesxRF2leejO2LY4nytkbJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Budgam: Militants escape during encounter leaving arms and ammunition behind, one suspect arrested||A group of militants gave the slip to security forces during a gun battle in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Thursday morning, evading a cordon that was laid around their hideout. The local police, CRPF and the army launched a joint operation in Pathanpora village of Budgam district after learning militants were present in the area. As the troops began surrounding the militants’ hideout, security forces exchanged fire with the militants.However, the militants escaped under cover of darkness. The operation continued till later on Thursday morning, and it was called off only when officials learnt the militants had evaded the security forces. A senior police officer, who declined to be named, said two Jaish-e-Mohammed militants managed to escape during the gun battle at Pathanpora. “The militants left some arms and ammunition behind before they escaped,” he said. An army spokesman said one suspect has been arrested and arms and ammunition were found at the spot. “The operation was launched on specific information and while the cordon was being laid, the terrorists managed to escape. One suspect has been apprehended and one Chinese pistol, a grenade, six magazines and 147 rounds of ammunition were recovered,’’ the army spokesman said.Since Monday, security forces have killed 14 militants, mostly locals, in three operations in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. The militants were buried 100 km away in Baramulla district. Police didn’t reveal the identities of the dead militants but said they were affiliated with the Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba. Police also said top commanders were among the dead militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budgam-militants-escape-during-encounter-leaving-arms-and-ammunition-behind-one-suspect-arrested/story-2tM4g2B4gNudrpX9PQjh7J.html
11-06-2020||India||No community transmission in India, says govt amid spike in Covid-19 cases||There is no community transmission of the coronavirus pandemic in India, the government said on Thursday amid intense speculation over the past week on the spike in cases, especially in Mumbai and Delhi. “India is such a large country and prevalence is very low. India is not in community transmission,” said Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The top medical body official underlined that lockdown measures were “successful” in preventing the rapid spread of the disease.“We found that about 0.73% of the population in these 15 districts showed a prevalence of past exposure to infection. It means that lockdown measures were successful in keeping it low and preventing rapid spread,” added Bhargava.Community transmission means that the disease is in its third stage and the source of its origin is not known. It is now present in the community and can infect people with no history - either of travel to or contact with infected people and areas. At this point, everyone is susceptible to catching it.In the first stage, the disease takes the form of a pandemic. The second stage is when the virus starts being transmitted locally. The third stage is that of community transmission.In Tamil Nadu, chief minister K Panaliswami said his government has been transparent in reporting Covid-19 deaths and none can hide information, rejecting claims of under-reporting of fatalities. He also asserted there was no community transmission of coronavirus in the state, which has reported 1,500 plus fresh cases for four successive days till Wednesday with the tally crossing the 36,000 mark.On Wednesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain reiterated that there was transmission in the community in Delhi, but it was up to the central government to declare “community transmission”. The Delhi minister, after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Authority a day ago, had said that his government was unable to establish the source of infection in 50% of the cases of coronavirus disease in the city.The Delhi government also blamed the Centre for using the city’s airports to bring in people from other countries. “Delhi and Mumbai are the two cities where people were brought in from other nations via flights, and we warned the Centre against it but they did nothing to avoid the landing of flights in Delhi,” said Jain.The high number of cases in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai is indicative of community transmission, say experts.Some commentators say that India went into lockdown early. Other countries, they say, lifted their lockdown when their disease curve had started to deflate, but here the restrictions are being eased as the curve is going up exponentially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-community-transmission-in-india-says-govt-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-6nYUOGYr3RaOPu7eZVYFDL.html
11-06-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Rajsamand takes up water audit to fix drinking water woes||Rajasthan’s Rajsamand district is undertaking a water audit exercise to address the shortage of drinking water and to assist in the creation of an action plan to cater for the future demand.District collector Arvind Poswal, the brain behind the initiative, says that during his interactions with the elected representatives, villagers and officials, he often received contradictory information on water resources, which led to the idea of the audit.“People would say that a particular hand pump was not working or a pipeline was leaking. But officials said that on their records, the hand pump or pipe was functioning properly, To overcome this discrepancy, I decided to send the officials to the field to assess the ground situation without waiting for complaints and demands from people to pile up,” said Poswal.For Coronavirus Live Updates“The usual complaints we get from people is that officials never visit the field, so we decided to send them to the field and do a reality check. They will listen to people and gather information about demands and complaints and then prepare a report based on that,” he said.Poswal said the administration’s objective is to solve the problems relating to drinking water in each revenue village through process of ground verification of the drinking water facilities.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The water audit will be done in all 214 gram panchayats of Rajsamand district, about 300 km south of Jaipur. The elected representatives along with the block and district level officials will be present at the time of the water audit.“The audit will be carried out when water is supplied, usually between 6 am and 9 am in the morning, in all the 214 gram panchayats,” said Poswal. The current per day demand of drinking water in Rajsamand district is 111 million litres.A form with a check-list has been created for all officials to be filled on the spot.It will register details about the existing drinking water system and the place-specific requirements for creating lacking infrastructure. The officials will take note of available sources of drinking water, time of water supply, quantity of water supplies, demand for water and the availability, the number of hand pumps, faulty handpumps, state of pipelines, state of water tanks, state of tube wells and identification of new water sources.Suggestions from people and elected representatives will also be taken before officials finalise their reports with their own analysis or comments and submit it to the DC. The reports will be reviewed by the chief executive officer and PHED officials before it is passed to the collector for a final decision.He said the data and suggestions received from people will help the administration review the present drinking water arrangement, demand, supply and create a plan to meet the future drinking water needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-rajsamand-takes-up-water-audit-to-fix-drinking-water-woes/story-dO7V05tkS0QwdU37rINauM.html
11-06-2020||India||Southwest monsoon sets in over Odisha, coastal districts likely to get heavy rainfall||The Southwest Monsoon set in over Odisha on Thursday with several parts of the state receiving heavy rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Conditions are now favourable for the advance of the Southwest Monsoon into some parts of the Central Arabian Sea and Maharashtra, remaining parts of Telangana, west central and North Bay of Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Sikkim and, some more parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal in the next 48 hours, the IMD indicated.“The Southwest Monsoon has set in over Odisha on Thursday. Widespread rainfall is expected over south and coastal Odisha districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in Koraput, Malkangiri, in the next 24 hours,” Director of IMD Bhubaneswar, HR Biswas said.“The monsoon has arrived in Odisha,” the Bhubaneswar Met Centre also said in a tweet.ALSO READ | Monsoon arrives in Maharashtra, coastal areas receive showersWith the advancement of the monsoon, heavy rainfall is likely to lash a few districts in Odisha over the next two days. The Met department’s prediction that the monsoon is likely to be normal this year has brought some relief to farmers in West Bengal and Odisha, hit hard this year by severe cyclonic storm Amphan which damaged standing crops in both states.The IMD Goa unit too announced on Thursday that the onset of monsoon in the state -- a week behind its schedule – had begun in parts of the Konkan coast and Maharashtra.The northern limit of the monsoon, which is lying at Karwar in neighbouring Karnataka and south of Goa, has covered all of Karnataka and entered parts of Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the IMD said.The onset of the Southwest Monsoon is usually declared after necessary conditions have been met such as westerly winds blowing at a speed between 30 and 45 kilometres per hour (kmph) and widespread distribution of moderate to heavy rainfall over certain areas during the last 24 hours.IMD officials have also issued a red alert warning for Goa, as the state is expected to record extremely heavy rainfall measuring over 20.4 cm and 11.5 cm on Friday and Saturday, followed by an orange alert, or heavy rainfall, on Sunday.The IMD authorities expect this year’s monsoon to be normal in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-sets-in-over-odisha-coastal-districts-likely-to-get-heavy-rainfall/story-QGSsk96R8wUQok1ZusE2fP.html
11-06-2020||India||‘Covid-free’ document in hand, Bengal migrants back to jobs in other states||Thousands of workers in West Bengal’s Murshidabad districts are queuing up at medical centers to get ‘Covid-free certificates’ so that they can return to their workplaces, both within and outside, the state, officials said. So far, about 10,000 of the three lakh workers who had returned have gone back to other states after taking the medical certificates, the officials said.Murshidabad is among the biggest contributors to the migrant workforce from Bengal. Every day, people in different community blocks of the district can be seen in long queues outside government health centres to procure fitness certificates, a document that is helping them return to the very states they had to return from during the nationwide lockdown. A senior district health department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Till Monday, 126 people in Murshidabad had tested positive for Covid-19 and more than 95% are migrant labourers. Had they not returned to their villages the virus might not have spread to remote areas so fast.”“Now that they have started returning to the states where they worked earlier, the disease is likely to spread as most of the carriers can be asymptomatic,” the health official added.Dr Utpal Majumdar, Bhagabangola-II community block medical officer of health, said,”Hundreds of migrant labourers are coming to Nashipur hospital to get fitness certificates from us so that they can return and join duty.“They were in home quarantine for a while. Those who have lived in quarantine for 14-28 days and have no symptoms of Covid-19 are being given certificates. We are collecting swab samples from those who have symptoms.”Several migrant workers HT talked to said some private companies even sent vehicles to take the workers back. Sixty people from the district’s Suti community block area hired a bus and left for Odisha on Monday. “I used to be the main mason at a construction site in Kerala and earn around Rs.800 a day. Here I am being offered Rs 200 for the same job. I will leave soon,” said Jafikur Sheikh, a wage labourer from Shamserganj. Nausad Alam,a resident of Hakimpur village, said: “I used to work at the workshop of a renowned jewellery company in Surat. I lost my job and I was worried about my family. I haven’t got any work here so far. I will leave in a day or two.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state leadership alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee wanted to stop the return of the migrants as it would expose the lack of job opportunities in her state.“These people came home out of fear and under financial duress but they had to face indignity and insult. Mamata Banerjee can neither provide work to them nor keep them in proper quarantine facilities. Many have to spend nights in open fields,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. The leader also reminded that the chief minister dubbed the special trains ferrying migrants as “Corona express”. However, the Bengal CM said yesterday that she did not coin the term “Corona Express, but the people did”.Trinamool Congress (TMC) district leaders claimed that the migration has started again because the pandemic is under control.The sabhadhipati or head of the TMC-controlled zilla parishad (district council) Mosharaf Hossain said, “More than three lakh people returned home. Some came even from abroad. With the situation slowly normalising they have started returning to their place of work. Many of them have sought our help.”“Around 10,000 migrant labourers from this district have already left. Many of them took trains while some are hiring buses or private cars,” said Hossain.“Many of these labourers earn a good amount of money in other states. They were not getting similar jobs here. Many labourers have already returned in vehicles provided by their former employers,” added Hossain. “I think they came home because they were worried about their families. We have noticed that the queues outside ration shops are getting shorter every day. It means people have started earning,” Hossain said.Additional district magistrate (general) Siraj Dhaneswar said, “The district administration is trying to provide 100 days of employment to these people under MNREGA schemes. However, we cannot stop anyone from returning to their old place of work.”Political commentator and former principal of Presidency College (now university) Prof Amal Mukhopadhyay said, “These people went to other states because they were either unemployed or did not get proper wages. The fact that they are going back proves that the magnificent development chief minister Mamata Banerjee talks about is only cosmetic and not substantive. There has been no industrial growth during TMC rule. I am afraid West Bengal is the worst state as far as job opportunities are concerned.”Speaking to HT from Bolangir in Odisha, Rahaman Miyan, a migrant labourer from Suti, said, “I was working at a construction site here when the lockdown started. The company arranged a bus for us and we could return to our native village on April 16. We returned to the site in a bus the company provided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-free-document-in-hand-bengal-migrants-back-to-jobs-in-other-states/story-mlYuwEcZ4QVkNlWpGLMGlN.html
11-06-2020||India||Third snow leopard death reported from Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National Park in past five years||The death of a snow leopard in Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National Park on Tuesday is the third fatality of the rare and protected animal in the past five years. The seven-year-old female snow leopard that died near the Nelong valley in the park on Tuesday was unwell and could have received injuries from a fall, said authorities.NB Sharma, deputy director of Gangotri National Park said, “Our staff found an unwell snow leopard ‘Dumkutiya’ while patrolling on Monday. A medical team and the divisional forest officer were informed on Tuesday, but by the time the team reached, the snow leopard had died. It seems it might have fallen off a cliff and was unwell due to that. We have sent its viscera sample for testing at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly.”Sharma said, the first snow leopard death in the park was reported in the year 2015 from Nelong Valley and in 2018, the carcass of the second snow leopard was found from the same valley.Dehradun based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has estimated the current numbers of snow leopards using extrapolation based on habitat quality and snow leopard density. According to S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at WII, India likely has around 516 snow leopards--86 in Uttarakhand, 90 in Himachal Pradesh, 285 in Jammu and Kashmir, 13 in Sikkim, and 42 in Arunachal Pradesh.Also Read: Body of third wild elephant found in Chhattisgarh , officials suspect unnatural deathSnow leopard (Panthera uncia) is facing threats to its existence due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres. It is a Schedule I animal under the Wildlife Protection Act of India and is listed as ‘endangered’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier this year, a national protocol for snow leopard population assessment was undertaken by Dehradun based WII along with Karnataka-based Nature Conservation Foundation. The project is on the lines of the global project named ‘Population Assessment of World’s Snow leopards (PAWS)’ carried out by 12 countries where the highly rare animal is found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-snow-leopard-death-reported-from-uttarakhand-s-gangotri-national-park-in-past-five-years/story-Xtgdb9k17HOCJFnyzcupeI.html
11-06-2020||India||MSP for agri crops higher than global, market price; need to find viable solution: Nitin Gadkari||The government’s minimum support prices for agriculture crops are way higher then domestic market prices and international rates, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday as he stressed on finding alternative solutions before an “economic crisis” is created. While the government fixes the rate, called minimum support price or MSP, at which it buys crops such as wheat and paddy from farmers, it also provides a subsidy to help export sugar. “The most important problem in this sector is that (among) the international price for agriculture commodities and the market price and the MSP, there is a vast difference. Now there are a lot of problems, some political problems are also there. It is very difficult for the government to take decisions. “But the ground reality is that our MSP is higher than the market price and international price. So this is now going to create a big economic crisis for the country. “We need to find out some options, alternatives for that, and without resolving that issue in agriculture, we cannot accelerate our economy because maximum purchasing power where we need to increase the potential in agriculture,” Gadkari said in a webinar. He said that the country has surplus rice and wheat and there is a problem of storage of these grains. Also, the government provided Rs 6,000 crore subsidy to export 60 lakh tonnes of sugar as the country is surplus in the sweetener, he said. The MSME and transport minister said: “In the agriculture area, there are some serious problems we are facing, we have surplus rice and wheat....we do not have a place for storage. It is totally full. We are surplus in rice and wheat for three years”. Gadkari also said that he has suggested for the formulation of a policy on converting rice into ethanol or bio-ethanol. He suggested this in a meeting with top officials, including principal advisor to Prime Minister P K Sinha and secretaries of food and civil supplies, agriculture, oil, non-conventional energy, and MSME, on Wednesday. “Presently our ethanol production is Rs 20,000 crore and imports are Rs 6-7 lakh crore. So now we are planning to make ethanol economy of Rs 1 lakh crore,” he said adding there are 200 closed sugar factories which can be converted for bio-ethanol production. He added that in states like Punjab, Haryana and some parts of Uttar Pradesh, there is a need to change the crop pattern and reduce the acreage of wheat and rice. “In Punjab and Haryana, we do not have a place for storage also...So this a bad situation for the country. On one side, we have surplus food grain and on other side, we do not have a place for storage,” Gadkari said. Further, he said that India imports a huge quantity of edible oil worth Rs 90,000 crore as India’s oilseed production is not up to the mark. He said that soybean production per acre in the US and Brazil is 30 quintals and 27-28 quintals respectively, but in India, it is just 4.5 quintal per acre. There is a need for research on quality oilseeds in the country for higher productivity, he added. Talking about PPE kits, which are in demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the minister said now its production in India has increased and is touching more than 5 lakh kit per day. “I have requested (Commerce and Industry Minister) Piyush Goyal ji that please give us permission to export PPE kits because we have got tremendous capacity now,” he said. Similarly, Gadkari said, India has significantly ramped up the production of sanitisers and are now getting good export orders. On developing waterways, he said a report has been submitted to the World Bank to make Delhi -Mathura-Agra-Itawah-Allahabad-Varanasi waterway and though this Delhi can be connected to the northeast and up to Myanmar and southeast Asia. Further, the minister called for decongesting metro cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Kolkata and develop smart cities and villages. He added that India needs to attract foreign direct investment as investors are keen to invest here. “My target for two years is for making roads of Rs 15 lakh crore and we have just signed an agreement with a foreign bank for getting foreign credit for that ...480 projects already with me. M toll income is Rs 28000 crore per year. By the end of March, I am expecting Rs 40,000 crore and within five years, my toll income of NHAI will be Rs one lakh crore, he added. FDI can be allowed in NBFCs and “I feel that can be a good route. We need to go to RBI and finance to find out the way to give permission for that”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-for-agri-crops-higher-than-global-market-price-need-to-find-viable-solution-nitin-gadkari/story-z1pTfPSvj5jwrXbSvQzc1H.html
11-06-2020||India||Nirav Modi remanded in custody till July 9 by UK court||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, fighting extradition to India on charges over the nearly USD 2 billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud and money laundering case, was remanded in further custody until July 9 by a UK court on Thursday.The 49-year-old jeweller, who has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March last year, appeared via videolink for the remand hearing at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London.He was remanded in further custody until July 9 as part of the regular 28-day “call-over” hearing.“The next hearing will be a similar videolink call-over towards the next stage of your extradition proceedings scheduled for September 7,” District Judge Samuel Goozee told Modi, who spoke only to confirm his name and nationality.Last month, Judge Goozee presided over the first part of the extradition trial, held in a partial remote setting due to the coronavirus lockdown restrictions, with the second part scheduled for a five-day hearing from September 7.“I hope Mr Modi by the time we get to September, the current restrictions on movement from prisons have been eased and you can be in court in person to follow the proceedings,” the judge had told Modi, at the end of a four-day partial hearing of the case on May 14.Modi had been following the court proceedings from a room at Wandsworth Prison and could be seen taking notes during the course of the trial.The first part of the case focused on establishing a prima facie case against him but the schedule had to be re-timetabled as the government of India submitted a further set of documents as “corroboratory evidence”. The judge allowed the additional evidence to be introduced but agreed that Modi’s defence team would require enough time to “digest” them.Therefore, a hearing already planned to deal with a second extradition request, made by the Indian authorities and certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel earlier this year on two additional charges of “causing the disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, has been effectively extended to conclude the prima facie case arguments.The judge has indicated that the two requests are “inextricably linked” and therefore he would be handing down an overall judgment at the conclusion of the second hearing, scheduled between September 7 and 11.The charges against the diamond merchant centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by the Punjab National Bank (PNB), known as “letters of undertaking” (LoUs). Modi’s team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems trade and that the LoUs were standard practice.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian government, have been laying out the case that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. This resulted in a fraud amounting to nearly USD 2 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-remanded-in-custody-till-july-9-by-uk-court/story-zdFLxzyuu4Tb0o0nz4oPNN.html
11-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, former US diplomat Nicholas Burns to discuss impact of Covid-19 crisis tomorrow||Congress MP and former party chief Rahul Gandhi will be holding an interactive session with former US diplomat Nicholas Burns on Friday to discuss “how the Covid-19 crisis is reshaping the world order”. “Tomorrow, Friday, 12th June, 10 AM onwards, join my conversation with Ambassador Nicholas Burns on how the Covid crisis is reshaping the world order, across all my social media platforms,” Gandhi tweeted on Thursday. This comes a week after Gandhi held a discussion with industrialist and Managing Director of Bajaj Auto Rajiv Bajaj on the economic fallout of Covid-19.Also read: ‘Need to make Covid-19 crisis major turning point for nation’ - PMTomorrow, Friday, 12th June, 10 AM onwards, join my conversation with Ambassador Nicholas Burns on how the Covid crisis is reshaping the world order, across all my social media platforms. pic.twitter.com/qIkWUbxxBgGandhi has been conduction a series of discussions with eminent personalities and experts amid the coronavirus crisis. His first dialogue was with former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan which took place on April 30. Rajan had told Gandhi that the second and the third lockdown in the country amid the Covid-19 crisis “will be devastating for India”.The subsequent weeks saw Gandhi hold discussions with Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and globally renowned public health experts - Professor Ashish Jha of Harvard Global Health Institute and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke. While Banerjee recalled the need for a robust economic package for the revival of the coronavirus-hit economy, Rajiv Bajaj said that India has “flattened the wrong curve” by decimating India’s economy.  “You (the government) have not solved that problem. But you have definitely decimated the economy. You flattened the wrong curve. It is not the infection curve, it is the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) curve. This is what we have ended up with, the worst of both the worlds,” Bajaj told Gandhi last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-former-us-diplomat-nicholas-burns-to-discuss-impact-of-covid-19-crisis-tomorrow/story-3heZiJ9waoyZiTsFyah2mI.html
11-06-2020||India||PM Modi says ‘command and control’ regime over, let’s ‘plug and play’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reiterated his resolve to turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity to make India self-reliant, and emphasised a policy shift from a “command and control” to a “plug and play” economy.Addressing the 95th annual plenary session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce in Kolkata over video conference, Modi asked the industry to focus on “people, planet and profit” to create globally competitive supply chains.Noting that the world is grappling with the Coronavirus crisis, he said: “But amid all these, every [Indian] citizen is also having a resolve to transform this disaster into an opportunity, to make this into a major turning point.”He defined this turning point as a “self-reliant India”. He said this has been the aspiration of Indians for several years, and it is being pursued through policies and actions for the past five to six years.“Now the Corona crisis has given us a task to accelerate this process and Atmnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan [self-reliant India initiative] is an outcome of that,” he said.Modi gave a call for an “Atmanirbhar Bharat” in his address to the nation on May 12, when he announced a package of more than Rs 20 lakh crore to revive the economy battered by the pandemic.According to the latest official data, the Indian economy grew 3.1% in the three months ended March 31. The growth rate in the full fiscal 2019-20 is expected to be 4.2%, the slowest in 11 years on the back of falling investment and consumption.Growth in the last quarter was sluggish despite only the last seven days of the period being impacted by the nationwide lockdown since March 25. A sharp fall in gross domestic product (GDP) growth is expected due to the 68-day lockdown. Fitch Ratings on Wednesday forecast a 5% contraction in GDP this fiscal, but it expected growth to rebound to 9.5% next year.The next fiscal appears promising for India as S&P Global Ratings on Wednesday said the country’s economy is likely to achieve a strong 8.5% growth, following a 5% contraction in the current fiscal.These estimates came almost a week after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded India’s sovereign rating one notch to the lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook, saying the Indian economy would face a prolonged period of slower growth.S&P on Wednesday hoped recent structural reforms announced by the government, along with fiscal incentives in the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, would boost the economy. “While risks to India’s long-term growth rate are rising, ongoing economic reforms, if executed well, should keep the country’s growth rate ahead of peers,” it said.Key structural reforms announced recently include expansion of the scope for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), allowing marketing freedom to farmers, liberalisation of commercial mining, a comprehensive disinvestment policy, and opening up the defence and space to private entrepreneurs. In September 2019, the government slashed corporate tax rates to make India a manufacturing destination, which, according to S&P, should reinforce growth alongside additional fiscal and monetary easing.In his address to the industry on Thursday, Modi said his government will take steps to reduce import dependency and encourage local manufacturing. He asked industry to focus on three factors – “people, planet and profit” – because all are interdependent.He gave the example of LED bulbs, once unaffordable to the common people. Five years ago, a LED bulb cost Rs 350. But it is now available for Rs 50. This helped provide relief to people, saved electricity worth Rs 19,000 crore and protected the environment, he said.“So, the planet has also benefited. And of course... manufacturers’ profits have increased,” he added.Modi urged businessmen to set up globally competitive domestic supply chains. “This is not the time for a conservative approach. It is time for bold decisions and bold investments,” he said.He said every citizen has resolved to face adversity with determination and this will be a “turning point” in the country’s history. “Atmanirbhar Bharat is the manifestation of the dream every Indian has seen for all these years,” he said.India can lead in manufacturing of products such as medical equipment, defence hardware, solar panels, batteries, chips and aviation, he said.On June 2, while addressing Indian businessmen, Modi had voiced confidence in the economy’s ability to return to rapid growth, listing it among his government’s top priorities and pledging his commitment to systematic reforms. “Yes! We will definitely get our growth back,” Modi said in his speech to a conference on “Getting Growth Back” organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-command-and-control-regime-over-let-s-plug-and-play/story-ke5OHEbbvJZt4WUC77GBJK.html
11-06-2020||India||LeT’s terror funding module busted in J&K, cash and drugs seized||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Thursday claimed to have busted a narco-terror module with the arrest of three over ground members of Pakistan-based terrorist organisation Lashkar-e Toiba (LeT) in possession of 21 kilograms of narcotic substance and Rs 1.34 crore cash.Police said the operation was carried out following the receipt of reliable information by a team of Handwara police. It identified the arrested persons as Abdul Moomin Peer and Islam ul Haq Peer, residents of Waskura, Handwara and Syed Iftikhar Indrabi, resident of Laribal Rajwar, Handwara. Moomin and Haq are brothers.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesSSP Handwara, G V Sundeep said that incriminating materials, including Rs 1.34 crore in cash and narcotic substance (Heroine) worth Rs 100 crore market value and a cash counting machine were recovered from the possession of the arrested.‘The other absconding involved persons have been identified and efforts are being taken to arrest them. The module was working in close connection with Pakistan-based terror handlers and it was involved in drug trade and financial assistance to active terrorists of proscribed terror outfit LeT,’’ said the SSP.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19SSP Handwara added that the recoveries also exposed the inter-link between drug dealers and terrorists. “This module was working for LeT outfit to strengthen their activities in the Valley and was misleading and motivating the local youth to join militant ranks.’’He said a case under relevant sections of law has been registered at Handwara police station and investigation has been taken up.‘A special investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted to ascertain the details of ties with terrorist outfits, radicals, smugglers and other anti national elements,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-s-terror-funding-module-busted-in-j-k-cash-and-drugs-seized/story-rXERgt2wbtCXbCfsQPsRKJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Met dept declares onset of monsoon in Goa, parts of Konkan||India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Goa unit on Thursday declared the onset of monsoon in the state -- a week behind its schedule -- and parts of Konkan coast and Maharashtra.The northern limit of the monsoon, which is lying at Karwar in neighbouring Karnataka and south of Goa, has covered all of Karnataka and entered parts of Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the IMD said.“South-west monsoon has advanced to parts of the central Arabian Sea, entire Goa, some parts of Konkan, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, remaining parts of Karnataka, entire Rayalaseema and coastal Andhra Pradesh, most parts of Telangana, some parts of southern Odisha, some more parts of west-central and north Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, most parts of Arunachal Pradesh and some more parts of Assam and Meghalaya,” the IMD said in a statement.The onset of monsoon is declared after necessary conditions have been met such as westerly winds blowing at a speed between 30 and 45 kilometres per hour (kmph) and widespread distribution of moderate to heavy rainfall over Goa during the past 24 hours. The IMD authorities have also issued a red alert warning for Goa, as the state is expected to record extremely heavy rainfall measuring over 20.4 centimetres (cm) and 11.5 cm on Friday and Saturday, respectively, followed by an orange alert, or heavy rainfall, on Sunday.The IMD authorities expect this year’s monsoon to be normal in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-dept-declares-onset-of-monsoon-in-goa-parts-of-konkan/story-EIg9SZaYl7U08v6v1YFB1M.html
11-06-2020||India||AIIMS Delhi to turn newly built Burns and Plastic Block into dedicated Covid-19 facility||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi’s premier healthcare facility, will soon convert its newly-built ‘Burns and Plastic Block’ into a dedicated facility to treat coronavirus patients.With the number of Covid-19 positive cases surging both in the national capital and across the country, especially after lockdown restrictions were eased and inter-state travel was permitted by the Centre, the need for more hospital beds and ventilators has also been on the rise.The new dedicated Covid-19 facility is likely to start by the end of this week.ALSO READ | Difference with UK narrows as India records big jump in Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths in 24 hoursThe decision by AIIMS to expand and add to its existing Covid-19 healthcare infrastructure comes after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that Delhi will need at least 1.5 lakh beds in healthcare facilities by July 31, once people from neighbouring states begin coming to Delhi for treatment.Currently, the AIIMS administration is providing coronavirus-related medical facilities at the apex trauma centre which has a capacity of 250 beds.The new burns and plastic block is likely to add at least 100 more beds to the existing number of beds dedicated for coronavirus patients.“We are increasing healthcare facilities for coronavirus patients. Hence, we are working to start the new burns and plastic block into a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre. This will create overall 350 beds (including 250 beds at the trauma centre and 100 beds at burns and plastic block) for virus-infected patients,” a senior AIIMS official said.The new block will have 30 Intensive Care Unit beds and 70 beds in the general ward. The national capital is likely to see a staggering 1 lakh cases of Covid-19 by end June according to a projection made by a five-member committee formed by the Delhi government, which submitted its report recently. By the end of July, Delhi may witness 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases, the government panel has predicted.On Thursday, Union Health Ministry data showed a spike of 9,996 new Covid-19 cases and 357 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll due to coronavirus in India has risen to 8,102 and the total number of cases now stands at 2,86,579.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-delhi-to-turn-newly-built-burns-and-plastic-block-into-dedicated-covid-19-facility/story-QSQOBAbm3nmTD4MUj8AkCJ.html
11-06-2020||India||‘Nothing to hide’: Tamil Nadu CM on reports of mismatch in Chennai’s Covid-19 death toll||There is nothing that the administration will gain by hiding the number of Covid-19 deaths, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Thursday after reports of discrepancies in Chennai’s Covid-19 toll surfaced. “We don’t hide the number of deaths, we won’t gain anything if we do that,” he told reporters. Palaniswami said that capital city Chennai, which is also the largest in the state, is densely populated due to which the number of Covid-19 cases are more. We don't hide the number of deaths, we won't gain anything if we do that: Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. #COVID19 https://t.co/s6Uedf70L2The CM also said there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and that the virus has been contained in most districts. Reports have emerged suggesting over 250 Covid-19 fatalities have gone unreported in Chennai.Also read: Beijing city reports first confirmed Covid-19 case in nearly two monthsAccording to an IANS report, the work on reconciliation of Covid-19 death figures in Chennai has already begun with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC).“An expert committee has been constituted and it will go into the details of the data submitted by the GCC,” TS Selvavinayagam, Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said.Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra with nearly 37,000 people infected by the virus till date. The Covid-19 death toll in the state stands at 326 of which Chennai accounts for nearly 260 fatalities.The national Covid-19 tally on Thursday jumped to 286,579 including 141,028 recoveries while the death toll stands at 8,102. The noteworthy fact is that the number of recovered patients across India is greater than the active Covid-19 cases in the country. (With inputs from IANS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-to-hide-tamil-nadu-cm-on-reports-of-mismatch-in-chennai-s-covid-19-death-toll/story-hOWP4CewyOq3tU89wQdviL.html
11-06-2020||India||With spike in Covid-19 cases, Darjeeling tea planters demand test labs closer to gardens||Tea planters in West Bengal’s Darjeeling, Terai, and the Doors regions have urged the Union government-run Tea Board of India to set up coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing facilities closer to the tea gardens amid fears over a spread of the viral outbreak in north Bengal.The planters have urged the board to set up Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDLs) at various locations.At present, the only VRDL facility in the region is the Siliguri-based North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), whose daily testing capacity far outstrips the demand.The Tea Association of India (TAI) has written a letter to the Tea Board of India, urging the government-run body to set up testing facilities at Banarhat, Nagrakata, and Odlabari in the Dooars.Ram Avtar Sharma, secretary of the Dooars unit of TAI, has urged the Tea Board of India to sponsor the setting up of VRDL facilities in the state government-run hospitals in the region.“The Tea Board of India allocates funds for workers’ welfare and human resource development. The organisation should perform its duty to the workers. Its action has left a lot to be desired,” said Sharma.Mani Kumar Darnal, president, National Union of Plantation Workers (NUPW), said, “The situation at the tea gardens in the Dooars is alarming. Even those workers living under institutional quarantine aren’t being tested properly.”AK Ray, deputy chairman, Tea Board of India, said, “We’ll assist the district administrations to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We’ll comply with the district administrations’ instructions.”John Barla, who represents the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Alipurduar Lok Sabha constituency, said: “North Bengal may surpass Maharashtra’s Covid-19 related death toll, if VRDL facilities are not set up in the region at the earliest, as the crisis has deepened because of the return of the migrant workers in large numbers.”There are 283 functional tea gardens spread across Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts in north Bengal, which have around three lakh workers on its rolls and several thousand contractual workers are also hired during the peak plucking season every year.A large number of migrant workers, who left the tea gardens and went to other states in search of livelihood, have returned amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.North Bengal’s eight districts have reported 995 Covid-19 positive cases till Wednesday and 95% of them are migrant returnees.However, a month ago, the region had recorded only 34 Covid-19 positive cases and three districts were still in the green zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-spike-in-covid-19-cases-darjeeling-tea-planters-demand-test-labs-closer-to-gardens/story-02xy5SnrkQMJd74O0AAjzN.html
11-06-2020||India||Amitabh Bachchan, trusts charter flights to get 1,500 UP migrants home||Amitabh Bachchan, in collaboration with Haji Ali Trust and the Mahim Dargah Trust, sent around 1,550 odd migrant labourers by chartered flights to several cities of the state. One of these flights landed at the Civil Enclave of Bamrauli Airport, Prayagraj, on Wednesday evening, with 151 migrant labourers of Prayagraj and neighbouring districts.Earlier, the plan was to send 1,547 registered labourers and their families by train but when the train was cancelled due to a technical issue, the cine star and the two trusts joined hands and sent these stranded labourers by air.Among those who landed along with their families and children at Bamrauli, there were many first-time fliers. “I am in the business of selling bangles and when my family had lost all hope of getting home, we were told that a flight would take us. My first reaction was that someone was joking but here I am, safe and secure along with my family, completing an experience that we will never forget,” said a passenger, belonging to Bhadohi, who did not wish to be named.The flight also brought migrant labourers from several other districts like Basti, Kaushambi, Bhadohi, Pratapgrah. Similar flights have been planned for cities like Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur and Patna also, they said.The noble act of the ‘Big B’ and the two religious trusts of Mumbai did not end there. From the airport, the migrants were dropped home by rented taxis, the cost of which was also incurred by the do-gooders.The passengers were permitted to leave the premises of the airport only after following all set norms.The help for the migrant labourers was named ‘Mission Milaap’ and the flights were sponsored by Amitabh Bachchan, under the guidance of Haji Ali Dargah trustee and Mahim Dargah managing trustee Suhail Khandwani. The activity was coordinated by Amitabh Bachchan Corporation Limited managing director Rajesh Yadav and Mahim Dargah IT director Sabir Syed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-b-trusts-charter-flights-to-get-1-500-migrants-home/story-DrOKVq7GBCVFXPdTblp2vL.html
11-06-2020||India||Sabarimala board puts freeze on temple opening, Kerala calls for talks||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs the Sabarimala hill temple, on Thursday decided not to allow devotees and dropped the annual temple festival after the temple ‘tantri’ (supreme priest) expressed serious reservations.The Kerala government, after the temple board and the priest differed over the opening of the hill shrine, has called a meeting in Thiruvananthapuram today.“We have decided not to allow devotees in view of the fluid situation. There are no differences between the priest family and the TDB,” said state devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran.The state minister said some people who were adamant on opening the shrine backtracked when the government decided to go ahead with it. The minister blamed cheap politics behind the confusion and the prolonged drama.Tantri Kandararu Mohanararu also played down differences over the issue, saying it was ideal not to allow devotees at this juncture. He cited the increase in the coronavirus cases in Kerala and the neighbouring states behind his decision.However, all daily poojas will be held at the shrine as per tantric customs. The temple was planning to open on June 14 and a week-long festival was to follow from June 19.Earlier, the tantri had sent a letter to the TDB commissioner and spoke to TDB chairman N Vasu about delaying the opening. The TDB, however, claimed that it did not receive any communication in this regard. The tantri is usually considered as the final word on all ritualistic matters.The TDB, a government-appointed body, runs Sabarimala and other major temples in south and central Kerala.“Many pilgrims swarm the temple from neighbouring states as well. It will be difficult to keep a tab on all devotees. So the festival and other functions can be postponed now,” the tantri said, adding allowing devotees at this juncture will pose a serious threat. His demand came in the wake of many Hindu organisations questioning the government’s decision to open shrines in the state.Unveiling the graded exit plan under ‘Unlock 1’, the central government had allowed reopening of places of worship for devotees, malls and restaurants from June 8 across the country. They have been shut since March 25, when the lockdown was first imposed to check the spread of the pandemic.The state has reported 2161 coronavirus cases with 19 deaths. At least 1238 people are undergoing treatment and more than 2 lakh people are under observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-board-puts-freeze-on-temple-opening-kerala-calls-for-talks/story-4SoBsJJkhEFaS7hOCZkd3I.html
11-06-2020||India||Renewable energy, emergency and disaster management now among emerging sectors for jobs: Report||A new official report has proposed investments in the renewable energy sector to tide over the job and economic crisis associated with the Covid-19 pandemic.The Centre has announced a special economic package worth 10% of GDP. The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), along with the National Institute of Public Policy and Finance (NIPFP), has submitted a report on how parts of this package could be used.Around 1.3 million full-time jobs can be created if India achieves 160 GW of solar and wind power by 2022. Further, the report proposes an amount of Rs 5,200 crore be invested during 2021-28 to create another 528,000 jobs and an economically viable market for a large share of the renewable energy. This could also greatly reduce coal imports.Beyond 2028, the funding required for the renewable sector is likely to be zero because of its competitiveness. Accelerated renewable energy deployment will save forex from reduced coal imports, the report said.“Even if half the generated renewable power is used to replace imported coal, India can save over Rs 6.75 lakh crore during 2021-2030 (nearly ten times the proposed outlay over the same period),” the report said. It also estimated India can save Rs 45,210 crore on oil imports each year by 2030 if 30% of cars sold in the country are electric vehicles.The emerging sectors with potential in the post-Covid-19 era will be distributed renewable energy, hybrid energy, emergency and disaster management systems, city gas distribution and urban transportation, according to the authors.For example, building a low-emission air conditioner servicing sector could create more than two million jobs by 2037.Scaling up investment in distributed renewable energy can create thousands of jobs. Around 110,000 skilled and unskilled jobs can be created by 20 GW of small-and large-scale micro-grids. About 50,000 potential skilled and unskilled jobs can be created for each 4 GW of rooftop solar power, the report estimated.NIPFP director Rathin Roy said: “The Covid-19 pandemic has presented some unique challenges. India must address structural issues of the economy and adopt a sustainable recovery path to emerge stronger. Our study with CEEW reflects on the need for key reforms and suggests policy, financial, technological and behavioural solutions to create an inclusive and more resilient economic system.”Responding to the report’s recommendations, energy economist Vibhuti Garg said, “In a post-Covid world, renewable energy makes more sense for a number of reasons. It is more competitive and cheaper than imported coal, it can create new industry for labour that have gone back to their states, and who can manufacture modules.“Decentralised solar energy can electrify hospitals in rural areas reliably. We have already seen such hospitals treating Covid-19 patients and it is not polluting like coal, so it reduces co-morbidities associated with pollution.”The report recommended a share of capital be used for disaster preparedness by developing a “Climate Risk Atlas”, an emergency surveillance system and a response network. Such an atlas will require Rs 5 crore for basic operation and maintenance expenses.The atlas can cover coasts, urban heat stress, water stress, crop loss, vector-borne diseases, and biodiversity collapse.The UN’s Inter-Agency Standing Committee’s (UN-IASC) report on return on investment in emergency preparedness states that every Rs 75.35 invested for preparedness saves more than Rs 150.70 in future responses. India has spent nearly Rs 13.52 lakh crore on disaster management in the past 20 years, and the government could have saved close to Rs 6.76 lakh crore if such systems were in place, the report estimated.Another recommendation, on learning from the Covid-19 crisis, is to deploy large-scale state-supported canteens to provide hygienic, affordable and nutritious food thrice a day to urban migrant workers (approximately 30 million). This would require a capital investment of Rs 26,500 crore for 60,000 canteens and 8,200 kitchens.Globally, there is a push for using Covid-19 economic stimulus packages for strengthening environmental regulations. The Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services’ experts believe governments should deploy stimulus packages that offer incentives for sustainable and nature-positive activities, and they should adopt a “One Health” approach at all levels, recognising the complex interconnections among the health of people, animals and plants and mobilising international finance to build health capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/renewable-energy-emergency-and-disaster-management-now-among-emerging-sectors-for-jobs-report/story-m3dCfGGZI7VuZbWsuUxJ2L.html
11-06-2020||India||First trial flight of Gaganyaan may face some delay due to lockdown: ISRO||India’s first unmanned mission slated this year as part of its ambitious human space flight venture “Gaganyaan” may face some delay with preparations adversely impacted due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown, according to ISRO officials.Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) had earlier said it has planned two trial flights without crew ahead of Gaganyaan -- the first one around December 2020 and the second around July 2021.“...there are some disturbances because of Covid, but still nothing is confirmed (about delay). We need to see, still we have got some six months time. We are trying to see if we can reach there,” a senior ISRO official told PTI.He added: “There may be slight up and down (in the schedule), but that will be known only when we do the complete evaluation...it is premature to say anything, because the team that is working (on the project) has not indicated (about delay).” ISRO plans to carry humanoid “Vyommitra” in the first test flight.The space agency is expected to launch the Rs 10,000- crore “Gaganyaan” in 2022, the year of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots -- potential candidates for the Gaganyaan project -- are currently under training in Moscow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-trial-flight-of-gaganyaan-may-face-some-delay-due-to-lockdown-isro/story-7z8WzF5jPTDHxBiZmShU2N.html
11-06-2020||India||‘North-East can become organic hub of India, have global identity’: PM Modi||North-East India can become a huge hub of organic farming and the capital for organic products with its own identity in the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday.“Just like Sikkim, the entire North-East can become a huge hub for organic farming. It can become the organic capital. It can bring about a revolution if the Indian Chamber of Commerce wants. You can create its global identity. If you want, you capture the global market with such products,” said PM Modi.Sikkim became the first state in India to officially announce the adoption of organic farming in the year 2003 to ensure long term sustenance.He also said that the ongoing initiative to get rid of single-use-plastic could prove beneficial for West Bengal because it can give a boost to the jute industry.Also read: ‘Need to make Covid-19 crisis major turning point for nation’ - PM Modi“Think about the profit West Bengal can make when every individual carries a jute bag made in West Bengal. Have you taken advantage of the initiative to get rid of single-use plastic? Have you started making packaging material with jute instead of plastic? You should take advantage of this. Who would help you if you don’t grab this opportunity?” he asked the chamber authorities, adding that the manufacturing sector in Bengal needs to be revived. Bengal is tagged as the jute hub of India with around 60-odd jute mills in the state. During the Covid-19 lockdown, when mills had to be closed down, union textiles minister Smriti Irani had called up Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to allow these mills to resume work. Banerjee had also received calls from chief ministers of Maharashtra and Telangana with requests to allow jute mills to resume work because the harvest season was nearing and the Food Corporation of India was looking up to Bengal for jute sacks.The prime minister said that India should convert the Covid-19 crisis into a turning point towards becoming a self-reliant nation. “Time has come to bring out the Indian economy from ‘command and control’ and move towards ‘plug and play’. This is not the time for a conservative approach. This is the time for bold decisions and bold investments,” he said.Citing the example of the UJALA scheme, launched in January 2015, PM Modi stressed how ‘People, Planet and Profit’ can co-exist and flourish.Also read: ‘No time for conservative approach’ - PM Modi calls for bold decisions to spur economy“With LED lights we are saving Rs 19,000 crore every year. The emission of Carbon Dioxide has been reduced by around 4 crore tons,” said Modi. He also said that the International Solar Alliance is becoming a big movement across the globe and efforts are being made to take full advantage of this. He urged the ICC to handhold various agencies and MSMEs working on this.The prime minister started his address in Bengali saying, “Nomoshkar. Asha kori apnara sabai bhalo achen. (Namaskar. Hope you are all well)”. He often referred to Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda during his speech while stressing the need for India to become a self-reliant nation.Prime minister’s comments came while he was addressing the 95th annual plenary session of the Indian Chamber of Commerce via video conferencing on Thursday. The ICC is one of the top bodies representing businesses and industries in the eastern and north-eastern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-east-can-become-organic-hub-of-india-have-global-identity-pm-modi/story-dmdajyLh5LEu4c81OPMCpK.html
11-06-2020||India||Security agencies red flag Imran Khan’s 1,600 scholarship plan for Kashmiris||Indian security agencies have red-flagged Imran Khan government’s plan to offer scholarships to 1,600 Kashmiri students to take up professional courses in Pakistan and occupied territories, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Thursday.Security officials said the scholarship offer was part of a larger plan by Pakistan’s deep state to radicalise young Kashmiris, incite them against India and create a large pool of sympathisers to its cause who could be tapped at a later date.“There have also been some instances where young Kashmiris crossed the border via Wagah-Attari border post to study and returned through the Line of Control, as terrorists,” a senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer said on condition of anonymity.Pakistan had first announced the 1,600 scheme to a panel of its National Assembly earlier this year. Islamabad has been offering scholarships targeted at Kashmiri students for years but these were mostly on a much smaller scale.Kashmir police estimates about 150 Kashmiris are enrolled in medical and engineering courses in Pakistan and occupied territories.Police officers said the applicants mostly need a recommendation from separatist groups such as the Hurriyat or terror group Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin-led United Jihad Council based in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’s Muzaffarabad.Like the one that was recovered from the residence of Hurriyat leader Nayeem Khan. In one document seized by the National Investigation Agency, according to a report on its 2018 charge sheet, Nayeem Khan recommends admission for a student in “a standard medical college” because “her family has remained committed to the freedom struggle through thick and thin”.The NIA, which was investigating a terror funding case, had then underlined that many of the students proceeding to Pakistan on student visas “were either relatives of ex-militants or relatives of families of active militants who had indulged in various anti-national activities and had migrated to Pakistan or they were known to Hurriyat leaders”.A senior security official in Delhi said Kashmiri students who rushed to take up scholarships in PoK colleges would suffer the most because the degrees they picked up weren’t recognised in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-agencies-red-flag-imran-khan-s-1-600-scholarship-plan-for-kashmiris/story-3vdJugg1JIRTOCqnaWh0pM.html
11-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak official rules out adopting WHO recommendation on Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘WHO assesses situation only through health lens’: Pak official defends govt’s Covid-19 strategyA top Pakistani health official asserted that the government is following a “holistic” strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more‘Need to make Covid-19 crisis major turning point for nation’: PM Modi during 95th annual plenary session of Chamber of CommerceThe entire nation is not just fighting Covid-19 but also facing multiple challenges, prime minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Read moreIndian-origin doctor couple begin legal battle with UK govt over PPEsAn Indian-origin husband-wife doctor couple have launched judicial review proceedings against the UK government over what they say is a refusal to address safety issues around personal protective equipment (PPE) for doctors and healthcare workers during the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreIPL plans in motion: BCCI President Sourav Ganguly tells state unitsAfter the International cricket council (ICC) decided to buy more time to take a call on the T20 World Cup scheduled for October-November this year in its meeting on Wednesday, the BCCI has made its own move. Read moreCovid-19 | ‘US is on its way to a very big comeback’: Donald TrumpAs people got back to their jobs, US President Donald Trump assured that the country is on its way to a ‘very big comeback’. Watch to know moreMom’s wholesome reaction to daughter getting a scholarship will make you smile ear to earIt is almost always great to see hard work and determination pay off. This feeling may be intensified when it is our own loved ones who succeed after putting their best foot forward.Read moreSolar Eclipse 2020: Follow these dos and don’ts on Surya GrahanAn annular solar eclipse is a rare occurrence and has been observed from India in the recent past on January 15, 2010, and September 1, 2016, respectively. The most recent solar eclipse occurred last year on December 26. This year the solar eclipse will be on June 21, followed by one on December 14. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-official-rules-out-adopting-who-recommendation-on-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dkGfTcMVGmHjj5shOt6d2K.html
11-06-2020||India||‘Focus on spiritual legacy’: PM Modi in review of Kedarnath reconstruction work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the ongoing reconstruction and development work at the Kedarnath shrine through camera-mounted drone via video-conferencing from New Delhi. He also sought information about the progress Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat during.According to the senior government functionaries in the state, PM Modi took stock of the reconstruction work in and around the Kedarnath temple area including caves being constructed in the vicinity of the shrine, samadhi sthal (mausoleum) of Adi Shankaracharya, Saraswati Ghat, Aastha Path, bridge on the path towards Bhairav temple, the bridge over Mandakini river and ghats being built at the confluence of Mandakini and Saraswati rivers in the area.During the video-conference, PM Modi said that information about the historical, spiritual and religious legacy of Kedarnath shrine and pilgrimage should be put on the path from Rambada to Kedarnath so that pilgrims become aware of the same. He said that more spirituality-related works could be undertaken in the area, on which the state government should pay attention.The Prime Minister said that the caves should be developed in a proper way so that they look attractive.Stressing that the reconstruction work could be expedited, PM Modi said that the state government should identify the things which need to be completed on a priority basis. He said that Centre will provide all possible help for reconstruction and development work in Kedarnath and Badrinath areas.PM Modi also said that a development plan should be framed for the Badrinath Dham, keeping in mind the next 100 years.The Prime Minister also sought information about the Char Dham yatra this year. Rawat apprised him that yatra (pilgrimage) was being allowed for the locals only for the time being in a limited way, with devotees asked to wear face masks and follow social distancing.The chief minister also requested PM Modi that state government needs Rs 200 crore for various construction works in the Kedarnath area.During the video-conference, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh apprised PM Modi about the progress in various reconstruction work in the Kedarnath area. He informed the Prime Minister that samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya will be completed by December 31, 2020, Saraswati Ghat by June 30, 2020, the bridge on Mandakini river by March 31, 2021, and three caves around the shrine by September 2020. He added that bridge on the path towards the Bhairav temple has already been completed.The chief secretary also informed PM Modi that the state government is planning to construct an open museum in the Kedarnath area. The construction of 73 houses for priests of the shrine, to be developed in five blocks, two of which have been already completed, will be completed in September this yearIn October 2017, PM Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stones of five major reconstruction projects at the Kedarnath shrine. The reconstruction projects for which he laid the foundation stone included improved facilities for devotees, construction of retaining walls and ghats at the Mandakini and Saraswati rivers, an approach road to the shrine and reconstructing the Samadhi Sthal of Adi Shankaracharya, an early eighth-century seer and the founder of the Vedanta school of philosophy.PM Modi had visited Rudra meditation cave in Kedarnath in May last year. He had spent a day meditating at the cave, which is nearly a kilometre from the Kedarnath shrine. Following PM Modi’s visit, the cave received a significant number of bookings from across the country for meditation. He had also visited the Badrinath shrine in May last year.Kedarnath and Badrinath, along with Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Kedarnath shrine is located near the Mandakini river in Rudraprayag district. According to tradition, the shrine was built by Pandavas and revived by Adi Sankaracharya. The shrine was the worst affected area during the 2013 flash floods, with Kedarnath town suffering extensive damage. Badrinath is located along the banks of the Alaknanda River in Chamoli district at a height of over 10,000 feet. This year on April 29, when the portals of the Kedarnath shrine were opened, the first prayers were offered on behalf of PM Modi to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-spiritual-legacy-pm-modi-in-review-of-kedarnath-reconstruction-work/story-Naz2LGxtHpzEbHIInCL3ZI.html
11-06-2020||India||Locust swarms in Uttar Pradesh’s Sangam city, heading towards Kaushambi||After attacking rural areas of Prayagraj district for over a day, swarms of locusts entered Sangam city on Thursday. Localities like Tagore Town, Allahpur, Sohbatiyabagh, George Town, Kareli, Civil Lines reported locust swarms covering the sky and creating panic among the locals.The people resorted to clanging of utensils and tin cans to bursting firecrackers in a bid to chase them away.Earlier, these short-horned grasshoppers had attacked trans-Yamuna villages of Koraon, Meja, Phulpur, Karchana in the Prayagraj district between Tuesday evening and Wednesday. Local administrative officials of these development blocks, along with villagers, had effectively repulsed the attack of these creatures with the help of chemicals, sprayed using fire tenders and tractors. They also played loud music along with creating smoke in the fields.Earlier this morning, these swarms were first spotted in two areas of the city: Sangam and over the old city areas. “I was standing on my terrace when I suddenly saw huge locust swarms flying in the air. Locusts measuring up to two inches and even more were everywhere,” said Geeta Mishra, a resident of Rajroopur.The Chandra Shekhar Azad Park, spread over 133 acres in the middle of the city with lush green trees, was also swamped by them.Superintendent of Chandra Shekhar Azad Park Seema Singh Rana said that locusts were all over the garden at around 10am. The staff, the officer added, beat up cans and plates deterring locusts from descending up on the trees. “We got away with mere 10% damage to trees and plants,” she added.Chief Fire Safety Officer RS Mishra said, “We have yet not received any written or oral instructions from the district administration to press our fire tenders into service for spraying of chemicals in the city limits. The moment our help is required, we will send the fire tenders.” Chief Development Officer (CDO), Ashish Kumar said, “This is the dispersed swarms of locusts which is moving towards Kaushambi after our action against them in Bahadurpur and other areas of Meja, Karchana and Koraon development block on the Wednesday night.”As it is day time, they will not settle down but still locals and civic administration have been asked to burst firecrackers and make a lot of sound so that they keep on moving, he said.The official further added that the district administration of Kaushambi, along with the state and central monitoring agencies, has been informed about the latest development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-in-uttar-pradesh-s-sangam-heading-towards-kaushambi/story-BDwdC7z4nx0BPxJ6q6mYeL.html
11-06-2020||India||Four injured in fuel tank blast at steel plant in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district||Four workers were injured, two of them critically, when a fuel tank exploded at a steel plant in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district, police said on Thursday.The blast took place on Wednesday evening when the victims were cutting an old diesel tank with a gas cutter at a scrap yard in the premises of Jindal Steel and Power Limited in Patralapli village, located around 250 km from Raipur, Kotra Road police station house officer Yuvraj Tiwari said.Police suspect there was some diesel or gas in the tank which may have come in contact with flame while it was being cut with the gas cutter, causing an explosion.“Four people received burn injuries in the blast. Two of them were critically injured and shifted to a hospital in Raipur. The other two have been admitted to a hospital in Raigarh, the official said.An investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of the explosion, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-injured-in-fuel-tank-blast-at-steel-plant-in-chhattisgarh-s-raigarh-district/story-396Eo35rjfxOnfNcdx5ERN.html
11-06-2020||India||Houses damaged, animals killed as Pak shells villages along LoC in Rajouri, Poonch||Several houses were damaged and animals killed as Pakistan resorted to intense firing and mortar shelling along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri and Poonch districts on Wednesday, triggering panic and fear among residents, officials said.Pakistan targeted over half-a-dozen villages along the LoC in Nowshera and Balakote sectors, they said.In the morning hours of Wednesday, the Pakistan Army targeted civilian areas in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district with heavy mortars and guided missiles, they said.In the heavy shelling, six civilians houses were damaged, they said, adding several animals have been killed too.People living in border hamlets took shelters in some underground bunkers to save their lives as their villages were pounded with mortar bombs, they said.The villagers demanded more bunkers for the population, they said.In the evening again, around 08:45 pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars in Balakote sector, Poonch, they said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, they said.Heavy exchanges of fire is going on when the reports last came in, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/houses-damaged-animals-killed-as-pak-shells-villages-along-loc-in-rajouri-poonch/story-pMrno76OCTbJ5DkCmBoFtI.html
11-06-2020||India||‘No time for conservative approach’: PM Modi calls for bold decisions to spur economy||India’s economy needs to be taken out of the ‘command and control’ mode towards ‘plug and play’, prime minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. PM Modi stated that now is the time to turn the prevailing Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity and build a ‘self-reliant’ India. “This isn’t the time for a conservative approach. It’s time for bold decisions and bold investments. It’s time to prepare a globally competitive domestic supply chain,” he said, reiterating the need to promote local innovation. The prime minister called for the need to work faster in the direction to figure out how can the country begin to export what it has been importing so far.Also read: ‘Need to make Covid-19 crisis major turning point for nation’ - PM Modiहर वो चीज, जिसे आयात करने के लिए देश मजबूर है, वो भारत में ही कैसे बने, भविष्य में उन्हीं उत्पादों का भारत निर्यातक कैसे बने, इस दिशा में हमें और तेजी से काम करना है: प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी pic.twitter.com/jGyrTQgjEc“Everything that the country is forced to import, how should it be made in India, how India should become an exporter of the same products in future, we have to work faster in this direction,” he said. The prime minister was speaking during the inaugural address on the occasion of 95th annual plenary session of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) on Thursday. He began his address by lauding the contributions made by the ICC and for carrying on the tradition of excellence for 95 years. The ICC is one of the top bodies representing businesses and industries in the eastern and north-eastern India.The prime minister said that the country is facing many challenges amid the Covid-19 pandemic, from locust attacks, cyclones to earthquakes, among other crises. He said fate favours those who see opportunities in the face of adversities and lauded teh country’s firm resolve and fighting spirit. “Mann ke hare haar, mann ke hare jeet - only our firm resolve and determination can decide our future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plug-and-play-pm-modi-calls-for-bold-decisions-to-spur-economic-growth-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-HxC5MqEpYWb6lXse6epv3M.html
11-06-2020||India||‘Need to make Covid-19 crisis major turning point for nation’: PM Modi during 95th annual plenary session of Chamber of Commerce||The entire nation is not just fighting Covid-19 but also facing multiple challenges, prime minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. PM Modi stated that every citizen of the country has resolved to turn this crisis into an opportunity. “We have to make this a major turning point for this nation. What is that turning point? A self-reliant India,” he said. PM’s comments came during the inaugural address on the occasion of 95th annual plenary session of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) on Thursday. The ICC is one of the top bodies representing businesses and industries in the eastern and north-eastern India.The prime minister said that the entire world is fighting Covid-19 and so is India. “Other adversities are also arising amid these trying times,” the PM said. Also read: No time for conservative approach - PM calls for bold moves to spur economy Every citizen of this country has resolved to turn this crisis into an opportunity. We have to make this a major turning point for this nation. What is that turning point? A self-reliant India: PM Narendra Modi on 95th Annual Day of Indian Chamber of Commerce. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/RDXmYcvY8pFrom locust attacks plaguing parts of the country to reports of earthquakes and cyclone occurrences in the past few months, the prime minister said that the country has faced many challenges amid the coronavirus crisis. “We all have come together to withstand these challenges,” he said.“Mann ke hare haar, mann ke hare jeet - it means that only our firm resolve and determination can decide our future,” the PM said. During his address, PM Modi reiterated the significance of developing the country into a self-reliant one and take bold decisions to drive economic growth. He called for the need to ditch conservative approach and go “vocal for local”. “We have to revive the historical excellence of Bengal in the manufacturing sector. We’ve always heard “What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow”. We have to take inspiration from this and move forward together,” the prime miister added.PM Modi started his address by congratulating the Chamber of Commerce for achieving the milestone of completing 95 years. “The ICC has stood the test of time and contributed immensely to the growth trajectory of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-nation-is-fighting-not-just-covid-19-but-facing-multiple-challenges-pm-modi-during-95th-annual-plenary-session-of-chamber-of-commerce/story-x4rv53EDynAb1Ad3cS8GQJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Body of third wild elephant found in Chhattisgarh , officials suspect unnatural death||The body of a third wild elephant was found in the jungles of Rajpur in north Chhattisgarh’s Balrampur district on Thursday morning.“The body of a wild elephant has been found in the Rajpur forest range of Balrampur district on Thursday morning. Forest officials are on their way to the spot. I shall also accompany them,” said Arun Kumar Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Chhattisgarh.He said that all three wild elephants did not appear to have died of natural causes, but clarity would emerge after their post-mortem reports are made available.Earlier on Tuesday and Wednesday, two female wild elephants were found dead in separate spots in the jungles of the Pratapur forest range of Surajpur district. Their post-mortem reports are likely to be made available on Thursday.Forest officials said the dead jumbos belonged to a herd of elephants that have been roaming in the area since May.North Chhattisgarh’s coal-rich forests in the Surguja region is home to around 240 wild elephants, who have been involved in several man-animal conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-third-wild-elephant-found-in-chhattisgarh-officials-suspect-foul-play/story-mzTgm1aggQf9ThCmM1zYOL.html
11-06-2020||India||After China, Maharashtra soon to overtake Canada’s Covid-19 tally: Statewise numbers||Coronavirus cases in the country are rapidly inching toward the 300,000-mark. The national Covid-19 tally on Thursday jumped to 286,579 including 141,028 recoveries while the death toll stands at 8,102. The noteworthy fact is that the number of recovered patients across India is greater than the active Covid-19 cases in the country. In Maharashtra, which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country, the tally has crossed 94,000. It has outnumbered the total number of cases in China and is soon to overtake Canada’s tally as well which is estimated at around 98,000.  Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2.8 lakh, 357 deaths in 24 hoursBesides this, cases have soared beyond 36,000 in Tamil Nadu while in the national capital more than 32,000 people have been infected by coronavirus till date. Here’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers.  Top statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 94,041 on Thursday. As many as 3,438 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 44,517 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 36,841 in the southern state. Three hundred and twenty-six people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 19,000 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 32,810 on Thursday, 12,245 patients have recovered here while 984 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 21,521 on Thursday. The state has seen 14,735 people recover from coronavirus while 1,347 people have died.Other statesRajasthan has reported 11,600 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,569 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 259.In Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 tally has crossed 10,000 while Uttar Pradesh has seen Covid-19 cases jump beyond the 11,000-mark.  In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have jumped to 9,328. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 5,710 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 5,269 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported nearly 6,041 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 4,111 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,500-mark. Haryana nears the 5,600-mark while Odisha and Assam have reported over 3,000 cases. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. States like Manipur, Chandigarh, Goa, Nagaland, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Sikkim, Dadar Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-china-maharashtra-soon-to-overtake-canada-s-covid-19-tally-statewise-numbers/story-5c7DhIjhEg0qBkz0skxEiN.html
11-06-2020||India||Two lineages of Congo fever viruses present in Rajasthan: Study||A study, in the midst of an outbreak of Covid-19, has revealed that two different Crimean Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) lineages are circulating within the Hyalomma tick pools in Rajasthan. The study has also called for the need to enhance human, tick and livestock surveillance in other districts of Rajasthan and nearby states.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFour human samples and thirteen Hyalomma tick pools were found positive for CCHFV positive and two different types of glycoprotein precursor (M) segments were observed in the tick samples, according to the study that was conducted by researchers at the National Institute of Virology; Indian Council of Medical Research, Department of Health Research (ICMR); National Centre of Disease Control; Sawai Man Singh Medical College-Jaipur; All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Jodhpur; State Disease Diagnostic Centre; Animal Husbandry-Jaipur and Dr SN Medical College-Jodhpur. The study was published in the journal Virus Research on June 4.“CCHF is a zoonotic viral disease presenting with fever and hemorrhagic manifestations in humans. After several outbreaks of CCHF being reported from Gujarat since 2011 till 2019, and from Rajasthan in 2014 and 2015, the present study reports the CCHF outbreak which was recorded from five human cases in three districts Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, and Sirohi of Rajasthan state since August 2019 till November 2019,” the study read. According to the findings, a high percent of positivity was recorded in the samples of livestock animals for the CCHFV IgG antibody. Human blood samples that were found positive for the CCHF virus (CCHFV) and Hyalomma tick pool samples were sequenced using next-generation sequencing method. Two different M segment genotypes, encoding glycoprotein precursor, were identified from tick pools in the study - first from Asian and second from African lineage. The L gene (polymerase) and the S gene (nucleocapsid) clustered in the Asian lineage.“We also observed 6% amino acid changes between the death and the survived case of CCHFV in the M gene. This report also sets an alarm to enhance human, tick and livestock surveillance in other districts of Rajasthan and nearby states. Biosafety measures, barrier nursing along with the availability of personal protective equipment and ribavirin drug will always be a mainstay in preventing nosocomial infection for proper case management,” experts suggested.The study said that, “though no nosocomial or human-to-human transmission of CCHF or any infection amongst close contacts was reported in the outbreak of 2019, still it alarms the intense awareness campaigns and trainings amongst healthcare workers, animal handlers, and abattoir workers/farmers, veterinarians which will help in early reporting and quick diagnosis as well as reducing the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-lineages-of-congo-fever-viruses-present-in-rajasthan-study/story-7tbbJrfn9LMMKyXt167tQI.html
11-06-2020||India||Indigestion drug may help treat Covid-19 symptoms, say researchers||A new research examined a medicine used for gastric troubles on Covid-19 patients to see its effects in subsiding the symptoms of the coronavirus disease.The patients who were experiencing cough or shortness of breath, felt better after taking famotidine, which is safely used for suppression of gastric acid production, the research said.The research has been published in medical journal Gut. Scientists believe this will help patients who are under home quarantine.Famotidine is often given to people who experience indigestion. It is taken in doses of 20-160 mg, up to four times a day, for the treatment of acid reflux and heartburn.For the findings, the scientists from Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Cancer Centre in the US picked 10 people (six men; four women) who developed Covid-19 infection.The severity of five cardinal symptoms - cough; shortness of breath; fatigue; headache and loss of taste/smell as well as general unwellness - was measured using a version of a 4-point scale normally applied to assess the severity of cancer symptoms (ECOG PS).All started taking famotidine when they were feeling very poorly with Covid-19. The most frequently used dose was 80 mg taken three times a day, with the average treatment period lasting 11 days.The findings showed that all 10 patients said that symptoms quickly improved within 24-48 hours of starting famotidine and had mostly cleared up after 14 days. Scientists said that the medicine reduced the level of acid in stomach.However, they say the medicine helps Covid-19 patients, more work is needed to take a closer look at the clinical relevance of famotidine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigestion-drug-may-help-treat-covid-19-symptoms-say-researchers/story-daFzgAhMCuMpg6j5jz03SM.html
11-06-2020||India||Army jawan killed in Pak shelling in J-K’s Rajouri, civilian injured||A soldier died and a civilian got injured in shelling carried out by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir late Wednesday, officials said. “A soldier lost his life in the line of duty late Wednesday night when Pakistani troops opened heavy fire in Tarkundi sector that runs along Rajouri and Poonch districts. India retaliated strongly to the unprovoked firing and shelling by the adversary,” defence officials said. The deceased was identified as Naik Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Batala in Gurdaspur district of Punjab. His body has been moved to Rajouri hospital for autopsy.A civilian, named Nayamtullah (35), of Rajdhani village was also injured in Pak shelling last night. Chandan Kohli, Senior Superintendent of Police, Rajouri district said that the victim was hit by splinters of a mortar shell.Also read: Encounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in J-K’s Budgam“He was immediately evacuated to a hospital and is out of danger,” said Kohli. Besides this, a fresh encounter erupted between security forces and terrorists in the wee hours of Thursday in central Kashmir’s Budgam district. The police said two to three militants could be trapped in Pathanpora village of Budgam. The operation was launched at around 2 am on Thursday.This is the fourth encounter in Kashmir since Sunday. As many as 14 militants have been killed in the previous three encounters that took place in South Kashmir’s Shopian district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-jawan-killed-in-pak-shelling-in-jammu-and-kashmir-civilian-injured/story-33xHhAmrzyFlBZRqbYrmLK.html
11-06-2020||India||Difference with UK narrows as India records big jump in Covid-19 cases, 357 deaths in 24 hours||India came a step closer to the Covid-19 tally of fourth worst-affected country, the UK, on Thursday after the total number of cases reached 2,86,579. The UK has 2.9 lakh Covid-19 cases, according to Johns Hopkins University.According to the Union health ministry update at 8 am, the country recorded 9,996 cases in the last 24 hours. The number of fatalities reached 8,102 (357 deaths in the last 24 hours), while 1,41,028 patients have been cured or discharged.The country has been recording close to 10,000 cases for the last 10 days, and it has added nearly 90,000 or nearly one-third cases of the total tally.India’s first Covid-19 case was detected more than four months ago on January 30, but it took more than 100 days thereafter to reach the one lakh-mark on May 18. However, the next one lakh cases were added in just about a fortnight and the tally can hit three lakh-mark this week itself at the current rate.India reached an important milestone on Wednesday when the total number of recovered patients crossed the number of active cases. According to Hindustan Times’ Covid-19 dashboard, the difference between these two numbers on Tuesday was 1,375. On Thursday, the gap further widened to 3,580. There are 1,37,448 active cases, according to the health ministry.In the last week, an average of 4,529 new active cases have been added to the national tally every day, while 5,397 patients have recovered daily. If these trajectories continue, this gap is likely to widen in the coming days.One of key factors for the number of recoveries catching up to active cases has been India’s low case fatality rate (CFR). Since 2.8% of infected people have died so far, the number of active cases (calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally) has been steadily dropping, particularly from the end of May.The development also came on the same day that the total number of tests conducted in the country crossed the 5 million-mark, according to the ICMR. As of Tuesday, India tested 5,061,332 samples. This means that India has conducted 3,797 tests for every million residents - the lowest among the 10 worst-hit countries in the world. Italy, which has over 50,000 fewer cases than India, has conducted over 71,000 tests per million of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/difference-with-uk-narrows-as-india-records-another-big-jump-in-covid-19-cases-357-deaths-in-24-hours/story-ndwNURQNoIJG68VGaLyxGM.html
11-06-2020||India||PM Modi addresses 95th annual plenary session of Chamber of Commerce||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is delivering the inaugural address on the occasion of the 95th annual plenary session of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) today. PM Modi’s address is taking place via video conferencing. Earlier this month, the prime minister delivered the inaugural address on the occasion the 125th anniversary of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). During the session, PM Modi said that India is on the path to regaining economic growth as the country enters the phase of ‘Unlock-1’ to gradually lift Covid-19 lockdown measure and boost economic activity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliver the inaugural address on the occasion of 95th annual plenary session of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) today. (file pic) pic.twitter.com/aXbTWgGf5TThe prime minister said he has immense confidence in India’s crisis management capability and in the talent of the country’s farmers, entrepreneurs and the many MSMEs. “We will get our economy back,” the prime minister said. He emphasised the significance of virtual events in the age of coronavirus. The prime minister pointed at the need to manufacture products which are ‘Made in India’ but are ‘Made for the World’.He also lauded India’s efforts in fighting the Covid-19 battle and said that India took timely action in a timely manner while coronavirus was spreading across the globe.He had said that Indian industries should take advantage of the trust developed towards India as the world is looking for a trusted and reliable partner.“World is looking for a trusted, reliable partner. India has potential, strength and ability. Today, Indian industries should take advantage of the trust developed in the world towards India... Getting growth back is not that difficult. The biggest thing is that Indian industries have a clear path of self-reliance,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-of-95th-annual-plenary-session-of-indian-chamber-of-commerce/story-FWdBErMFObStX8EOA1MuwJ.html
11-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP CM should not make ‘threatening’ remarks on border row, says Nepal PM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nepal PM criticises Yogi Adityanath’s ‘threatening’ remarks on border rowNepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Wednesday criticised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his remarks on a border row, saying the Indian leader should be advised not to make “threatening” remarks. Read moreFake currency raid in Pune; Army official, five others arrestedPune police crime branch officials arrested six persons, including an Indian Army personnel, during an operation that led to the seizure of fake Indian and foreign currency notes with a face value of at least Rs 43.4 crore and fake US dollars worth Rs 4.2 crore, said a senior official aware of the developments on Wednesday evening.​ Read moreGoa activists allege scam in scheme meant for construction workers, demand probeActivists in Goa have alleged a scam in the registration of beneficiaries under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Scheme, and demanded an inquiry into how people who are clearly not construction labourers have registered their names to receive benefits under the scheme. Read moreUS Federal Reserve vows to support US economy’s ‘long road’ to recovery after dire 2020The US Federal Reserve on Wednesday signalled it plans years of extraordinary support for an economy facing a torturous slog back from the coronavirus pandemic, with policymakers projecting the economy to shrink 6.5% in 2020 and the unemployment rate to be 9.3% at year’s end. Read moreNot just cricket, racism well entrenched in every sportMany African footballers in Kolkata would get Darren Sammy’s point. “Kalu”, “kalia” or “Kala aadmi”—different variations of the colour black—is how they are referred to by fans and have been described by some coaches and officials. Read moreGoogle’s Android 11 Beta rolls out with these key featuresGoogle has finally announced the launch of Android 11 public beta. Instead of holding an online event, the company has shared a bunch of online resources and videos on the latest iteration of Android 11. Read moreShah Rukh Khan’s daughter Suhana sings Dheeme Dheeme from BFF Ananya Panday’s movie in unseen video. WatchA new video of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s daughter, Suhana Khan, singing the song Dheeme Dheeme by Tony Kakkar, has been shared online. The video was shared by a friend of hers on social media, on her birthday on May 22. Read moreSolar Eclipse 2020: When, Where and How to see in IndiaSurya Grahan India 2020: A solar eclipse, or Surya Grahan, is when the Earth gets engulfed in the shadow the moon casts when it covers the sun, either fully or partially blocking sunlight, and the Earth, sun and moon are in perfect alignment. Read moreWatch: Fresh locust attacks in Kota, Pune; UN warns of invasion in July||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-cm-should-not-make-threating-remarks-on-border-row-says-nepal-pm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-vLFvNZY21yxD2EZVVcSevK.html
11-06-2020||India||Attempts being made to destabilise govt in Rajasthan, alleges Congress; moves MLAs to resort||Rajasthan government’s chief whip on Wednesday alleged that attempts were being made to lure Congress and independent legislators, who were supporting the Ashok Gehlot government, to destabilise the government.In a written complaint to Director General of Police (Anti-Corruption Bureau), chief whip Mahesh Joshi sought action against such identified elements for corrupt conduct, attempts of destabilising the government and for luring the public representatives.Joshi said, “It has been learnt like Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, attempts are being made to destabilise the government in Rajasthan by tempting our MLAs and the independent MLAs who are supporting us,” he wrote in the complaint to the DG ACB.Also read: Rajasthan to test foreign travellers for Covid-19 after quarantineHe also stated that such attempts are not just against the constitutional values and people’s expectations but are illegal, condemnable and punishable under law. Joshi said strict legal action should be taken against such identified elements who are trying to lure public representatives. However, he did not specify who is making the attempts.Meanwhile, the MLAs who were summoned by chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence for a discussion, ahead of June 19 Rajya Sabha elections in the state, were taken to a luxury resort located at the Delhi highway on Wednesday.The chief minister also reached there for the discussion and stayed till late night.Sources claimed that the Congress has decided to keep party MLAs and independents at the hotel till the elections.The biennial elections for the three Rajya Sabha seats from Rajasthan are scheduled on June 19.Congress has nominated KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi as its candidates while the BJP had nominated Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat. In the house of 200, Congress has 107 MLAs - including six of those who defected to Congress from the BSP last year. The party has the support of 13 independent MLAs. The BJP has 72 MLAs and the support of three Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MLAs.AICC spokesperson and in-charge of RS polls, Randeep Surjewala said Congress has an absolute majority.Addressing media outside the airport he said, “The people of the heroic land of Rajasthan are brave and fearless as well... Our MLAs are more fearless, therefore they are not going to fall into any temptation and ridicule and the BJP will get the right answer to democracy.”When asked on the alleged luring of some independents by the BJP, he said that the BJP’s conspiracy plans will not succeed. “Congress has an absolute majority. No one can defeat the public mandate or democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-chief-whip-cries-foul-writes-to-anti-corruption-body-ahead-of-rs-polls/story-zpfNDKcSm7dTl12rfrIGyN.html
11-06-2020||India||Two elephants found dead in Chhatttisgarh in last two days||Two female wild elephants were found dead in the jungles of Pratapur forest range of Surajpur district on Chhattisgarh in the last two days, officials said on Wednesday.One female elephant, whose body was found on Tuesday, was pregnant. The post-mortem report of both the tuskers is awaited.“Both the bodies were found in separate places of Pratapur forest range of the district. The post-mortem of pregnant elephant is going on and the report is awaited while the forest officials could not reach the body of another elephant, which died on Wednesday, because the herd is still surrounding the body,” Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey who visited the spot told Hindustan Times.“It seems that the pregnant elephant died due to cardiovascular failure and some cysts were also found in her body. However, the exact cause of death will come out after the post-mortem report which will we get on Thursday. A team of doctors are working on the report,” said Pandey.He further said that on Wednesday, the officials tried to reach the body of second elephant but the efforts went in vain because it was surrounded by the herd.“Once the herd will move away, its postmortem will be conducted and the cause of the death will be known,” said Pandey added.Forest officials believe the dead jumbos belonged to the herd of elephants roaming in the area since last one month.Notably, North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in the coal rich forest lands in Surguja region of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts surfaced in last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-elephants-found-dead-in-chhatttisgarh-in-last-two-days/story-3Xt3AFWrxVbnEMoo90jTSO.html
11-06-2020||India||One-third of India’s over 2.76 lakh Covid-19 cases recorded in first 10 days of June||The number of Covid-19 cases in India crossed the 2.76-lakh mark on Wednesday, and a third of them have been reported in the first 10 days this month.The country has been recording close to 10,000 cases every day since June 1. This means that nearly 90,000 cases have been added in the nationwide tally from June 1 to 10.India’s first Covid-19 case was detected more than four months ago, on January 30, but it took more than 100 days after that to reach the one lakh-mark on May 18. However, the next one lakh cases were added in just about a fortnight.With the current surge in cases, the all-India tally is expected to reach the three lakh-mark this week.India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic, surpassing Spain’s tally five days ago. And it is not far behind the UK, the fourth worst-affected country. The United States tops the list, followed by Brazil and Russia.India is ranked 12th for the number of deaths, while it is at the ninth place in terms of recoveries, as per the Johns Hopkins University.India achieved an important milestone on Wednesday when recovered patients outnumbered active cases. In its morning 8 am update, the Union Health Ministry said the number of active cases in the country rose to 1,33,632, while the total number of recovered patients stood at 1,35,205.On the morning of June 1, India had nearly 1.9 lakh confirmed cases and less than 5,400 deaths had been reported till then. At that time, there were more than 93,000 active cases as against less than 92,000 recoveries.Currently, Maharashtra alone has more cases than China, which officially reported little over 83,000 confirmed cases and 4,634 deaths.Globally, more than 72 lakh people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus ever since its emergence in China last December. More than four lakh have lost their lives across the world, while recoveries are close to 34.6 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-third-of-india-s-over-2-76-lakh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-first-10-days-of-june/story-TFBBstPeAPAEnZg2EdSETM.html
11-06-2020||India||Fresh locust attack reported from UP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan||Swarms of desert locust have entered farm land in Nagpur in Maharashtra and Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, even as the worst affected Rajasthan has decided to send agriculture officers to districts to monitor the damage to crops and prepare for the next round of locust attack expected by mid-July.Over the past two to three days, the wind direction has been favourable for the pests to move towards farmlands adjoining forests towards Nagpur, said Locust Warning Organisation deputy director KL Gurjar.In UP’s Prayagraj, a swarm entered the villages of Koraon and Meja development blocks. “We are trying our best to chase them away,” said Akansha Rana, SDM, Karchana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-locust-attack-reported-from-up-maharashtra-rajasthan/story-3s9UaYP1IO1vhciWPWIX7M.html
11-06-2020||India||Hope for people, says expert as India’s recovery count exceeds active infections||On a day when the total number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease crossed the number of active cases in India, experts said that the data is as per global trends.“This should provide hope to the people of India at large who are having a mortal fear of the disease. But then this should not make them complacent and people should follow social distancing and sanitization guidelines,” Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor in the Department of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, told news agency PTI.Dr Gupta also said that 80 per cent are likely to have mild disease and make 100 per cent recovery.The number of active cases in the country stands at 1,33,632, while 1,35,205 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the Union health ministry..“Thus, 48.9 per cent of the patients have recovered so far,” an official said.In the last week, an average of 4,529 new active cases have been added to the national tally every day, while 5,397 patients have recovered daily. If these trajectories continue, this gap is likely to widen in the coming days.One of key factors for the number of recoveries catching up to active cases has been India’s low case fatality rate (CFR). Since 2.8 per cent of infected people have died so far, the number of active cases (calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally) has been steadily dropping, particularly from the end of May.Active cases outnumbered the total recovered patients throughout the outbreak until Tuesday - the gap peaking on May 11, when active cases had a 23,511-case lead - according to Hindustan Times’ Covid-19 dashboard.Recoveries soon picked up pace as patients, particularly the 155,668 new cases reported through May, started getting discharged. On May 29, India reported 11,707 new recoveries (highest in a single day so far), helped by Maharashtra that discharged 8,381 asymptomatic patients in one day.Meanwhile, India reported 9,985 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday as the total count of cases crossed over 2.76 lakh with 279 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.The surge in cases over the last few days has prompted the Union health ministry to send central teams to assist state health officials in reviewing the public health measures being undertaken to combat Covid-19 in six cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru which are among the major contributors to India’s rising tally of coronavirus infections.These teams will provide technical support and handhold the state health departments and municipal health officials for reviewing public health measures implemented for containment and management of COVID-19 outbreak in the six cities, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-for-people-say-experts-as-india-s-recovery-count-exceeds-active-infections/story-FwKhM5Fdfo0Xk9anExSVoJ.html
11-06-2020||India||29% rise in Asiatic lion numbers, says Gujarat||The Gujarat forest department has suggested that the Asiatic Lion population in Gir national park has increased by 29% in the past five years — from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. The department has also said the distribution area of lions in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat, where Gir is situated, has increased by 36% from 22,000 sqkm in 2015 to 30,000 sqkm.“Over the last several years, the Lion population in Gujarat has been steadily rising. This is powered by community participation, emphasis on technology, wildlife healthcare, proper habitat management and steps to minimise human-lion conflict. Hope this positive trend continues!,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Shyamlal Tikadar, Gujarat’s chief wildlife warden and principal chief conservator of forests, said the Asiatic lion, which once faced the threat of extinction, has shown extraordinary recovery , thanks to the timely intervention by the erstwhile Nawab of Junagadh and protection programmes of the Gujarat government.“Today, Asiatic lions are present in protected areas and agro-pastoral landscape of Saurashtra covering nine districts in a sprawling expanse of over 30,000 sq. km, which is termed as the Asiatic Lion landscape],” Tikadar said. He said the 15th Asiatic Lion Population Estimation based on scat analysis and camera trap modelling was scheduled to take place on June 5-6, but that did not happen due to the coronavirus disease situation.“...the forest department conducted an exercise in which 1,400 forest guards of 13 divisions were asked to spot lions and report their presence. Based on their reports, we estimated the population. The exercise was called Poonam Avlokan (because it was conducted on full moon night),” he said.In 2015, Gir recorded 523 lions, an increase of 27% since 2010. “That estimation was a scientific one and was based on established methodology for estimating cat population,” said Anish Andheria, the president of Mumbai based Wildlife Conservation Trust. He did not comment on the methodology adopted this time, saying he did not study it.“Poonam Avlokan is a routine monitoring exercise done by forest department. During a pandemic, the effort to monitor lion numbers is commendable. This tells us their number has increased. We need to now understand on how other conservation challenges of Asiatic Lions will be addressed,” said Meena Venkataraman, a scientist specialising in Asiatic Lions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-rise-in-asiatic-lion-numbers-says-gujarat/story-b6BPKWSGtuqqZmnqGr4EpM.html
11-06-2020||India||Goa activists allege scam in scheme meant for construction workers, demand probe||Activists in Goa have alleged a scam in the registration of beneficiaries under the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Scheme, and demanded an inquiry into how people who are clearly not construction labourers have registered their names to receive benefits under the scheme. According to a complaint filed before the Panaji Police as well as before the Commissioner of Labour and Employment, a group of seven activists has alleged that at least a few of the around 15,000-odd beneficiaries who received funds under the scheme, were in fact people associated with political parties. They said that these people are elected representatives at the village level and have businesses not connected with construction labour.“Among these there are many panches and sarpanches who have registered. For now we have one name of one Mohini Tari who was a former sarpanch. We have heard that there are others as well who are candidates of political parties at the district panchayat elections,” Kashinath Shetye, who filed the complaint along with six others, told mediapersons.The money under the scheme is meant for labourers affected by the Covid-19 lockdown.Tari approached the labour commissioner to return the money claiming that it was wrongfully credited to her. But activists claim that about a dozen other people have been identified as being wrongful recepients of the money meant for labourers.The police are yet to register an FIR in connection with the case.There are around 15,491 labourers registered under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Fund that is maintained by the Goa Labour Welfare Board. A total of Rs 5.63 crore was released to the beneficiaries back in March this year as a one time grant under the scheme that was meant to help construction workers tide over the lockdown. Each beneficiary under the scheme was granted Rs 6,000. “We are demanding that this be checked and the money should be returned. And it shouldn’t end there because they have falsified affidavits claiming that they are laborers. There should be action against them. I don’t know how they are registered,” Shetye alleged. Under the scheme beneficiaries have to submit a certificate by a labour contractor stating that they have spent at least 90 days in a year working at a construction site in order to continue to receive benefits under the scheme. The activists claim that they do not know the total number of bogus beneficiaries registered under the scheme but said that an inquiry into the matter would reveal the true extent of the scam. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, when asked to comment on the alleged bogus beneficiaries, said that the matter needed to be probed at the level of the Labour Commissioner. “Let him look into it. Why should I say anything. These beneficiaries have been added over the last many years,” Sawant said. What piqued the interest of the activists was when, back in April, Sawant read out a list of beneficiaries of the scheme to make a point that most of them were Goan. Sawant was facing criticism that the Goa government was going out of its way to help migrant labourers while neglecting locals affected by the pandemic. Realising the distress in the construction labour sector, the central government had issued directives to all states to release funds for Building and Construction cess for beneficiaries under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996.Accordingly, each registered worker received Rs 6,000 in their bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-activists-allege-scam-in-scheme-meant-for-construction-workers-demand-probe/story-vV2j89EQSAsT91YucbRDNK.html
11-06-2020||India||Fake currency raid in Pune; Army official, five others arrested||Pune police crime branch officials arrested six persons, including an Indian Army personnel, during an operation that led to the seizure of fake Indian and foreign currency notes with a face value of at least Rs 43.4 crore and fake US dollars worth Rs 4.2 crore, said a senior official aware of the developments on Wednesday evening.​The joint operation carried out by the Pune police and the Military Intelligence (MI), had been conducted at Sanjay Park in Vimannagar. According to the official, the operation to count the counterfeit notes is still underway. ​“After detailed planning with the MI team, a joint operation was carried out today (Wednesday) in which six persons including one serving military person has been detained with multiple denominations of fake Indian and foreign currency. Counting of currency is going on as per the procedure,” read a statement by Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Crime, Pune. ​The arrested six men have been identified as Indian Army jawan Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan, and civilians Sunil Badrinarayan Sarda, Ritesh Ratnakar, Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, Abdul Gani Rehmtullah Khan, Abdul Rehman Abdul Gani Khan, according to the police.​“After counting, Indian currency of various denominations worth Rs 43.4 crore and US dollars worth Rs 4.2 crore has been seized. The quality of the notes will be checked in due course by experts. Many of the notes are marked ‘Children Bank of India’,” read a police statement. ​The information about the fake currency operation was provided by officials of military intelligence, according to the police. The fake currency notes were in different denominations, including Rs 1,000, which has been demonetised by the central government in 2016.“Some of these currency notes carried the stamp of ‘Children Bank of India’ and may have been printed before 2016 when the government made the denominations of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 invalid,” said a defence official aware of the developments on the condition of anonymity.“The amount (Rs 43.4 crore and Rs 4.2 crore) is excluding the worth of Rs 1,000 notes seized. In most of the notes, instead of Reserve Bank of India, it says ‘Children’s Bank of India’. The purpose seems to be cheating. In the bundle of US dollars, the first note is genuine, the rest are counterfeit. These six men had been working together. The person whom they had offered the fake currency, had informed us,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune.​A statement released earlier on Wednesday evening by the defence spokesperson, stated, “Southern Command Intelligence wing along with crime branch Pune carried out a successful joint operation in Vimannagar and busted a fake currency racket on June 10. Six people, including five civilians and a soldier, were apprehended with fake Indian and foreign currency to the tune of approximately Rs 10 crore. At least Rs2 lakh in Indian currency, US dollars equivalent and one fake pistol was recovered during the operation. Individuals have been handed over to the crime branch Pune for interrogation and further investigation is under progress.”​According to Singh, there were two parties involved. “One party was seeking American dollars while the other party had a supply of Indian (counterfeit) currency. They decided and met at the spot from where they were intercepted,” said Singh.​The source of the currency is part of the investigation, said police officials. ​Officials of Unit 4 of the Pune police crime branch along with the Anti-Narcotic Cell (West) worked with inputs provided by officials of Military Intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-official-five-others-arrested-in-fake-currency-raid-in-pune/story-VWxVsjt21S9LUOaOTFyEPM.html
11-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Social distancing norms flouted as thousands take out funeral procession in Odisha||A funeral procession was recently taken out in Odisha in which the social distancing norms were throw to the wind. It took place in Rourkela’s minority-dominated Nala Road area on June 8.The procession was that of Dilshad Khan, a history-sheeter, who was killed in an attack by his rival gang over an old rivalry. Thusands of his supporters took the procession through city’s roadds, and even marched in front of a police station but cops stood as silent spectators.These people were not only bunched together closely, they did not even wear masks. A video of the procession went viral on social media.Khan was hacked to death on June 7 night near Railway Colony park of Rourkela city, and the police have detained four people who were allegedly involved in the murder.Rourkela SP K Siva Subramani said the police administration is studying the video of the procession and is in the process of identifying the people who violated the social distancing guidelines. “We would take appropriate action as per norms,” he said.This is for the second time that Rourkela saw the gross violation of the Covid-19 restrictions. On May 26, hundreds of people in Nala Road, declared as a containment zone after detection of Covid-19 cases, had pelted stones at police and health officials asking for lifting of containment zone restrictions. Thirty people were arrested for indulging in violence that left 40, including 12 policemen and some journalists, injured.Last Sunday, six of those who were arrested over their role in the violence had tested positive.As per Covid-19 guidelines of Odisha, not more than 20 people can attend a cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-social-distancing-norms-flouted-as-thousands-take-out-funeral-procession-in-odisha/story-Xrz5A9RcnMUjVgHp3zdYEM.html
11-06-2020||India||Vinod Dua given anticipatory bail in defamation case||A Delhi court has granted anticipatory bail to senior journalist Vinod Dua in a defamation case lodged on the complaint of a Delhi BJP leader who had alleged that the scribe made defamatory statements conducive to public mischief on his YouTube show.The court, on Tuesday, also directed police to not take coercive steps against Dua till June 29, the next date of hearing, and asked Dua to join the probe and cooperate with police. Additional Sessions Judge Vineeta Goyal granted relief to Dua after investigating officer said his custodial interrogation was not required and no recovery was to be affected from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vinod-dua-given-anticipatory-bail-in-defamation-case/story-jkcjcrstAYmuy7K5rMHuLJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi on China issue, BJP hits back||The Congress on Wednesday stepped up its attack against the government over the alleged Chinese intrusion in Ladakh with senior party leader Rahul Gandhi questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the issue.“The Chinese have walked in and taken our territory in Ladakh. Meanwhile, the PM is absolutely silent and has vanished from the scene,” Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.He also tagged a news article claiming China has taken a hard-line during military-level talks. Addressing a virtual rally for Himachal Pradesh, BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hit out at Gandhi, saying he should understand that strategic issues involving China must not be raised on Twitter.“We want disputes to be resolved peacefully. We will say one thing very humbly that today India is the India of 2020 and not 1962. Today’s India is of a courageous leader like Narendra Modi and not of Congress leaders,” he said. Prasad said when India works to become self-reliant, it will also do so in matters of security and referred to surgical and air strikes targeting terrorists inside Pakistan during first term of Modi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-on-china-issue-bjp-hits-back/story-n8B021pYVZKTgJ4jvXVhjK.html
11-06-2020||India||Assam gas well blaze: Damage will be compensated, says state minister||Assam Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary on Wednesday visited Baghjan in Tinsukia district where the fire continues to rage at the gas well of Oil India Ltd.The Minister said that 7,000 people have been affected and damage will be compensated.“I had meeting with Oil India officials, ONGC and district Administration. 7,000 people affected. Damage will be assessed and compensation will be given,” Patowary said.On June 10, two people had died in the massive fire in Tinsukia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-blaze-damage-will-be-compensated-says-state-minister/story-54zGm3XnUccX9DPbBBtA2K.html
11-06-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in J-K’s Budgam||An encounter broke out in Pathanpora village of Kashmir’s Budgam district around 2 am on Thursday. On receiving information about the presence of terrorist in the central Kashmir district, forces launched a cordon and search operation, a police official said. The terrorists have left behind their weapons and escaped, said police.This is the fourth encounter in Kashmir since Sunday. The previous three encounters took place in South Kashmir’s Shopian district. Fourteen terrorists were killed in these encounters.Exchange of firing is on and further details are awaited, officials said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-terrorists-in-j-k-s-budgam/story-newHkvRja04w9kDV3oXpYJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic set to reshape nature of work||Two weeks before Tamil Nadu imposed prohibitory orders in Chennai and other parts of the state to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on March 24, Suresh Sambandam asked his 200 employees to stop working from their 15,000-sq ft open office—complete with a pool table, a café bar and desks surrounded by swings for seats—in Chennai’s information technology hub.By March 25, when the national Covid-19 lockdown was enforced, nearly half employees of Kissflow Inc, the SaaS (software as a service) company Sambandam founded in 2003 (then called OrangeScape Technologies), were working from their hometowns across Tamil Nadu. The rules have been relaxed for private companies to function, but Sambandam is not in a hurry to return to the way things were.At a virtual town hall meeting with his employees on June 5, Sambandam unveiled what he called the Remote+ model of work that he intended to institute permanently. In a nutshell, teams would stagger their schedule of working from office while the rest of the time they would work remotely. Employees would be encouraged to work from their hometowns. Asking employees kitted up to work remotely to live in non-urban centres would help the local economy, Sambandam reasoned. The company would reimburse 80% of the expense if an employee needs to buy an ergonomic chair, desk, and battery-operated internet dongle. For those, who would come to Chennai for the mandatory week every monthin office, the company would provide accommodation.The Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, has forced companies to rethink the way they work as well as where they work. More people than ever are using online tools to meet and collaborate on the internet.Zoom, a video-conferencing application that offers a freemium model (some free and some paid features) is so ubiquitous, that it is now used as a verb. Zoom Video Communications, the American firm that has developed the application, has posted a profit of $27 million between February and April. In comparison, last year, its profit was $198,000. In May, Google Meet, another video-conferencing application, crossed 50 million downloads in the Google Play store.Larger companies are also beginning to see the benefits of working remotely. India’s largest software services company, Tata Consultancy Services, has announced that up to 75% of its global workforce will work from home by 2025.It isn’t different elsewhere.Tobias Lutke, the founder of Canadian multinational e-commerce company Shopify, announced over Twitter that the office of the Ottawa-based firm would remain closed till 2021 and remote work will become permanent for most employees. “We’ve always had some people remote, but they used the internet as a bridge to the office. This will reverse now. The future of the office is to act as an on-ramp to the same digital workplace that you can access from your #WFH setup,” he wrote.The company has offices spread out across time zones, from Shenzhen in China to Sydney (Australia), Bengaluru, and Vilnius (Lithuania).Working from home requires infrastructure: good mobile connectivity, fast-speed internet, but importantly, a comfortable chair. Indian furniture maker Godrej Interio has a four-person team, called the Ergonomics and Workspace Research Cell, whose mandate is to study issues commonly faced in offices — like noisy colleagues — and publish findings that eventually guide their product design team.During the lockdown, it began to study the challenges of working from home. “The research revealed that people were working from the sofa, dining table, and bed; all of this was not designed for long hours of laptop work. We saw a 140% spike on searches done for chairs on our website. The second item in demand was a worktable,” said Sameer Joshi, an associate vice-president in the marketing division of Godrej Interio, who leads the team.Based on their findings, the company has launched a range of home office furniture, including workstations, work tables, work desks, and chairs among others.For technology companies that operate on digital platforms, the shift to remote work has been seamless. Sambandam’s employees use Kissflow, a cloud-based digital workplace software platform created by his company (Kiss stands for Keep it Simple, Stupid, a well-known design principle). Virtual meet-ups have replaced Friday evening gatherings at the office. A certified yoga instructor conducts sessions each morning over video; employees discuss books and create podcasts to deal with the stress of lockdown.But not all professions can make this switch easily.Swaty Singh Malik, a Delhi-based matrimonial lawyer, said the new system of e-filing cases and appearing before a judge in a video call is nothing like the thronging crowds in the courtroom that lawyers are used to. “Ours is the art of persuasion standing before a judge, not just a submission of documents,” Malik said, adding that many of her cases and mediations are pending. “Only urgent matters are taken up for hearing, and that means that your case may not come up at all,” she said. “No matter how much advice you give on the phone, it cannot really be implemented or enforced until the court steps in.”Courtrooms, which are always filled with people, will need to enforce physical distancing whenever they open. So will open-plan offices. The open office, which was pioneered in the 1950s, was meant to be a breakthrough in workflow and efficiency. But it has often been criticised for doing the opposite: causing greater distraction and reduced productivity, according to some workplace surveys. What is more, the open office is highly susceptible to spreading infection, and companies are beginning to take note of that.At an online panel discussion hosted by San Mateo-headquartered software company Freshworks on May 20, its founder and chief executive officer Girish Mathrubootham said that the company is “workplace-ready” for whenever its offices — located in Chennai, Berlin, and California—open. This includes a sanitisation protocol, thermal screening equipment, newly arranged seating to enable effective social distancing and limit face to face meetings. Even their café vendor has developed a mobile app that would alert employees when their food is ready for pick up, he said. The company has also created a vulnerability profile of its employees to decide whether it is better for them to stay home, Mathrubootham said.“For the first time, many organisations will have to think of their employees being in a kind of life and death situation [inside the office]. In most industries, you do not think about this, unless you are in the manufacturing space or in the armed forces. So, if you view it from that perspective, then certain investments have to be made,” said Aparna Piramal Raje, an author and columnist.Global commercial real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield is testing a design concept called the Six Feet Office to help employees stay six feet apart. This includes signage that will help people recognise distance, usage of disposable desk covers, and ensuring that people walk only clockwise through the office space to minimise the chances of people bumping into each other.Joshi of Godrej Interio said that at least 75 companies have approached his team to help them redesign office interiors keeping the Covid-19 disease in mind.“Today’s offices are designed to bring people closer, foster collaboration, teamwork and increase speed of response. They are not designed to separate people and thereby prevent the spread of the disease. Godrej Interio, therefore, strongly believes that existing offices need a rethink. We are offering retrofit solutions for existing offices and are recommending flexible design solutions for new offices. We need to keep in mind that the pandemic will be around for 18-24 months while offices have to last much longer than that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-set-to-reshape-nature-of-work/story-h5fx3c5WA90xgIcT5rrgAP.html
11-06-2020||India||Chinese air activity goes down, limited troop pullback effected||Indian and Chinese air force fighters remained on the ground, with negligible air activity noticed over the past two days, even as disengagement of troops picked up at two out of four points in the eastern Ladakh sector, officials watching the situation said on Wednesday. The PLA Air Force fighter activity has come down considerably since military commander talks on June 6. Fighter air activity was nil on Tuesday while there was some air movement in Aksai Chin region on Wednesday, said the officials cited above, adding that there was significant reduction of Chinese vehicles at patrolling point 14 at Galwan Nullah and a decrease in PLA troops at the contentious finger 4 in the Pangong Tso sector. The PLA has already moved out 15 high-speed interceptor boats from the finger 4 area of the high-altitude lake.According to senior officials, the reduction of air activity and the withdrawal from the two most contested points in eastern Ladakh means that disengagement will pick up in the coming days, with military commanders on both sides in touch with each other. While the annual summer military exercises are on in China’s Xinjiang region, the air forces on both sides conducted combat air patrol sorties around the stand-off area with air defences ready across the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Both the Indian Air Force (IAF) and PLAAF (People’s Liberation Army Air Force) had been flying their platforms since the stand-off between the two countries’ armies began a month ago in the Galwan and Pangong Tso areas of eastern Ladakh.The PLAAF brought in additional strength of half-a-squadron of fighters to the western Xinjiang region in the name of military exercises and had not only activated its air defences but also all the air bases—Kashgar, Hotan, Yarkand, Korla, Ngari-Gunsa—in the region. The Ministry of External Affairs remains tight-lipped about the ground situation in eastern Ladakh, but it is understood that the disengagement will be done slowly and steadily by the two armies with the military commanders being in touch with each other.Even though the Chinese PLAAF has undertaken a number of sorties in the vicinity of eastern Ladakh like the Indian Air Force, senior Indian military commanders believe that this fighter flying was on account of exercises. “As we have no confirmation that the fighters were loaded with ammunition and missiles, we believe that the Chinese Air Force was participating in military exercises. Weaponising the aerial platform would have indicated the intent of the Chinese military,” a senior official said.Senior IAF officials said the loading of air-to-air missiles is a sure indicator of the adversary’s intent as the seekers of missiles have limited shelf life and hence there is no point in loading the fighters with expensive weapons if there is no hostile intention||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-air-activity-goes-down-limited-troop-pullback-effected/story-JOxv2xKp5DSgS19SVhfvKJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Nepal PM criticises Yogi Adityanath’s ‘threatening’ remarks on border row||Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Wednesday criticised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his remarks on a border row, saying the Indian leader should be advised not to make “threatening” remarks.Oli’s remarks were the latest twist in the border dispute between India and Nepal, which erupted last month when Kathmandu protested against the opening of an 80-km road running to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet. Nepal claims the Lipulekh region and the Oli government recently published a new political map that shows the area as part of Nepalese territory.A constitutional amendment to give legal backing to the map was unanimously endorsed by lawmakers from all political parties in the House of Representatives or the lower house of Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday.Participating in a discussion on the issue in the lower house on Wednesday, Oli was quoted by media reports as saying that India’s central leadership should advise Adityanath not to “threaten” Nepal.“Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath-ji said some things about Nepal. His remarks were not appropriate or legitimate. The leadership of the central government [in India] should tell him not to speak on issues that he is not responsible for. He should also be told that his comments threatening Nepal will be condemned,” Oli said.Oli was also quoted as questioning India’s contention that the regions of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura are part of its territory. He said India had deployed its armed forces in these areas since the early 1960s but they belonged to Nepal.There was no immediate response to Oli’s remarks from Indian officials.During a recent interview, Adityanath had said Nepal should not “repeat the mistake of Tibet” while determining its political boundaries. “Nepal should think of the consequences and remember what happened to Tibet,” he had said.Adityanath also said India and Nepal are two political entities but have one soul.“The two countries have cultural, historical and mythological links that date back several centuries and Nepal should remember this,” he added.While speaking in Parliament, Oli reiterated Nepal’s offer for a dialogue to settle the border issue. He said Nepal is confident about getting its territory back though diplomatic dialogue as its claims are backed by evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-criticises-yogi-adityanath-s-threatening-remarks-on-border-row/story-RcMUtqcAcVfyVxUoOqvYpJ.html
11-06-2020||India||India-China sea voyage in PMO panel’s pitch for reforms in heritage management||A cultural exchange on a sea voyage between India and China and turning archaeological sites such as Hampi into on-site museums are among a slew of reforms proposed to improve heritage management recommended by a working group under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. In its 255-page report, the group has flagged gaps such as lack of a national database and documentation of artefacts and heritage sites. Officials at the culture ministry said that the report is under consideration and appropriate action will be taken after it is assessed.The working group was formed by the Prime Minister’s Office in June 2019 and included the secretary, ministry of culture, secretary, ministry of tourism, director general, ASI - member–convenor, member secretary, INTACH and the CEO, Aga Khan Trust for Culture. It was tasked with recommending “institutional changes”, potential ways to involve the local communities and explore the possibility of enhancing tourism and employment through heritage management. According to its report, India has over 500,000 heritage sites and monuments and 3,691 monuments protected by the Archaeological Survey of India. “(A) Cultural exchange on sea voyage proposed between India and China at Mahabalipuram to be initiated under Project Mausam,” states the report. Project Mausam was started by the Central government to better connect countries bordering the Indian Ocean. The report has also highlighted the lack of a centralized database that is leading to artefacts being ignored. “There is no centralised database of archival records, drawings and photo archives,” states the report. “There is no inventory which is maintained centrally, on an all India basis, in the ASI for recording all the artefacts, antiquities and sculptures found and collected during excavations, explorations or village to village survey. In many cases, the excavated antiquities are not even accessed and just stored in the ASI Circle offices, monuments and store rooms.” The report recommends a “systematic photo documentation of all national monuments should be revived, and each monument (should be) documented on a periodic basis”.It has also suggested that ASI should invest in advanced surveys, documentation and monitoring instruments and training sessions to be available on site with various circles. According to Vasant Shinde, department of archaeology, Deccan College, the ASI has already undertaken such a project. “Nearly 50 per cent of the country has been covered by the now,” said Shinde. “A central database like this will help avoid smuggling of artefacts.”The report has also recommended collaborations with Foreign Universities for introduction of latest techniques in exploration and excavations. “ASI should collaborate with National and International organisations for training of staff in use of advanced documentation, survey and monitoring techniques to be used for monuments and archaeological sites.” In the 2020-21 budget, the government has proposed five archaeological sites to be developed as iconic sites with on-site Museums. “These should be completed in next 3 years,” states the report. “The proposed museums are Rakhigarhi (HR), Hastinapur (UP) Shivsagar (Assam), Dholavira (GJ) and Adichanallur (TN). Clear Action Plan to be finalized for all. ASI should finalize world-class projects for 2 site museums Hampi and Sarnath within the next 3 months. A model site museum should also be set up at Ahichchhatra archaeological site in UP.”Shinde said that the step will help boost both employment and tourism. “But we need to remember one thing,” said Shinde. “We are good at creating infrastructure, it is the maintenance of the monuments and new sites that we need to focus on more.” The group has recommended setting up of an “Indian Institute of Culture (IIC)” under the ambit of the ministry of culture for “training and skilling manpower in Archaeology, Conservation, Museology, Archives and related fields to be located at the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archeology. The proposed Indian Institute of Culture should be a deemed university, wherein there should be a flexibility to hire experts from other countries.”According to Shinde, this step will go a long way considering it will be a first of its kind institute. “It is required like the IITs. The avenues to study these subjects are limited, historians and archaeologists can be trained here. It is a demand that has been overdue, as India doesn’t have any such institute,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-sea-voyage-in-pmo-panel-s-pitch-for-reforms-in-heritage-management/story-TvF8pCihEjwRqJDEEQIUwL.html
11-06-2020||India||PM Modi, Israel’s Netanyahu discuss expanding cooperation in health, defence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday discussed the possibility of expanding bilateral collaboration in health technology, defence and information technology.During a phone conversation, the two leaders “agreed the post-Covid world would create further avenues for mutually beneficial partnerships in many areas”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry.They discussed potential areas in which India and Israel could expand cooperation in the context of the pandemic, including research and development in vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.“They agreed to maintain the ongoing exchanges between expert teams of both countries, and also concurred that the fruits of such collaboration should be made available for the wider benefit of humanity,” the statement said.“In particular, they assessed tremendous scope for expanding the already robust India-Israel collaboration in areas like health technology, agricultural innovation, defence cooperation and information technology,” it added.Modi reiterated his congratulations to Netanyahu for his recent assumption of office, and said the bilateral partnership would continue to flourish under his leadership and guidance. The two leaders agreed to remain in touch to share assessments and consult each other on emerging opportunities and challenges in the changing global scenario.Modi also spoke on the phone with Cambodia’s Prime Minister Hun Sen and discussed the Covid-19 pandemic. They agreed to continue ongoing cooperation to help each other’s expatriates and facilitate their evacuation.India is committed to strengthening its ties with Cambodia, an important member of Asean, Modi said.The leaders reviewed the bilateral development partnership, including capacity building programmes and quick impact projects under the Mekong-Ganga Cooperation framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-israel-s-benjamin-netanyahu-discuss-expanding-cooperation-in-health-defence-and-it/story-X13cfRrTKk4usMrDambOUP.html
11-06-2020||India||Delhi needs 150k beds for Covid-19 patients, looking to scale up capacity: CM||Delhi will need 150,000 beds by the end of July if its hospitals are to also treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients from other states, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday, even as he promised to implement “in letter and spirit” Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s order overruling the Delhi government’s decision to only allow Delhi residents to be treated in government and private hospitals in the state. By July 15, Delhi will need 33,000 beds, and including those from outside the city, it will require 65,000, the chief minister added. “By July 31, 80,000 beds were projected for the people of Delhi. But now, we will need a total of 150,000 beds.” His comments came against the backdrop of a sharp increase in the number of cases in Delhi. On Tuesday, the state added 1,366 news cases and on Wednesday, it added 1,501. Delhi’s dashboard on Wednesday night stood at 32,810 cases, with 12,245 recoveries, and 984 deaths. Separately, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said there is community transmission in Delhi, repeating what he said on Tuesday, but added that only the Centre could declare this. Referring to the Delhi data, Kejriwal termed the task of arranging over a 100,000 beds an “unprecedented and a huge challenge”. He asked neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to augment their health infrastructure to ensure that people from there do not have to come to Delhi for treatment. Kejriwal emphasised that this was not the time to fight over differences and appealed to all political parties, religious institutions, doctors and the public to jointly fight the Covid-19 pandemic. He called for a people’s movement for promoting the wearing of masks and ensuring social distancing and personal hygiene for the purpose. “The Centre has taken a decision and the L-G passed an order accordingly. There is no room for disagreements now. The decision of the L-G will be implemented in letter and spirit. There is no dispute on this subject anymore and I want to make this clear to everyone, including the members and workers of our own party [Aam Aadmi Party],” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference a day after he tested negative for Covid-19.Later in the evening, he met home minister Amit Shah. “Met Sh Amit Shah, Honble HM. Discussed the situation on corona in Delhi in detail. He assured of all cooperation,” Kejriwal said on Twitter. Baijal on Monday also restored national guidelines on who can be tested for Covid-19 in the Capital; the Delhi government had said only high-risk direct contacts of infected people would be tested if they were asymptomatic. The Delhi government’s orders on both testing and treatment created a huge controversy. On Wednesday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notice to the state government and the Union ministry of health for alleged mismanagement of the situation in the national capital. The notices were prompted by a complaint made by Congress leader Ajay Maken. Kejriwal’s deputy, Manish Sisodia, had on Monday, in a digital press briefing, attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over Baijal’s order and said the Centre must involve states in decision-making processes. He accused the BJP of pressurising the L-G into overturning their decisions. On Tuesday, the deputy CM alleged that the L-G had no plan even after reversing the Delhi Cabinet’s decision to accommodate the huge influx in patients.Baijal is the government’s administrative head and reports to the President. He is the topmost authority of the Delhi disaster management agency, which is coordinating all matters related to the pandemic. On Tuesday, his office issued a statement saying the L-G had clarified to Sisodia that right to health is an integral part of the right to life under the Constitution of India. Baijal had said that rather than “discriminating between patients, the goal of the government should be to plan and prepare for adequate infrastructure”. In his Monday order, Baijal acknowledged that Covid-19 has spread in Delhi “in threatening proportion”.Kejriwal said he will soon begin inspections to monitor the arrangements. “I will get started on this and go to stadiums, banquet halls and hotels to make arrangements. We will try everything, do whatever we can to ensure enough hospital beds.”A committee, which has been constituted under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar to explore the possibility of creating additional bed capacity, has so far suggested that Pragati Maidan and Talkatora indoor stadium be used as makeshift hospitals.On the basis of the current doubling rate of 12.6 days, the Delhi health department has projected that the number of active cases in Delhi will touch 60,004 by June 30; 134,722 by July 15 and 319,237 by July 31.Kejriwal said the fight against Covid-19 has to be turned into a people’s movement. “We need to keep in mind three things: wearing masks, washing hands regularly and maintaining social distancing. People should encourage each other to follow this.”Kejriwal added that 1,900 people have been hospitalised in Delhi government hospitals over the last eight days. He attributed most of the hospitalisations to the Delhi Corona App launched on June 2 to allow people to check availability of hospital beds on a real-time basis. “... around 200 people [also] faced difficulty in getting beds. Nearly 4,200 beds are still vacant, but they are mostly in Delhi government hospitals. Private hospitals are mostly full. We are working on increasing the bed capacity in that sector,” said Kejriwal.The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order asking 22 private to increase the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients by 2,015. The capacity in these private hospitals has now gone up to 3,456 from 1,441 beds. With this, the number of beds has increased from 8,872 to 10,887 in Delhi.The fatality rate in Delhi currently is 2.92%, which is higher than the national average of 2.81%. Delhi is conducting 13,433 tests per million as compared to the national average of 3,797 tests per million, according to government data. Till Monday, Delhi had conducted 266,156 tests. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that instead of complaining about the L-G’s decisions, the Kejriwal government should back his demand with data. “I demand that the chief minister release the detailed figures on how many Covid-19 patients from which states other than Delhi were treated in Delhi, how many of them recovered and how many died. They have just been raising this issue to hide their mismanagement of the pandemic,” he said. Meanwhile, as anecdotes of hospitals overcharging patients continued to do the rounds, L-G Baijal said all major hospitals, clinics and nursing homes in Delhi will have to display near their entrance, room charges and availability of beds on a real-time basis. In a directive issued to chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday, Baijal also asked him to deploy officials to conduct surprise inspections in all hospitals to keep a check on malpractices such as overcharging or false refusal of beds. Baijal also asked the health department to ensure that the data displayed on the boards near the entrance is reconciled with the data available on the Delhi Corona App and the delhifightscorona.in web portal. Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said it is not surprising that cases in Delhi have seen a spurt. “That’s what lifting the lockdown does. More people are bound to get infected. But, during the two-month long intense lockdown a lot of arrangements should already have been completed by the authorities. Now, the authorities must think on their feet and just go all out in expanding their health infrastructure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-150k-beds-looking-to-scale-up-capacity-cm/story-GDKRro1j9dv4njXzsTu5CK.html
11-06-2020||India||Deaths near 1,000 as Delhi logs spike in Covid-19 fatalities, cases||Delhi recorded one of its deadliest days for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with official figures released on Wednesday showing that 48 of them died on Tuesday, which was also a day when the number of new infections crept back up above the 1,500 mark. According to latest government data, the national capital has now had 32,810 infections – of these 19,581 are active cases – and 984 of these have succumbed to the disease. In all, the government’s health bulletin added 79 to the Covid-19 death toll and 1,501 cases that tested positive on Tuesday. In Delhi, the new infections came from 5,077 tests, which takes the disease confirmation rate to close to 30% -- the highest it has ever been.The number has been increasing steadily this month, a trend that experts say indicates that the outbreak may be wider than known as more tests have the potential to uncover more cases. The government released two sets of numbers on Wednesday, after having failed to release the daily health bulletin on Tuesday. The health bulletin includes infection, fatality and testing numbers recorded in the 24-hour period the previous day.“There were a lot of meetings yesterday. It went on till late night. So, in between all that it (health bulletin) got missed. It was ready,” Delhi health minister Satyender Jain said while talking to reporters on Wednesday. According to senior government officials who asked not to be named, the bulletin was ready but officials who were meant to give final approvals had been busy in meetings. “The bulletin has to go through multiple layers of approvals every day before it is actually released. It was ready yesterday, but some officials who had to sign it were in meetings. So going from one officer to other for signature took time,” said this person. The document was eventually released around 5am on Wednesday. According to this bulletin, there were 1,366 cases on Monday and 34 fatalities were added to the Covid-19 death toll. Of these, 7 took place in the immediate 24-hour period. Fatalities are routinely added to older dates since each Covid-19 death is vetted by a team of doctors and officials to confirm the cause of death. The test confirmation rate, also known as the positivity rate, was 25% for Monday.The Delhi government is working on scaling-up its health infrastructure over the next month after its projections showed cases could reach as high as 550,000 by the end of July. Experts, however, said the projected numbers should not be a cause for concern.Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “The disease is such that a lot of people are likely to get infected. Even if we assume a low number of 10% of the population, it still means two million people will get infected in Delhi, which has a population of two crore.”“However, most of the infections will be mild. Our focus now has to be on not creating panic about it and ensuring people who need treatment, get it. We have beds, we have everything, but there is no coordination and guidelines are changing every day. People are dying because of lacunae of the system. What we need is effective management of the health care system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-near-1-000-as-city-logs-spike-in-fatalities-cases/story-7heBJo1j2bVjX7BRj2XSZI.html
11-06-2020||India||In a first, recovery count exceeds active Covid-19 infections||The total number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the number of active cases in India for the first time since the start of the outbreak in March.As of Tuesday evening, the number of recovered patients exceeded the number of active cases by 1,375, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.In the last week, an average of 4,529 new active cases have been added to the national tally every day, while 5,397 patients have recovered daily. If these trajectories continue, this gap is likely to widen in the coming days.One of key factors for the number of recoveries catching up to active cases has been India’s low case fatality rate (CFR). Since 2.8% of infected people have died so far, the number of active cases (calculated by subtracting the number of recovered patients and deaths from the total tally) has been steadily dropping, particularly from the end of May.Active cases outnumbered the total recovered patients throughout the outbreak until Tuesday – the gap peaking on May 11, when active cases had a 23,511-case lead. Recoveries soon picked up pace as patients, particularly the 155,668 new cases reported through May, started getting discharged. On May 29, India reported 11,707 new recoveries (highest in a single day so far), helped by Maharashtra that discharged 8,381 asymptomatic patients in one day.In fact, from May 15, new recoveries have been regularly higher than the average daily active case.The development also came on the same day that the total number of tests conducted in the country crossed the 5 million-mark, according the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As of Tuesday night, India tested 5,061,332 samples.This means India has conducted 3,797 tests for every million residents – the lowest among the 10 worst-hit countries in the world. Italy, which has over 50,000 fewer cases than India, has conducted over 71,000 tests per million population; Spain which has a few thousand more cases than India has conducted over 95,000 tests per million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-recovery-count-exceeds-active-infections/story-PncjU90z66lvJRYnGMh3DK.html
11-06-2020||India||22 terrorists killed over past two weeks in J-K||Security forces shot dead five terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Hizbul Mujahideen in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday, officials said after the third successful operation in the region in four days.A top district commander of the Hizbul was gunned down in the encounter, according to officials who did not immediately reveal the identities of those killed. Officials also said the operation once again proved that the Pakistan-based LeT and the local Hizbul group were working together in the Valley. Wednesday’s action was the third such operation within 96 hours in Shopian, considered a hotbed of militancy. While five terrorists were killed on Sunday, four more were shot dead the next day.Following inputs of the presence of terrorists in Sugoo village, the police, Rashtriya Rifles and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a joint cordon-and-search operation in the area early on Wednesday.The terrorists fired at the security team, triggering a gunfight that lasted around eight hours, according to the police. After the encounter ended, the police recovered the bodies of the terrorists along with arms from their possession.“I congratulate our forces for showing the highest order of professionalism, which led to no collateral damage,” Kashmir inspector general Vijay Kumar said. He added that the bodies of the terrorists were sent to Baramulla for last rites.For the past one month, the police are not handing over the bodies of terrorists to their family members, fearing gatherings at funerals in violation of guidelines drafted to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Twenty-two terrorists, including six top commanders, have been killed over the past two weeks in nine different operations in the region, Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbag Singh said on Monday. He added then that a total of 88 terrorists had been killed since January in 36 operations.On that day, terrorists gunned down a sarpanch, Ajay Pandita, in Anantnag district neighbouring Shopian. The police said the Hizbul was behind the killing.On Wednesday, the police recovered the body of Tariq Ahmed Paul, a resident of Shopian, in the district’s Kongnu area. Paul lived close to the area where the four terrorists were killed in the Monday encounter. The police said he was kidnapped by terrorists and killed after being tortured. Paul’s house was damaged in the encounter in Pinjora village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-killed-14-shot-dead-in-4-days/story-ua1GFeAFfpU8zmsHfdeSZJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Prisoners freed to decongest Tihar return to crime||On April 30, Balbir Sharma, a man with 36 cases of theft, robbery and snatching registered against him was released from Tihar jail as part of the prison’s move to decongest its premises to contain the spread of Covid-19. Five days later, he was arrested for allegedly robbing a man of his cell phone and scooter. A day before Sharma‘s release, Monu Sharma, a man with eight criminal cases, was also released in a bid to decongest the jail complex. Six days later, on May 5, he was arrested for stealing an electric autorickshaw in east Delhi’s Geeta Colony.Two months ago, the Delhi government released around 2,800 prisoners to decongest the prison complex as one of the steps to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The released prisoners included 1,000 under-trials who were let off on bail while the others were convicts released on parole.The records of arrested people over the last one month show that many released prisoners are back to a life of crime. Delhi Police has, in the past one month, arrested at least 129 such prisoners again after suspecting their involvement in cases of robbery, snatching, theft and burglary in different parts of the city.“After the lockdown norms were eased and we started receiving reports of regular crimes from different parts of the city, our police teams launched a crackdown on such criminals,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said .”Our investigation showed that many of them were those who were released during the lockdown. In ideal circumstances they would be in prison while the courts conduct trial. The prison department released them but instead of appreciating the decision, they are back to crime. We have sent them back. The prison authorities must verify the records of each prisoner before letting them off.”Another police officer said that though the police were proactive in arresting snatchers and robbers across the city, their efforts would be in vain if the prison keeps releasing habitual criminals.“The 129 prisoners we arrested again are those whom we could trace. The actual number of such released criminals who are again active could be more,” the second officer added.Reacting to the arrest of the released prisoners, a senior prison officer, who wished to remain anonymous, said they are complying with the court’s orders and are only releasing prisoners who were arrested in crimes for which the punishment is less than seven years. “Many prisoners who were arrested in non-heinous cases (punishment less than seven years) such as theft, snatching, burglary were released in March and April. We only release those who have one or few cases. Snatching and theft come under those categories. We analyse each case before releasing them. It is only done on the basis of the prisoner’s jail conduct.”The prison officer added that such prisoners are only released on interim bail and their cases will be analysed once the pandemic has subsides. Prison expert, Sunil Gupta, who was a law officer in Tihar for over three decades, said releasing prisoners who had barely spent a week behind bars back to the society had threatened the city’s law and order. “ I am all for releasing prisoners. A jail is a reformation centre. The prison department should have released those prisoners who had spent many years in prison and were part of the reformation exercises. You have instead released habitual criminals, who barely stayed for a month behind bars. They will definitely go out and commit crimes. They may be petty criminals, such as snatchers and burglars, but once out of prison without any reformation, they are a threat to the city’s law and order,” Gupta said.Gupta also offered a solution. The former law officer said that instead of decongesting the jail by releasing such prisoners, the prison department should house them in a temporary jail outside the prison complex. “The jail manual authorises the government to make a temporary prison in these times. They could make a school complex or a playground as a jail and house the prisoners there. We have done it in the past. Releasing unreformed habitual criminals within a month is a knee-jerk reaction that must be avoided. This will bring chaos.” Housing over 18,000 prisoners, Tihar jail is the most populated prison across the country. There are three prison complexes under Tihar -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. In April, the jail authorities released around 2,800 prisoners - under-trials and convicts -- on interim bail and extended parole to reduce the population within the jail. With thousands of prisoners living in close proximity, jail officers feared that the coronavirus disease would spread rapidly if the prison was not decongested. The three prisons have collectively reported 20 cases of Covid-19, which includes 17 prisoners and three jailors. None of the cases were detected in June. Retired Indian Police Service officer Prakash Singh, who served as the police chief of Uttar Pradesh, Border Security Force and the Assam Police, said the police must document the cases of such prisoners and present it in court. Singh also said the prison department must introspect on the files of each prisoner they release.“They were released on humanitarian grounds but if they refuse to mend their ways, the punishment should be enhanced. Many of them are habitual criminals, who made nothing during the lockdown. They are not salaried or work anywhere so they depend on the earnings from the crime. Once released, they may be trying to make them up for lost months and are back to their business. The prison department must carefully scrutinise each case before releasing such criminal, ” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prisoners-freed-to-decongest-tihar-return-to-crime/story-KuyfNbrmi9f9J2wx9eW75N.html
11-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh now ranks 7th in India with over 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases||With as many as 200 new Covid-19 positive cases detected in the past 24 hours Madhya Pradesh’s coronavirus tally rose to 10,049 while the number of deaths registered so far is 427, as per the state health department’s bulletin released on Wednesday night.With the state crossing the 10,000-mark of Covid-19 positive cases it became the 7th state in the country to have 10,000 and more such cases, as per the union ministry of health and family welfare’s data.The other states include Maharashtra with 90,787 cases, Tamil Nadu with 34,914 cases, Delhi with 31,309, Gujarat with 21,214, Uttar Pradesh with 11,335 and Rajasthan with 11,245 cases, as per the ministry’s data.Though Madhya Pradesh is the 7th state on the chart as far as the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases are concerned, its death rate is the second worst in the country at 4.24% that is only next to Gujarat which has 6.24% death rate. The death rates of other states with 10,000 and more cases are 0.88% in Tamil Nadu, 2.27% in Rajasthan, 2.66% in Uttar Pradesh, 2.89% in Delhi and 3.62% in Maharashtra, as per the ministry’s data.The national death rate among Covid-19 patients is 2.80%. Thus, in Madhya Pradesh the death rate is about 1.5 times more than the national death rate.As far as the geographical spread of coronavirus in the state is concerned only Niwari in Bundelkhand region which happens to be the latest district created in the state, out of the total 52 districts does not have any Covid-19 patient at present.Of the 51 districts affected by the virus only six districts have Covid-19 patients in single digits while 31 districts’ tally is in double digits.Indore tops the chart of Covid-19 patients with the figure of 3,881. Of them, 161 have died. Bhopal follows with 1,927 cases and 66 deaths and Ujjain with 745 cases and 64 deaths.Ujjain has the worst death rate among the districts registered at 8.59% among the 14 districts which have more than 100 cases each.The state has achieved 68.58% recovery rate with 6,892 patients cured and discharged from hospitals across the state.The health department’s health bulletin said, “Review of the situation caused by Covid-19 is being done by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan daily. He has made an appeal to people to comply with the lockdown, cooperate with the government in breaking the chain of infection and keep away from rumours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-now-ranks-7th-in-india-with-more-than-10-000-covid-19-positive-cases/story-PDCzOrnjtVKXKvSPzpamVK.html
11-06-2020||India||ED brings back jewels owned by Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday morning brought back 108 consignments of polished diamonds, silver jewellery and pearls worth Rs 1,350 crore declared value belonging to diamantaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi from Hong Kong, officials said, adding that it was one of the biggest seizures from abroad.The agency said that the consignments weighing around 2,340kg were seized in July 2018 with the help of Hong Kong authorities on specific information and was brought to Mumbai on Wednesday after completing legal formalities.The consignments were sent from Dubai to Hong Kong by the accused in July 2018, the time when the investigation against them was at its peak and they were trying to dispose of their assets, said the officials cited above.“The authorities were continuously engaged in discussion with various authorities in Hong Kong to bring back these valuables to India. Various modalities were finalised and after completing all the legal formalities these consignments have now been brought back to India,” a statement by the ED said.The agency will get the jewellery valued independently considering Modi and Choksi used to overvalue all their items in the retail market.“We believe that it won’t fetch more than Rs 150 crore in the Indian market,” said an officer, who didn’t wish to be named.“Value of these goods has been declared to be Rs 1,350 crores (approx). These valuables include polished diamonds, pearls, pearl and silver jewelry etc. and were kept in the godown of a logistics company in Hong Kong,” an official statement from the agency said. Earlier, ED had managed to bring 33 consignments of valuables worth Rs 137 crore belonging to Choksi in 2018 from Dubai and Hong Kong.A second officer lauded Hong Kong authorities for their cooperation in last two years in the Nirav Modi case. “We have had great cooperation from agencies in Hong Kong, who have not only allowed us to seize and bring the valuables to India but shared crucial information about Modi and Choksi’s companies too,” the second officer said. Another officer said that the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, involving Modi and his uncle Choksi, is the first case where ED has managed to bring property from abroad. The team of ED’s Joint Director in Mumbai Satyabrata Kumar, who also investigated Vijay Mallya case, is responsible for bringing the property back to India.On Monday, a Mumbai court allowed confiscation of Nirav Modi’s assets worth around Rs 1,400 crore under the newly enacted Fugitive Economic Offenders’ Act.Both are wanted in Rs 13,578 crore PNB fraud unearthed in early 2018. While Modi is currently lodged in a prison in the UK as his extradition is being pursued by Indian authorities, Choksi is in Antigua and Barbuda.Modi and Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-brings-back-jewels-owned-by-nirav-choksi/story-frafMeWvBmv7xTqAMDbkFN.html
11-06-2020||India||Agriculture ministry sets up wing to push recent reforms||The agriculture ministry has created a cell to modernize farm logistics and supply value chains in line with the recent announcements of reforms in the sector by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. This includes making amendments to the six-decade-old Essential Commodities Act and pushing two ordinances — freeing up farm trade from all restrictions and guaranteeing a legal framework for pre-agreed prices to farmers — an official said, requesting anonymity.The reforms cell will help coordinate efforts to streamline supply and transportation of farm produce, and also aid projects to add value to primary farm goods for better prices to the farmers, the official said.The agriculture ministry is gearing up to new challenges and making all preparations in the wake of the government’s decision to free agricultural markets of middlemen, who often take a sizeable cut of value from the produce sold.The reforms cell will additionally look after a national mission of “One District One Crop” to boost crop diversity. The reforms cell will play a key role, according to the official, in the aftermath of changes such as amendments to The Essential Commodities Act of 1955.“Farmers have been unable to get better prices due to lack of investment in cold storage, processing and export as the entrepreneurial spirit gets dampened due to hanging sword of Essential Commodities Act,” a recent official statement had stated.The government hopes that scaling back the ECA, 1955, will help drive up investment in cold storages and the food supply chain. Cold storages are refrigerated warehouses that can store perishables for up to six months. Refrigerated old stocks can cool food prices in times of scarcity.The ECA was mainly used to curb inflation by empowering the Union and state governments to dictate quantities traders can store and also restrict the movement of any commodity deemed “essential”. Under the law, the government generally imposes stock limits to discourage hoarding of items such as pulses and vegetables.The government last week promulgated ‘The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’. The ordinance, which is a law promulgated when Parliament is not in session, effectively brings down the curtains on the decades-old agricultural produce market committees regulations (APMC) system that regulates buying and selling of farm produce.APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area where farmers reside, rather than in an open market, scuttling price discovery. “The agriculture ministry will facilitate through new initiatives that will help farmers take full advantage of the recent reforms,” the official said.Ushered in during the 1960s, APMC regulations were meant to protect farmers from distress selling. Over time, these have often turned into cartels and monopolies, evidence suggests.In December 2010, when onion prices peaked, a probe by the country’s statutory anti-monopoly body, the Competition Commission of India, revealed that one firm accounted for nearly a fifth of the total onion trade for that month at Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion market in Maharashtra’s Nashik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-ministry-sets-up-wing-to-push-recent-reforms/story-mUwMlcCZzaIDDMMfr6UK6K.html
11-06-2020||India||33 Covid-19 labs in UP, most in big cities||Sunil Bansal, a resident of Varanasi, was first tested for Covid-19 on May 17. His sample returned a positive report on May 28, 11 days later. Since then, he has been in an isolation facility in the Pandeypur area of the city. Another sample of his was taken on June 5, when he was deemed cured. “It’s five days now, but the report hasn’t come. I can’t leave the centre until the report comes,” said Bansal, a pharmacist who was on railway station duty when he tested positive.The number — there are only 33 laboratories testing for Covid — and concentration (most are in the big cities) of testing facilities in Uttar Pradesh is making people wait for days to know their status. Experts say this is worrying; they point to another cause for concern — UP has currently tested only 1,740 people per million residents, lower than the national average of 3,797 and far below other states. Maharashtra has done 4,730 tests per million for instance; Tamil Nadu, 8,206; and Rajasthan, 6,860.To be sure, the state does average of 12,500 tests per day but this is well short of what is needed, the experts said. Uttar Pradesh has a population of 224 million, according to Census of India projections.State surveillance officer Dr Vikasendu Agrawal said, “UP’s per case testing ratio is better than several other states. The state has reported 11,610 cases till now.”Bansal’s sample, like all other samples from Varanasi, are tested at Banaras Hindu University (BHU). The same lab also tests samples from Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Mau, Azamgarh and Ballia districts, which collectively have a population of about 25 million people. The lab can test a maximum of 330 samples in a day.“Delay in the test report is a double blow. First, an infected person may be moving around. Second, a cured patient’s stay may get prolonged in an isolation centre,” said Sunil Yadav, president of the government pharmacist federation, Uttar Pradesh.The situation at BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur is similar.“We test samples for seven districts in Gorakhpur and Basti and have a capacity of about 1,000 tests per day,” said Dr Ganesh Kumar, principal of the college.The Meerut testing centre, at Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College, tests samples from the adjoining districts of Baghpat, Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Noida, Bijnor and Hapur.Out of the total 34,000 samples tested this far in the Meerut lab, 16,132 were from Meerut and 17,868 of other districts. On paper, the average time taken for testing samples is 68 hours, a little short of three days. The lab at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University, caters to the districts of Kasganj, Hathras, Etah, Mathura, Badaun and Aligarh.This lab has thus far conducted more than 16,000 tests. In Agra, a hotspot of the coronavirus disease, the labs are at Sarojini Naidu Medical College and Jalma Institute for Leprosy & Other Mycobacterial Diseases. There are also three private labs. Cases from nearby districts too reach Agra.Lucknow has seven government labs and the reporting time is between 24 and 36 hours for coronavirus samples. King George’s Medical University lab receives samples from districts also such as Barabanki, Gonda, Bahraich, Hardoi, Sitapur, Unnao, Ayodhya, Farrukhabad, Sambhal, Shahjahanpur, Kannauj and Hathras.KGMU’s microbiology lab tests around 1200 samples each day.Despite the delays, the state is better off now than it was a few months back, according to a state health department officer who added that in February, UP sent samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi.It was only later that testing started at labs in KGMU, Lucknow and JLNMC, AMU, Aligarh . From mid- March, testing also started at medical colleges in Meerut, Agra, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur. Now, 22 government laboratories and 11 private laboratories are testing samples in the state. Still, the daily pendency of samples was 9,000, the officer added, asking not to be named.Seven of Uttar Pradesh’s 22 government labs are in Lucknow. They collectively conduct over 2,000 tests a day.There are two labs each in Agra and Gorakhpur. The other districts with a lab are: Prayagraj, Jhansi, Aligarh, Noida, Meerut, Saifai (Etawah), Bareilly, Kanpur, Greater Noida, and Varanasi. Eleven other private labs were also allowed to test samples.“Uneven distribution of labs is a threat as we will fail to know the spread in districts where the lab facility is poor. But as people from there will migrate for work, the infection will spread to other places,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow.Principal secretary, health and medical welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government is increasing the testing capacity. Testing of samples started in four more hospitals on Wednesday, he added.“ The state government has decided to set up virology laboratories in all the 75 district hospitals and work on this has started,” he said.Surveillance officer Agrawal added: “TrueNat Machines have been installed in all 75 districts and will be used for testing samples of suspected coronavirus patients.” These are portable battery operated machines originally meant for the detection of tuberculosis. UP reported the first coronavirus case on March 2 and till now about four lakh (400,000) samples have been tested.Given the size of the state (UP’s land area is 243,290 square kilometres, if it were a country it would be the 78th largest in terms of land area), it takes time for samples from some districts to reach hospitals. “One person carrying samples from Azamgarh to Varanasi will take over three hours to reach. And if all samples of the district are to be collected, the delay in samples reaching the lab could be 12 hours, which means the test report can take over 48 hours to reach the patient/doctor,” added Dr Gupta. “Having one lab for five or seven districts is practically unworkable. Ideally, there should be one lab in each district or at least one lab between two districts,” he added. UP will have to get innovative with its testing, Dr Gupta said, suggesting antibody tests. “It’s a simple test and can tell the spread of virus authentically.” Dr RB Singh, former additional director (administration) in the state health department, said, “Uttar Pradesh at present is not aware of where it stands in terms of coronavirus cases. In fact, only aggressive testing can tell this status. Hence, it should be increased swiftly so that we know the accurate number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-covid-labs-in-up-most-in-big-cities/story-ighdhpnakKqSzIvDP9Uk3O.html
11-06-2020||India||Firms make efforts to bring back migrants, restart work||Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL), a Hyderabad-based construction company, has brought back about 1,000 workers, who had returned to their villages in Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The builder paid the workers’ train fare to resume construction work on the Polavaram multi-purpose project on the Godavari river in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, company officials said on Tuesday. Some 1,800 more workers will be brought back soon, they said.Over 3,000 migrant workers had left the company and returned to their home states in the exodus of workers that followed the lockdown, MEIL general manager Satish Angana said.“Till now, around 1,000 workers had been ferried back to Andhra Pradesh through Shramik Special trains at the company’s expense. Another 1,800 workers are expected to be brought back shortly,” said another company executive, who didn’t want to be named. Angana said all the returnees had been tested at special medical camps for Covid-19 and before returning to workAs the central and state governments battle to revive a stalled national economy and restart industrial activity, companies like Megha Engineering are being proactive in bringing back workers who had returned to their home states fearing a loss of work and wages.The Centre informed the Supreme Court last week that close to 10 million workers had been sent back to their homes on Shramik Special trains that started from May 1.Employers need the workers, especially the skilled ones, to restart work, and haven’t stinted from offering them higher wages, better working conditions and paying their train -- even flight -- fares to bring them back.The trend, backed by anecdotal evidence of workers returning to cities like Mumbai, illustrates, too, the vital role played by migrant labour from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal in keeping the economy running in economically better-off states in southern and western India. Bangalore-based real estate developer Prestige Group has flown 10 carpenters from Patna to Hyderabad where it has launched a big real estate project. “One of our contractors booked flight tickets for these 10 carpenters from Patna to Hyderabad. We have to complete the projects before the deadline fixed by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority and deliver the flats to the customers,” a senior vice-president of Prestige Group told a news agency.Bobby Jindal, owner of Balaji Processors, a blanket maker based in Punjab’s Ludhiana, brought back seven of his master craftsmen by flights from Patna.“I was left with less than 50 workers at my unit which adversely affected production. I booked air tickets for seven master workers who took a flight from Patna to Delhi and then from Delhi to Sahnewal Airport in Ludhiana last week,” Jindal said, adding that he had also arranged two taxis and booked train tickets for some other workers who left Balaji Processors. “I have spent Rs 2 lakh on bringing 50 workers back in the last few days.”Rahul Verma, who runs a manufacturing unit Ludhiana, brought back five skilled workers back from Bihar who were needed in the casting unit. “For some other workers, I have booked their tickets and paid them to return,” he said.In Rajasthan, from where workers go to other states looking for work, some industry owners have offered to arrange transport for workers to return. Sunil Jain, president of the Rajasthan chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), said the real estate and construction sector had been hit with a 30 to 40% shortage of workers because of the exodus. Most workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand.“I know of some real estate firms that are trying to get labourers back through contractors. Contractors are in touch with the workers and are convincing them to return, assuring them that they will get full work and wages. A few have even sent vehicles to ferry workers back and promised higher wages,” he said.Garment exporters in Rajasthan have been confronting a 70% shortage of labourers and problems in meeting the delivery deadlines, said Aseem Kumar, general secretary of the Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan. “Some units have offered a 50% increase in wages to deliver pending orders. They are offering higher wages, accommodation and even promising work for the whole year but labourers are not ready to return,” he said. Most of the garment exports from Rajasthan are destined for Japan, the US, Europe and South America.Charanjit Singh Vishwakarma, former president of United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) in Ludhiana, said he had already sent money to three of his labour contractors in Bihar to bring back workers. ) “As trains have not fully resumed, the workers are finding it difficult to get confirmed tickets to come via train. The government should restart Shramik trains to bring them back,” he said. “Some factory owners have also offered a higher salary for workers returning immediately. They are also paying for their train tickets,” Tarsem Jodhan, president of the Punjab Mazdoor Union.To revive industrial production in the state, the Punjab government last week sent two buses to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to bring back workers. “I have arranged buses to bring back workers to industrial towns,” said Punjab industries minister Sham Sunder Arora after a meeting with industrialists in Ludhiana last Friday.The Rajasthan government has offered to help industry in getting workers back from other states, provided employers bear the cost of their transport. Labour secretary Niraj K Pawan said, “If industry provides us details of districts from which they want the labourers back, we will coordinate with those states and facilitate the transport of the workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firms-make-efforts-to-bring-back-migrants-restart-work/story-P366yVK5SwrQi042AVbREP.html
11-06-2020||India||70k rural roads, 5 million houses among job avenues for migrants||Building of nearly 70,000 kilometres of rural roads and five million houses for the poor are employment avenues lined up for migrants returning to their villages as an overwhelming number of them are construction workers, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The officials said the rural development ministry asked states to engage the large number of construction workers—estimated to be more than two-thirds of the total returning workers—in these two types of work to provide opportunities to match their skills.The availability of additional workforce would also help the government meet its annual target of building roads and PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana) houses in time and avoid the rush to only grab MGNREGS jobs.According to an official, under the third phase of the PM’s rural road scheme, about 14,000 kilometres of new roads are left to be constructed while there is also pending work from the previous year and an ambitious target of upgrading old roads.A senior official said funding for constructing houses was already budgeted for. He pointed out construction workers could also get 90/95 days of wages for building houses under the PMAY.“With so many houses yet to be built, the construction sector workers who have returned to their villages can find a job of their choice instead of digging earth under MGNREGS,” said an official.According to official data on the rural road scheme or PMGSY (Pradhan Mantri Grameen Sadak Yojana), of the 174,000 road works approved, 157,000 have been completed. This includes both new roads and upgraded existing ones.Similarly, in the housing project, PMAY, a target was set for 6.15 million houses in this financial year. So far, 195,000 houses have been sanctioned. According to data available with the ministry, not a single house has been completed so far. Experts pointed out the lockdown and related issues resulted in the delay and in the month of April, hardly any work was taken up as states were not prepared to roll out the requirements.Both these projects—roads and houses—are key to rural development. While the housing scheme provides the rural poor with their own homes, the road network makes it easier to commute and helps farmers reach mandis with their produce.The rural housing project, along with the Ujjwala cooking gas connection scheme and the Saubhagya power programme, is a vital pivot of the government’s focus on creating individual assets.Another official, however, added that road and housing schemes would only be a part of the larger aim of the government to accommodate millions of jobless migrant workers. The government is also weighing other options including horticulture, animal husbandry and a programme to upgrade their skills during this period.An employment generation and skill upgrade programme, which includes district-wise mapping of workers and identifying their skill-sets, is being designed by the Prime Minister’s Office with the help of the rural development, agriculture, animal husbandry, skill development and road transport ministries.The initiative for migrant workers will not entail any additional financial support from the exchequer, but existing centrally sponsored and central sector schemes—such as MGNREGS, PMAY and PMGSY—will be used to address a situation the officials cited above described as extraordinary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70k-rural-roads-5-million-houses-among-job-avenues-for-migrants/story-NqcYpyzIcRNsP9w5upP7IJ.html
11-06-2020||India||Staff trouble hits pvt labs, Covid-19 testing still to peak in Delhi||Covid-19 testing remained low in Delhi on Wednesday because of delays in staff registrations that prevented some laboratories from beginning sample collection two days after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal reversed a Delhi government and allowed seven labs to conduct tests for the disease again, multiple representatives of the labs said.On average, 6,129 samples were being tested during the week ending May 31. This came down to an average of 5,590 tests daily during the week that ended on June 7, data from the daily health bulletin shows. The tests conducted dropped from 5,042 on June 7 to 3,700 on June 8, the lowest since the first week of May. They again rose to 5,464 on June 9 but fell to 5077 tests on Wednesday.With Baijal’s order, Delhi’s capacity for testing increased by about 8,000 tests daily but the representatives said the capacity cannot be utilised unless all private labs start testing.Baijal’s order allowed Lal PathLabs, City X-Ray and Scan Clinic, Prognosis Laboratory, SRL Diagnostics, Star Imaging Path Laboratory, Pathkind Labs, and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to recollect samples. The Delhi government on June 5 served show cause notices to the seven labs for testing asymptomatic patients “without following testing protocols”.Dr Lal PathLabs and SRL Diagnostics said they did not collect samples on Wednesday and would be unable to say when will they begin doing so. “We cannot test in Delhi until our personnel, who collect samples are registered with the Delhi government. That registration is not complete for all districts yet. We only do home collections for Covid-19. So they have to be registered for them to use the government [testing] app,” said Dr Vandana Lal, whole-time director, Dr Lal PathLabs.Dr Lal PathLabs is the largest privately-owned chain of laboratories in the country and has the highest testing capacity in the city, about 4,000 samples daily.When called, SRL Diagnostics lab executive said “We are not testing covid 19 samples now. We may start soon.”City X-Ray and Scan Clinic and Star Imaging Path Laboratory had started collecting samples. Representatives of Prognosis Laboratory and PathKind Labs did not answer calls from HT for comments.Gen X Diagnostics had not also started collecting samples while CRL Diagnostics said they will start doing so in a couple of days. Officials said NCDC has also started receiving samples from the government hospitals.The Indian Council of Medical Research, India’s apex health research body, has approved 16 government and 22 private laboratories in Delhi for Covid-19 testing.Among other labs, Lifeline Laboratory said they cannot accept Covid-19 samples because they were running at full capacity. Dr Dangs Laboratory was also not accepting home collection bookings on Wednesday.Many complained that the red-tapism was delaying testing of lots of people with Covid-19 symptoms.“Why Covid 19 testing is not being provided by private laboratories in Delhi? I am trying for the test for my uncle since four days and every lab is saying call after sometime. Tests are not available, procedure for reporting to government is not clear” tweeted Nitin Anand, an engineer, on Wednesday.Anand said his uncle has been running a fever and has a bad cough for a week. “I first put his symptoms on the Aarogya Setu app but we did not get any calls from health workers. Then I called 1075 helpline which went unanswered. Finally, my uncle’s physician recommended a Covid-19 test because all other tests are normal but all the private labs are asking me to call later. There seems to be a lot of confusion. Precious time is being lost,” he said.“Phlebotomists have to be registered in all 11 districts. If they submit the documents, the registration should happen in 24 hours. There’s no such delay from our end,” a government spokesperson said.The testing process is complicated. People who want to get tested will have to go to a doctor for a prescription, for a test, get a referral form signed by that doctor, and then look for a laboratory that will test them. Even if they did manage to get these documents, getting tested would be a tedious process because all private laboratories are not functioning. The option for those who want to get tested is then to go to the hospitals or testing centres directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staff-trouble-hits-pvt-labs-testing-still-to-peak-in-city/story-CpqNINptYEJberxqb5PywI.html
11-06-2020||India||NLU arranges train to ferry over 1,600 migrants home||Around 1,650 migrant workers were ferried from Gujarat to Jharkhand on a Shramik Special train arranged by the Legal Aid and Awareness Committee(LAAC) of the National Law University, Jodhpur, on Wednesday. According to the press release issued by LAAC, the train departed from Ahmedabad at 8pm with a stoppage in Surat at around 11.30 pm. It is expected to arrive at Ranchi in Jharkhand on Thursday. The student body, which works for various socio-legal issues has undertaken initiatives to spread legal awareness among the less privileged and is currently trying to address the concerns of migrant workers who have been hit by the national lockdown and economic downturn.The LAAC took the help of a Non-Governmental Organisation(NGO), Prayas Center for Labour Research and Action, to gather contact details of the migrant labourers. They traced their locations and conducted telephonic interviews to understand their needs and prepared a database of such labourers. More than 19,000 such workers were contacted, of which, many of them had already reached their native state.The committee then gathered and collated Aadhaar details of those labourers who wished to take a Shramik train back home.An application to allow an urgent the special train to transport 1,650 workers was made last week before the district magistrates of Ahmedabad and Surat. The request was sanctioned on June 9.“It is a long way to go. Many of these people are facing resource and cash crunch and are without work and we are exploring ways to alleviate those issues. But this is a good start”, convenor of LAAC, Jayati Garg told HT.The alumni from the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, had also accomplished a similar task in May when they raised over Rs 12 lakh to lease an aircraft and fly 180 migrant workers from Mumbai to Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nlu-arranges-train-to-ferry-over-1-600-migrants-home/story-Hxp60aRiK0baMA26AG0P7M.html
11-06-2020||India||Political workers in J-K face fear, uncertainty following sarpanch’s murder||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary and in-charge of Jammu and Kashmir, Ram Madhav on Wednesday said the killing of Ajay Pandita alias Bharti, a Kashmiri Pandit Sarpanch in South Kashmir on Monday is an attempt by terrorists to create divisions between communities in the Valley.Political workers across party lines, however, renewed their demand that the Union government should meet its assurance of providing panchayat members in Jammu and Kashmir security and insurance.Madhav blamed Pakistan for Bharti’s murder.“This is a heinous crime by the perpetrators of terror who out of their frustration are targeting innocent civilians. Unfortunately, every time they cannot face the law and order machinery, they turn to the minorities. This is the real face of Pakistan; in their own country they have gone after Hindus in Punjab and now are employing similar tactics in Kashmir as well,” he said.There has been widespread anger among political workers in Kashmir over the killing of Bharti, the sarpanch of Lukbawan village in south Kashmir’s Larkipora area who was shot dead by unidentified terrorists. Local media reports suggest he had been seeking security in the wake of threats.While many political workers from across parties said the government has not met their demand for security, Madhav said, the state administration has provided security facilities for the local body representatives who are about 40,000 in number. “They are given safe accommodation in Srinagar, but despite that, such incidents have occurred,” he said.Nazir Ahmad Laway, a member of the Rajya Sabha said, while sitting MPs and ministers are provided security cover, former MPs, ministers and political workers find themselves in vulnerable situations as they become “easy targets” for terror groups. “They cannot even move freely in their own area,” Laway said.In September last year, during a meeting with panchayat members from the erstwhile state, Union home minister Amit Shah had said every panch and sarpanch in Jammu and Kashmir will be given police security and insurance cover of Rs 2 lakh, which would later be revised.He had also assured the delegation that the demand for increasing their honorarium will be considered and internet and telecommunication networks will be strengthened.“Since the year 2012 when the targeted killing of sarpanches began, we have been petitioning the Centre and the state governments to provide security and safe accommodation. In all these years starting with the Congress-led UPA government and now the BJP-led NDA government at the centre our demands have not been met. The administration has reduced us to fodder, giving us no respect and no share in power,” complained Shafiq Mir, president of the All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference.Mir said in the absence of security, 19 sarpanches have lost their lives since 2012.He also pointed out that in the absence of political representatives, since the J&K assembly has been dissolved, it is the panchyats that are the bridge between the people and the government.Demanding Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention, Mir said, “It was on his assurance that we participated in the panchayat elections in 2018. At that time the mainstream political parties in the (then) state had refused to be part of the political process. On December 19, 2018 we met the PM as a 48-member delegation. We later met the home minister too to push for our demands”. Mir Junaid, president of the newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Workers Party who was part of the delegation that met Shah in September after the bifurcation of the state into two union territories said the panchayat workers have been questioning the government’s delay.“They are also asking questions about why the government expects people to be part of the democratic process if they still have not fulfilled their promises,” Junaid said.He said the panchayat members were assured that Rs 3,500 crore will be transferred directly into the accounts of gram panchayats, provided safe accommodation at district headquarters and offered insurance between Rs 2-4 lakh per head.“Since Monday, we have not even heard of any compensation offered to Bharti’s family,” Junaid said.Jammu and Kashmir administration officials did not respond to questions on why the insurance scheme has not been implemented yet.Sushobha Barve, executive secretary of the Centre for Dialogue and Reconciliation said the political ecosystem of Kashmir which has deteriorated since August 5, 2019 when Article 370 scrapped, has made the Sarpanches and Panchayat members soft targets.“There is a lot of concern in Kashmir that while the political economic system has not improved and in the middle of a pandemic, the government is focusing on planning the Amarnath Yatra,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-workers-in-j-k-face-fear-uncertainty-following-sarpanch-s-murder/story-UJH8xxxp9WRxb3KfVk50FL.html
11-06-2020||India||Loss of smell, taste may be added to Covid-19 test criteria||The government is considering expanding the eligibility criteria for Covid-19 testing to include loss of smell and taste and the matter was discussed by the national task force constituted to fight the outbreak, said two members of the panel on Wednesday. The issue was brought up in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-constituted national task force on Covid-related matters because several cases have been reported where the patients showed a loss of smell or taste. “This was in discussion as there were some people of the opinion that this could be looked at, too. However, no decision has been taken over it yet,” said a member who did not wish to be identified.The first set of criteria for Covid testing was fixed in January and comprised fever, cough, and breathlessness as symptoms. Later, in May, gastrointestinal issues such as diarrhoea or vomiting were also added.There are currently 13 clinical symptoms and signs in the specimen referral form that was revised last month. The symptoms are fever, cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain, breathlessness, nausea, haemoptysis (coughing up of blood), body ache, sore throat, chest pain, nasal discharge and sputum. Any patient with one or more symptoms are allowed to get tested for Covid-19. If loss of taste and smell are added to the list, a patient would have to report one or more of 15 symptoms to get tested.The national task force members go through latest clinical data available around the world, and in India, to update the testing criteria.In April, the World Health Organization (WHO), along with many European Union (EU) countries, the USA, and Australia, added loss of smell and taste as one of the key Covid-19 symptoms. The United Kingdom also added these to its list of Covid-19 symptom on May 18.An article published in the medical journal Lancet last week titled “Quantifying Additional Covid-19 Symptoms Will Save Lives” mentioned that in many countries, regular mass swab testing was still inadequate. “To reduce the number of infectious people in the community, it is therefore crucial to use the symptom combinations that can identify them,” the researchers said.“Using self-reported symptoms data from 18 401 users of the COVID Symptom Study app, who underwent an official SARS-CoV-2 test (7104 testing positive, 11 297 testing negative)… The prevalence of loss of smell and taste was three-fold higher in individuals testing positive (65·03%) than in those testing negative (21·71%),2 suggesting that people with loss of smell and taste should self-isolate.”Doctors treating Covid-19 patients in India say that expanding the eligibility criteria will help in identifying cases.“There is a percentage of Covid positive people who do report with symptoms wherein they have lost their sense of smell and taste even though the number does not seem too big when compared with people who report with fever, sore throat and cough. However, we do see Covid patients with these symptoms so it’s not a bad idea to include this in the list of criteria for Covid testing,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram.Some other experts argued that the eligibility criteria for testing should be expanded further. “Apart from loss of smell and taste, I think, weakness, muscle pain and chills should also be added into the eligibility list as these are also listed as clinical signs of Covid patients,” says Dr Giridhara Babu, head, life course epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-smell-taste-may-be-added-to-covid-test-criteria/story-w5AUlKnq67oNBi9HkiVQYI.html
11-06-2020||India||Community transmission of Covid-19 for Centre to declare: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a statement on Wednesday reiterated that there was transmission in the community in Delhi, but it was up to the central government to declare “community transmission”. After a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority a day ago, the minister had said that the government was unable to establish the source of infection in 50% of the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city.“There is transmission in the community, but whether it is community transmission or not that can be declared only by the Centre. It is a technical term,” said Jain. Union health secretary Preeti Sudan refused to respond on the matter.Delhi has recorded 32,810 cases of Covid-19 and 984 deaths due to the infection till Wednesday, according to data provided by the Delhi government. With the rising number of cases in the city, the health minister also said that it was difficult to trace all contacts of the laboratory-confirmed cases.“Earlier, in one case contact tracing would be done up to 600 people. Today, if we multiply 1,500 cases into 600 it gives us 900,000 people for contact tracing. So, contact tracing is being done only for immediate contacts and not for indirect contacts,” the minister said.The high number of cases in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai is indicative of community transmission, say experts. “Although, ICMR has not published the report of their serology test, a high positivity has been reported among random samples. That is not possible without community transmission. And, the virus is going to spread further, the only positive thing is we will also develop herd immunity sooner. In the meanwhile, the situation is grim for the elderly and those with co-morbidities. All the government can do is streamline the health care services so that those in need can access it without hassle,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The Delhi government also blamed the Centre for using the city’s airports to bring in people from other countries. “Delhi and Mumbai are the two cities where people were brought in from other nations via flights, and we warned the Centre against it but they did nothing to avoid the landing of flights in Delhi,” said Jain.The minister also said that another lockdown would not help in curtailing the spread of the viral infection. “When the lockdown was imposed, there were 100 cases across the country and now that number has gone up to thousands. If we impose lockdown again, there will be no logic as the cases will increase from around 2.5 lakh to 25 lakh despite the lockdown,” he said.Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru said, “We went into a lockdown a little early and even the relaxation of restrictions happened a little early. Other countries lifted their lockdown when their curve had started to come down, but we did it when the curve is going up exponentially. It was not well-timed. However, economic considerations have to be kept in mind. The only strategy that the government can now adopt is aggressively test and isolate those with the infection or close areas where they think the infection is circulating in the community.”The Delhi government had on June 2 restricted its testing criteria excluding asymptomatic contacts who weren’t old or have known co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, or cancer. The Lieutenant Governor on Monday reversed the decision.The health minister also said that the Delhi government had to be prepared as none of the predictions were coming true, such as people believing that the spread of Covid-19 would come down when the temperature increased.“Epidemiologically, seasonality does not play a role when there is an epidemic because there is a high pool of susceptible people. This was also seen during the H1N1 pandemic, when for two years the seasonality had changed completely before the infection becoming endemic and starting to follow the pattern. The same is likely to happen with Covid-19,” said Dr Broor.The health minister said the government was working towards arranging twice the number of beds than patients in the hospitals. “By June 15, around 7,000 beds will be occupied and by June 30, 15,000. We are preparing for the foreseeable situation of June 30, and for that, we are making preparations of the Covid infrastructure in stadiums, banquet halls, and hotels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-has-begun-but-up-to-centre-to-declare-satyendar-jain/story-GPOYz6P2CFECADgfbbjmEO.html
11-06-2020||India||Congress, BJP spar over CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s clips||The Madhya Pradesh Congress released audio and video clips on Wednesday, saying they contained chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s speech in which he admitted the previous state government was toppled on the instructions of the central BJP leadership.Chouhan’s remarks cited by the Congress purportedly came while addressing an intraparty meeting with BJP workers and leaders in Indore on Sunday. In the speech, Chouhan is heard saying, “But there is a question. The central leadership had decided that this government should fall. This (government) will ruin and destroy the state.”HT can’t vouch for the authenticity of the clips. Chouhan is further heard saying while pointing to his ministerial colleague Tulsi Silavat, who resigned from the Congress to join the BJP, “ He (Tulsi Silavat) gave up his position of minister as he was pained (with the conduct of the Congress). People don’t give up even the post of sarpanch.”Chouhan’s meeting with the party workers and leaders was to mobilise them ahead of bypolls to 24 assembly constituencies, 22 of which fell vacant after the then Congress MLAs, including six ministers representing these seats in the state assembly resigned from the state assembly in March and later join the BJP. Silavat, who is water resources minister in the Chouhan cabinet, is likely to contest the bypoll from Sanwer assembly seat that he held until he resigned.The resignations of the legislators followed the resignation of senior Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia who joined the BJP. Their resignations culminated in the fall of the Congress government in the state. State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath said, “I have been saying from day one that BJP toppled my government which had the mandate from people, under a conspiracy while playing the game of enticement. It was because the government was waiving loans of farmers, giving employment to youth, protecting dignity of women, running a campaign against mafia and bringing investment to the state. BJP knew that with such work of the the Congress government, it would not be able to return to power for years.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan could not be reached for comment.The state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “What the chief minister said was in agreement with what he said earlier too that the government didn’t fall because of the BJP but because of inherent conflicts within the Congress. It is a fact that the government fell due to resignation of 22 Congress MLAs. The BJP did its duty later to form the government.”The state Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “In view of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s admission regarding the conspiracy against the then Congress government the party will take necessary steps after consulting legal experts.”In the audio clip, reminding the party workers and leaders of their duties with regard to the bypolls, Chouhan is heard saying, “Election is going to take place. Tell me with honesty if Tulsi Silavat doesn’t become an MLA will I remain a chief minister? Will BJP government be saved? That’s why it’s our duty that Tulsi Silavat has to win from Sanwer and BJP has to win this seat...”To motivate workers Chouhan is heard saying, “Tulsi Silavat is just a symbol. Barely is there an occasion when a mother asks her son to protect her honour. BJP is our mother politically and this mother is asking us to protect her honour lest it should face defeat and the lotus flower (BJP’s symbol) is let down and the PM’s decision is proved wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-bjp-spar-over-cm-chouhan-s-clips/story-D5ARvkTdImUqINA0u6uCmL.html
11-06-2020||India||WeTransfer banned in public interest: Official||File-sharing website WeTransfer has been blocked for Indian internet users “in public interest as it was being misused”, a department of telecommunications (DoT) official said, amid mounting criticism that the government was censoring access to internet without adequate justification.WeTransfer was blocked through an order on May 18, which cited “interest of national security or public interest” as justification for the ban without giving more details. It is now among 4,000-odd websites, which includes pornography sites, that are inaccessible for Indians. “We get regular requests from the home ministry, ministry of electronics and information technology or even courts to block certain websites,” said an official in DoT, who asked not to be named. “WeTransfer was blocked as it was misused by some people to share content in the name of Delhi Police Commissioner and other government officials. The request came to us from the Delhi Police cybercrime unit. It’s a matter of national security,” this person added.A senior official in the Delhi Police’s cybercrime unit, when asked about WeTransfer, said he was not aware of a specific abuse case, although, this person added, generic alerts had been sent to the home ministry. Since the order was issued, several social media users have highlighted the ban, including film editor TS Suresh. The website has in the past been used by the government, with links to WeTransfer files on the Press Information Bureau (PIB) website.HT could access WeTransfer on some internet service providers. “We will write to the ministry to approach internet service providers to comply with the order,” the official quoted above said when asked about the ban not being enforced.Digital rights groups said the ban reflects a lack of transparency. “Today, we sent a representation to DoT urging them to recall this direction,” the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) said in a statement on Tuesday. “We further also indicate the need for wider regulatory reforms that have led to questionable blocking orders in the past. Including the blocking of Telegram and Porn Websites in India. This is at its very threshold, a transparency problem.”According to IFF trustee Apar Gupta, the lack of reasoning in the order denies WeTransfer a chance to defend its position. “If that’s the basis, then it needs to be mentioned in the order,” Gupta said. “That way WeTransfer can defend itself and it breeds accountability for a large number of users who subscribe to the service for legitimate reasons.” Moreover, added Gupta, clarifying the position would also enable law enforcement to track those responsible for misusing the service. “Under the Information Technology Act, WeTransfer is not liable for malicious content as it acts as an intermediary,” said Gupta. “By mentioning the reason in the order, the government would also have given WeTransfer the chance to expeditiously take down the content”.“Irrespective of the legitimacy of the demand, the process was deeply flawed. This sets a bad precedent,” Gupta added.According to the DoT official quoted above, lack of transparency cannot be used to “downplay” the need to block WeTransfer. “It was done in public interest. People should understand that we received a genuine request, assessed it and decided it was best to block the website.”(With inputs from Prawesh Lama)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wetransfer-banned-in-public-interest-official/story-hEsox3j5eHscd7LHLB3PVP.html
11-06-2020||India||Amrapali buyers get top court relief||In one stroke, the Supreme Court on Wednesday paved the way for the infusion of at least Rs 2,000 crore for the construction of stalled Amrapali Group housing projects. Two key directions passed by a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and UU Lalit made the cash infusion possible.The first direction was to banks to release the balance of loan amounts sanctioned to Amrapali homebuyers. This direction alone has the potential of arranging funds worth over Rs. 3,000 crore.According to a note prepared by the court-appointed receiver and senior advocate R Venkatramani, assisting the court in the execution of these projects, under the head “bank loans to homebu interestyers and balance receivables from all sold units (of Amrapali projects)” a total amount of Rs 3,870.4 crore is due.Even those homebuyers who failed to make timely deposits due to which their loan accounts were declared NPA or non-performing assets will also benefit from this order. The court said, “We direct the banks and financial institutions to release loans to home buyers, whose loans have been sanctioned, notwithstanding the fact that their accounts are declared as NPAs. This we order in the peculiar facts of the case.”The court further directed the banks to restructure the loans in a manner to ensure money is released upon stage-wise completion of projects. This way, the projects will stand completed and homebuyers will be in a position to repay the loans at interest rates fixed by the Reserve Bank of India.The court expressed its concern by saying, “The home buyers are not able to obtain fruits of the investment and are deprived of legal title of the flats.”The second key direction from the court came with regard to sale of unused floor area ratio (FAR) available under the sanctioned plan for Amrapali projects. In addition, Venkatramani’s note made a mention of land available under permissible FAR and balance FAR, in addition to unused FAR to be sold to prospective developers. This was objected to by the Noida and Greater Noida authorities who sought return of the balance FAR.The unused FAR with Noida Authority comprised of 35,798.19 square meters of land while the Greater Noida Authority staked claim over FAR on unconstructed plots at Plot No.GH 09, Sector Tech. Zone 4, Greater Noida.Accepting the receiver’s suggestions, the court said, “A substantial amount has to be fetched out of the sale of permissible FAR, as the case may be, and due to other developments, if any other FAR is made available, it is permitted to be sold by the Receiver and the Committee to utilize the money to complete various projects.”Venkatramani said, “With today’s directions, homebuyers can heave a sigh of relief. With the sale of FAR, we roughly expect anything between Rs 500-800 crore. And if the loans are released, even by a conservative estimate (after deducting people who wish to opt out of the project) we can receive at least Rs 2,000 crore. Few more milestones are to be crossed before the projects finally lift off.”The Court directed the Noida, Greater Noida authorities to grant sanction of the plans and designs submitted by the prospective developers within 30 days of its submission. They were further directed to supply water, electricity, sewerage to the projects built on these sites after receiving the amount due to them after sale of FAR.For the homebuyers, advocate ML Lahoty said, “The court has resolved that NPA will no more be an impediment in releasing loans. This is a significant order as several homebuyers were not in a position to pay.”In addition to relief to homebuyers, the court also ordered relief to builders/developers who were exempted from paying exorbitant interest of 15-23% to Noida/Greater Noida authorities on plots allotted between 2005 till date and where construction was incomplete. The court reduced the interest to a flat 8% on the condition that the amount is paid and construction completed within stipulated time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrapali-buyers-get-top-court-relief/story-rPHmge29INMhkTvpIRvAKK.html
11-06-2020||India||Delhi firm ties up with US company to work on Covid-19 vaccine candidate||New Delhi-based biotechnology company Panacea Biotec Limited has partnered with US-based Refana Inc in the development, manufacturing and distribution of an experimental coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine.Panacea Biotec is working on product development and commercial manufacturing of an inactivated whole virus vaccine against Sars-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19.An inactivated whole virus vaccine uses a weakened or inactivated virus to trigger a lasting immune response against the infecting pathogen. It is a tried and tested platform, and examples of such vaccines include polio vaccine, smallpox vaccine, rotavius vaccine against diarrhoea, and rabies vaccine, among others.It’s a tried and tested vaccine platform, and many existing vaccines, such as those for measles and polio, are made in this way.The firm will produce at least 500 million doses of the experimental vaccine, of which 40 to 45 million doses will be ready by January next year.“We have completed proof of concept studies in the US and the results suggest a possible broader neutralising ability against the Sars-CoV-2 virus strain, which means that even if the virus mutates in future, the vaccine will be effective,” said Rajesh Jain, managing director, Panacea Biotec.“Over the next four weeks, we are going to develop this vaccine in our labs in Delhi and Punjab and after regulatory toxicology studies and animal pre-clinical studies, we hope to start the phase one human trials by October. By August, we will start the cGMP (current good manufacturing practices) process so that we can start trials in October and thereafter, scale up for Phase 3 trials,” said Jain, who announced the collaboration with Refana Inc on Wednesday.Refana Inc is a US-registered private corporation led by Dr Phillip Schwartz, who is its chief scientific and medical adviser, and also the founder and president of NASDAQ-listed EnteraBio, according to Panacea Biotec.“Trials can happen in any country, today is day zero, we haven’t decided whether it will be in the US and India. By December-January next year, our target is to produce approximately 40-45 million doses and by that time, the phase one results will be out,” he said.The vaccine maker launched the world’s first fully liquid hexavalent vaccine in 2017 called EasySix , which is a six-in-one shot that protects against diptheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, haemophilus influenzae type b, and polio. It is also developing a new tetravalent dengue vaccine that works against all four strains of dengue virus, and pneumococcal conjugate vaccine against childhood pneumonia, among others.Panacea Biotec is the fifth biotech company from India to join global efforts on the development of a vaccine against Covid-19. There are at least 130 vaccines in various stages of development, of which 10 are in advanced stages of development, according to data from the World Health Organisation. Of the 10 vaccines, four are inactivated vaccines, all of which are being developed in China.“Whole inactivated viral vaccines have a higher probability of being safe and efficacious, given their long history and better understanding of their mechanism of action. The intramuscular/sub-cutaneous (injected in the fatty tissue under the skin, instead of a vein) mode of administration makes it easy to use and this vaccine has the potential to become the vaccine of choice for the global fight against Covid-19,” said Jain.“We have a propriety product to inactivate the whole virus and our formulation also carries a propriety adjuvant to address safety issues. Multiple doses will be needed because we are using the whole virus, which has the ability to prevent infection over time. For that to happen, we need to maintain immunogenicity (ability to provide immune response) at a particular level,” said Jain.“Adjuvants, which are substances that enhance the body’s immune response to an invading pathogen, and make lower doses viable, which make them safe without compromising protection. At least a dozen groups are working on adjuvanted vaccines against Covid-19 globally, and some have committed to making licensed adjuvants available for use with novel Covid-19 vaccines developed by others,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research.Since it’s a tried and tested vaccine platform, scalability is not an issue, and neither is transportation and distribution as the vaccine can be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius, according to Jain.After the announcement, the price of Panacea Biotech shares jumped 20% in morning trading on India’s National Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning. Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has three vaccine candidates using two different platforms in the works, including one that uses an existing nasal flu vaccine, and two that use the deactivated rabies vaccine to deliver the Sars-CoV2 genetic material into the body to induce it to produce an immune response.University of Oxford and AstraZeneca’s adenovirus vaccine is in late-stage trials. Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has invested $100 million in a manufacturing facility and is production in two months following its tie-up with UK-based AstraZeneca to mass produce the University of Oxford vaccine for India and other low-and-middle-income countries. “Till the trials are completed successfully for safety and efficacy, vaccines will not be distributed either in India or anywhere else in the world,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India, said on Tuesday.SII also partnered with US biotech firm Codagenix for a vaccine using a weakened virus that doesn’t cause disease, but triggers an immune response, and with Austrian biotech company, Themis Bioscience, for a vaccine that uses the measles virus as a vector to inject an antigen or protein of SARS-CoV-2.Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and India Immunologicals in Hyderabad have also entered partnerships to develop Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-firm-ties-up-with-us-company-to-work-on-vaccine-candidate/story-33ahpQc9MViJYD0QOEXT3L.html
11-06-2020||India||In Karnataka, Congress to approach court over DK Shivakumar’s swearing in||The Karnataka Congress on Wednesday said it would approach the court after the state government, a day earlier, had rejected its request for permission to hold an event for swearing in ceremony of the new Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president. Speaking at a media conference in Bengaluru, DK Shivakumar, the new state Congress president, said that they had taken a verbal approval of the police commissioner for the event which was planned for June 14.“Earlier, it had been postponed twice on May 31 and June 7. We had reserved 7,800 different locations across the state apart from 3,500 other places for Congress workers to participate in the ‘Pratijna Dina’ (oath day). Despite clearly saying that only 150 people will assemble in the KPCC office itself, permission has been denied. I am surprised at the vendetta politics unleashed by CM Yediyurappa,” said Shivakumar.The Congress high command had named Shivakumar as the new chief of the Karnataka unit on March 11 after incumbent Dinesh Gundu Rao resigned in December 2019 taking moral responsibility for the poor show in by-elections. Since then, the Congress has been trying to hold an event for Shivakumar.Pointing out that BJP leaders in the state were participating in events where thousands have participated, Shivakumar questioned why there was no action against them and accused the government of double standards towards the opposition. “BJP leaders in West Bengal and Bihar were holding mega rallies and is the law different for different political parties?” Shivakumar said.Underscoring that he would continue to tour the state and meet people, Shivakumar said his party would explore the legal options available to hold the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-congress-to-approach-court-over-dk-shivakumar-s-swearing-in/story-W65F9K59UI4ukFFYozL8AN.html
11-06-2020||India||Four weeks needed to restore Assam gas well leak; locals fear impact on biodiversity||Oil India Limited’s (OIL) gas well blowout in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district that caught fire on Tuesday afternoon will take around four weeks to be completely restored, according to OIL authorities.On Tuesday, OIL authorities said that the well caught fire while clearing operations were being carried out at the site. “No casualty has been reported. Fire tenders are at the site controlling the spread of fire…there’re violent protests around the well site,” the statement said.OIL has made a request to the chief secretary, Assam, and Tinsukia district administration for maintaining law and order at the site.All OIL and Oil & Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) officials have been evacuated from nearby areas.Experts from Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control, who are currently on a visit to the site, and OIL, ONGC employees will return to the spot after the situation is brought under control.“The situation demands the arrangement of large quantities of water, installation of high discharge pumps, and removal of debris. All the operations as per the Acute Launch Emergency Reliability Tip (ALERT) will take about four weeks,” the statement added. Baghjan, where the gas well blowout took place on May 27 and has been continuously leaking condensed oil and gas, is located adjacent to Dibru Saikhowa National Park; Maguri-Motapung wetlands and forest villages of Barekuri -- a habitat to the endangered Hoolock Gibbon.“We’ve written a letter to the Assam forest department for a report on the situation. Besides, we’ve asked a team from the Wildlife Institute of India, which is posted there for some other projects, to make an assessment and give us a report. The cause of concern is that the gas well is still leaking,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general (wildlife), Union Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC).“The Chief Wildlife Warden Assam, MK Yadava, is slated to visit the spot. We’re awaiting his briefing,” said Sanjay Kumar, director-general (forests), MoEFCC.Local wildlife activists said the biodiversity of the region might be lost, as condensed oil had leaked into several important sites of the landscape.“We’ve seen dead birds on Wednesday morning. A flying squirrel was also found dead. On Tuesday, a Great Pied Hornbill was rescued from the blowout site. The impact on wildlife could be massive,” said Rofikul Islam, a naturalist, who visits the place regularly.“At least 50-60 houses are gutted. Angry villagers are protesting against the OIL authorities. They’ve also fought with some fire control personnel. There is a massive impact on the fragile ecology of the region. The fire has unlikely to have entered Dibru Saikhowa National Park, even though it’s located close to the site. But the village, the grasslands that were already soaked in condensed oil from the blowout and continuous oil leak since May 27 have all caught fire. The impact on wildlife is yet to be assessed because of the raging fire. This is tragic,” said Mridupaban Phukon, a Tinsukia-based student and wildlife activist,“Environmental clearances are often given on the premise that environmental damage will not happen, or if it does happen, it will be mitigated. This spill shows us how there’s little ability to mitigate. The area is part of a biodiversity hotspot and is recorded range of some of India’s most restricted range and endangered birds, such as the White-winged wood duck, the Bengal Florican, and White-bellied heron. The heron is now found mostly in Bhutan, with less than 10 seen in India. These three are the kind of species that have historically been rare. It’s a shame to endanger the few places left on earth for them. We can hardly quantify the damage of an oil spill for aquatic species that live underwater,” said Neha Sinha, a conservation biologist.According to a 2013 site inspection report, regarding oil and gas pipelines in Upper Assam by conservation scientists and former members of National Board for Wildlife, MD Madhusudan and Prerna Singh Bindra, the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Biosphere Reserve meet at the confluence of the Brahmaputra with three of the country’s easternmost rivers — the Siang, Dibang and Lohit.The park shaped by these rivers is spread over 765 square kilometres (sq km), of which 340 sq km form the core and comprise wetlands, alluvial grasslands, riverine forests, swamps, and semi-evergreen forests, including the largest willow swamp forest in north-east India.Dibru-Saikhowa has recorded over 40 mammals, 500 species of birds, 104 fish species, 105 butterfly species, and 680 types of plants. It harbours the tiger, elephant, wild buffalo, leopard, hoolock gibbon, capped langur, slow loris, Gangetic dolphin, besides critically endangered bird species such as the Bengal Florican, White Winged Duck, Greater 8 Adjutant stork, White-rumped vulture, slender-billed vulture as well as the very rare and endemic Black-breasted parrotbill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-gas-well-leak-will-take-4-weeks-to-be-restored-biodiversity-impact-massive-say-locals/story-QcEp1r1sWbbDbtfS4GwG8I.html
11-06-2020||India||Centre tells states to focus on optimal equipment use, tracing as Covid-19 cases rise||Optimal use of hospital beds, ambulances and ventilators and a more aggressive approach towards contact tracing are the need of the hour, the Centre has told the states, as the number of Covid-19 positive cases jumped to 267,000 on Tuesday, officials aware of the situation said.According to officials involved in the Centre-state discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity, central ministries and the cabinet secretariat are in touch with state governments on a daily basis, closely monitoring the emerging situation and providing actionable inputs to the states.During recent interactions, the Centre asked states to sharpen their focus on optimal use of hospital beds because the cases are sharply rising in some parts of the country compared to the availability of beds “There will be rising demand for hospital beds with the rise in number of cases. Some states have a policy to keep people with mild symptoms quarantined at home. We are further underlining that hospital beds, ambulance services and ventilators have to be judiciously used,” said one of the officials cited above.Hospital beds, ambulances and ventilators, according to the official, are also critical to keep the death rate low. “In other words, these critical services should be available in emergency cases. “Earlier, we got reports that some private hospitals in a few states are using ventilators not so judiciously. We asked the states concerned to look into the issue,” the official added.The gradual opening up of the economy and the movement of migrant workers are the key reasons for the rise in the number of Covid-19 case, according to an internal assessment by the Union government.But the officials cited said the revival of the economy and return of workers stranded by the lockdown to their states were also“absolutely essential”.One official also added that as of now there is no major change in the government’s strategy of fighting Covid-19 and the states had been asked to do “more of the same”, or rigorously follow existing guidelines to prevent the spread of the outbreak.The Centre has also asked states to focus more on house-to-house surveys for active cases and contact tracing for identifying Covid-19 cases, especially in congested urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-to-focus-on-optimal-equipment-use-tracing/story-eRZC2b50su8b8mI8CSku9O.html
11-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Green zones largely unaffected, reveal initial findings of survey||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday issued a clarification saying reports that 15-30% population of many containment zones across the country have been exposed to the coronavirus disease , based on its sero (blood) surveys were “speculative” and that “the results were yet to be finalized”.Government officials familiar with some of the initial findings of the survey said on condition of anonymity that the results show the so-called green zones, where there haven’t been too many cases, to be largely unaffected.“You cannot reach an average percentage when all samples are not analysed in a survey. Samples from states such as West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir are yet to be tested. However, whatever has been seen so far is not alarming; it would have been a cause for concern if there were antibodies seen in a significant number of persons residing in areas where there were no cases or very low prevalence of Covid. Fortunately, no such trend has so far been observed,” one of the government officials added. He did not deny reports of 15-30% exposure in containment zones (which basically means the tests showed that 15-30% of the people in these zones had antibodies to the coronavirus disease) but added that the final picture would emerge only after “ ICMR tests and analyses all samples.” That’s still happening said the ICMR spokesperson. “Experts in our Chennai lab are still analysing the data, and the results have not been finalized yet. It’s too early to predict a nation-wide trend conclusively. We go by evidence and not speculation,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson, ICMR.For the survey 24,000 blood samples were collected from 69 districts in 21 states last month.Additionally, about 5,000 samples were specifically picked from 10 cities with a lot of cases: Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-zones-largely-unaffected-reveal-initial-findings-of-survey/story-OzqaBcCTURJr8gtQtbGIuO.html
11-06-2020||India||Highlights: CM Yogi Adityanath on Uttar Pradesh’s strategy to deal with Covid-19 crisis||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday discussed the state’s future strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic in an exclusive interview with Hindustan editor-in-chief Shashi Shekhar. The chief minister lauded PM Narendra Modi’s leadership at the Centre in fighting the pandemic and said that the Centre has given its full cooperation to the state government. Adityanath also launched an attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and sister Priyanka Gandhi over their criticism of the government's handling of the coronavirus crisis and asserted that it was not the time for politics. Here are the highlights from Yogi Adityanath’s interview: -- ‘Will turn India into Italy’: Yogi Adityanath stings Rahul Gandhi over Covid-19 responseYogi Adityanath launched a sharp counter attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and sister Priyanka for their criticism of the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, asserting that if the country listens to them on Covid-19, India will turn into Italy. Yogi Adtiyanath’s barb was a reference to a spike in Covid-19 cases in Italy in the early days of the pandemic. --Yogi Adityanath slams Congress over buses for migrants issueOn Congress’s offer to ferry migrants in 1,000 buses, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday said “it was an ugly joke”.Adityanath accused the Congress of “playing with lives” and reeled of numbers, suggesting that the vehicle details submitted by the Congress showed that they were not actual buses. Upon inspection , the CM said, many turned out to be autorickshaws and other three-wheelers.-- UP fully prepared to deal with Covid-19 pandemic: Yogi Adityanath When the first coronavirus cases was detected in the country, the state had no testing labs and isolation wards, the CM said. However now, “we are fully prepared to deal with the pandemic.”According to the CM, the state at present is conducting 12,000 coronavirus tests every day. By June 15, the UP govt aims to conduct at least 15,000 tests per day and 20,000 by June 20. -- UP CM Yogi Adityanath lauds PM Modi’s efforts in fighting Covid-19 battleUP CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday lauded PM Narendra Modi’s leadership at the Centre in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-on-uttar-pradesh-s-future-strategy-to-deal-with-covid-19-pandemic-highlights/story-M7mmu0GqRApHiiK5O2BIWK.html
11-06-2020||India||The power of social media: Strangers across India connect to help the needy||With the nationwide lockdown imposed in India due to the coronavirus outbreak, the families of daily wage earners, labourers, waiters, taxi and autorickshaw drivers, and others who depend on their everyday earnings for survival have been severely affected.In the corona stricken world, social media is helping people come together to reach out to various organizations pan India and even establish new ones to feed the hungry.Caring Indians, a crowdsourced social initiative has been providing food, PPE kits and masks to residents of Mumbai and Pune. Samarth Sharma of Caring Indians, says, “The need of the hour is to help people. With a significant social media base, my friends and I thought of this initiative.”Sharma, an IIT alumnus, says, “With the lockdown in place, people have been spending a lot of time on social media. Our initiative has been possible only because of social media and my loyal fan base that helped me with spreading the message. Social media in such times has emerged as a big influencer in itself. We managed to feed 35,000 people in a week.” Venapani Seksaria, founder, Shakkar Paara project who has been carrying out relief missions across India, says, “There are people who I haven’t ever met in my life and yet we have become a big family and have forged an unbreakable bond through social media.”Venapani says, “ The Shakkar Paara was an emergency ration project started by the army and i had heard many stories around it during the Kargil war. That inspired the idea behind my project , to distribute shakkar paaras to the hungry, to help them experience satiety and sustain energy. It evolved over time because of feedback from ground, to supply groceries and toiletries to the affected communities. However I retained the name of there project as it’s sweet, comforting and energy giving in these times.”She adds, “Whether social media or word of mouth, it’s transparency and accountability that draws people to contribute to such causes. With people coming out and helping, both financially or on ground, it makes us realise that at least our hearts are in the right place.”Through her project, Venapani wants to feed everyone who is hungry, whether it’s the daily wage workers, labourers, auto-rickshaw pullers or bar dancers in Mumbai. She adds, “We are also distributing groceries and toiletries to all people impacted by the pandemic.”Many NGO’s and self-help groups have used social media to share images of the happy faces, letting people know how even the smallest donations have put a smile on someone’s face. One such group is Roti Bank. Sudhir Behrani, founder, says, “Social media has played a vital role in garnering support for the cause of these migrant workers and daily wage labourers. As ration involves a lot of logistics, we stick to cooked food. The happiness you get by seeing people come together for a noble cause is a different feeling altogether.”Jan Jagriti Foundation has also been helping people with dry ration. Nutan from the foundation says, “Indians are always willing to help. One post from a social media account for help and you have hundreds of people willing to come forward and help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-power-of-social-media-strangers-across-india-connect-to-help-the-needy/story-4SJE2A2j2tCavGD0obMrxM.html
11-06-2020||Today's||Is India’s Covid-19 death rate higher than Italy’s?||The common perception is that the Covid-19 fatality rate in India is probably the lowest in the world. At first glance, it seems broadly valid in the sense that India’s rate, at 2.8% is much lower than, say, Italy’s at 14.3%, and its concurrent cumulative case fatality rate (CCCFR) certainly looks to be much lower than that of many countries, as seen in Figure 1. The CCCFR is the ratio of cumulative deaths to cumulative cases on a given date. Since death, if it occurs, happens days after a case is detected, CCCFR understates the probability of dying, given that one is infected, especially if the number of cases is rising. Ideally, the fatality should be calculated for every cohort, i.e., people grouped by when the infection was detected. But this is difficult to measure and so CCCFR is globally used as a summary measure of deaths due to Covid-19.One can make some adjustment for this by taking the lagged CCFR (LCCFR), which is the ratio of cumulative deaths on a given date to cumulative cases on a prior date (in this case, 15 days earlier). This will increase the CCCFR, by a lot, if cases have been rising rapidly, as in India’s case or a little, if they have stabilised, as in Italy’s case. But even by this measure, India comes out looking good, with India at 5.9% still much below many others, and certainly much below Italy’s 14.9%. However, one of the few certainties about Covid-19 is that it is more likely to be fatal as the age of the infected patient increases. Age-specific CCCFRs are not easy to find, but are now being published, e.g., in Onder, et. al. (2020) for Italy and China. Table 1 presents key numbers from the two countries. In India, we do not have published national age-specific CCFRs, but the government of Maharashtra, in a display of remarkable transparency in the face of the rising impact of the pandemic, provided age-specific cases and deaths from which age specific CCFR could be calculated (the age classes are off by one year, i.e., 31- 40 instead of 30-39, compared to the data for Italy and China) until May 8.India does, however, have the age-specific number of cases for April 30, published in a recent article authored, inter alia, by the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This provides the number of cases in India by the same age-class as the data for Italy and China in Onder, et. al. (2020) and the Chinese Center for Disease Control (CDC). This allows us to estimate the number of deaths that should have occurred in India, if the same age-specific CFRs seen in China and Italy prevailed in India. If the actual number of deaths in India is less than these estimates, then India is doing better than these countries, and vice versa. However, given the fact that China carried out a one-time readjustment of its Covid-19 deaths in mid-April, we use only Italy’s numbers, though the Chinese age-specific CCCFR is provided for comparative information. In Table 1, the critical number is in column (8). This is calculated by multiplying Italy’s age-specific CFR in column (3) to the age-specific number of cases in India in column (7). The estimated numbers of death that should have occurred, if the age-specific death rates of Italy were to prevail in India, is 535. The official number of deaths in India as of April 30 was actually twice that number, at 1074.It is possible to reconcile the fact that India’s CCCFR is lower than Italy’s in Figure 1 with the deaths in India being twice the expected number, if one examines the distribution of cases by age. It can be seen, Figure 2a, that more than half the patients in India and Maharashtra are under 40 years, while Italy (the total case figures are estimated using the CCCFR and the number of deaths) has less than one-seventh of cases in this age group, and 56% in the age group above 60, where India has less than one-seventh. Indian Covid patients are much younger and thus, would have been less likely to die in Italy or China, which, as seen in Table 1, have very low CCCFR for patients below 60.This is seen more clearly in Maharashtra, the only state to release age-specific CCCFR. Maharashtra’s CFR for those below 60 is well over four times higher than Italy, as seen in Figure 2b, even though Italy’s aggregate CFR of 7.2% is much higher than Maharashtra’s 3.8%. If it had Italy’s age-specific CCCFR, Maharashtra would have reduced its deaths by two-thirds and applying Maharashtra’s CCCFR to India would increase the national number of deaths by 50%.The bottom line is our aggregate CFR is low because we have more young patients than other countries who are not expected to die. However, in India, they are dying at a rate much higher than expected, which means that India has a much higher CCCFR than it should given the experience of other countries. Instead of being among the lowest, India’s age-adjusted death rate is actually higher than Italy’s, which, as seen in Figure 1, has among the highest aggregate CCCFRs.Why is this so? Is it because our hospital system is not equipped for managing (there is no consensus on treatment for Covid-19, only supporting the patient, while his or her immune system tries to fight the infection) Covid? Or because we lack facilities like oxygen support, etc. Or because our immune system is compromised by lack of nourishment and bad water and air, or because of numerous comorbidities?It will be difficult to disentangle these factors, but without recognising our problem, we won’t even start asking such questions, and continue to believe we got a lucky break. States can begin this discussion by releasing age-specific CCCFRs in the public domain. ICMR too needs to release age-specific case loads. Only then can we take corrective action in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/is-india-s-covid-19-death-rate-higher-than-italy-s/story-F73TUEHkNkDrgBT6WAeDEM.html
11-06-2020||Editorials||Decoding China’s playbook | HT Editorial||India and China have taken baby steps to end the military standoffs along the Ladakh border. The recent announcements, following military level talks, mean that both countries have pulled back at the three points in or near the Galwan Valley. However, the more egregious Chinese intrusion at Pangong Tso remains unresolved with China in possession of the disputed northern shore of the lake. As long as the status quo in Pangong Tso is not restored, it will be a case of wishful thinking rather than cool-headed calculation to believe the present crisis is entering the home stretch. It is perfectly possible that the Pangong Tso issue could go on for months, if not years. Beijing does not believe territorial disputes are a tea party and it is important that New Delhi does not treat them as such. If anything, any premature celebration on this side of the Line of Actual Control would encourage China to conclude that possession is nine-tenths of surrender. Reducing Indian forces in the region because a few tents have been removed and soldiers walked back a kilometre or two is not advisable. It is China that would like the new alignment to be the status quo and it must not look as if India is acquiescing to the same. Negotiated settlements with India’s northern neighbour must always be backed by firepower and hard-nosed diplomacy. In the iron-gloved world of Chinese foreign policy, an agreement to end a dispute is only a reflection of the power equation at the time, and can be changed without warning if that equation shifts — especially if it moves in Beijing’s favour. “Trust but verify” was the motto of the protracted arms control negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union. It applies in spades, with possibly even less trust, to relations between India and China. The Cold War rivals were both status quo powers by the time they began such talks. India and China are emerging powers with rising economic and military capacities. Their sense of national interest keeps changing as their concerns and capabilities keep expanding. This has been strikingly with China which keeps adding new items to its list of “core interests” — and then expects others to adjust. New Delhi must be cautious about declaring successes, even small ones, until there is clear evidence on the ground that Beijing has converted words into deeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/decoding-china-s-playbook/story-lYsyLlAK1CsD1AW6Suf0rM.html
11-06-2020||Editorials||Reimagining Indian urban landscape | HT Editorial||In an advisory released on Wednesday, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry asked state governments to redesign public spaces so that they are more suited for pedestrians, walkers and cyclers. This push to rehaul the nation’s congested public spaces was sparked by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has demonstrated that overcrowded cities and mass transport systems can lead to galloping infection rates. Pandemics have transformed cities in the past too. The cholera epidemics in the 19th century led to the introduction of modern urban sanitation systems in Europe. In Bengaluru, the idea of the conservancy lane (which separates two rows of houses) and the iron grid layout came up because of the late-1800s plague. Urbanisation in India has been rapid and messy, and the State has often failed to respond to emerging challenges. Covid-19 gives urban planners the opportunity to address them: Make space for walking and cyclers, ensure equitable access to core services (health, education, water); upgrade informal settlements with affordable housing that are climate-sensitive; invest in green spaces and urban forests to improve micro-climate of an area; increase city-regional planning because what affects cities cascades to surrounding areas; and empower urban local bodies administratively and financially to make governance more proactive and effective. Also, urban policy must recognise migrants as a legitimate constituency, with equal entitlement to public provisioning and services.India — with its population, diverse planning needs and competition for limited financial, technological and data resources — will not find this to be easy. But it needs to be done urgently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reimagining-indian-urban-landscape/story-HT9EpNLiAyrStyKXrgfXZI.html
11-06-2020||Editorials||The spread of the pandemic | HT Editorial||India’s battle against the coronavirus disease pandemic has hit a rough spot. Three developments — the surge in cases in the Capital, the sustained increase in Maharashtra, and the spike in cases in six states receiving migrants — point to the challenge at hand. India’s biggest cities, its most densely-populated states, and its northern rural hinterland are simultaneously seeing the spread of the pandemic, and they don’t seem equipped to deal with it. First, take the situation in the Capital. It has a little over 31,000 cases, but as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal outlined on Wednesday, the city may see 532,000 cases by the end of July, and will need 80,000 beds. He claimed that since the city’s hospitals will also be open to those from outside, the requirement for beds could be closer to 150,000. For context, the city has a little over 9,000 beds. This means the Capital has to ensure a 15-fold jump in the availability of beds — which, in turn, will also require additional health care personnel, personal protective equipment, and oxygen and ventilator support. This surge is happening at a time when testing has reduced, although this can be remedied. Two, on Tuesday, Maharashtra crossed 90,000 cases, with Mumbai having more than 50,000 cases. It was also the ninth straight day when the state recorded more than 100 deaths in a day. While authorities expect the curve to begin flattening in the state by the end of June, new clusters are emerging. With Unlock 1.0 in force, there is an even higher possibility of the spread of the disease. And finally, as a data-based analysis in this newspaper showed, six states — Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — have seen a spike in cases. They contributed 8% of the cases nationally in the first week of May; this jumped to 16% between June 2 and June 8. They accounted for 10% of the deaths in the same period in June. All these states have also been receiving migrant workers. They also have relatively poor health infrastructure. A state of the size of Uttar Pradesh has just 31 testing labs. The number of cases is still relatively low, compared to the rest of the country, but the pattern is clear. All of this indicates that while governments must keep an eye on reviving the economy, they must not let the focus dissipate from the health challenge. There is no quick fix, except following the science protocol laid out — test, trace, isolate, treat. Then rinse, and repeat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-spread-of-the-pandemic/story-DH3dhqEFQCKnrbFwQnAuNL.html
