16-06-2020||News||India is key to the global battle against Covid-19||I was last in India in November. Back then, my meetings were about subjects such as financial services, rural poverty, and philanthropy. No one even mentioned the word “pandemic”. Just six months on, there is now talk of little else, with the world rocked by a disease, causing human, economic, and social misery on a scale most of us have not experienced in our lifetimes.As Bill Gates shared with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, India’s response to Covid-19 to date is encouraging. The actions taken so far have kept the loss of life and livelihoods well below those experienced in countries in Europe and the United States (US). Our foundation is supporting this national response with technical assistance, digital tools, training for health care workers, and other programmes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But like every other country in the world, India’s weapons against the virus are mainly limited to measures such as physical distancing, closing shops, stay-at-home orders, and suspending travel. That’s because there are no drugs to treat the disease, and no vaccine to stop people catching it in the first place.The good news is that India is also responding to this global challenge. And the genius of its scientists, inventors and engineers,the capacity of its drug-manufacturers, its ability to meet the highest safety standards for medicines, and culture of collaboration put it at the forefront of the race to rescue the world from this pandemic.Ultimately, beating Covid-19 will take innovation to get the solutions we need; equity to ensure they are affordable, available and accessible to everyone who needs them; and global cooperation because this is a challenge too immense for one country or one company to go it alone. Just consider what India has already accomplished on these fronts, and it’s clear that this is its moment to lead.When it comes to innovation, India is already a significant player in global health research and development. Thanks to vaccines developed by Indian companies, including Serum Institute, BioE, and Bharat Biotech,who our foundation has partnered with, fewer children around the world than ever before are dying from diseases such as measles, pneumonia and rotavirus. This expertise gives India’s vaccines industry a significant advantage in developing cost-effective, quality-assured vaccines as it turns its attention to Covid-19. Today, Indian companies have 30 potential vaccines in their pipelines, with several of the most promising backed by government funding. Our foundation is partnering with the department of biotechnology, the Indian Council of Medical Research, and the office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to provide insights from our global research and development work that might inform India’s vaccine development efforts.And it’s not just vaccines. India already manufactures many anti-viral drugs that could be re-purposed and scaled-up for use in mild cases of Covid-19. Our foundation is also working with Indian pharma companies to look at the potential of transferring production techniques for drugs created by US pharmaceutical giants to Indian plants for manufacturing and global supply. Then there is the issue of equity. With an ability to not only develop vaccines and medicines but a proven track record to manufacture them to a high standard, in high volumes and at low cost, India is critical to saving millions of lives in the poorest countries.Beyond vaccines and treatment, India can offer unique solutions for the world. For example, the rapid development and deployment of affordable diagnostics and medical devices from basic test kits to ventilators and high-end medical equipment that are particularly suited for use in rural and remote villages with no electricity or regular power supply.There is also a clear role for advanced technologies such as Artificial Intelligence to enhance diagnosis and contact tracing. Indian start-ups have been successfully piloting such efforts for a while, and these technologies could be crucial for frontline workers, especially where there is an acute shortage of doctors, radiologists, and other specialists.Finally, on global collaboration, India has seen excellent results through cooperation with several international organisations, private companies, public sector research institutes, and academia. The rotavirus vaccine, ROTAVAC, for example, is a joint venture involving the Indian government, Bharat Biotech, the international non-profit PATH, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and others. If there is a breakthrough in the global efforts on Covid-19 research and development, Indian manufacturers have demonstrated the collaboration necessary to manufacture large quantities of cost-effective vaccines to deliver to a waiting world.India — along with our foundation — is also a founding-member of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness (CEPI), which is overseeing a global effort towards a Covid-19 vaccine. And the country also has a role to play with multilateral endeavours which are critical to consign this virus to the history books.The time is right for India to play a leading role in the fight against Covid-19. It has all the capability and capacity needed to do it. And as someone who has seen its remarkable transformation over more than a decade, I am more convinced than anyone of India’s strengths and potential. Now we need to make full use of them.The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation stands ready as a partner to help India find a global solution to this global crisis.Mark Suzman is chief executive officer, Bill & Melinda Gates FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-key-to-the-global-battle-against-covid-19/story-fTjPSTIXhX3FocdsTsI3QJ.html
16-06-2020||News||For tourism, here is an Incredible India 2.0 plan||The coronavirus pandemic has impacted every sector, but perhaps, the travel, tourism and hospitality sectors have been most affected. Which is why, with the proper compliances, safety and sanitisation measures, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for responsible reopening being issued, these sectors should now resume. The time for recovery is around the corner. In his Independence Day speech last year, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi emphasised the importance of making India a global hub for tourism, urging each citizen to visit 15 tourist destinations in India by 2022. With an inward focus on travel, we must convert this into an opportunity and advance our domestic tourism and hospitality sectors. Travel, tourism, and hospitality have an immense multiplier effect on the economy. These are sectors that can exponentially create jobs, and India needs high-quality job creation now. Travel and tourism has employed more than 42 million people in India or accounted approximately for 8.1% of the total employment opportunities. Last year, it contributed 9.3% to India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and received 5.9% of total investments. It can accelerate the path to 9-10% annual growth and add millions of high-quality jobs each year. This is necessary, given that 72% of India’s population is below 32 years, and the average age is 29. Tourism is the perfect fit for the future generation.India is ranked third in the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC)’s Travel and Tourism Power Ranking, which assesses 185 countries on the basis of four key sector ingredients: Total travel and tourism GDP, foreign visitor spending, domestic spending, and travel and tourism capital investment. India is now ranked behind only China and the United States (US). The World Economic Forum conducts a biennial study across 14 vital parameters, and India has improved by 12 places over the last two years, now ranking 40th out of 136 countries in terms of travel and tourism competitiveness. This is encouraging and makes the sector an essential cog to the New India growth story. The sector is relatively untapped. An added aspect of the travel and tourism sector is that not only does the sector provide high-quality jobs and countless synergies, it also enhances investment into India, accelerates development, and showcases India’s unique treasures.Systematic tourism promotion campaigns will be important in the near future. There are two that I have helmed, which brought the spotlight on India’s attraction for tourists. Incredible India and God’s Own Country blended potential with awareness, allowing Indian entrepreneurs, global entities, domestic and foreign tourists, and the government machinery to work together and accelerate growth in the sector. A domestic-focused Incredible India 2.0 that showcases what the nation offers to Indians could be the post-pandemic plan for the sector. India, after all, has amazing diversity, from 38 Unesco World Heritage sites to the Himalayas to pristine beaches, and plenty of other natural assets. Besides that, India’s achievement in tiger population conservation has led to a rise in the tiger population to 2,967 in 2018 from 2,226 in 2014. This is an increase of 741 tigers or nearly 25%, making India home to around 70% of the world’s tiger population. Prior to the pandemic, work on transportation to allow access to many of India’s hidden treasures was paying off. The UDAN scheme has been a huge success, and now the government can focus on the earlier plans of launching 100 tourism-oriented trains. Also adding to the ease of access is the work that has been done on highways, roads, and ports, highlighted by the Bharatmala and Sagarmala projects. There has also been work done to enhance airport capacity and expand regional connectivity. The Airports Authority of India has estimated capital spending targets of more than ~20,000 crore by 2022, and more than 70 regional airports that are under-utilised will be developed. The Holistic Island Development plan is an ambitious policy directive focusing on the Andaman & Nicobar (A&N) and Lakshadweep Islands. It addresses tourism-based projects that automatically create jobs for the islanders, and enhance connectivity through key infrastructure projects. Until the pandemic, the restaurant industry was a dynamic sector. Expect to see them rebound, starting with Unlock 1.0, with delivery services such as Zomato and Swiggy having been involved in essential goods deliveries and maintaining the supply chain for food delivery throughout the lockdown. India has recently become a major player in the culinary ecosystem, making restaurants a ~4,25,000 crore market. They create millions of jobs and have a massive multiplier impact as well. Travel and tourism will be the key driver for high-quality employment and unparalleled sustainable growth for the next 30 years. Despite challenges, as we responsibly reopen, the opportunities for the sector to help growth will continue to increase, and the domestic demand will help build confidence in the sector’s revival. The pandemic has only altered the progress, not stopped it. A responsible and phased recovery is imminent, and there is no better time for it than now. The positive impact of the sector will span all the downstream and upstream benefits that accompany growth in this sector. This has the potential to become the biggest job creator for India. Amitabh Kant is CEO, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-tourism-here-is-an-incredible-india-2-0-plan/story-Nu3zhLsyeFzjEW1FK4QUpK.html
16-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan lifts curbs on interstate movement as Covid-19 situation improves||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday restored free interstate movement, revoking its week-old order as the number of new Covid-19 cases stabilised in the state. The state had ‘regulated’ interstate movement  on June 10 after a sudden spike in coronavirus infections, banning travel outside Rajasthan without a pass or entry without a No Objection Certificate. The arrangement had been put in place for a week. The home department issued new guidelines on Tuesday that said that passes or NOCs were no longer needed for interstate travel.“There will no longer be any requirement for any person to obtain a pass or NOC for the purpose of entry or exit into or out of Rajasthan,” the order said.In directions issued to all district collectors, superintendents of police (SP) and commissioners of police (Jaipur and Jodhpur), additional chief secretary, home, Rajeeva Swarup said in the order, “Keeping in view the situation that the position in regard to daily new Covid-19 positive cases has now stabilised, that the recovery rate in the state has improved to being among the best in the country, and the fact that the regulations imposed on inter-state movement of persons is causing difficulty to the people, the conditions imposed on the entry and exit of people in and out of the state are removed with immediate effects.”The order, however, added that everyone coming in or leaving Rajasthan shall be screened at the entry and exit points.“Free movement of people in and out of the state is restored subject to the condition that all persons entering and exiting the state shall be screened at the point of entry and exit, respectively. The check posts setup be continued for the purpose of screening,” it said. The western state reported 235 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 13,216, as per the state health department , news agency PTI reports. Seven more deaths from the disease , taking the toll to 308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-lifts-curbs-on-interstate-movement-as-covid-19-situation-improves/story-qWaoC73LFIjKHuAQbcfy5I.html
16-06-2020||City||60-year-old dies after being denied admission by Ghaziabad hospitals||A 60-year-old man, who had recently retired as a senior technician from the Indian Railways, died on Tuesday after allegedly being denied treatment by three private hospitals and one government hospital in Ghaziabad. The family of the deceased, who was a resident of Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad, has, however, filed a complaint with the district magistrate (DM) against two private hospitals only.The deceased, Umesh Kumar Sharma, who had retired on May 31, had complained of severe breathlessness on June 14, his family said, adding that he was first taken to a local nursing home where the doctors advised the family to get him admitted at a hospital.“On June 14, we took him to Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi where he was kept in the emergency ward, but later the hospital denied him admission and said that the patient had symptoms of coronavirus (Covid-19). We requested them to keep the patient overnight, but they refused to give treatment and asked us to go to a Railway Hospital. We then brought him home. The next day, we again went to a government acquired Covid hospital in Nandgram and a private hospital in Kavi Nagar and he was denied admission at both places,” said Jitesh Sharma, nephew of the deceased.He said that on June 15 morning they took him to Columbia Asia hospital in Kavi Nagar. “There he was kept in the emergency ward for some time, but they also denied him admission. Then we rushed him to the MMG Hospital, but he collapsed there,” Jitesh said. Despite being denied treatment at four places, the family has so far submitted a complaint against Yashoda Hospital and Columbia Asia Hospitals to the DM. “The two hospitals, Yashoda and Columbia Asia, could have admitted my uncle and treated him. We have submitted a written complaint at the DM’s office, and demand that an explanation should be sought from the two hospitals. We don’t want that such incidents should be repeated with anyone else,” the nephew said.Officials of Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi denied laxity on their part.“The family’s allegation that the deceased was not given proper treatment is incorrect. The patient was given treatment in the emergency ward and was stabilized. He had typical Covid-19 symptoms. Since our isolation ward was full, we could not admit him there. The record of the occupancy of the isolation ward has also been submitted to the office of chief medical officer (CMO). We referred him to Northern Railway hospital in Delhi and it was the family’s decision to not take him there,” said Dr Sunil Dagar, spokesperson, Yashoda hospital.The Columbia Asia hospital authorities said they did not find any records of the patient at their hospital. “We have gone through our records and to the best of our knowledge, no patient named Umesh Sharma was registered on June 14 or June 15 at Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad,” said a hospital spokesperson.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said the complaint given by the family to the DM will be routed to his office.“Once we get a copy of the complaint we will initiate a detailed inquiry in the matter and explanations will be sought from all hospitals. Thereafter, a due course of action will be decided. If laxity on the part of a government acquired hospital surfaces, then action will be taken against it as well,” he added.Earlier in June, a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Khoda in Ghaziabad after she was allegedly denied treatment by at least eight government and private hospitals in Noida and Ghaziabad due to non-availability of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-dies-after-being-denied-admission-by-ghaziabad-hospitals/story-fKDNLj9QUb0ycu3fiFUTnJ.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Juvenile Justice Board asks police commissioner to investigate encounter involving a ‘minor’||The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) on Monday wrote to the Noida commissioner of police to investigate an alleged encounter by Phase 2 police on June 14 involving a 17-year-old boy. The Noida police, however, said the suspect is not a minor and is 19-year-old. They added the age difference was caused by a discrepancy in his identity card. According to a statement released by the police department on June 15, the Phase 2 police had arrested two suspected robbers, including the boy, following an encounter on Sunday which had left the two injured. Police officers had said the duo had allegedly stolen an e-rickshaw from a man at gunpoint. They added that the two were arrested after being chased by a police team after the alleged robbery. The two had fired at the team and were injured in the retaliatory firing, the police added. The boy had received injuries on his right leg.The two had been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The boy was produced before the JJB on Monday and was sent to judicial custody.In an order passed by JJB member Aneet Bhagel on June 15, a copy of which is with HT, the boy will be kept in judicial custody till June 26, while the commissioner of police has been directed to have the matter investigated by a gazetted officer and present the findings to the board.The police department has denied the boy was a minor. “The official medical report has put his age at 19 years and he is not a minor. There was a discrepancy with his ID card,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/juvenile-justice-board-asks-police-commissioner-to-investigate-encounter-involving-a-minor/story-0XC9qF9tVQDBPCqhV8aMZI.html
16-06-2020||City||Noida: Stamp and registration department generates just 16% revenue in May||Noida: The Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the earnings of the stamp and registration department of Gautam Budh Nagar. The department in May managed to generate only 16% revenue in stamp duty and property registration compared to that of March, officials said on Tuesday.After a gap of over a month, the property registration restarted in the district on May 4. According to the officials, those who want to get the registry of property done are given a fixed time slots based on the appointment acquired through telephone.During the 26 days of May, the total revenue generated was Rs 20 crore, against about Rs 125 crore in 24 days of March, the officials said, adding that the department, on average, earns a revenue of Rs 150 crore per month in normal days. The collection for the month of February was also around Rs 125 crore, the officials said.Notably, the registration of property is a major source of income for the state government. The officials said that while commercial property registrations were negligible, only 2,500 registrations could be done from May 4 to June 15. This is a meagre number considering that the department usually does about 15,000 registrations in a month, they said. “Total revenue generated till date (from May 4 to June 15) is Rs 30 crore, which is very less considering the amount generated in a month’s time before the lockdown. Of the total revenue generated during the said period, most have come from the rural areas. The registration of apartments and commercial property is almost nil,” said SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general (registration), Gautam Budh Nagar.“The main reason is the Covid-19 pandemic. People are very cautious, and are not making any investment. Only those in need are selling or buying property,” he added.Tripathi said that most of the registrations were of agriculture properties from areas like Dadri and Jewar.There are six registration offices in the district, of which three are in Noida, and one each in Greater Noida, Dadri and Jewar.“In normal days, the number of total registrations is at least 500 per day in the district, which has now shrunk to 100 to 120 a day. The property business is really poor due to the ongoing pandemic,” said Pradeep Asthana, senior registrar, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-stamp-and-registration-department-generates-just-16-revenue-in-may/story-VVDJDDyjSd4HlWlAoKqTDM.html
16-06-2020||City||Noida to spend Rs 88.10 crore on horticulture activities||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Tuesday said it had awarded tenders worth R 88.10 crore for the development of various horticulture projects proposed for the financial year 2020-21 but were delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The budget has been earmarked for 267 different works, including the development and maintenance of green spaces, including parks, green belts along roads and plantations at suitable sites, officials said.“The move will help to make Noida green, clean and beautiful. The Rs 88.10 crore will be spent on new developmental work, maintenance of existing green areas and plantation of trees. We will carry out developmental work and maintenance of green areas in both villages and sectors so that we can make the city a better place to live in,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Noida is spread across 20,000 hectares on the agricultural land of 81 villages.The authority had in April decided to complete all tender and selection-related formalities in May so that work can begin on ground in June. The authority wants to start with horticulture because plantation of saplings and developmental work in parks in the coming rainy season will prove to be more productive, officials said. The authority said that the money will help vendors and contractors engage daily wage workers, who were left jobless due to the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 24 to prevent the spread of Covid 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-to-spend-rs-88-10-crore-on-horticulture-activities/story-TWSwpijL0YhQa32k31apmN.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Noida earned ₹300 crore from allotting industrial plots amid lockdown||The Noida authority has earned a revenue of at least ₹300 crore by allotting nine industrial plots to different companies since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. The authority officials said the opening of industrial units at the nine plots is expected to create over 5,500 jobs over the next two years.The authority had started the online land allotment scheme in the first week of April to generate revenue and boost business activities in the city that had taken a hit amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, said officials. The move was also aimed at creating jobs for those who were left out of work amid the lockdown, they added.“To encourage industrialisation in Noida, we have allotted nine industrial plots to firms in different sectors along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.With these allotments, we will get a total of ₹300 crore in revenues and the city will get around ₹870 crore in investment. The firms will create over 5,600 jobs in the next two years,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer, Noida authority. The authority has allotted the industrial plots to firms that make gas meters, sewing equipment, readymade garments, packaging material, and spices among other products. The authority has allotted industrial plots in sectors 151, 155, and 158 located along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The allotment letters were given to the firms on Monday. The authority has allotted a total of 212,745.68 square meters land to the nine firms, said, officials.The Noida authority had conducted interviews via video conferencing for finalising the firms, while giving options for face-to-face interviews between May 28, 2020 and June 4, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-earned-300-crore-from-allotting-industrial-plots-amid-lockdown/story-HoyCx0fqAxW4HTtFT5IkRO.html
16-06-2020||Noida||GB Nagar health officials asked to chalk out plan to control Covid-19 surge||The nodal officer appointed by the state government to take stock of the Covid-19 containment measures in Gautam Budh Nagar district on Tuesday asked the district officials to focus on bringing down the rate at which the infections are rising since June 1.According to the district’s health department data, out of the 1,038 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported till June 15, as many as 615 cases were reported since June 1 alone. As the cases surge, the district also has the highest number of cases compared to other districts in the state. A total of 14,598 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Uttar Pradesh so far.Appointed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday, Dr Jiledar Rawat, a neonatal surgeon at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, has been assigned to accelerate and monitor efforts by the health department in breaking the chain of infection and combatting the coronavirus spread in Gautam Budh Nagar.During a meeting with district health officials on Tuesday, Dr Rawat directed them to identify the major factors contributing to the recent spike in the number of infections. “He has also asked us to analyse the surge in positive cases and identify the areas, where infections are increasing at higher rates. He also discussed the control measures taken in the containment zones. Dr Rawat will soon submit his report to the superior officers in the matter,” Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar.  The district has as many as 163 category 1 containment zones and 123 category 2 containment zones. Of these, 30 areas were declared containment zones in June. Areas in containment zone category 1 have one positive case and a perimeter of over 400 metres, while category 2 containment zones have more than one positive case and a 1km perimeter.The CMO added that Dr Rawat has asked all the health officials to focus on systematic surveillance system and speed up the setting up of required infrastructure to tackle the rising numbers. “He also took stock of the surveillance system and management of different Covid-dedicated government and private hospitals in the district. We also gave him a comprehensive report on Covid-19 cases in the district,” said Dr Ohri.Apart from Gautam Budh Nagar, the chief minister has appointed nodal officers to monitor Covid-19 cases in as many as 10 other districts in the state, including Ghaziabad, Agra, Meerut, Kanpur City, Aligarh, Moradabad, Firozabad, Bulandshahr, Jhansi and Basti.Meanwhile, the CMO also said all the suspected Covid-19 patients in the GB Nagar will be tested in laboratories in the district itself even if they are not permanent residents here. “As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol, even the persons belonging to other districts and states will not be prohibited from being tested for Covid-19 here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-health-officials-asked-to-chalk-out-plan-to-control-covid-19-surge/story-hPZnjZn2JrMw8sRDiukxeN.html
16-06-2020||City||Recovery rate of minors is very high, says Ghaziabad health dept||While cases of Covid-19 and deaths associated with the disease are on the rise in Ghaziabad district, the health department officials said there was cause for some good cheer -- minors afflicted by the infection have responded well to treatment and many of them have already recovered from the coronavirus disease. The officials of the district health department said none of the minors who contracted the virus needed to be shifted to L2 or L3 category hospitals, where only serious or critical cases are treated.According to officials, 22 minors have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in the district, and a majority of them have recovered while the rest are undergoing treatment at the L1 Covid hospital in Sahibabad. The youngest of them was a newborn while the oldest are about 17 years of age.“The recovery rate of minor children is very high, maybe because they have higher immunity levels. Most of them responded well to treatment at L1 hospitals. In contrast, the aged -- in the age group of 40 years to over 60 years -- make up most of the fatalities. These included people with pre-existing health conditions that got aggravated due to Covid-19,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.“As far as minors are concerned, we have no instance of a minor going into a critical state so far. Most of these children acquired the infection from their immediate family members or relatives,” Dr Gupta said.According to the officials of the L1 Covid hospital at Sahibabad, only four minors are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital.“The four children are recovering fast and responding well to treatment. Their recovery rate is high and this is very encouraging,” Dr Pramod Kumar, medical superintendent of the Sahibabad hospital, said.“My wife along with my newborn twin daughters was admitted to a L2 hospital in Sanjay Nagar, after my wife tested . positive for Covid-19. The newborns stayed with the mother. After a couple of days, I brought home one of the twins while the other remained with her mother at the hospital. They got discharged on May 3. Both of my daughters are safe and did not contract the infection,” 30-year-old resident of Siddharth Vihar, not wishing to be named, said.The tally of Covid-19 positive patients stood at 638 as on June 15.According to official estimates, the age group of 0-20 years is the least affected in the district with only 9% of total the cases falling into this category. The age group of 21-40 years accounts for 49% of all cases. The age group of 41-60 years accounts for 31% of cases, while those over 60 years of age chalk up the remaining 11% cases.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that Covid beds in the districts under the Meerut division of western Uttar Pradesh be doubled.“The NCR areas are highly sensitive in terms of higher number of Covid-19 cases and Adityanath has directed that the beds capacity of all hospitals be doubled to deal with a further escalation in cases. The district magistrates and police have been asked to take all steps to contain the infection,” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovery-rate-of-minors-is-very-high-says-ghaziabad-health-dept/story-tZ3VJWmsqzMv9ZSOTvgUwI.html
16-06-2020||City||Relief for 10 lakh residents as sector curbs lifted from Vaishali, Khoda and Loni||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad district administration on Tuesday decided to do away with its sector scheme implemented in areas of Vaishali, Khoda and Loni. District officials said that the scheme will now be applicable only to the containment zones in these areas.The move comes as a big relief to about 10 lakh people living in these areas as their movements had been restricted due to the sector scheme which was implemented in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. “Earlier the sector scheme was implemented for entire Vaishali, but now it will be applicable only in containment zones. We have done this as part of guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government, and will be applicable for Khoda and Loni too,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.On June 12, the Supreme Court, hearing a petition on sector scheme, had directed that the Ghaziabad district magistrate should ensure that central guidelines are followed. Mohammad Fuzail Khan, the petitioner and a Vaishali resident, had moved the apex court with two contentions – removal of sealing of his high-rise, Gateway Tower, and scrapping of the sector scheme. Khoda, Loni and Vaishali had been placed under the sector scheme since May 10, May 27 and June 1, respectively, and entire periphery of the localities were barricaded with restriction on the movement of residents.“The localities of Vaishali and Kaushambi have about 10-12 containment zones. The sector scheme will now be applicable only for specific areas in Vaishali,” said Aditya Prajapati, sub divisional magistrate and incident commander for Vaishali.“Now, the barricaded entry/exit points will also be opened up while the local police will take a call with respect to traffic and crime situation,” he added.Ajay Kumar Singh, SHO of Kaushambi police station, said that out of six routes in Vaishali, three have been opened up. A part of Vaishali comes under the Kaushambi police jurisdiction.“A call will be taken up for other routes in coming days. The three routes opened so far include the route near Max Hospital which leads to UP Gate (Delhi-Ghaziabad border). This will benefit Vaishali residents who wish to go to Delhi,” the SHO said.Meanwhile, officials of Khoda Nagar Palika said that they have also opened up 10 routes. After Khoda was sealed on May 10, the officials had barricaded 50 out of 52 entry/exit points.“The routes which have been opened up include five towards Noida, four towards NH-9 and one towards Delhi. More routes will be opened up once we receive further directions,” said KK Bhadana, executive officer, Khoda Nagar Palika.On June 11, a day before the hearing at the Supreme Court, the district officials had announced relaxations and directed opening of markets in Khoda and Vaishali. The markets in Vaishali and 15 markets in Khoda were directed to be opened as per previous directions for opening on alternate days.“Through our petition, we have been trying to say that restriction should be in place in containment zones and not in other areas. If the administration has finally taken a decision, it will bring relief to many residents in the three localities,” said Khan, the petitioner. Meanwhile, Manoj Goel, councillor from Vaishali Setcor 1 and Kaushambi, said that he had met the Ghaziabad district magistrate on Monday and held discussions about the sector scheme. “The DM had directed for relaxations in the sector scheme and asked the sub divisional magistrate to open up Vaishali locality. The routes are also opening up and we expect that more relaxations will be given soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relief-for-10-lakh-residents-as-sector-curbs-lifted-from-vaishali-khoda-and-loni/story-x6KfE3HnrUcSUdO72nt25H.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||MCG to formulate water bills based on property tax records||Using property tax records as a reference, the water supply division of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is working towards formulating water bills for nearly 3.3 lakh residents across the city. While the water supply division only has records of 67,000 water connections in the city, the MCG’s tax branch has a record of 3.97 lakh buildings on which it levies property tax annually.Amit Sandilya, an executive engineer in the water supply division, said that the department is now using details mentioned in property tax records such as the size of the building, exact address, and the name of the taxpayer to generate water connection bills and issue them to 3.3 lakh residents, for the first time, starting next month. “We have procured details from the tax branch and have started working towards generating fresh water connection bills for the first time for more than 3 lakh residents in the city. This will not only help increase the cash reserves of the MCG but also help us keep a check on illegal water connections,” Sandilya said.Since January 2018, the MCG has started taking over the responsibility of providing water connections within residential sectors from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). During the same time, MCG also took over 37 HSVP sectors.In May last year, MCG, HSVP, and the Haryana government had a meeting regarding the situation of water connections in the city. Even though the MCG was providing connections to about 67,000 registered residents, water bills were being paid to HSVP. The Haryana government subsequently directed HSVP to transfer all data and relevant details of the registered water connections to MCG.As per MCG officials, water is charged at a flat rate in the city—the first 20 kilolitres are charged at ₹8 per kilolitre and for every kilolitre thereafter the charges are ₹10 per kilolitre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-formulate-water-bills-based-on-property-tax-records/story-nUkeqkS3kzppakTog8nUtL.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||Lack of public transport options hassles office-goers||A lack of public transport options and lockdown restrictions amid a spike in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has made it increasingly difficult for people—mostly office-goers from the city’s neighbouring districts—to commute to work. At key junctions on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, such as Iffco Chowk and Shankar Chowk, where private shared cabs and buses used to swarm before the lockdown, only a few shared cabs now operate. Commuters say that the limited number of passengers they carry to adhere to norms of social distancing further adds to the hassle.At Iffco chowk on Monday evening, Sanjeev Kumar, 45, a private company worker, approached at least five cabs for a drop to Mahipalpur in Delhi, eventually opting to wait. “Since fewer cabs are available, the route varies. Earlier, one could get a cab to Delhi from here in five minutes. I have been waiting for an hour. The cabs are also fleecing customers, charging anything between ₹100 to ₹150 for a drop to Mahipalpur against the earlier fare of ₹30 to ₹40. I cannot afford to take an Ola or an Uber every day and other options like buses and the Metro are restricted,” Kumar said.Kumar was among a dozen commuters at the junction, who haggled with drivers of several private cabs, and on occasion, asked for a lift from private vehicles.“I have been travelling from Mayapuri in Delhi to Manesar daily for the past seven years for work. I rely on shared cabs along the highway as they are cheap and convenient. Since I joined work last week, the waiting time at the junction has increased. Also, we are apprehensive about sitting in a crowded cab due to the fear of the infection. But the cab drivers also want to fill all the seats. So, it is a problem,” Nishant Yadav, who works as a supervisor in a factory in Manesar, said. Shankar Chowk, another major junction which serves as a transit point for people to commute to the city from Delhi, Faridabad, Nuh, Palwal, Sohna, also witnessed a similar wait for cabs on Tuesday morning. A crowd of about 30 people stood in close quarters, with little social distancing, waiting for a ride to their respective workplaces. “It is relatively easier to get a commute in the morning but one has to pay more and wait for a few minutes since cabs are limited. Due to fewer options, people leave for work earlier in the evening. After 7pm, there are hardly any cabs. Autorickshaws are not ideal for long distances across borders,” Brajesh Mishra, an accountant from Sohna, said.HT had earlier reported that as the government eased the lockdown restrictions, criminals started targeting commuters along these junctions by robbing them after offering shared cab rides. At least three incidents of snatching were reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lack-of-public-transport-options-hassles-office-goers/story-j8fFgic25ZlCWnvikITrUL.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||City RWAs gear up to fight Covid-19; build isolation centres||With the number of Covid-19 cases breaching the 3,000-mark last week, several residents’ welfare association (RWAs) across the city have started establishing isolation centres of their own. Gurugram alone accounts for 41% of the Covid-19 burden of the state. Over 7,722 cases have been reported in the state so far, out of which Gurugram accounts for 3,477 cases. Of these 3,477 cases, at least 1,664 are still active in nature. As per an estimate made by Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital and ventilator management, if the number of cases increases to almost a lakh in August, then the city would require at least 37,000 beds and more than 2,000 ventilators.  In an official release by the administration on Tuesday, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri sought the cooperation for increasing the number of isolation centres in the city. “RWAs and gram panchayats are being approached to make a list of suitable places in their areas, where patients can isolated. RWAs have been asked to make isolation centres in their respective areas so that asymptomatic patients can be kept at these centres. By doing so, the spread of virus can be checked,” said Khatri.Khatri added that isolation centres in both urban and rural areas are being mapped and medical officers will be assigned to each of them so that they can regularly monitor the health of the patients who are kept in isolation centres. “If the health of a person in an isolation centre worsens and he or she needs to be admitted to a hospital, then arrangements can be immediately made after consulting with the associated medical officer,” said Khatri.Khatri specified that most Covid-19 cases in the city are asymptomatic in nature and that the administration, along with the health department, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), and the Gurugram Police, are coordinating and conducting an area-wise mapping of Covid-19 infected patients. A few of the RWAs in the city have already started making arrangements in this regard. The RWA of DLF Phase-2, for instance, has designated eight guest houses in their area that can accommodate more than 60 people. The RWA is also taking the help of private hospitals and clinics to procure medical supplies, such as oxygen cylinders, nursing staff, masks, gloves, and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. “We want to provide residents with an alternative option for isolating themselves if they contract the disease. Eight guest house owners in DLF Phase -2 have already come forward and we are also in the process of arranging the necessary medical equipment. We are expecting to have operational isolation centres in another two weeks,” said Gaurav Wahi, president of DLF Phase 2, RWA.At the Tulip Violet society in Sector 69, the RWA has reserved one vacant apartment as an isolation centre, which can accommodate eight people. The association is also looking to identify one more apartment for the same purpose.“Our first isolation centre will become operational from Saturday onwards. The builder has allowed us to use a four-bedroom vacant apartment as an isolation centre, while one of the residents who owns a furniture shop has arranged for eight beds. In addition, we have also managed to arrange for medical supplies from a private clinic,” said Puneet Goyal, president of Tulip Violet RWA. Goyal further said that the RWA is also speaking with the district administration for information on government-sanctioned medical clinics and hospitals through which they can purchase the necessary equipment and arrange for checkups for infected patients.The RWA is also looking to arrange for one more apartment in the condominium for isolation.At the Godrej Summit society in Sector 104, residents have tied up with a charitable hospital and established an isolation centre at a building in the society that was earlier reserved for creating a playschool. The isolation centre is due to become operational on Sunday.“Residents wanted to create a separate isolation centre within the condominium so that senior citizens, children, or other vulnerable residents can be immediately be quarantined. Presently, we have reserved four beds at the centre and can increase the capacity to 20,” said Bajrang Jain, a resident. Jain added that one of the residents who owns a charitable hospital in Sector 4 has arranged all the necessary medical equipment and has also promised to provide nursing staff and doctors if required. In DLF Phase-1, the RWA is also looking at establishing their community centre as an isolation centre. However, they are waiting for approval from residents living in its vicinity for approval. “We have identified a community centre in Block-F that can accommodate more than 35 people. Residents living next to the community centre have voiced some reservations on the matter. We will go ahead after we sort out the matter with them,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, DLF Qutub Enclave RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-rwas-gear-up-to-fight-covid-19-build-isolation-centres/story-xhCzeiyIgIA0IXGMqYvEkN.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||District administration appoints cluster in-charge for containment zones||As the Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city, the district administration has appointed seven clusters in-charge and 24 incident commanders to increase surveillance in the containment zones. While the clusters in-charge will be chosen from among the officials of the district administration, other government officials will serve as incident commanders. These officers will ensure the restriction of unnecessary movement of people in the existing 98 containment zones in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19. As per official guidelines, a containment zone is declared only after five Covid-19 cases have been reported within the one-kilometre perimeter of an area from where the first case has been reported. Within the perimeter of the affected region, the incident commanders will coordinate with the local police officers to ensure that people are duly following the norms of social distancing. “The incident commanders will ensure, among other things, proper barricading of the area with only single entry and exit points. The team will also be required to maintain a movement logbook of medical emergency or essential services,” said an official of the district administration, privy to the matter. According to the official, strict measures need to be taken in the affected zones to break the chain of transmission. “For this, we will have to check the free movement of people in the area to contain the spread of the disease,” he said.The incident commanders will report to clusters in-charge, who in turn will submit regular updates regarding the enforcement of containment measures to the district administration. The decision to appoint officers for containent zones comes after the district administration increased the number of containment zones from 66 to 98 last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-appoints-cluster-in-charge-for-containment-zones/story-3s0aC4TmGPtEQBOJuPRGGO.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal inspects Hotel Suryaa, says will make space for 300 beds||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inspected Hotel Suryaa in New Friends Colony, which will be converted into a Covid-19 facility and attached with the nearby Holy Family Hospital to share the coronavirus caseload and to keep more hospital beds free for severe patients amid a spike in the number of cases.“Several such hotels will be used as extended hospitals. These are tough times. The coronavirus disease is spreading fast. We need to fight it together. This facility will be ready in another 2-3 days with 120 beds. Soon, the capacity will be ramped up to 250-300 beds,” said Kejriwal, who was accompanied to the five-star hotel by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and a group of doctors from Holy Family Hospital.“Similarly, around 30-35 more hotels in the city will be converted into hospitals. We aim to create around 3,000-3,500 beds in hotels alone. In this augmentation drive, all agencies are working together,” the CM said.Kejriwal had earlier said Delhi would need 150,000 beds as the number of Covid cases is expected to go up to 550,000 by July 31.Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,859 new cases, taking the tally to 44,688. The government’s bulletin recorded new 93 deaths on the day as well.The chief minister’s visit lasted for 30 minutes – between 12.15 pm and 12.45 pm.This was the chief minister’s first such inspection and it came a day after the Delhi High Court allowed the government to use two city hotels as extended Covid facilities – Crowne Plaza in Okhla (attached with Batra Hospital) and Hotel Suryaa (with Apollo). Both hotels had moved the court against the government’s decision, following which the court had appointed a two-member committee to assess all factors and submit a feasibility report. The committee had on Monday said it was possible to use the hotels as Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms.On Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah had visited Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi’s city’s biggest Covid hospital, and on Sunday, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal visited the premises of a spiritual organisation in south Delhi’s Chhattarpur where a shed is being converted into a makeshift hospital with 10,000 beds.“This is the beginning of a series of such inspections,” said an official in the chief minister’s office. In the next two weeks, around 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls, other than several sports complexes, will be converted into hospitals and quarantine centres. On Tuesday, the Delhi government issued two specific orders directing Hotel Surya and Taj Man Singh to be converted into Covid facilities, attached with hospitals.A senior government official privy to the augmentation drive said, “Currently, a portion of Hotel Surya that has 90 rooms, including 25 twin bedrooms, will be transformed into a Covid facility, available only to patients with mild symptoms referred by Holy Family Hospital. No direct admissions will be entertained as per protocol. In most cases, patients in the recovery stage will be referred so that hospital beds are available for severe cases.”An employee in the hotel management who did not wish to be identified said a batch of its 70 employees – ranging from housekeepers, laundry service providers and waiters to chefs, receptionists and managers -- will undergo a seven-day training starting Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-inspects-hotel-suryaa-says-will-make-space-for-300-beds/story-fGRrYq6ZV02OufwojbDXdI.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee offers 850 beds for Covid care||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Tuesday offered to turn eight establishments run by it into Covid care centres to cater to patients with mild symptoms and those in need of oxygen cylinders. The organisation offered to create a total capacity of 850 beds across these facilities to help meet the growing demand for hospital beds in the national capital amid a surge in Covid cases. Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,859 new cases, taking the tally to 44,688. The DSGMC president wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in this connection, saying all facilities would be free of cost and that they just need the government to attach these to nearby hospitals so that doctors, nurses and paramedic staff could look after patients.With a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has been preparing to turn hotels and banquet halls into makeshift hospitals, a move that is expected to add over 15,800 beds to the city’s health care infrastructure. “We have requested the government for its sanction and support so that we can start offering these services immediately. We will take care of all meals, drinking water, general medicines, oxygen cylinders as well as haematological and biochemistry laboratory services for the admitted patients,” said Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, DSGMC. The facilities are proposed to be set up at Gurudwara Nanak Piao Sahib, Guru Harkrishan Yatri Niwas, Guru Arjan Dev Yatri Niwas, Guru Hargobind Institute of Management and Information Technology, Guru Har Kishan Public School, Gurudwara Damdama Sahib, Guru Tegh Bahadur Polytechnic Institute and Guru Nank Sukhshala. “This is a time of crisis and we wish to help people in anyway we can. We have requested the Delhi government to grant us permission, which will help in augmentation of beds in the city,” Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-sikh-gurudwara-management-committee-offers-850-beds-for-covid-care/story-JrH81U7X625He5tsSUBRoO.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Satyendar Jain tests negative for Covid-19||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on Tuesday after he developed a fever and his oxygen level dropped. He tested negative for Covid-19 later in the day, senior government officials said.“Due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I have been admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated,” Jain tweeted on Tuesday morning.A senior government official said, “The minister has regularly been visiting hospitals and hot spots, and travelling around the city for Covid-19 management-related work. Tracing his contacts would have been an extremely difficult task. The chances of him being infected with the virus could also not be negated because around three weeks ago a staff member at the camp office outside Jain’s residence tested positive Covid-19, after which the office was sanitised. Such factors got everyone worried.”His swab samples were collected at the hospital around 11 am and the result was out by 1pm. Jain, however, is still in the hospital with oxygen support and he is likely to undergo another covid test tomorrow, “just to dismiss all possibilities or a false negative test result”, said the government official quoted above.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had isolated himself at home after a bout of fever and a sore throat. He also tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/satyendar-jain-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-TiIoXtDs0NSEX6S0idYxIK.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Jamia cancels ‘pen and paper’ exams, will assess students online||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital in recent days, Jamia Millia Islamia on Monday announced that it was cancelling offline exams, or pen-and-paper exams, for its final-year students. In May, the university had said it would conduct offline exams for final-year students only if the Covid-19 situation in the city improved.However, the standing academic council last week decided not to go forward with the offline exams as cases are rising in the city. “The conduct of examination in the offline mode was found to be non-viable as the same may further compromise the well-being of students who are from different states,” the committee noted while referring to the increased number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The assessment of all final-year students, including undergraduate, postgraduate and MPhil, as well as PhD scholars, would be done on the basis of online exams. Teachers can use different modes of evaluation such as assignments, dissertations, or objective questions. Practical exams will also be conducted online via interviews and viva voce. Teachers have been asked to upload marks on the portal by June 20, media coordinator Ahmad Azeem said.A senior university official, requesting anonymity, said, “We had kept both online and offline modes in mind while planning the evaluation. During the online classes that were conducted earlier, we had asked teachers to collect online assignments and evaluate students based on those. This plan was put in place so that teachers could use these marks in case offline exams are not held.”Students of intermediate semesters are already being evaluated on the basis of online assignments. The university said that according to the University Grants Commission guidelines, no request for redressal or re-evaluation shall be admissible from such students.Discussions on our class group mostly revolved around concerns that there will be no re-evaluation or redressal. Students who had internet issues managed to submit their assignments with the help of friends,” said Shruty Yadav, a final-year undergraduate student, who is submitting around 20 assignments. The number of assignments submitted by students varied from course to course.“Students who could not appear for their papers as part of the odd semester exams held in the month of December 2019 and February 2020, owing to disruption due to walkout/boycott shall also be allowed to appear in a special examination held in September and October along with compartment exams,” the controller of exams said in a notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-cancels-pen-and-paper-exams-will-assess-students-online/story-p1ifrCFHmzHNsv3WZVHEWM.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||CAT asks civic bodies to pay teachers’ salary in 15 days||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to release the salaries of teachers within 15 days . North corporation teachers had been agitating for not being given salaries for the last three months.There are nearly 8,000 teachers across 714 schools of the north corporation. Out of these 8,000 teachers, nearly 3,500 have been engaged in the distribution of dry ration and cooked food across 126 ration centres and 62 food centres in municipal hospitals across north Delhi in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.“The CAT on Monday directed the North MCD, the other civic bodies and the state government to provide pending salaries of teachers within 15 days,” counsel for the teachers, Ajesh Luthra, said on Tuesday.Earlier this month, hundreds of teachers of north corporation schools had staged a symbolic strike against non-payment of their salaries. Resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital had also not been paid for the last three and four months.Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary, MCD Teachers Association, said they had moved the high court, from where the matter was diverted to CAT. “With the tribunal’s directives, we are now hopeful that our salaries, which are pending since March 2020, will be disbursed within the given time frame,” Solanki said.A North Corporation official said they were yet to get the order but the process to provide salaries to teachers was already on. “The file regarding disbursing salaries of employees is being processed. We are hopeful salaries will be released within this month,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cat-asks-civic-bodies-to-pay-teachers-salary-in-15-days/story-PyfP96k045QOaf8wTqpWjN.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Woman held for stealing purse of another woman standing in queue to get tested||A 55-year-old woman was caught while allegedly stealing the purse of a woman waiting in queue at Lady Hardinge Hospital to get tested for Covid-19 on Monday afternoon, the police said. Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi district), identified the suspect as Sonam (single name), a resident of Gamri Village in Shahdara. “Around Monday afternoon, an assistant sub-inspector who was at Lady Hardinge Hospital heard someone shout ‘thief’. He saw a woman running towards the out gate of the hospital and he chased and caught her,” the DCP said. Moments later, the woman whose pursue was snatched reached the spot and told the policeman that the woman had stolen her purse. The suspect has been arrested for theft and the police are checking if she has been involved in similar thefts in the past as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-held-for-stealing-purse-of-another-woman-standing-in-queue-to-get-tested/story-T4LOsBzin7XYOC7CONP17K.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||50% passengers travelling from IGIA are those stranded during lockdown: DIAL||As many as 50% of the passengers travelling to and from Delhi airport, since the flight operations resumed post lockdown, are those who had been stranded, the airport operator Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said on Tuesday. CEO, DIAL, Videh Jaipuriar said that before the flight operations were suspended, on average 50% of the flyers would travel for leisure, around 35% to visit family and the remaining 15% for work. Jaipuriar said that now that the flight operations have resumed after the lockdown, “fifty per cent of the travellers are those who were stranded in different places because there were no flights.” The CEO said that of the remaining, 35% are still travelling to visit family and 15% for work.At present, at least 25,000 - 30,000 passengers travel to and from Delhi airport every day, according to DIAL. Before the lockdown, the operator stated, the daily footfall at the airport was about 1.40 lakh passengers per day.The CEO said that a recent survey showed that at least 90% of the passengers said they felt safe while travelling from Delhi airport because of the safety measures in place.The CEO said they had also made arrangements to change the air inside the terminal every 10 minutes. “The rotation is six times an hour. Because of this, the temperature inside the terminal may not be very comfortable, but it ensures safety,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/50-passengers-travelling-from-igia-are-those-stranded-during-lockdown-dial/story-HEWJXApYyyQGNsxRxswanJ.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari asks officials to keep plan ready to avoid floods||Anandpur Sahib member of Parliament, Manish Tewari, directed officials to keep a plan ready so that floods faced by Rupnagar district last year can be avoided this time .Tewari was presiding over a meeting on Tuesday to review the plan for prevention of possible floods in the district during the monsoon season.He said certain problems had arisen last year due to lack of flood boats during the rescue operations.He asked officials to strengthen embankments of the Sutlej river in high flood zone areas and set up relief camps in a way such that medicines, food and relief materials can be provided expeditiously. He added that dams of the villages which were in greater danger due to rising water levels should be strengthened.Tewari said that in case of any problem regarding strengthening of dams in low flood areas, appropriate arrangements should be made in advance by meeting sarpanches of the villages concerned in collaboration with villagers so they know how to avoid damage caused by floods. He told officials to coordinate with NDRF in advance so that there are no problems in handling the situation. The MP said that a suitable plan for channelising rivers should be prepared. He added that special care should be taken to ensure cleanliness of rivers flowing out of the Sutlej so they can be used for drainage if required. Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anandpur-sahib-mp-manish-tewari-asks-officials-to-keep-plan-ready-to-avoid-floods/story-hG6wNuwOoybIG138oQuGdP.html
16-06-2020||City||Ludhiana amusement park owner held in fake scotch case||Rakesh Kumar, aka Bittu Chhabra, a liquor contractor and owner of the amusement park Hardy’s World in Ludhiana was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly filling cheap liquor in branded scotch bottles and selling it at premium prices. The joint police and excise team made the arrest during a raid at the amusement park. Police also seized material used in packing the liquor bottles besides some documents. This is fifth arrest is the case so far. Deputy superitendent of police Deepak Singh, who was part of the raiding party, said Chhabra started the illicit trade in January. Sources said he had allegedly sold at least 40 boxes of duplicate scotch so far. The racket was unearthed after recovery of 134 cases of empty scotch bottles and 50 cartons of liquor during a raid at Khadoor village on February 13. According to police, the accused used to procure cheaper liquor for ₹700- ₹800 per bottle, and filled it in scotch bottles that were sold for around ₹5,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-amusement-park-owner-held-in-fake-scotch-case/story-fiDt8k0HmzigAvZ7pH2iUK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Farmhouse manager killed by 3 workers in axe attack||Mohali: Two 20-year-old men and a minor working at a farmhouse axed its 65-year-old manager to death after he allegedly reprimanded them for drinking.Balkar Singh, the manager of Kahlon Farms in Nada village of Nayagaon for the last three decades belonged to Sohian Kalan village in Amritsar district.The suspects have been identified as Mukesh, aged (20), Manish (20) and a minor, all residents of Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. They used to work for Balkar Singh and lived in a room next to his. The men attacked Balkar Singh at 11.30 pm on June 14 as he was asleep and fled, leaving him in a pool of blood, said deputy superintendent of police (City-1), Gursher Singh. The farmhouse manager used to reprimand them as they were habitual drinkers, which often led to heated arguments. The injured man was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday afternoon, Gursher Singh added.Nayagaon station house officer Ashok Kumar said disagreements over small issues between Balkar Singh and his workers led to the crime. “Yesterday we had booked the suspects under Sections 307, 323 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of Ajit Singh, the victim’s son. Today, a case of murder has been registered against them. We have sent the police teams to Hardoi to nab the suspects. We are also getting help from our technical wing to crack the case soon.”The axe used in the attack was recovered by the police at the scene of crime.The body has been kept in the mortuary and a postmortem will be conducted soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmhouse-manager-killed-by-3-workers-in-axe-attack/story-rMDCD8ijsHKjH8lHOnGQKI.html
16-06-2020||City||20-year-old among four new infections in Himachal, total cases now 560||Four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 560.Two cases were reported from Kangra and one each from Mandi and Kinnaur.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati informed that a 24-year-old and his brother, aged 20 years, have tested positive for the infection. They had travelled from Delhi on June 12 and were under institutional quarantine.The patients have been shifted to a dedicated Covid-care centre in Baijnath.Prajapati said as many as 13 people were cured in the district on Tuesday and given discharge. The district has now 47 active cases, while 99 have been cured and one died.Apart from this, one person from Mandi district has tested positive. The 39-year-old man had returned from Chandigarh. He had visited the flu OPD at a local hospital. His report came out positive on Tuesday, Mandi chief medical officer Jeevanand Chauhan said.One case was reported from Kinnaur district late evening.So far, Himachal has recorded 560 cases, of which 361 have recovered while six – three men and three women – have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.180 ACTIVE CASESThere are now 180 active cases in the state as nineteen people recovered on Tuesday. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 147 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 134 cases. Una has recorded a total of 73 cases, Solan 59 cases, Chamba 38, Bilaspur 29, Sirmaur 27, Mandi 23, Shimla 21, Kullu four cases and Kinnaur three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-among-four-new-infections-in-himachal-total-cases-now-560/story-aqWJVw8cvDv3iicxaNMRIM.html
16-06-2020||City||Behbal Kalan police firing: Advocate who aided cops in fabricating evidence against protesters held||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firings on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot have arrested the advocate who allegedly aided in making fabricated bullet marks on the escort vehicle of Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Moga senior superintendent of police and an accused in the Behbal Kalan case. It is the first arrest made since inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal was held in the Kotkapura firing case on Feb 19, 2020, and second in the Behbal Kalan firing after the SIT held Sharma in January last year. Inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who is a senior member of the SIT and recently took charge of the Behbal Kalan inquiry in addition to the Kotkapura case that he had been probing, said Sohali Singh Brar, a Faridkot-based lawyer, was arrested on Tuesday and will be produced in court on Wednesday.Two youths had died in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12. Police had also opened fire on protesters at Kotkapura, leaving many injured, the same day.The SIT in its probe found that Charanjit Sharma conspired with three other police officers — Fazilka superintendent of police Bikramjit Singh, inspector Pardip Singh and sub-inspector Amarjit Singh Kular — to cover up facts related to the Behbal Kalan firing.SIT has claimed that to fabricate false evidence against the peaceful protesters, Charanjit’s escort Maruti Gypsy was taken to the advocate’s house, where Bikramjit and a car dealer had fired on it to make bullet marks. The same day, Kular, who was the Bajakhana station house officer, recorded the statements of Sharma, Bikramjit and Pardip Singh among others, in which they claimed that police fired in self-defence after protestors attacked them. According to the SIT, Sharma’s driver Gurnam Singh, who was behind the wheel in the escort vehicle, has confessed that protesters had fired no shot on the Gypsy. A case was registered against the unknown cops under Section 302 (murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code on October 21, 2017. Names of the four cops, including Sharma, were added in the FIR on August 11, 2018. Even as the SIT filed a challan againt Sharma in April 2019, the remaining three cops, who are out on bail, have not been chargesheeted yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/behbal-kalan-police-firing-advocate-who-aided-cops-in-fabricating-evidence-against-protesters-held/story-jGKunAcoMfEqk1RZJRFx8I.html
16-06-2020||City||Mohali MC plans to extend sanitation contract by 1 year||Unable to extend the sanitation contract despite its expiry, the municipal corporation (MC) has written to the local bodies department for a one-year extension.Currently, Lions company manages the city’s sanitation.The contract ended on June 15. The norms mandate that the tender process is initiated 45 days before its expiry.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar said the tender could not be floated due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “We have already written to local bodies department for an extension,” he said.On the other hand, former Congress councilor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said if MC allowed more than three another months to the firm, he will approach the court.He said the contract was allotted in 2015 when the MC House was not elected. “The contract was given under the pressure of the then Akali government. While the original contract was for Rs 1.05 crore per month, the firm was being Rs 1.35 crore,” Bedi alleged.“When the corporation officials know that the company’s work is not satisfactory, why was the contract area increased? Councillors have also been repeatedly raising complaints regarding city’s poor cleanliness,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-plans-to-extend-sanitation-contract-by-1-year/story-pYlMuWtLUIKz0F0U3mLbIJ.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||BJP- JJP govt not doing enough to control Covid: Deepender||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Tuesday accused the BJP-JJP government in Haryana of not doing enough to control the rising coronavirus cases. Addressing mediapersons, he alleged that the state government was taking this crisis lightly. Referring to the impending assembly bypoll for Baroda seat, the MP said “the BJP was already in election mode while the state was in the SOS mode”. “What is the BJP celebrating by holding political rallies across the state? Is the fight against coronavirus over?” he asked. Deepender said despite the fact that Covid-19 cases were increasing at a fast pace in Haryana, the state government was more interested in political propaganda than focusing on the deteriorating situation. “The BJP is more worried about the Baroda assembly bypoll than the safety and lives of the people. BJP MPs and ministers are flouting MHA guidelines by holding political meetings in Baroda and Gohana,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-govt-not-doing-enough-to-control-covid-deepender/story-RFeA0CupU7w1eRBa5pDhuL.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra University raises students’ concern with government||Following the Haryana government’s notification directing all higher and technical education institutions across the state to conduct exams of final year students from July 1 to 31, Kurukshetra University has written to the government about the concerns raised by students appearing for exams. Less than two weeks are left for exams to commence, making it difficult for universities and colleges to make arrangements for students as many of them will be returning from other districts and parts of the state. Since the guidelines for exams were issued on June 12, students had been sending emails to the vice-chancellor and their teachers expressing their concerns about safety as well as inability to reach exam centres with several restrictions on movement still in place. They say even the syllabus of most of the courses has not been completed as the universities and colleges were shut in the first week of March. “We had on Monday held a meeting in this regard where we decided to raise all concerns of the students with Haryana government. We have already written to the government and waiting for its response on the problems highlighted by the students in their e-mails,” said Brajesh Sawhney, director, public relations, Kurukshetra University. He said the next decision will be made as per the guidelines of the government. According to a senior teacher of university, who sought to remain anonymous, besides transportation and accommodation issues, students are worried about pending syllabus. “As several top institutions of the country have already decided to promote their students, the Haryana government should also follow them as it is very difficult to conduct the exams,” he added. A senior functionary of Rohtak-based Maharshi Dayanand University, on condition of anonymity, said, “How could the exams be conducted in the prevailing situation. There is no clarity on the transportation and stay of the students coming from the different parts of the state. It is very risky for students to appear for exams as Covid-19 cases in most of the districts are on their peak.” Thousands of students studying in the colleges associated with state universities are waiting for the formal guidelines as well. “We are making arrangements to conduct exams of at least 1,000 final year students as per the government’s direction, but we are still waiting for the guidelines from Kurukshetra University,” said Abha Khetarpal, principal of DAV Girls College, Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kurukshetra-university-raises-students-concern-with-government/story-b24C2ZmW5otgL3LRPY4RxK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t mislead farmers on agri reform ordinance: Sukhbir to CM||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh not to mislead Punjab’s farmers by “indulging in farcical opposition” to the central government’s ordinance on agriculture reforms.In a statement, the SAD chief asked the CM to tell Punjabis why his government had amended the State Agriculture Produce Markets Act (APMC) to allow creation of private markets, direct marketing, electronic agricultural marketing and single unified licence for the entire state in 2017.“Not only this, the Congress government was party to passing of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance, 2020, as it not only participated in the consultative process but also gave feedback to the Centre that it had already amended the state APMC Act to enable implementation of the proposed ordinance,” he added.“Amarinder Singh is again trying to deceive the farmers of Punjab. His statement demanding withdrawal of the ordinance is nothing but a ploy to inflame sentiments and play politics over a sensitive matter which concerns the welfare of the farmers,” he said.The SAD chief said instead of trying to divert attention from his own failures, the CM should take back the steep increase in value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel if he was really worried about the welfare of farmers and the common man.“While a hike of ₹2 was effected on both petrol and diesel on May 6, the government further announced an increase of ₹1.20 per litre on petrol and 0.53 paisa on diesel on June 15,” he said.Sukhbir accused the Congress and its president Sonia Gandhi of adopting double standards. He said while the Congress chief had written to the Prime Minister protesting against the hike in fuel prices, she seemed to have forgotten to tell her CM in Punjab not to profit from the misery of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-mislead-farmers-on-agri-reform-ordinance-sukhbir-to-cm/story-Q9UuVDa1UgeI1iCXmS7KsK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for making ₹15-lakh extortion call to Moga trader||A man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly making an extortion call to a garment trader in Moga district’s Bagahapurana sub-division. Police have also recovered a country-made pistol from the accused, Navdeep Singh, a resident of Jhanjiyaan village in Ferozepur district. The police claimed that it was Navdeep who made the extortion call to the trader besides opening fire outside his shop in Bagahapurana’s Madari Market on June 10.Superintendent of police (SP) Sewa Singh Malhi said Navdeep was arrested at a police checkpost near Panjgrain village. “During interrogation, he confessed that he along with his two associates Magghar Singh and Babbi Singh, both residents of Barnala district, opened fire in the air and fled from the spot. Later, they called up the shop’s owner, Ajay Kumar, and threatened to kill him if he failed to pay ₹15 lakh by Thursday,” the SP said.“They were operating on the directions of a gangster Kirpal Singh, who is lodged in Sangrur jail. Further investigation is on. Police teams are conducting raids to nab the other accused,” he added. Earlier, a case under Section 383 (extortion), 336 (endangering life), 511 (attempting to commit offences) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act was registered against the unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-making-15-lakh-extortion-call-to-moga-trader/story-KIVTvMmIWliZ5fR7EWiMVP.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Jalandhar bishop moves Kerala HC, seeks quashing of rape case||Deposed bishop of the Jalandhar diocese, Franco Mulakkal, who was accused in 2018 of raping a nun, on Tuesday moved the Kerala High Court seeking to quash the case against him, claiming he was implicated after he took action against the complainant for financial irregularities in the convent.In March, a court in central Kerala’s Kottayam had dismissed his discharge petition and directed him to face the trial. In the fresh appeal in the HC, he said all charges against him were concocted due to some personal grudges and differences. But the state government opposed his plea, saying there is strong evidence against him and he was filing unnecessary petitions to delay the trial.On June 10, the Kottayam trial court took up the case after a long gap due to the lockdown and expressed serious reservation over Mulakkal’s continued absence and asked him to appear on July 1.The former bishop’s counsel had informed the court that he was not able to travel as there were no domestic flights from Jalandhar and he will have to undergo 14-day quarantine as per the government guidelines. But the court had asked him to make necessary arrangements in advance to appear on July 1.The case surfaced two years ago when the nun (43), a mother superior, filed a police complaint in Kottayam that Mulakkal raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation in Punjab.A special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the case arrested Mulakkal in September 2018. He was granted bail after spending 40 days in jail and was removed from the post of bishop later.The SIT filed the chargesheet against him last year. The nun had also complained that some of the witnesses were threatened by his supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-jalandhar-bishop-moves-kerala-hc-seeks-quashing-of-rape-case/story-KYjwGzrkOBD3kWp1Iq2IAO.html
16-06-2020||City||Manish Tewari asks officials to keep plan ready to avoid floods||Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has directed the officials to keep a plan ready so that flood situation can be avoided this year.Presiding over a meeting here on Tuesday, he said that some problems had arisen last year due to lack of flood boats during rescue operations.He asked officials to strengthen embankments of the Sutlej river in the high flood zone and set up relief camps where medicines, food and relief materials can be provided expeditiously.He said that in case of any problem regarding strengthening of dams in low flood areas, appropriate arrangements should be made in advance by meeting with sarpanches of villages in collaboration with villagers so that they know how to avoid flood damage.He said that officials should coordinate with the NDRF in advance so that there is no problems in handling the situation.He said that a suitable plan for channelising the river should be prepared. He said that special care should be taken for cleanliness of water flowing out of Sutlej so that their help could be sought for drainage of water if required. Rupnagar DC Sonali Giri and SSP Swapan Sharma also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manish-tewari-asks-officials-to-keep-plan-ready-to-avoid-floods/story-nxmyi3JPcj1CR3IuaHFKzM.html
16-06-2020||Jaipur||Bodies of man, girl found hanging from tree in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar||The bodies of a 19-year-old man and a girl were found hanging from a tree in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district on Tuesday, an official said.Investigation revealed that the man, identified as Govind Bairwa, and the 14-year-old girl were in a love relationship and it appears to be a case of suicide, he said.They were staying in Kota district’s Suket town where their parents were employed at a stone mine and their families hail from Jhalawar district, the official said. The two had gone missing from Suket on Sunday and and their bodies were found in an agricultural field in Khokanda village in Jhalawar, said Circle Incharge Laxman Singh.The bodies were handed over to the respective families after post-mortem and a case has been registered in this regard, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bodies-of-man-girl-found-hanging-from-tree-in-rajasthan-s-jhalawar/story-CumZjKfenyvzAjn7758M7K.html
16-06-2020||City||State owes fund-starved Punjabi University ₹76 crore||The Punjab government has failed to clear ₹76 crore dues owed to Punjabi University, Patiala, which is toiling hard to meet its committed expenses. The pending dues include ₹46 crore related to postmatric scholarship for scheduled caste (SC) students, ₹21 crore for the varsity’s constituent colleges and ₹9 crore of the monthly grant.Amid the fund crunch, the university has failed to release salaries and pensions to its 5,800-odd present and former staffers for the month of May.Registrar Manjit Singh Nijjar says the university has again pressed upon social welfare and higher education departments for clearing the postmatric scholarship and constituent colleges funds at the earliest.“The social welfare department has audited records of SC students a number of times, but still the funds have not been cleared. We can only request the government for early disbursal,” he says, adding that the university is hopeful of receiving the monthly grant of ₹9 crore by the end of this week.The monthly salary budget of the university is pegged at ₹33 crore. However, the varsity’s fiscal health is not in a good shape. As per budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects an income of ₹380 crore, while the expenditure is pegged at ₹676 crore, leaving a massive ₹296-crore deficit.Meanwhile, the government has added to its miseries, as not a single penny of ₹46 crore funds under the postmatric scholarship scheme has been paid since 2015. This includes funds meant for its neighbourhood campuses and regional centres as well. Earlier, the inordinate delay was due to faulty records sent by various departments and regional centres. Even as an audit cleared the discrepancies in 2018, the funds are still awaited.Vice-chancellor BS Ghuman, on his part, says the university officials are working round the clock to arrange funds for monthly expenses.Despite repeated attempts, minister for social justice, empowerment and minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Kirpa Shankar Saroj, additional chief secretary of the department, could not be reached for comment on postmatric scholarship scheme dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-owes-fund-starved-punjabi-university-76-crore/story-NlhXNxftDGWzgyd7eNzquL.html
16-06-2020||City||J&K reports 78 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 5, 298||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 78 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of people infected by the disease in the Union territory to 5,298, officials said.Of the new cases, 62 are from Kashmir and 16 from Jammu division. Among these, 23 patients have a travel history.A patient has also died due to the virus in Kashmir, taking the death toll in the UT to 63.The number of active cases stand at 2,454 after 177 more patients recovered on Tuesday. The government statement said, “78 people were discharged from Jammu division and 99 from Kashmir.” So far, 2,781 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 52.49%. The highest jump in Kashmir was witnessed in Budgam where 14 more people tested positive for the disease. Srinagar and Anantnag recorded 10 new cases each. The other districts saw single digit increase. In Jammu division, all the districts have reported single digit increase.Till date, 2.39 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 40,265 in home quarantine, 31 in hospital quarantine and 47,579 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.49 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-78-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-5-298/story-dCn3JubGP8VsosQPAIPnTI.html
16-06-2020||City||J&K HC quashes PSA detention of NC leader Sagar||The Jammu and Kashmir high court on Tuesday quashed the detention of National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar under the Public Safety Act, his lawyer and party leaders said on Tuesday.Sagar was detained along with dozens of other leaders on August 5 when J&K’s special status was revoked by the Centre and the region was split into two Union territories.The NC leader’s counsel Shariq Reyaz and his son Salman Sagar confirmed that the high court has quashed the preventive detention order. “Extremely happy to let all of you know that the PSA against Sagar sahab has been quashed by the J&K high court after the court proceedings which took six hearings,” Salam Sagar said. NC president Omar Abdullah tweeted: “The J&K high court has quashed the detention of my senior colleague @JKNC_ General Secretary Ali Mohd Sagar. Thankfully he challenged his detention even when those around him were reluctant to. This once again highlights the unjust and indefensible nature of the August 5 detentions.”Sagar, who has served as law, parliamentary affairs as well as rural development minister in J&K assembly, spent these 10 months in three temporary sub-jails—Centaur Hotel, MLA Hostel and finally at M5 government quarters on Gupkar Road. He was shifted to Gupkar in the first week of February after he was booked under the PSA following completion of his six months detention under preventive custody.On June 3, the J&K administration had revoked the PSA against bureaucrat-turned-politician Shah Faesal and two leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor. However, Faesal was put under house detention immediately after his release.Now, only three prominent leaders are under detention, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti and former ministers Nayeem Akthar from PDP and Hilal Akbar Lone, son of senior NC leader and sitting MP Mohammad Akbar Lone.Buoyed by the court judgment, Omar Abdullah urged Mehbooba Mufti to approach the Supreme Court. “I hope @MehboobaMufti’s legal team take heart from today’s judgement in the J&K high court quashing Sagar Sb’s PSA detention to pursue Ms Mufti’s case in the Supreme Court with increased determination and vigour. She deserves to be freed without further loss of time,” he said in another tweet.“Although Nayeem Sb & Hilal haven’t challenged their detentions in court, I hope the authorities see the writing on the wall and realise their continued PSA detention is indefensible. They must be released as must all others under illegal ‘house arrest’,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-hc-quashes-psa-detention-of-nc-leader-sagar/story-75DdYlQKCQXD4DvFyYJL4K.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||24-year-old dies after 4 assault him with pipes in Mumbai||Three construction workers have been arrested on Monday for allegedly assaulting a 24-year-old man with plastic pipes to death at Andheri (East) after they suspected him to be a thief. The accused have been identified as Ashad Shaikh, 24; Danish Shaikh, 21; and Tapaskumar Rai, 31. The police are on the lookout for one more accused in the case. The victim – Satish Rajbhar – was a resident of Chandivli. He had been for a walk and reached a commercial construction site at Sakinaka in Andheri (East) around 11 am, when the four accused, working there, spotted him. “The four accused thought that Rajbhar was a thief. They tied his hands and legs and assaulted him with plastic pipes and asked him why he had entered the premises. Rajbhar repeatedly told the accused that he had come for a walk and inadvertently reached the construction site. However, the accused assaulted him for around four hours,” said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector, Sakinaka police station.When Rajbhar passed out, the accused thought that he had died and fled the spot, said Sawant. A site supervisor who later visited the spot saw Rajbhar lying unconscious and immediately informed the police, following which a team of officers rushed him to Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar, where he was declared dead on admission. “We learnt that the accused were migrant workers and immediately sent our teams to Bandra, Kurla and Andheri railway stations to trace them. The trio were arrested from Andheri station while they were buying tickets to return to their homes in Bihar,” said Sawant.The accused have been booked under sections 302 (Punishment for murder), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/24-year-old-dies-after-4-assault-him-with-pipes-in-mumbai/story-N2JtZr2B86YZ5xzW1PbGrI.html
16-06-2020||Bangalore||Will request PM for more relaxations in Karnataka: CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi for more relaxations, as he made it clear that Covid-19 lockdown measures were not required in the state anymore.“The lockdown is not required for Karnataka, we will request for more relaxations,” Yediyurappa said in response to a question about video conferencing with the Prime Minister.Speaking to reporters here, he said, “I will request him (PM) to make way for- people to lead a normal life and for the improvement in the economic situation.” Several services such as metro, theatres, gyms, swimming pools, bars among others continue to remain restricted under unlock 1.0 that is currently in place. PM Modi is scheduled to hold a video conference with Chief Ministers of various states on Tuesday and Wednesday.Yediyurappa is scheduled to take part in the video conferencing on Wednesday.The Chief Minister, who took part in the special pooja organised at Shankar Math here to pray for the control of Covid-19, said, the government was making all efforts to control the spread. “We are taking strong measures and all of us should fight this together,” he said, as he highlighted that the government has released the financial assistance amount that was announced for farmers, and was ensuring that it reaches them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/will-request-pm-for-more-relaxations-in-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa/story-tUquxiKrxL97MGmKMUI7ZI.html
16-06-2020||City||Farmers, local labourers at loggerheads after migrant exodus in Amritsar||The exodus of migrant labourers due to the coronavirus pandemic has led to a change in relationship between farmers and local labourers in villages across Amritsar district.Agriculture in Punjab largely depends upon migrant workers who come from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Their return to their home states has enhanced the importance of local labourers, who are mostly from scheduled caste communities and over the years had opted for other professions.With the paddy sowing season starting earlier this month, farmers are forced to hire services of these local labourers at much higher rates.It has also led to souring of relationships between farmers and local labourers, as is being witnessed at the border village of Pandoor in Ajnala subdivision.The village panchayat had passed a resolution fixing ₹3,000 per acre labour charges for sowing paddy, a decision that did not go down well with local labourers, who are demanding up to ₹4000 per acre. In fact, migrant labourers were ready to work for even ₹2,500 per acre. Due to the labourers’ “hefty demand”, farmers did not engage them, says sarpanch Baljit Singh, adding that in turn the labourers, including women, are not even willing to do domestic work for the farmers. Robin Masih, a local labour union leader, alleges that farmers, who are from Jat community and are in majority in the village, have been threatening the labourers, who were already hit by the lockdown. Locals say the two groups even clashed on Sunday, during which even shots were fired. The authorities say those who opened fire will be booked.Baldev Singh Pandori, a state committee member of the labourers organisation Dihati Mazdoor Sabha, says as migrant labourers were ready to work in the fields for lower wages, farmers had stopped hiring Punjabi labourers. “Now, they have to return to them. Upliftment of Punjabi labourers in natural in such a situation,” he says.However, farmers complain that due to their lack of experience, local labourers take more time to sow paddy.Gurpreet Singh is one such labourer who is trying his hands at sowing paddy at Bal Sikandar village after the lockdown hit cabbies in Amritsar. “I am a taxi driver. But the lockdown has left me in the lurch. With tourists not visiting Amritsar, I am struggling to even buy groceries. I have to pay loans too. So, I decided to go for paddy sowing to earn some money,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-local-labourers-at-loggerheads-after-migrant-exodus-in-amritsar/story-T8RsAYl6kTRKl8nTP0QYZL.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi records peak power demand of 5,805 MW, season’s highest till now||Delhi’s peak power demand was pushed to the season’s highest to 5,805 MW on Monday night, officials of electricity distribution companies said, attributing the rise to greater use of air-conditioning due to sultry weather.The peak demand reached 5,805 MW at 11.31 pm on Monday, the highest yet in this season, pipping the previous high of 5,591 MW recorded on June 12.BSES distribution companies (discoms) BRPL and BYPL successfully met peak power demands of 2,635 MW and 1,311 MW, in their respective distribution areas, said a BSES spokesperson.The Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) met a peak of 1,627 MW, said a spokesperson of the discom.The sultry weather has led to greater use of air-conditioning which has contributed to the growing demand, the officials said.  Last year, Delhi’s peak power demand was 7,409 MW. After the end of the third phase of the Covid-19-induced lockdown on May 17 and easing of restrictions, Delhi’s peak power demand has started increasing. Since easing of restrictions on May 18, Delhi’s peak power demand has increased by over 40 per cent, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-peak-power-demand-of-5-805-mw-season-s-highest-till-now/story-PVApnkzHvl9IoDYkv0CM4I.html
16-06-2020||Bangalore||Cop who died of cardiac arrest in Karnataka found to have Covid-19||An assistant sub-inspector of police who died of heart attack was found to be infected with coronavirus, while two of his colleagues at the police station here have also contracted the infection.Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao said, “It’s true that an ASI at VV Puram traffic police station died of Covid-19 and two others have tested positive in the police station.” The ASI attached to V V Puram traffic police station has been suffering from high blood pressure since April this year, police said on Tuesday.He was on leave from May 15 to 31. Again, he joined duty on June 1 and went on leave from June 11.On June 13, he collapsed at home and was taken to a private hospital where he died of cardiac arrest.After the death, he was found positive for coronavirus, they said.Joint Commissioner of Police (traffic), Dr B R Ravikanthe Gowda told PTI that after the death of the ASI, all the staff have been home quarantined.“The police station is closed for two days for sanitisation,” he said.Following the confirmation, other staff members underwent tests and two of them tested positive, police said.The police department has instructed all the stations to keep the elderly staff off field duty in order to protect them from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cop-who-died-of-cardiac-arrest-in-karnataka-found-to-have-covid-19/story-fF8PqNfv9vwYUTNJnoV0wK.html
16-06-2020||City||Covid-19 forced governments to rethink and reframe policies: Himachal CM||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the governments to rethink and reframe developmental policies, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.He was addressing a virtual rally of BJP office-bearers and workers of Jaswan-Pragpur of Kangra district through video-conferencing.The chief minister said the coronavirus crisis also provided the farsightedness of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government as it took prompt steps to contain the pandemic that brought the world’s most powerful nations to their knees.He said Covid-19 has adversely hit the world’s countries including India. “This virus has forced us to rethink and reframe our strategies and developmental policies and programmes,” he said.The CM said lakhs of people of the state, particularly students, were stranded in different parts of the country at the initial stage of the lockdown and most of them were in distress. It was the state’s moral duty to bring them back. These people were evacuated in buses and thirteen special trains.“This, however, has resulted in sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal, but couldn’t have left our own people to their fate,” said Thakur.He said all people coming from other parts of the country have been kept under institutional or home quarantine, and Himachal’s overall situation was far better than the neighbouring states.Thakur added that the Prime Minister had appreciated the state’s strategy of Active Case Finding (ACF) campaign to trace infected persons.He thanked the people of Jaswan Pragpur for contributing about ₹35 lakh towards the HP Covid Response.Apart from donations, the people of Jaswan Pragpur distributed about 65,000 masks and 1,800 Modi Kits to the needy.Speaking on the occasion, Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur said the six-year tenure of the Narendra Modi government has paved the way for a new, strong and vibrant India. He said the Union government has announced a ₹20-lakh crore economic package that envisages support to every section of the society for their economic revival. He also detailed various developmental programmes launched by the Union government.Industries minister and local MLA Jaswan Pragpur Bikram, Dehra district BJP president Sanjeev Sharma and Jaswan Pragpur block president Vinod Sharma also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-forced-governments-to-rethink-and-reframe-policies-himachal-cm/story-VZv8gyqbHzAs6zMg4n0jUN.html
16-06-2020||City||Himachal govt mulling to promote agricultural cooperatives as multipurpose service centres||Himachal Pradesh government is contemplating to promote primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS) as multipurpose service centres in collaboration with NABARD to provide diverse services to farmers under one roof, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.He was presiding over a review meeting of department of cooperation here.Thakur said it was crucial to make cooperative movement a mass movement as this sector had maximum potential of employment and self-employment opportunities.“Cooperative movement should be expanded up to the grassroots level to spread its reach among the rural populace,” said the CM adding about 2,132 PCAS were functioning in the state with a total membership of 12.56 lakh and deposits worth ₹5,401.96 crore. These PACS include 1,914 fair price shops and 1,374 fertilizer depots.He said efforts should be made to strengthen PACS so that state’s farmers get maximum benefits.He revealed that two integrated cooperative development projects (ICDP) were being implemented in Solan and Mandi districts with the block cost of ₹73.15 crore and ₹89.58 crore respectively.He said the state government was also planning to constitute a three-member committee of cabinet ministers to look into the amendments in the HP Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, to make it more viable and practical, keeping in view the present scenario.Thakur also expressed concern over the non-performing assets (NPAs) particularly in case of Kangra Central Cooperative Bank.Cooperation minister Rajiv Saizal, chief secretary Anil Khachi, principal secretary finance Prabodh Saxena, principal secretary to CM J C Sharma, secretary cooperative Akshay Sood and registrar cooperative societies Dr Ajar Sharma was among others present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-mulling-to-promote-agricultural-cooperatives-as-multipurpose-service-centres/story-B7bzOYnWubX65lyLTU8IHM.html
16-06-2020||City||Junaid Azim Mattu loses no-confidence motion, removed as Srinagar mayor||Junaid Azim Mattu was on Tuesday removed as the Srinagar municipal corporation (SMC) mayor after he lost a no-confidence motion moved against him by some corporators. The People’s Conference leader, whose election as Srinagar mayor had generated controversy two years ago, took to Twitter to announce his defeat. “The vote of ‘No Confidence Motion’ against me, and the @JKPC_ (Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference) has been passed in the SMC with 42 votes out of 70. The @BJP4India, @JKNC_ (Jammu and Kashmir National Conference) and some independents have polled against the @JKPC_ and @INCIndia abstaining whip where 28 corporators abstained,” Mattu tweeted soon after losing the no-confidence motion at the city’s banquet hall. “I respect the verdict of the corporation,” he said. Mattu, who has survived a no-confidence motion in the past, claimed the Bharatiya Janata Party and the National Conference have joined hands in Srinagar. “The seemingly unthinkable seems to have happened as @JKNC_ and @BJP4India have come together in Srinagar,” he tweeted. Mattu said he is taking the verdict with humility and his chin up. Also, the National Conference expelled four corporators from the party for voting in a no-confidence motion which resulted in Mattu’s removal as mayor of the SMC. “Ghulam Nabi Sufi, Danish Bhat, Neelofar and Majid Shulloo have been expelled after they defied the party whip to abstain from voting on the no-confidence motion,” NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement. “They have been expelled from the basic membership of the party for violating the whip,” he said.Even after the expulsion of NC corporators, Mattu was critical of the party. In another tweet, he said: “After a near unanimous resolution of the council to remove the former deputy mayor who had joined hands with the BJP during his incarceration—the @JKPC_ officially extended support to @INCIndia for the post of deputy mayor. And here is where things get interesting: The @JKNC_ yet again refused to be a part of the greater- @JKPC_ @INCIndia, and JKNC ‘alliance’ limited to SMC when the current deputy mayor (an NC nominee) thwarted the JKPC-INC alliance by engineering two factions within @INCIndia in the SMC—with an eye on the post.”He further tweeted:…“Didn’t want to speak about technical realities of today’s floor test in SMC and it’s result but the record needs to be set straight about @JKNC_’s exclusive and facilitatory role in ensuring the success of the BJP-engineered, orchestrated and backed ‘No Confidence Motion’.”“Today’s ‘No Confidence Motion’ is an eventual consequence—yet again instigated by the National Conference in SMC. You can’t claim votes against BJP nominees and then join them post elections!’’ The BJP said it had nothing to do with the no-confidence motion. However, political analysts say that this move was jointly taken by independent legislators with the support of BJP.The Congress, which has 17 corporators, had issued a whip asking its members not to take part in the no-confidence proceedings. Mattu, 35, had resigned from the National Conference only to participate in the polls in 2018. A former financial analyst who returned from the US barely a decade ago to join politics, he is also one of the senior leaders of the People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone.The term of the mayor and the deputy mayor is 30 months and both office bearers have to seek a fresh mandate from the corporators. They have more than 18 months to seek a fresh mandate within the corporation. Interestingly, Mattu had secured 40 votes to win the election in 2018 and the BJP corporators had supported him. He bagged more than 45 votes last year to defeat the no confidence motion and then deputy mayor Sheikh Imran who was in jail was also removed. However, Imran has been released and is now on the forefront of becoming the new Srinagar MC mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/junaid-azim-mattu-loses-no-confidence-motion-removed-as-srinagar-mayor/story-TLY0fFHBl1eQpRT6F4d0VN.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||22-year-old shoots self after shooting uncle dead in Tarn Taran village||A 55-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by his nephew after he rebuked the accused for fraternising with miscreants at Lalu Ghuman village, 10 km from the district headquarters, on Monday night. Soon after shooting his uncle Sukhdev Singh, the 22-year-old accused Judgevir Singh shot himself. He is being treated at a private hospital in Tarn Taran and his condition is said to be stable. The incident took place at around 2 am when the victim Sukhdev and other family members were asleep, police said. Judgevir entered the victim’s house by scaling a wall and opened fire at Sukhdev, who was sleeping in the courtyard, with a pistol. The bullets hit him in the chest. The victim then went on to the roof and shot himself in the stomach, village sarpanch Dilbagh Singh said.“A few days ago, Sukhdev had rebuked his nephew for spending time with known miscreants. Sukhdev had also taunted Judgevir for becoming a gangster,” the sarpanch said. Sukhdev’s wife, son, wife, daughter and son-in-law were in the house when the incident took place. “My family members and I rushed the two of them to the hospital where Sukhdev was declared brought dead. As Judgevir’s condition was critical, doctors referred him to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment,” the sarpanch said.Sukhdev, a farmer, is survived by his 20-year-old son, wife, two married daughters and a father. Judgevir’s father is a truck driver. He is the victim’s older brother. Station house officer (SHO) of Chabhal police station Harinder Singh said a case had been registered under Section 302 (murder) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-year-old-shoots-self-after-shooting-uncle-dead-in-tarn-taran-village/story-1dNyuarVZcfFapW1Yz2L2O.html
16-06-2020||City||Himachal: CPI (M) holds stir, demands relief for people who lost jobs amid pandemic||Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday staged a state-wide protest here and demanded the Union and state governments to provide relief to all the people who have lost their jobs and businesses due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Theog legislator Rakesh Singha, CPI (M) leaders, farmers, workers, women, small businessmen, students and street vendors among others also participated in the protest.CPI (M) has also sent a memorandum of demands to President Ramnath Kovind. These demands include, giving ₹7,500 per month to low-income families, 10kg per person for six months, implementation of employment guarantee scheme for poor people in living in urban areas, unemployment allowance, work to the jobless for at least 200 days under MGNREGA, stop on looting of national assets, privatisation of public section, abrogation of labour laws and Kissan Credit Card loan waiver up to ₹3,00,000.Singha said due to the pandemic, farmers, workers, small businessmen, daily wage workers and employees were facing serious financial crisis as they lost their livelihoods.He said Prime minister Narendra Modi-led central government has failed to overcome the crisis created by the pandemic as over 15 crore persons have lost their jobs and the government has not provided any relief to them instead is trying to benefit corporate houses by implementing neoliberal policies on the pretext of reforming the country.The CPI (M) has warned the central and state governments of intensifying the movement if their demands are not fulfilled immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cpi-m-holds-stir-demands-relief-for-people-who-lost-jobs-amid-pandemic/story-NVPu568VO98XUvz1YHO3IK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||MCI relaxes rules for MD, MS clinical course practicals||FARIDKOT The Medical Council of India (MCI), board of governors (MCI-BoG) on Tuesday announced relaxations in the practical examinations of MD, MS clinical courses after medical colleges said they were unable to conduct tests as per existing regulations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The clinical exam for clinical science subjects tests the knowledge and competence of candidates undertaking independent work as a specialist or teacher. For this the candidates have to examine a minimum of one long clinical case and two short cases, according to the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations for MD, MS degrees and postgraduate diploma courses.Now, alternative methods of skill evaluation such as simulation and case scenarios can be used, MCI secretary general Dr Rakesh Kumar Vats has said in a letter released on Tuesday.The state government had suggested to the MCI-BoG to consider modifying the conduct of the practicals amid the pandemic situation for the safety of the students. Dr Vats in his letter said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of the medical colleges had expressed their difficulty in adhering to existing regulations to examine the candidates by giving a minimum of one long or two short cases. Since the objective of the practical examination was to ascertain skills relevant to the specialty as outlined in the respective course curricula, alternative methods of skill evaluation which may include simulation, case scenarios etc. may be used in lieu of clinical cases, wherever the latter is not feasible as provided for the regulations referred above for the examination to be held in 2020. “This is a one-time exception,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mci-relaxes-rules-for-md-ms-clinical-course-practicals/story-9vyFSxshjPLB9SUW5C3UuK.html
16-06-2020||City||Heavy rainfall likely in Himachal from June 19-22||Himachal Pradesh will be receiving heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms, hailstorms, lightning and gusty winds from June 18 onwards, providing some relief from the heatwave, the state meterological department said on Tuesday.State MeT director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to occur in middle hills and throughout the state from June 19 to June 22 after which weather will be dry.Himachal has witnessed rainfall at isolated places during the last 24 hours. Weather was mostly sunny throughout the state on Tuesday while minimum and maximum temperatures were normal.Shimla recorded 27.4°C and Kufri 19.3°C maximum temperature. Manali recorded 27.8°C, Dalhousie 22.9°C, Dharamshala 32.2°C maximum temperatures. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan saw 34.0°C, 40.0°C, 39.8°C and 33.2°C maximum temperatures respectively.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 9.0°C degrees minimum temperature while Una was the hottest in the state at 41.0°C maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-himachal-from-june-19-22/story-FmNaVjSyTJ6LHjUbwCeNGI.html
16-06-2020||City||Economy hit by Covid-19 crisis, HP govt struggling to repay Rs 800-crore loan||Its economy hit hard by the Covid-19 outbreak, the Himachal Pradesh government is unlikely to meet its deadline to repay a Rs 800-crore loan to the Centre by June 27 and risk paying penalty of around ₹50 crore, a finance department official has said.Executing projects funded by the Centre in the 90:10 ratio is also likely to be difficult because of decline in goods and services (GST) tax collection.The state is largely dependent on Central grants for developmental works and gets nearly ₹6,500 crore for its shares in different Central taxes, GST and sales tax.So far this year, it has just received a part of the share in April. “Hardly any tax has been collected. State revenues have declined drastically, we are unable to pay the instalments this quarter. The government pays nearly Rs 800 crore in quarterly instalments for various loans for developmental activities to the Centre. We have to keep some money in our coffers as buffer,” said the finance department official who wished to remain anonymous.With a budgetary layout of ₹49,131 crore this year the government was expecting an 11% increase in revenues this year before the Covid-19 outbreak sent the economy in a tailspin.SGDP also likely to see a dipThe state gross domestic product (SGDP) is also likely to see a dip as most businesses have been closed for about three months.An analysis of the state’s expenditure reveals that the government will be spending ₹13,099 crore on salaries, ₹7,266 crore on pensions and ₹4,931.92 crore on repayment of loans and interests during the current financial year.Besides, several state-funded projects are at the execution stage. Income in the first quarter of this fiscal is negative.The only relief Himachal received was the revenue deficit grant received from the Centre of ₹950 crore each for May and June.GST share of ₹612 crore was also received in February and now revenues from liquor sales have started coming in.Borrowing limits have also been increased by 3% through an amendment in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act.Shopkeepers want electricity, water bill waiverWith business almost at a standstill after the Covid-19 outbreak, the business community in Shimla is demanding waiver on electricity and water bills. Shimla Beopar Mandal president Inderjit Singh said, “As we are hardly getting any business, the government should waive off water and electricity bills. It should also defer EMI payments. Hoteliers in Shimla have refused to resume operations since there are no tourists.”Hoteliers have already approached the government asking them to waive off electricity and water bills. They have also demanded waiving off the sewerage cess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/economy-hit-by-covid-19-crisis-hp-govt-struggling-to-repay-rs-800-crore-loan/story-Vf2islxYwjQhqtw9ZSAX8J.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||When will schools for children between 6-14 years start, Bombay HC asks Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking restriction on the commencement of online and offline sessions for primary and pre-primary schools till September. After the government informed the court that it had issued a notification on Monday, stating that schools for students up to Class 2 will not be reopen till September, the court sought to know about the status of commencement of classes for children up to the 14 years of age as sought by the petitioner.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice K K Tated, while hearing the PIL filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) Ezra Foundation, through video conferencing was informed by advocates Shashikant Chaudhari and Manoj Kumar Singh that the health and well-being of the students between six and 14 years will be put to risk if they are asked to attend school during the coronavirus outbreak. The petitioners also argued that asking them to attend classes online for elongated periods would also pose a threat to their health and many parents would also not be in a position to provide facilities for children to attend the online classes. In the light of these submissions the advocates sought directions to the state to refrain from starting schools for this age group till September.The petitioners also submitted that due to the financial problems being faced by parents during the lockdown, the state should frame guidelines for a “common fee structure” for private schools for the academic year 2020-21. Their advocates also informed the court that there were many schools that were forcing parents to pay fees for the academic year 2020-21 though there were no classes being held and hence there should be a court-monitored committee for framing guidelines of opening of schools across the state and preparing a list of erring schools that are charging fees and revoking their registration.The court then wanted to know the status of reopening of school for students upto the age of 14 years, to which advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the state will file its response by Friday to which the court agreed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/when-will-schools-for-children-between-6-14-years-start-bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-government/story-nJ0l9eEkpXccBp4WGfZmbI.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||IMA Punjab calls medical bandh on June 23 to protest Clinical Establishments Act||Doctors on Tuesday said they will observe a complete medical bandh on June 23 to oppose the implementation of the Clinical Establishments Act, which is to come to force from July 1. The move comes even as the state is grappling with the Covid-19 crisis. The Ludhiana branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) also burnt the copies of the act.IMA Ludhiana president Dr Sunil Katyal said the act was completely uncalled for and mistimed.He said doctors were already governed by the Punjab Medical Council (PMC) and National Medical Council (NMC/MCI), and hospital buildings are governed by building regulation norms and many hospitals are being accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). “The introduction of this act will achieve nothing extra, except for the harassment of doctors,” Katyal said. IMA Ludhiana honorary secretary Dheeraj Aggarwal said the act was against people, patients, the poor and doctors.“It will lead to an increase in hospital charges and treatment costs. The private health care delivery in Punjab was already of high quality as around 70% patients seek treatment at private setups than from government hospitals.The states where the act has been implemented do not show any improvement in health care delivery,” Aggarwal said. Punjab State governing Council joint action committee co-chairperson Dr Manoj K Sobti said, “We are opposing this act completely. Today a memorandum was given to the Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner AS Bains and it will be given to different leaders and officials. IMA Punjab has announced a complete medical bandh on June 23, if their demands are not met. If the government will not address their problems then a meeting will be held on June 28 to discuss the future course of action,” said Dr Sobti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ima-punjab-calls-medical-bandh-on-june-23-to-protest-clinical-establishment-act/story-tZ985xyVq3q2VdtfoWGNMJ.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Criminal carrying bounty of ₹50,000 on his head arrested||Chandigarh: A criminal carrying a reward of ₹50,000 on his head was arrested in Nuh district with a country-made pistol and cartridge, a Haryana Police spokesperson said on Tuesday. Shahid, alias Polo, a resident of Dhulawat, was involved in more than 30 cases of theft, dacoity, and attempt to murder in Gurugram and Manesar. The police got a tip-off and caught the accused near the Dhulawat toll plaza on KMP Expressway. ANOTHER WANTED CRIMINAL IN POLICE NET Later, after a brief exchange of fire at Nuh, police arrested another criminal Saddrudin, who was wanted in 24 cases of loot, ATM theft and murder.The police said a countrymade pistol was recovered from the accused, who was involved in crimes in Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh and Delhi. He had been absconding.Acting on a tip-off that Saddrudin would be coming from Rithad and going towards Raipuri via the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, which is under construction, police put up a barricade. After half an hour, police spotted a youngster on a motorcycle, who tried to flee after firing on the police team. The police fired in retaliation and caught the accused. He was admitted to the Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College at Nalhar for treatment after a bullet hit his leg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/criminal-carrying-bounty-of-50-000-on-his-head-arrested/story-NH0o5LZWPv5cRMuzZAOIPM.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Poet Seerat Kaur Gill’s poem ‘Diamonds on Earth’ encourages women to achieve their potential||Columnist and poet Seerat Kaur Gill’s latest audio-visual poem ‘Diamonds on Earth’ is a clarion call to women encouraging them to achieve their potential despite living in a patriarchal society that still mourns the birth of a girl child. The poem, which was published on YouTube and Facebook in collaboration with ‘Sounds of Sahit’, urges women to not let the society stunt their ambition or impugn their worth. Gill writes, “Do sone de kadde pa o hathkadi pahnonge, tu sone warg khud nu banona aa, Oh shayad teri kadar na paa sakan dhiye, par tu apna mul app hi pana hai (They will give you two gold bangles to imprison you like handcuffs, but you must polish yourself like gold; they may not understand your worth but you must determine your own value)’On her inspiration for the poem, the 32-year-old poet, says, “The cause is close to my heart. It is a gift for my two daughters aged seven and two.”On her tryst with Punjabi poetry, Gill says she was inspired by the writings of her grandfather Gurnam Singh Tir, a humorist and writer of the popular ‘Chacha Chandigarhia’ column, and her mother Bubbu Tir.Her writings primarily focus on women-centric issues. “I don’t write poetry very often. But when I do, it is in Punjabi and on subjects close to my heart.Gill has penned around eight poems so far and plans to release an anthology someday.Catch it Live: https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=148750086772114&id=101854821461641https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=brJWJ9nPgcs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/poet-seerat-kaur-gill-s-poem-diamonds-on-earth-encourages-women-to-achieve-their-potential/story-BmOQGecdDY5zgQM2L8KnTO.html
16-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19 likely to put Pune’s 4 mega projects like HCMTR on hold||To efficiently tackle the strain on city’s health infrastructure due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to tighten its purse strings. Mega infrastructure projects like the high capacity mass transport route (HCMTR), redevelopment of Sarasbaug, two grade separators and flyovers are likely to be put on hold by the civic body.​According to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, a recent circular by the state government asked civic bodies, including PMC, to avoid starting new projects.​“It’s a fact that Covid-19 has resulted in reduced revenue for PMC and the state government. Recently, the state government issued a circular to civic bodies and instructed them to avoid kick-starting new projects. The state government instructed government departments to keep projects on hold if they are not needed urgently,” Gaikwad said.​Some civic body departments have received instructions from senior officials to go slow on new projects, a PMC official said. The civic body had proposed some of these projects in its annual budget for the ongoing financial year. “The list of projects which are likely to go on hold is yet to be made, but our efforts are to include projects considering the estimate of the upcoming revenue. Projects like HCMTR and Sarasbaug can be executed later and so, PMC will be able to focus on important issues such as health,” Gaikwad said. ​HCMTR is a 30-year-old project also known as the inner ring road worth over Rs 5,000 crore. The proposed project promises to ease traffic congestion in the central parts of the city. The Sarasbaug redevelopment was proposed this year on a public-private partnership basis through which PMC proposed to build an underground parking lot and develop a food mall. ​Besides HCMTR and the Sarasbaug project, a grade separator at Kasba peth and two flyovers proposed by PMC are also likely to go on hold. ​PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne had made a Rs230-crore provision for proposed flyovers and grade separators in the city. One flyover is proposed near Market Yard and a grade separator has been proposed at Kasba eth. At least Rs20 crore has been proposed for a cultural academy at Kothrud.PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, said, “It is true that the state government issued a circular for not taking up new projects, but the financial year has just started. The lockdown has only affected economic activity over the past two months and now, businesses are starting. Being the standing committee chairman, I took a lot of effort to get more revenue for the civic body by introducing new resources. If projects like HCMTR are passed, it would require very little expenditure in the first year. The administration will require at least six months for the tender process to complete.”​Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “While putting projects on hold the administration should keep in mind that a project like the HCMTR has already been delayed. If it is delayed further, the project cost would increase. It is better to keep the process going on.”Civic activist Vijay Kumbhar said that many schemes proposed in this year’s financial budget were unwanted like erecting foot overbridges at various places. “The concept of foot overbridges is not popular in the city. It is good that considering the Covid-19 situation, PMC has decided to concentrate on key issues rather than beautification and unnecessary projects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-likely-to-put-pune-s-4-mega-projects-like-hcmtr-on-hold/story-MAWjcMus1ZaWq5E4gqfgVI.html
16-06-2020||Pune||60 train coaches in Pune converted into Covid isolation cabins await patients||In a bid to fight against the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic the Pune railway division had converted 60 coaches with a capacity of 1,080 beds into isolation wards earlier in April. However, these coaches are lying unused amid positive cases surge close to 10,000-mark.These coaches are fully equipped to admit and treat the Covid patients, but are currently not in use. “We have converted 60 coaches into a quarantine facility with 18 beds in each coach. Whenever Pune district administration will need it we will hand it over to them for use,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway.These coaches are currently kept at the Pune railway division’s Ghorpadi coach repair factory.Though the district administration has maintained that there is no bed shortage, there have been cases when Covid-19 patients were denied admission by hospitals. In one of such cases Pune municipal commissioner, Shekhar Gaikwad on June 5 had issued a show-cause notice to Poona Hospital and Research Centre for denying treatment to two patients on June 4.To address complaints related to overcharging the patients and denial of treatment at hospitals, the administration has constituted a committee under Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram.Ram said, “As of now we do not have any shortage of beds in the Pune district and whenever required we will use these isolation railway coaches. There are no plans as such yet to take these coaches, as it will also need a space to park, additional infrastructure and medical staff.”Recently, Pune divisional commissioner has also launched a new real-time dashboard ‘Covid care Software’ through which real-time data of availability of beds in the district can be viewed.Facilities in the isolation coaches-Non-AC sleeper coaches have been used to make these isolation cabins, while one Indian style toilet is converted into a bathing room. It is equipped with bucket, mug and soap dispenser.-Both middle berths are removed in each cabin. Extra bottle holders are provided in each cabin for holding medical equipment, two for each berth. Extra three peg coat hooks, two per cabin are provided and the windows are covered with mosquito nets among other facilities.-The first cabin near the bathing room is provided with two hospital or plastic curtains transversely in the aisle so that the entry and exit to the entire eight berth cabins can be screened off. This cabin will be used as a store and paramedics area. -Two oxygen cylinders are also provided by the medical department for which suitable clamping arrangement on the side berth side of this cabin is provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/60-train-coaches-in-pune-converted-into-covid-isolation-cabins-await-patients/story-Epz1dm6iVuWsfqzyKCaBeK.html
16-06-2020||Pune||Seven minors among 11 held for car vandalising||Seven cars were vandalised by a group of 11 people on Sunday at Sharda Colony in Pimple Nilakh. The group which includes 7 minors has now been nabbed by police within hours of the case being registered. The main accused in the case is a 17-year-old boy who was in a fight with the complainant - Rajkumar Arsan Pilla, 25, for the past month.The group reportedly arrived at the scene on two-wheelers, according to unit 4 officials of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.“This is a fight between two families. Due to a long-standing fight, Pillay had gone to the 17-year-old’s house to threaten him of violent consequences if he continues to fight. A few hours later, the 17-year-old gathered up people and went to where Pillay lives,” said police inspector Ajay Bhosale of Sangvi police station.The main accused was found while he was hiding at the graveyard in Pimple Nilakh, according to the statement issued by unit 4 officials.He led the police to the other minors involved in the case who in-turn led the police towards the four adults involved in the case - Kunal Rajendra Sartape, 20, and Chetan Ramanval Sahani, 22, both residents of Kasturba Gandhi Vasahat in Aundh, Rohan Kumar Jogdand, 22, and Yashwant Sunil Avghade, 21, both residents of Indira Vasahat in Aundh, Pune.The attack happened around 10pm on Sunday night when Pillay was heading home. He was attacked with sharp weapons and sustained injuries on his legs, according to crime branch officials.“A case is also being registered against Pillay for going to the minor’s house to threaten him before the attack on him took place,” said PI Bhosale.A case under Sections 326, 323, 427, rioting, 504, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(25(27) of Arms Act and Section 37(1₹(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Sangvi police station for vandalism of the cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-minors-among-11-held-for-car-vandalising/story-RAL8H01J9wqsCKM1l3PnoI.html
16-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s dummy, fake notes procured from Mumbai, Hyderabad: Cops||Investigations have revealed that the six persons, arrested in connection with the seizure of dummy and fake Indian and foreign notes with face “value” of Rs 87 crore, used to procure them from Hyderabad and Mumbai, a police official said on Monday.All the six accused, including an Army man, were on Monday produced before a local court which extended their police remand till June 20.“As per investigations, the accused had purchased dummy Indian currency notes from ‘Children Bank of India’ from Crawford Market in Mumbai and dummy USD bills from Hyderabad,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Bachchan Singh.In a joint operation on Wednesday, the Pune police and the Army’s intelligence wing carried out raids in Viman Nagar here and seized fake Indian currency, mostly dummy bills of ‘Children Bank of India’, and US dollars with a face “value” of Rs 87 crore.The accused were identified by the police as Shaikh Alim Gulab Khan, a serving Army man, Sunil Sarda, Ritesh Ratnakar, Tufail Ahmed Mohammad Ishaq Khan, Abdul Gani Khan and Abdul Rehman Abdul Ghani Khan.According to the police, the gang was operating here for the last seven-eight months, and used to target people with black money.“Their modus operandi was to exchange US currency with Indian currency or vice-versa,” a police officer with the Crime Branch had said last week.The gang would dupe customers by passing off bundles of fake notes with genuine bills on the top in exchange of real currency, he had said.If a customer questioned the source of cash, the accused would tell him that they were descendants of the Nizams (erstwhile rulers of Hyderabad), he said.“They had even put pictures of the Nizam outside their bungalow,” the official had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-dummy-fake-notes-procured-from-mumbai-hyderabad-cops/story-pmAiW5kholvTW46TZCw3aK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU researchers look into methods of reusing PPEs||Researchers at the Panjab University (PU) department of microbiology are looking into methods of reusing personal protective equipment (PPE) as medical waste has been increasingly accumulating in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Disposable surgical masks, N95 respirators and surgical gowns are made of non-biodegradable polypropylene, polystyrene or polyethylene while the face shields and goggles are made of polycarbonate or acrylic. Their single-use generates tonnes of waste everyday. The department is researching methods to decontaminate PPEs.PU dean science Prince Sharma said, “Ordinary methods such as washing the waste with detergent, alcohol, sanitisers or bleach have failed. It is not an easy task and while readying the disposed-off PPEs for reuse; care has to be taken to decontaminate the pathogen and ensure its validation. There should be no change in the filtering and material properties or any deformity in its fit.”Sharma and Dr Naveen Gupta of the microbiology department are already testing different methods that can be used for making PPE kits reusable.“We are testing methods such as mild heat, UV irradiation and mild chemicals such as hydrogen peroxide for treating used masks, respirators, face shields and gowns so as to reuse them,” he said.“The reuse of PPEs is a matter of environmental concern and safety, besides being economical,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-researchers-look-into-methods-of-reusing-ppes/story-hdYXVlP1KasU1EhBsRIO7J.html
16-06-2020||Kolkata||Man held for throwing children from rooftop in police custody||A city court on Monday remanded a 55-year-old man, arrested for allegedly throwing two children from a rooftop leading to the death of one, to 14 days police custody.The condition of the other boy, who is six-years-old, is still serious. He was admitted to a hospital after the incident that happened on Sunday evening in Central Kolkata’s Burrabazar area.The arrested man had some dispute with the father of the deceased child, police said.Police sources said the man will be questioned and it will also be ascertained whether he was suffering from any psychological disorder or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/man-held-for-throwing-children-from-rooftop-in-police-custody/story-RQh98sxu3QhGnVRcfdBnsL.html
16-06-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 death toll rises to 485 in Bengal with 10 more fatalities, 407 new cases reported||Ten people afflicted with Covid-19 died in West Bengal on Monday, taking the toll in the state to 485, the health department said.Of the 10, eight died due to comorbidities, where Covid-19 was “incidental”, it said. A total of 407 more people tested positive for the disease in the past 24 hours, raising the total number of such cases to 11,494, the department said in its bulletin.The maximum number of new infections was reported from Kolkata with 104 cases, while 56 each were registered in North 24 Parganas and Malda districts, it said.Thirty-six people tested positive for Covid-19 in Howrah, 29 in Alipurduar, 22 in Darjeeling, 17 in Jalpaiguri, 14 in Dakshin Dinajpur and 13 in South 24 Parganas districts, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 5,515. Altogether 9,509 samples were examined for the disease since Sunday evening. A total of 3,43,242 coronavirus tests have been conducted so far. A total of 434 patients have been discharged from different hospitals in the state in the past 24 hours after being cured, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-485-in-bengal-with-10-more-fatalities-407-new-cases-reported/story-xgTAFUUm2ecWMJq5fiOenM.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tests negative for Covid-19: CMO||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain has tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the chief minister’s office (CMO) said on Tuesday. Jain was admitted to the state-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) in the national capital on Monday night after he developed a fever and his oxygen level dropped.“Due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I have been admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated,” Jain had tweeted earlier on Monday.Last week, Arvind Kejriwal had gone into self-isolation at his home after he had a bout of fever and complained of sore throat. Kejriwal had tested negative for Covid-19. Delhi has the third-highest number of infections in India with 42,829 Covid-19 cases and 1,400 fatalities till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-satyender-jain-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-p77O92tRYRGyPnk2zdrfxL.html
16-06-2020||Dehradun||Snow leopard captured on camera in Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National Park||A snow leopard has been captured on camera in Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National Park at a height of around 3400 metres indicating that the animals are thriving in the area, officials said. DB Sharma, the deputy director of the Gangotri National Park, said the footage of the snow leopard was captured by the park’s staff in Sonam area on Sunday.“The video shows a snow leopard climbing a rocky mountainside in the park. This shows that snow leopards are flourishing in the park and hopefully their numbers have increased,” Sharma said.“This has brought us some cheer as last week we had lost one snow leopard in the park, whose carcass was spotted by the patrolling staff,” he said.He was referring to the seven-year-old female snow leopard, who was found dead near the Nelong Valley in the Gangotri National Park on June 9.Watch: Snow leopard climbs rocky cliff in Uttarakhand’s Gangotri National ParkA video clip of a snow leopard crossing a road near the Nelong Valley was captured in August last year by an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) official, who shared it with forest officials. The leopard was sighted at the Naga tri-section point, around 10km ahead of Nelong valley at an altitude of around 4,000 metre.Four snow leopards, including a pair, were seen on camera traps in Nanda Devi National Park between January to March this year.Similarly, four snow leopards were caught on camera traps in January by the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) in the state’s Gori Valley in Pithoragarh district. WWF, working on community conservation of snow leopards in Gori Valley, had shared the images. Snow leopard (Panthera uncia) is facing threats due to poaching and habitat destruction. It inhabits the Himalayas at elevations ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 metres. A Schedule I animal under the Wildlife Protection Act of India, it is listed as “endangered” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has made an estimate on the population of snow leopards based on an extrapolation from their habitat quality and their density. S Sathyakumar, a senior scientist with WII, has said India likely has around 516 snow leopards, with the current estimated distribution of these animals across Himalayan states to be around 86 in Uttarakhand, 90 in Himachal Pradesh, 285 in Jammu and Kashmir, 13 in Sikkim and 42 in Arunachal Pradesh.Gangotri National Park, established in 1989, is located in Uttarkashi district in the upper catchment of the Bhagirathi River and covers 1,553sqkm area in the altitude ranging 1800 to 7083 metres. Gangotri glacier, the origin of the River Ganga, is also located inside Gangotri National Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/snow-leopard-captured-on-camera-in-uttarakhand-s-gangotri-national-park/story-isFLwfip99OiwQSXWzRd0M.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||60-year-old Malerkotla man dies of coronavirus in Sangrur||Sangrur: A 60-year-old man died of coronavirus at a Covid care centre at Ghabdan near Sangrur town at 5am on Tuesday.The deceased was identified as Rizwaan Farooqi of Malerkotla and he had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 10.Health department officials said that he was also suffering from Parkinsonism, hypertension and diabetes.With Farooqi’s death, the district Covid-19 toll has gone up to four. All four deaths have been reported from Malerkotla town of Sangrur district.Malerkotla is worst-hit with 34 of the 46 active Covid-19 cases reported from the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-malerkotla-man-dies-of-coronavirus-in-sangrur/story-RVKYbiZdQuUCNNxWRpj1uN.html
16-06-2020||Lucknow||Anamika Shukla case: 3 more arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police||Three more persons have been arrested by the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh on Monday in connection with the Anamika Shukla case that pertains with the appointment of teachers allegedly using fake documents in schools across the state.The police have identified the arrested persons as Pushpendra Singh, Anand and Ramnath. The police alleged that the three were arrested for aiding the appointment of several teachers by using fake documents in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya through the documents of one application in Prayagraj, Amethi, Raibareilli, Varanasi, Saharanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kasganj and Baghpat districts of Uttar Pradesh.Earlier, two suspects in the case were arrested on June 6 and June 14.Notably, Shukla on June 10 appeared before Gonda basic education officer and alleged that her educational certificates were “misused” to take up jobs at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Schools. The case came to light after an FIR was lodged against Shukla for allegedly withdrawing over Rs 1 crore in salary for over a year from 25 different schools.Further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/anamika-shukla-case-3-more-arrested-by-uttar-pradesh-police/story-voC3JEc9ICVVZaC2VrA1XN.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri in self-quarantine after contact with Covid-19 patient||Dharamshala: The leader of opposition in the Himachal Pradesh assembly, Mukesh Agnihotri, has gone into self-quarantine in Una district after contact with a Punjab Police assistant sub inspector (ASI), who later tested positive for Covid-19.In a Facebook post on Monday night, the 57-year-old Congress leader said that he was going into self-isolation as he has come in contact with a person who has tested positive for Covid-19.“I suspect having come in contact with a Covid positive person while discharging my duty as a public representative. Though social distancing was maintained and I am feeling healthy. However, given my duty towards society, I am self-quarantining at home till further notice,” Agnihotri wrote in the post.He had visited the ASI’s house at Dulehar-Hiranagar area in his home constituency of Harloli to mourn the death of the policeman’s father. The ASI later tested positive for coronavirus.Agnihotri, a journalist-turned-politician, had met several people on Monday and also held a press conference. His staff said that he will remain in self-isolation at his home in Gondpur-Jaichand locality of Haroli town. His swab samples have been sent for testing and the report is expected on Thursday.STATE SEES RISE IN CASESThe number of Covid-19 cases has seen a sharp rise in Himachal Pradesh over the past week.So far, the state has reported 556 patients of Covid-19, of which 342 have recovered, while six, comprising three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease.Eleven patients have migrated to other states.There are 195 active cases in the state. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 145 cases so far followed by Hamirpur with 134, Una with 73, Solan 59, Chamba 38, Bilaspur 29, Sirmaur 27, Mandi 22, Shimla 21, Kullu four cases and Kinnaur with two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-leader-of-opposition-mukesh-agnihotri-in-self-quarantine-after-contact-with-covid-19-patient/story-b6cFPBgvl0ORG4xl3xHBoK.html
16-06-2020||Lucknow||35 more Covid-19 cases in UP: KGMU, Lucknow||The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) informed that of 2,301 samples tested for Covid-19 on Monday, results of 35 samples are positive.“Out of the 2,301 samples tested yesterday for Covid-19, results of 35 are positive, “ said KGMU.In the latest update by the state Health Department, Uttar Pradesh has reported a total of 14,091 Covid-19 cases as of Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/35-more-covid-19-cases-in-up-kgmu-lucknow/story-T8zP1M8QCqt6LdLYOEDpUO.html
16-06-2020||City||15 aftershocks in Gujarat’s Kutch district after earthquake||As many as 15 aftershocks were experienced in Gujarat’s Kutch district, some of them of more than 4 magnitude, a day after an earthquake of 5.3 intensity hit the area, officials said on Monday.No casualty or damage to property was reported though some houses developed cracks, they said.On Sunday night, an earthquake of 5.3 magnitude was recorded with its epicentre 10km North-North East (NNE) of Bhachau in Kutch, the site of a devastating quake in 2001.After that, 15 aftershocks rattled the area throughout Sunday night and Monday, including one with 4.6 magnitude that was recorded at 12.57 pm on Monday with its epicentre 15 km NNE of Bhachau, a scientist from the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said.Scientist Santosh Kumar of ISR said these were aftershocks of Sunday night’s 5.3 magnitude earthquake, and further study was underway related to them.Apart from the earthquake of 4.6 magnitude, an aftershock of 4.1 magnitude was recorded at 3:56 pm, and another of 3.6 magnitude at 1:01 pm, with their epicentres six and 11 kms NNE of Bhachau, respectively, the official said.Aftershocks of various magnitudes, ranging from 1.4 to 3.1, were recorded so far in the area, the official said.Kutch collector Praveena DK said there has been no report of casualty or damage to property though a few houses near the epicentre developing cracks.“There is absolutely no damage apart from a few houses reporting cracks, and that too in the villages where the epicentre was located,” she said.Sunday night’s 5.3 magnitude earthquake was felt in several parts of Saurashtra and north Gujarat districts, especially in Rajkot and Patan where people rushed out of their houses in large numbers.People said the quake briefly reminded them of the devastating Kutch earthquake of 7.7 magnitude that had rocked the state on January 26, 2001, causing massive loss of life and property.Kutch district is located in a “very high risk” seismic zone, and earthquakes of lower intensity occur regularly there.As per the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority, the 2001 earthquake was the third largest and second most destructive in India over the last two centuries as around 20,000 people had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-aftershocks-in-gujarat-s-kutch-district-after-earthquake/story-lFvjy7qTcimFe1cLmeaAIN.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 infection tally crosses 1,000-mark with 76 fresh cases||Seventy-six people tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 1,011, officials said. The district, adjoining Delhi, has recorded 12 deaths so far, while the number of active patients stood at 489, they said. Three men, aged 74, 42 and 29, died on Monday but their death audit for Covid-19 was pending, a senior official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “On Monday, 76 people were found positive for Covid-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 1,011. A total 510 patients have recovered so far. There are 489 active cases now,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The recovery rate of patients stood at 50.44 per cent, according to official statistics. As many as 13,644 samples have been collected for Covid-19 testing so far in the district, a statement said. A total of 1,085 positive cases have been detected, of which 1,011 are people living in Gautam Buddh Nagar and remaining 74 are people from outside the district, it added. Among the 76 new patients, 21 were tested by private laboratories and 55 by government facilities, according to the statement. Also, 43 of the new patients are ILI (which means they have influenza-like illness), one is SARI (severe acute respiratory infection), while 27 are contacts of people who have previously tested positive for Covid-19, it said. Of the 76 patients, five are healthcare workers, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-1-000-mark-with-76-fresh-cases/story-6YVDM32OwJFphvqqzgqs8L.html
16-06-2020||Bhopal||Constable not killed in road accident but murdered, cop suspended: Satna SP||A police constable who was said to have met with an accident and died in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna on Sunday evening was murdered during his attempt to check black marketing of diesel, the district’s superintendent of police (SP) said on Monday.Riyaz Iqbal said the police station in-charge concerned Ashish Dhruve, who had informed his seniors that constable Prabal Pratap Singh had died in an accident, was placed under suspension.Iqbal said Singh was on patrolling duty on Sunday evening when he spotted a tractor-trolley at Gupt Godavari turning point on the state’s border with Uttar Pradesh. He found that diesel was illegally being transported on the tractor-trolley. Singh, who was on a motorcycle, asked the accused Dhanpat Patel and Pramod Patel, both residents of Chitrakoot district in Uttar Pradesh, to follow him to the police station with the tractor-trolley.Iqbal said the accused followed Singh for some distance but suddenly turned towards Uttar Pradesh. When the constable tried to stop them he was run over by the accused and killed. The accused left the trolley behind and fled the spot on the tractor.“The police station in-charge Ashish Dhruve told us that it was a case of an accident but when we reached the spot at night and talked to people in the area we came to know it was a case of murder,” the senior officer said.“An FIR under section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged against the accused and Dhruve suspended for providing us misleading information,” he added.Iqbal said four teams of police personnel have been formed to look for the accused. “However, they have not been arrested as yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/constable-not-killed-in-road-accident-but-murdered-cop-suspended-satna-sp/story-VT0UuSFOa7GIOabp97YIJK.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Reinstate 1,983 physical training instructors: Surjewala to Khattar govt||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to reinstate the sacked 1,983 physical training instructors by issuing an ordinance and ratifying it later through a Bill passed by the Haryana assembly. A single bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had in 2012 set aside the 2010 selection of such instructors on account of changes made in the selection process. An HC division bench had upheld the decision of the single bench. The Supreme Court had on April 8 also upheld the HC decision.In a letter addressed to the Haryana CM, Surjewala suggested a draft Bill for providing security of service to physical training instructors in the ‘interest of justice’. “I urge upon you to take immediate steps to ensure that these 1,983 physical training instructors and their families are not abandoned to the vagaries of unemployment. They and their families will suffer disproportionately given the circumstances that Covid and the lockdown have created as also the fact that all of them are overage and unlikely to secure any other employment,” Surjewala said.Calling their removal insensitive, he said the teachers were innocent and the court has not held them guilty for any corruption or procedural lapses by the recruiting authority. The Supreme Court neither found corruption in the selection process nor any malicious act by any of the selected teachers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reinstate-1-983-physical-training-instructors-surjewala-to-khattar-govt/story-Hyv6rAwgBLMoZuNzuF8f1J.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in hospital due to high fever, Covid-19 test today||Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain has been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) in the national capital after he developed a fever and his oxygen level dropped.A spokesperson for the Delhi government said a Covid-19 test will be conducted on Satyendar Jain later in the day.“Due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I have been admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated,” Jain tweeted on Tuesday.This comes a day after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader attended an all-party meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was also present at the meeting.Last week, Arvind Kejriwal had gone into self-isolation at his home after he had a bout of fever and complained of sore throat. Kejriwal had tested negative for the coronavirus disease. Delhi has the third-highest number of infections in India with 42,829 Covid-19 cases and 1,400 fatalities till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-admitted-to-hospital-due-to-high-grade-fever/story-0XoEyM7yrErwj7Fzv8kLcI.html
16-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports one more Covid-19 death, 30 new cases; state infection tally at 1,793||An elderly person died of Covid- 19 in Jharkhand on Monday, raising the toll of coronavirus fatalities in the state to nine, while 30 more people tested positive, a state government bulletin said.The bulletin however, did not mention the district from where the latest death was reported.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA total of 1,793 people have so far tested positive for the disease in Jharkhand, of which 784 are active cases, it said, adding 1,000 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals.With 198 active cases, East Singhbhum district tops the Covid-19 list followed by Simdega district at 146.Jharkhand’s mortality rate stood at 0.50 per cent as compared to that of the country at 2.86 per cent, the bulletin said.Earlier in the day, Principal Secretary (Health), Nitin Madan Kulkarni, said a health check-up programme will be launched in rural and urban areas of the state from June 18.Meanwhile, officials said over 6.89 lakh people, including around five lakh migrant labourers, have returned to Jharkhand by different mode of transport since May 1.On June 17, 76 people will be brought back from Bangladesh, Chief Nodal Officer (Covid-19) Amrendra Pratap Singh told reporters here.“Seventeen others will travel by road from Bhutan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-30-new-cases-state-infection-tally-at-1-793/story-Ocq9vzIdWQBUYFR6tvh3fI.html
16-06-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar nudges banks for better credit flow||Chief minister Nitish Kumar Monday asked bankers to ramp up the annual credit plan (ACP) with a view to improving the credit flow in the state to aid government’s efforts to create adequate job opportunities for migrant workers who wish to stay back and work here.The chief minister, who was addressing bankers at the 72nd state level bankers committee meeting, said people of the state are inclined to deposit their savings with the banks. “But against a deposit mobilization of Rs 3,71,783 crore in 2019-20, banks have disbursed loans worth Rs 1,52,257 crore in Bihar and deployed the rest in developed states. Bankers must reverse the trend and contribute in bolstering economic activities and job creation by pushing up the dismal C:D ratio of 43.03% somewhere near the national average,” he said.The first step would be to increase the ACP target and, at the same time, augment their branch presence at the panchayat level to ensure that none of the 8,386 panchayat remains without a bank branch. “We are ready to provide space in panchayat bhawans and government buildings as banking presence will help boost credit flow into labour intensive micro, small and medium enterprise sector, along with agriculture and allied activities (animal husbandry), handicraft and handloom sectors for creating job opportunities,” he said.The chief minister’s remark came in the backdrop of a continued slide in C:D ratio, from 45.38% in 2017-18 to 44.04% in 2018-19, and, now, to 43.03% in 2019-20 and a stagnation in the ACP targets for financial year 2020-2021--the same as FY 2019-20--at Rs 1,45,000 crore at a time when the state was in the midst of a pressing need to accommodate its non-resident workers in the wake of a reverse migration triggered by Covid-19 induced lockdown.Kumar said banks must take up the task to open an account for everybody and also increase the credit limit for over 9.5 lakh self-help groups (SHGs) to Rs 3-10 lakh from the current limit of Rs 1-5 lakh. “Similarly issuance of kisan credit card (KCC) should be stepped up as only 50,000 new KCC have been issued, against 3.70 lakh fresh applications. The access to subsidized credit invariably goes a long way in spurring agriculture-related activities,” he said.The CM appreciated bankers for carrying out banking operations, during the lockdown period, which, he said, helped the state in ensuring direct benefit transfer into the accounts of beneficiaries to the tune of Rs 8,500 crore.Deputy chief minister-cum-finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi, in his video interaction with media persons, said the government has laid down its expectations from the banks, as it was the first SLBC meeting of the current fiscal and major part of the first quarter remained under lockdown.As for the loan disbursal of Rs 1,05,400 crore that stood at 72.69% of the ACP target of Rs 1,45,000 crore for 2019-20, Modi said that the bankers attributed it to prevailing slowdown and beginning of the imposition of lockdown in the month of March. “We are in the process of mitigating their concern regarding verification of land possession by providing then direct online access to land records for loan purposes,” he said.Deputy CM said that as many as 17 banks have been identified as laggards in loan disbursal and the ACP achievement in 27 districts have been found to be way behind the average performance. “We will keep a close watch and also ensure that nearly 12 lakh dairy farmers, who are also the members of COMPFED, are provided KCC to have access for soft loans for expanding their business,” Modi said.Besides them, 74,000 street vendors have been identified for providing financial assistance of Rs 10,000 and 23,951 collateral free loan beneficiaries are being sanctioned Rs 638 crore as part of the initiative to provide them 20% additional working capital to tide over the crisis caused by lockdown. “The extension in moratorium period for farmers, from June to August 31, will benefit 11.39 lakh KCC holders,” the deputy CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-nudges-banks-for-better-credit-flow/story-68T7DcBdjEbxpJXkXfkVAN.html
16-06-2020||Patna||Deferred due to Covid-19, polls to nine Bihar Legislative Council seats now on July 6||The Election Commission announced on Monday that the elections to nine Bihar Legislative Council seats will be held on July 6, clearing the decks for the polls that were to be held in May but had to be deferred because of the coronavirus outbreak.According to the Election Commission release announcing the schedule, notifications would be issued for the polls on June 18, and filing of nomination papers will take place till June 25.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWithdrawal of nominations will be allowed till June 29, while voting will take place by members of the legislative assembly on July 6, followed by counting of votes on the same day.All the nine seats from the Vidhan Sabha constituency fell vacant on May 6 after expiry of tenures of respective members and these were held by the JD(U)-BJP combine.However, with the assembly’s changed arithmetic, the ruling coalition may have to concede a few of these to the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led opposition.The nine MLCs whose terms expired include state cabinet member Ashok Chaudhary, former minister P K Shahi, former Acting Chairman Haroon Rashid (all from JDU) and BJPs national media co-convenor Sanjay Prakash alias Sanjay Mayukh.Notably, with the expiry of Rashid’s tenure, the upper house of state legislature has been rendered “headless”.Governor Phagu Chauhan, on the recommendation of the state government, would have to appoint an elected member of the council as the new acting chairperson if the House were to convene for a session.In the 75-strong Vidhan Parishad, 26 seats are vacant at present, seven of these falling under the “snaatak” (graduate) category, for which schedule is yet to be announced and 10 nominated ones on which the government has to take a call.As per norms, for voting by assembly members each candidate should secure a number of votes that is equivalent to the effective strength of the Lower House divided by the number of vacant seats in the Upper House.Effective strength of the 243-strong assembly is 242, one seat is vacant because of the death of RJD MLA Abdul Gafoor in January this year.The Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party, besides junior alliance partner Ram Vilas Paswans’ Lok Janshakti Party, have close to 130 seats together.The RJD-Congress combine has just under 110 and it can look forward to the support of three MLAs of the CPI(ML), besides Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which achieved its maiden victory in Bihar in a by-poll last year, and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, founding president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and its lone member in the assembly.Bihar is slated to see the Assembly elections before November 29 of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/deferred-due-to-covid-19-polls-to-nine-bihar-legislative-council-seats-now-on-july-6/story-Omv3KczrkrK9OJK4Hbj2AN.html
16-06-2020||Patna||2 Covid-19 deaths in Bihar take toll to 38; with 187 new cases, tally at 6,58||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Bihar rose to 38 on Monday with two more casualties, while 187 fresh cases took the state’s tally to 6,581, a health department official sai d.Muzaffarpur district reported its second death, which was of a 72-year-old man who returned from Delhi recently, and Madhubani district registered its first fatality of a 55-year-old man who returned from Mumbai, State Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBegusarai, Khagaria and Vaishali have reported three casualties each. Besides Muzaffarpur, other districts reporting two deaths each are Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Jehanabad, Patna, Saran, Sitamarhi and Siwan. Thirteen other districts, including Madhubani, have reported one death each.All 38 districts of the state have reported Covid-19 cases, Patna and Bhagalpur being the worst affected ones with respective tallies of 329 and 327, while Jamui, which has the lowest tally, has reported 51 cases.Other districts with large numbers of coronavirus cases are Madhuani (303), Begusarai (301), Khagaria (293), Rohtas (282) and Munger (270).Altogether 4,226 patients have recovered after being cured in Bihar. Districts with a high number of recovered cases are Begusarai (259), Rohtas (245), Khagaria (244), Patna (204) and Bhagalpur (203).The number of samples tested till date was 1.27 lakh and the health secretary said the state has spruced up its testing capacity with facilities installed in all the 38 districts.The state was at present home to 384 active containment zones while 47 other localities have been “de-notified as containment zones” after these reported no fresh case in the last four weeks.June 15 was also the last date when block-level quarantine centres, set up to contain the massive influx of migrants from across the country during the lockdown, were to remain functional.Information and Public Relations Department Secretary Anupam Kumar said that by Monday, only 455 such quarantine centres had remained functional with 6,082 people housed in those facilities.When the migrants’ influx was at its peak in the end of May, the number of such quarantine centres was more than 10,000 and, the IPRD secretary said, a total of 15.33 lakh people have returned home after completing their 14-day mandatory stay at these facilities.The influx of migrants has also been blamed for the massive spike in Covid-19 cases in Bihar over the past month-and-a-half. The number of migrants testing positive between May 3 and June 14 was 4,449.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-covid-19-deaths-in-bihar-take-toll-to-38-with-187-new-cases-tally-at-6-58/story-EdN5pLOXKROqtK9x2I57MM.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Body of missing chemist found near Rohini park||The body of a 37-year-old chemist was found early Sunday morning at an isolated place near Japanese Park in outer Delhi’s Rohini Sector 10, almost 13 kilometres away from his shop in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat, from where he went missing on Saturday afternoon.The chemist, Ashish Gupta, lived with his father, wife and two children. He used to run his medical store from the ground floor of the same building. His family members suspect he was abducted and killed in a robbery attempt, as his gold chain, wallet and mobile phone were missing. The police said they are probing the murder and robbery angles. “Prima facie, it doesn’t look like a case of natural death or suicide. But we will register a case under appropriate sections of IPC only after getting the autopsy report,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/body-of-missing-chemist-found-near-rohini-park/story-btdvT9mAY7p9Uz85dWjrSJ.html
16-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan offers Covid testing facility to neighbouring states||With Covid-19 cases increasing in neighbouring states, the Rajasthan government has offered testing facilities of up to 5,000 samples daily to neighbouring states.“In times of this crisis, neighbouring states which are overloaded with patients and short of testing facilities can get tests done in Rajasthan,” Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said at a meeting to review the pandemic situation in the state. Gehlot said States such as Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh could get tests for their patients done in Rajasthan.“If the government has testing facilities then why don’t they use it for people of Rajasthan first before trying to win cheap popularity by offering it to other states,” he said.He said if 25,000 tests were actually being carried out, Rajasthan would have been able to control coronavirus till now.Jitendra Chaudhary, head of the lab technicians association at SMS hospital, said using the CB-NAAT machines and pooled testing technique has helped to ramp up testing capacity in the state. There are 72 CB-NAAT machines being used for Covid testing. ICMR approved these diagnostic machines which are used for testing TB to be used for Covid testing.Dr Virendra Singh, a member of the CM’s advisory committee on Covid-19 said that Rajasthan has more capacity to test than the samples received and so for a limited time period, testing facility can be extended to other statesHe said while the testing capacity is adequate, the government should try to shorten the time lag in testing and providing reports. “Reports should be available to patients within 6-8 hours instead of 2-3 days.”While the state is increasing testing capacity across districts, it is declining in Jaipur because there is pressure of testing from other neighbouring districts in the Covid-19 testing centres. Of the total samples, 34% are those from other districts such as Tonk, Dausa, Karauli, Alwar and Bharatpur.Till now, some 1.3 lakh Covid-19 samples have been tested in five centres in Jaipur. Of these, 89,000 tests were of Jaipur and the rest were from other districts.Currently testing is being carried out in 16 districts in the state though the chief minister and health minister have said that testing facilities will soon be developed in all 33 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-offers-covid-testing-facility-to-neighbouring-states/story-HPzjLazNMFIZ2XyjeBFOGI.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Local trains resume in Mumbai after 84 days||After 84 days, local trains in Mumbai began operations for essential workers on Monday. The first train operated at 4.03am, between Panvel and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). Distancing norms were observed and passengers were screened before boarding trains. Train services for the general public remain suspended.Late on Sunday night, the railways had issued a notification allowing Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR) to resume select suburban train services for essential staff, as identified by the state government. On Monday, approximately 60,000 passengers travelled by local trains, according to CR and WR. The state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) submitted a list of who would travel from their respective stations to the railways. Nearly 40 thousand railway tickets were sold on Monday.To board trains, passengers had to undergo thermal screening and show their identity cards. Entry and exit points at stations have been limited and are being manned by Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), Mumbai Police and railway ticketing staff.A total of 700 passengers were allowed on board each train, with approximately 58 passengers inside each compartment. “The number of passengers boarding from the railway stations was received from state government and BMC. Employees were asked to report early. The timings of local trains have also been coordinated with office shift timings,” said a senior CR official.This came on a day the state’s death toll reached 4,128 with a single-day record of 178 fatalities. Maharashtra recorded 2,786 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 110,744. For the first time, the state has more recoveries than active cases. The recovery rate in the state stands at 50.61% as there are 50,554 active cases in the state. Mumbai recorded 1,067 new Covid-19 cases taking the city’s tally to 59,293. On Monday afternoon, WR’s divisional railway manager clarified on Twitter that train services were running for BMC, Mumbai Police personnel and those working at Mantralaya and in government and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-trains-resume-in-mumbai-after-84-days/story-fb5AEiSUozqctb1PkeAKOP.html
16-06-2020||City||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases near 60,000 mark||As the city’s Covid-19 case count inches towards 60,000, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claimed to have screened over 83 lakh citizens till date, which is over 50% of the city’s population as per the 2011 Census. BMC has conducted 2.61 lakh tests, with a positivity rate of 22.25% as of Sunday and traced over 10.94 lakh close contacts.Mumbai reported 1,067 new Covid-19 cases and 68 deaths on Monday, taking the count to 59,293 and toll to 2,250. There are 26,910 active Covid-19 cases and 30,125 patients have recovered. The civic body said of the 83.57 lakh citizens screened, 3.57 lakh were senior citizens, of whom 1,924 were referred for oxygen therapy owing to low oxygen levels in their body. Further, BMC has set up over 410 fever clinics in which 25,535 citizens have been screened and 5,874 swabs taken for testing. A BMC official said, “We are planning to screen maximum citizens. As we are completing screening in slums, we are focusing on high-rises.”According to BMC’s data, of the 10.94 lakh contacts traced, seven lakh are high-risk contacts, those who are directly in touch with the patient who has tested positive such as a family member, friend or relative. Low-risk contacts are those living nearby, but not in direct contact with the patient.In a statement issued on Monday, BMC said the doubling rate in the city has now increased to 27 days and the average daily patient growth rate is 2.65%. In F-North ward, which covers areas such as Matunga, Antop Hill and Wadala, the doubling period has now reached 55 days, with the lowest growth rate being 1.3%, followed by doubling period of 53 days in M-East ward covering Govandi, where the average patient growth rate is also 1.3%. Areas such as Bandra East, Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim, Kurla, Byculla and Mazgaon have a doubling rate of more than 40 days and fatalities at less than 2%. The areas that have a doubling rate of less than 20 days are Malad, Kandivli, Borivli, Dahisar, Mulund, Bhandup and Kanjurmarg. These areas also have high growth rates of more than 3%.Meanwhile, additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal on Monday met municipal commissioners from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region wherein it was decided that all health workers of the civic bodies can be issued an e-pass for travelling via suburban local trains that started its operations from Monday. Until the e-pass is issued, all staff should use their ID cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-near-60-000-mark/story-INqgFEaj3q0FCzdQ6uncvM.html
16-06-2020||City||This academic year, no online sessions till Class 2 for students in Maharashtra||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a meeting with state education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday, approved the standard operating procedures (SOP) submitted by the education department on June 12 to reopen schools and regulate online learning.As per the SOPs, the new academic year for students across the state will commence from June 15 and schools begin online learning for the first few months. Both private and government-aided schools will not be allowed to conduct online classes for students up to Class 2. These students can be asked to listen to radio programmes and TV content on education once the state government rolls it out. Students of Class 3-5 can only be asked to sit for up to an hour a day, Class 6-8 can be asked to attend up to two hours a day and Class 9-12 can be held for a maximum of three hours a day. Schools will also have to ensure that students are given enough breaks between two classes. “We understand that parents might be under stress due to the current situation and the resulting uncertainty. We have released these SOPs to bring more clarity about what the government is going to do to ensure that students do not miss out on learning even in places where schools cannot be reopened soon,” said Gaikwad at an event held by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) on Monday afternoon.The department plans to initiate phase-wise reopening of schools in areas where there has not been a single Covid-19 case for at least a month from July. Schools can first start sessions for Classes 9, 10 and 12 in July, followed by Classes 6 to 8 from August and Classes 3 to 5 from September. For Classes 1 and 2, a decision on reopening schools can be taken by the school management committee in consultation with the local administration. First-year junior colleges will start after the admission process is complete, after Class 10 results are declared. Decisions with respect to physically reopening schools in containment zones will be taken by the local administration. From June 15 to June 29, schools have been asked to conduct online meetings with school management committees, coordinate with local managements, create awareness among parents, contact vulnerable children who are at a risk of dropping out, brief parents about online learning and stay in touch with students on a day-to-day basis. For schools in the Vidarbha region, this process would begin from June 26, as schools usually reopen there two weeks later. On Monday, several schools started their online classes for students. “It was a good experience and everyone is learning to adapt to technology,” said Uday Nare, teacher and Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri. WHAT THE SOPS SAY*Role of school management committeesConsider options such as shiftwise running of schools, staggering school timings , changing seating arrangement in classrooms , disinfecting schools, not allowing crowding in buses Ensure timely delivery of textbooks to students’ homesCreate awareness about precautions amongst parents and childrenEnsure parent and student preparedness with respect to online learning*Role of gram panchayat/civic bodySanitise schools and make sure electricity and water supply is not affectedScreen teachers coming from other parts of the city/district/ taluka before they enter the school. Children also need to be screened before enteringMake provisions for teachers in case the existing teachers are engaged in Covid-related dutiesTest free Wifi facility on a pilot basis for studentsDistribute content-loaded tabs to students on a pilot basisTest e-content delivery on private networks such as Tata Sky, JIO*Role of teachersReturn back to their place of duty in case they have gone outAbide by home quarantine rules in case they are engaged in Covid workHelp students familiarise themselves with Diksha app, TV, radio and online learningAddress queries of students and stay in touch with them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/this-academic-year-no-online-sessions-till-class-2-for-students-in-maharashtra/story-KSaFskfmSHEwnEpDj5GMFN.html
16-06-2020||City||Mumbai sees rise in Covid deaths||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has another cause for concern in the battle against Covid-19 this month – the rising fatality rate. On June 1, there were 3.2% deaths compared to the number of cases; the percentage rose to 3.5 on June 10, 3.6% on June 12 and 3.7% on June 14, 3.79% on June 15, according to data from the Maharashtra government. On June 1, the number of cases in Mumbai was 41,099, with 1,319 deaths. On June 14, Mumbai had 58,226 cases and 2,182 deaths. On June 15, the city saw a total of 2,250 deaths with 59,293 cases.“We are watching the rise in daily deaths and are studying the patterns and likely causes. There are multiple reasons why fatalities are on the rise,” said a member of the state government’s task force formed in April to curb Covid deaths.BMC officials were unavailable for a comment.Experts have attributed the rise to delay in reportage, especially in cases of co-morbidities; lack of bed and ambulance availability, which force patients to wait for hours, leading to loss of precious time. They said another factor is overcharging by private hospitals, despite the government cap, which discourages patients from approaching any available hospital.On May 26, in a video conference, municipal commissioner IS Chahal said he aimed to bring down the deaths to 3% from then 3.2%. “We have managed to bring down Mumbai’s death rate to 3.2% from the high figure of more than 7% recorded in April. This happened due to targeted measures taken by the civic body. In a few days, the rate will drop further.”Mumbai was successful in bringing down the numbers earlier, thanks to contact-tracing and early detection of high-risk co-morbid persons, shifting such persons to government facilities for observation, detecting elderly and co-morbid patients with low oxygen saturation, streamlining rules of dialysis, Chahal had said.Madhav Sathe, retired professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “There are many reasons. Firstly, people do not have the confidence to report Covid-19 symptoms for reasons such as overcharging by private hospitals or the long wait in queues to get a bed, as reports have suggested so far. Second is lack of beds and ambulances. New treatment modalities – Remdesivir - an antiviral drug, and Tocilizumab - an immuno-modulant drug needs to be introduced urgently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-sees-rise-in-covid-deaths/story-aSKni1RTUMNnoXN1tlXWUP.html
16-06-2020||City||HT Salutes: Caterer in Mumbai distributes 2,000 meals daily to the needy||One silver lining of the lockdown has been that the city has found many good Samaritans. A Mumbai-based caterer, who until March was supplying food for major events, started organising and distributing food for the needy in Mumbai. Bandra-resident Ashfaaq Shaikh has been distributing 1,800-2,000 meals every day in areas around Bandra, including Behrampada and in Khar Danda. “When the lockdown was announced, we were quite devastated, considering the losses we will face,” said Shaikh, who founded his catering business in 2015.“I thought about the countless others who would have lost their jobs. So I got in touch with my family and friends and started arranging for meals,” he said. Shaikh’s team prepares meals like dal-rice, rajma-rice, khichdi, veg pulao and egg-biryani, which they then distribute among the needy.Shaikh has also volunteered with Khaana Chahiye, a city-based initiative that has been providing food for migrant workers, the homeless and underprivileged residents of the city. Shaikh said, “With the Khaana Chahiye team, we used to distribute close to 800-1,000 food packets in Mahim, Bandra, Vile Parle and Juhu.”Led by the non-governmental organisation (NGO) Project Mumbai and the Litmus Test Project collective, Khaana Chahiye began its activities on March 29 and has distributed 37 lakh meals so far. Chief executive officer (CEO) of Project Mumbai, Shishir Joshi said, “With Khaana Chahiye, we grew a strong volunteer base of 150 people from diverse sectors who came out to help. We also created a map where people who could fill in details about those who needed help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-salutes-caterer-in-mumbai-distributes-2-000-meals-daily-to-the-needy/story-Txb4Pe9sbNMZ4J1kS0ZuWI.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Change in colour of Lonar lake: Bombay HC convenes special sitting to issue directions to authorities||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday passed a slew of directives to protect and preserve the 113-hectare Lonar Crater Lake in Buldhana, after it turned pink, owing to a rise in the PH (acidity) and salinity levels of lake water, was reported earlier this month.During a special sitting on Monday, the HC directed four senior lawyers, including senior advocate CS Kaptan (counsel for petitioner Anand Parchure), state pollution control board’s standing counsel Ravi Sanyal and amicus curiae Ashutosh Dharmadhikari, to visit the crater and submit a status report.The state forest department in its report informed that the samples of the lake water were collected with the help of microbiologists and sent to the Pune-based Agarkar Institute and the Nagpur-based National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (NEERI). The division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Anil Kilor then directed the experts from NEERI to examine the findings on glass surface on the Lonar Crater Lake and submit its report within four weeks. Agarkar Institute was also asked to submit its report.The bench also directed the irrigation department to collect the water from the lake on a regular basis as well as from the nearby dam at the upper level and make it available for an explanation for comparative analysis to arrive at the conclusion.Apart from these bodies, the public works department as well as the Buldhana collector were directed to file a report about the possible alternate site for the Lonar-Kinhi Road passing through the ecologically-sensitive zone. If a possible site cannot be found, the court directed the two authorities to take all necessary precautions.As far as the non-functioning of a nearby sewage water treatment plant and the delay in shifting of 400 tenements and slum dwellers from the area is concerned, the court directed the departments concerned to expeditiously look into the two issues and submit a report on the same. HC directed the police and administration to take necessary action against open defecation with the help of non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The bench also directed PWD to hand over the rest house building in a protected zone to the forest department as early as possible.The shortage of water supply faced by the Lonar Municipal Council and residents owing to the old supply line was also highlighted before the bench and the council was directed to submit a fresh proposal to Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran within the next 10 days.HC in previous instances, based on several petitions, issued a number of directions to sort out all difficulties in protecting the lake. However, owing to the sudden colour change, questions were raised over the steps taken for the preservation, prompting the court to convene the special sitting.The 77.69-hectare lake area is a part of the Lonar sanctuary that expands over 3.66 sqkm. It is famous as the world’s largest basaltic impact crater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/change-in-colour-of-lonar-lake-bombay-hc-convenes-special-sitting-to-issue-directions-to-authorities/story-N4ytTBe9P4A27MmloAqnjO.html
16-06-2020||City||‘Good Samaritan’, accomplice rape 14-year-old in public park in Ludhiana, booked||Posing as a Good Samaritan, a man and his accomplice raped a 14-year-old girl in a public park in Sector 32 near Chandigarh road, the police said on Monday.In her complaint, the victim stated that her father was a labourer who had lost his job during the lockdown. In April, the accused identified as Vicky had come to their home to give ration, and had taken the victim’s mobile number for future assistance.She added that the accused started calling her and they became friends. On June 10, Vicky took her to a park in Sector 32, where he called another person. The two men then raped her and threatened her to keep mum, the victim said in her complaint.She added that when Vicky came to know that her parents had gone to his house looking for her, he took her to his place.On Sunday, she narrated the whole incident to her mother, who took her to the police station.Sub-inspector Daljit Singh, station house officer at Tibba police station, said that an FIR under sections 376D (rape of a woman under sixteen years of age by one or more persons constituting a group or acting in furtherance of a common intention), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act had been registered and a hunt was on.The police suspect that the accused could be or posing as a member of some NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-samaritan-accomplice-rape-14-year-old-in-public-park-in-ludhiana-booked/story-VoEtsVyEfjLDTqqqy7i6MI.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||School fee issue: Punjab and Haryana HC defers hearing till Friday||The Punjab and Haryana high court will continue hearing the petitions filed by schools and parents from Punjab over the collection of fee amid Covid-19 outbreak on Friday.On Monday, the arguments from parents’ side were concluded before the bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur. Punjab government and schools’ counsels have already concluded their arguments.The bench has sought to know from Punjab by Friday whether the collection of other charges have been deferred by the government or can those be collected later.On May 22, the HC, acting on schools’ plea, had allowed them to charge 70% fee from students for the academic year 2020-2021. The court had also allowed schools to charge admission fee in two half-yearly installments. The decision had resulted in widespread protests by parents in Punjab. Now, the Punjab government as well as a section of parents are seeking modification of the court’s May 22 order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-fee-issue-punjab-and-haryana-hc-defers-hearing-till-friday/story-vVQLMr0tlFIPEpX8OaFThL.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to take up issue of displaced Sikh farmers with UP CM||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday announced to take up the issue of displacement of around 1,000 Sikh farmer families from four different places in Uttar Pradesh with chief minister Yogi Adityanand. It would also approach home minister Amit Shah to ensure they were not subjected to any injustice.Senior party leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had formed a three-member committee, including him and Rajya Sabha MPs Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Naresh Gujral, to discuss the issue at the appropriate levels. He said the party core committee had also resolved to ensure justice to the affected Sikh families of UP.SAD’s UP kisan wing president Jasbir Singh Virk had brought it to the notice of the party that Sikh families were being displaced in Bijnore, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rampur and Nanakmata through coercive action. “SAD expresses solidarity with the affected farmers most of whom have settled in Uttar Pradesh after being displaced during partition in 1947 and will ensure they are not uprooted from their lands again,” said Chandumajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-to-take-up-issue-of-displaced-sikh-farmers-with-up-cm/story-xctSnyXOO9yqrBTkRsZbeO.html
16-06-2020||City||Newly wed woman, sisters suffer burn injuries in petrol bomb attack||A newly wed woman and her sister suffered burn injuries after her husband allegedly attacked them with a petrol bomb when they were asleep at their house in Giani Market of Bhucho town in the wee hours of Monday. The victim Deep Kaur, 28, is said to be in a stable condition while her sister Navdeep Kaur, 26, has suffered 40% burns. Dr Vireshvar Chawala, in-charge of the burn ward at the civil hospital, said Navdeep has been advised to refer to a medical institute for better care.The victims’ mother Rani Kaur told the police that Deep and Gurjeet’s relationship had turned sour within a month of their marriage due to which she had returned to her maternal home. On Monday around 1.15 am, Gurjeet along with an unidentified person entered their house after scaling a wall and threw a petrol bomb at the sisters, leaving them critically injured, she said.Bathinda senior superintendent of police Nanak Singh said the main accused Gurjeet has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newly-wed-woman-sisters-suffer-burn-injuries-in-petrol-bomb-attack/story-z51lO8ocmIt0ELQs6vlwfM.html
16-06-2020||City||Godown owner booked for raping woman in front of her children in Ludhiana||A 25-year-old woman has accused the owner of a hosiery waste godown of raping her in front of her two minor sons at his workplace on the Grewal Colony Road here on June 7. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Furkan of Mohalla Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Tibba Road.In her complaint to the police, the woman, a resident of Baba Namdev Colony on the Tibba Road, said her husband was a daily wager. After lockdown was imposed in the region due to coronavirus outbreak, her husband was not getting any work and they were on the verge of starvation, she added.She said, “I could not see my children sleeping hungry every night. So, I decided to start begging to feed my family . On June 7, I went out for begging along with my two sons, aged 8 and 5, for begging. When I was going door to door, I happened to reach the godown of the accused.”The woman added, “The owner of the godown asked me and my children to come inside and offered water to us. After drinking water, I fell unconscious. Perhaps, the accused had mixed some sedatives in her glass.”“After some time, when I gathered consciousness, I found myself raped and my children crying and sitting beside me. When I objected to what had happened, the accused offered to give me ₹7,000 and threatened me not to tell anyone about the incident and leave the city. I then left the godown with my children.”“I reached home and told everything to my husband. Finally, we decided to lodge a complaint with the police on Sunday,” she added.Sub-inspector Daljit Singh, SHO at the Tibba police station, said a case under sections 376 (rape) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused, identified as Mohammad Furkan of Mohalla Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Tibba Road, and initiated investigation. A hunt is on for his arrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/godown-owner-booked-for-raping-woman-in-front-of-her-children-in-ludhiana/story-vBi9I4EPIyZnHoTpaxHjTI.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC for alternative mechanism to hear cases of runaway couples||The Punjab and Haryana high court has opined that an alternative mechanism should be evolved to hear petitions of runaway couples seeking protection in high courts. The bench of justice RN Raina stated, “I believe it to be the most demeaning childlike-work the high court judges have been forcibly tasked with by a creation of the ingenious bar and a solution needs to be devised to cast the burden on some other alternative mechanism of redress, including by amending the law and conferring such power on the subordinate judiciary etc.” He added that it was just a suggestion and it is for the legislature to find solutions.Even during lockdown period, 30-40 such petitions are being taken up by high court these days. Lawyers say, on an ordinary day, the number of petitions would go beyond 100 cases. A large number of these marriages are performed at religious places in the tricity itself following which protection petitions moved in the high court. It may cost anything between ₹50,000 to 1.5 lakh, a lawyer said. The petitions are filed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which guarantees protection of personal life and liberty.The bench was hearing a petition of a Punjab couple. In fact, the court’s attention had gone to the matter over photographs of ceremonies being attached with the petitions. Now, the court has directed that the practice be done away with. The bench observed that the photographs of the couple do not even show the maulvis, granthis and purohits/pandits etc who performed the “ceremony” and shows just the couple, these days wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-for-alternative-mechanism-to-hear-cases-of-runaway-couples/story-Tp72XdmnZBavU7feAyHIpI.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||81% power supply restored in Raigad, Ratnagiri: MSEDCL||In a statement issued on Monday, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said 81% of power supply in the districts, which were hit by Cyclone Nisarga, has been restored. Along with damages to farm land and buildings, power supply was also severely affected in districts such as Raigad and Ratnagiri following Cyclone Nisarga, which made a landfall in Raigad two weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/81-power-supply-restored-in-raigad-ratnagiri-msedcl/story-RtkvrEKMUT54P5YR6XREFK.html
16-06-2020||City||Covid patient dies 3 days after hospital claimed he was responding well||Three days after Thane Civil Hospital said a 46-year-old Covid-19 patient from Ambernath was responding well to the treatment, the hospital staff on Sunday evening informed his family that he had passed away.“I received a call from the hospital last evening and was informed that my father passed away. I was completely shocked, as three days ago, the hospital staff had claimed that my father was doing well,” the man’s 25-year-old son said on Monday. A hospital staffer, who did not wish to be named, said that the patient’s condition changed on Sunday. “His health started deteriorating on Sunday and in the evening, he passed away. The doctors are yet to reveal more about what led to his death. The family has been informed to come to the hospital,” the staffer said.The family also alleged that the hospital did not provide them with an ambulance to take the body to their home at Shiv Nagar in Ambernath. “The ambulances in Thane refused to ply to Ambernath. We got one ambulance from Ambernath in the evening to bring the body back to our home,” the son said.On June 11, HT had reported that the patient’s son had alleged that they were unable to contact him after he was admitted to the hospital on June 6 in a critical condition. He said he tried to find out about his father’s condition from hospital authorities and Ambernath Municipal Corporation (AMC), but neither responded to his queries.However, Thane Civil Hospital authorities said that they inform the patient’s family only when there is any “major change” in the patient’s condition. Civic authorities from Ambernath had also said that as per their information, the patient was responding well to the treatment. Later in the day, the son called on the hospital’s control room number to know about his father’s condition.“The last time I managed to inquire about my father’s health was on June 11 through the control room number of the hospital. After that, nobody answered my calls at the hospital,” said the son.The family lives at Shiv Nagar. The patient used to work at a salon in Ambernath, while his son works with a private company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-dies-3-days-after-hospital-claimed-he-was-responding-well/story-bD6YxYOf634S130eBsGVXO.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, artificial intelligence to solve Chandigarh’s traffic woes||In 18 month’s time, artificial intelligence (AI) will be resolving the city’s worsening traffic woes and running a host of public grievance redressal processes.AI and machine learning technology-based adaptive traffic control system (ATCS) will monitor real-time traffic conditions in the city. It will improve the signal timing and help in easing traffic snarls. In the first phase to be completed by December 2021, the system will be installed in 40 junctions across the city.The ATCS is one of the components of the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC). The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on Monday signed a contract worth ₹295 crore with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) paving the way for the construction of an ICCC Complex, supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems for all utility services and Police Command Center (PCCC).KK Yadav, MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of the CSCL, said, “These command centres shall act as the brain of the city, with an on-premise data centre hosting all relevant solutions for all following field systems, and data analytic tools for informative decision-making, better disaster management and smarter governance.”MORE THAN 1,000 CAMERAS TO BE INSTALLEDICCC will monitor the smart field elements like CCTV surveillance cameras. For real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important city buildings like water works, parks, government hospitals, community centers, parking locations, schools etc, more than 1,000 cameras will be installed at 285 locations.The ICCC system will include an advanced video analytic system and will generate automatic event alerts. This will help in real-time surveillance of the city and shall generate alarms for specific incidents on the intelligent traffic management system (ITMS).“The monitoring and issuance of the challans for violations of different traffic offences will go automatic through the AI-based traffic enforcement systems (TES),” said Yadav.TES includes red-light violation detection in the first phase supported at 40 Junctions, speeding violation at 10 locations, automatic number plate recognition at 40 junctions and at the city’s 20 entry and exit points.“This will help in making roads safer and reducing accidents,” said Yadav.IMPROVED PUBLIC ADDRESSING SYSTEMAlso part of the improved traffic management system will be a public addressing system and variable message signs. For communication, city-wide optical fiber cable of around 250 km will be laid.“A host of other services provided by the administration and the MC will be integrated with the SCADA system. A dedicated call centre will also be a part of this project to help residents get real-time information of the services provided under Chandigarh smart city project. Services, too, will be monitored and the data center will collect and analyse their quality and delivery. This will help in better decision-making, and consequently improve customer service,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-artificial-intelligence-to-solve-chandigarh-s-traffic-woes/story-XNkY29n5JJ9DstUzvxwLbP.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||269 inmates, 73 jail staffers across state prisons Covid positive: Report||Additional director general of police and inspector general of prisons Sunil Ramanand in a report to the Bombay high court (HC) has submitted that a detailed report on the measures taken for the prison inmates and staff in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. According to the report, 17,695 inmates and jail staff were screened, following which swab tests were conducted for 1,681 inmates and staff, of whom 269 inmates and 73 jail staff tested positive for Covid-19. The report further stated 115 inmates and 51 staffers recovered after treatment while four inmates succumbed to the virus. The report was submitted to the court in response to three petitions filed in the HC complaining of the plight of prisoners due to lack of proper healthcare facilities and absence of social distancing norms due to over-crowding in jails. The petition is to come up for hearing on Tuesday.The note was submitted on Monday following a direction by the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde while hearing public interest litigations (PILs) filed by NGO People Union for Civil Liberty and two individuals — Geeta Jain, a politician from Mira-Bhayandar, and Archana Rupwate, an activist and lawyer.The report consisting information of inmates and jail staffers from 11 prisons across the state has pointed out that prison authorities have been taking due precaution for the safety and welfare of jail inmates and staff with the able help of district collectors and municipal commissioners, who are the designated authorities under the Epidemic Diseases Act.According to the jail-wise list of inmates and jail staff screened for temperature, oxygen levels and pulse rate, Yerawada Central Prison screened 4,466 inmates, while 4,000 inmates were screened in Thane Central Prison, followed by 3,318 in Aurangabad Central Prison, 2,217 in Taloja Central Prison and 2,082 in Mumbai Central Prison.After the screenings, swab tests were conducted on 545 inmates and jail staff in Mumbai Central Prison, of whom 158 inmates and 39 staff tested positive —the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in a jail. The report stated that of the infected persons from the jail, 98 inmates and 37 staff have recovered while the rest are under treatment. The second highest number of Covid cases was from Solapur district prison. Of the 377 swab tests conducted, 62 inmates and 13 jail staffers tested positive. The report stated only two inmates and eight staff have been cured while the rest are under treatment.The report also stated that a total of four inmates succumbed to the virus across all state prisons.The report further states that district collectors have arranged for 35 temporary prisons in 26 districts to decongest existing prisons and to hold and quarantine new inmates. As Thane Central Prison is grossly overcrowded, the prison superintendent has requested Thane district collector to open a temporary prison. However, no temporary prison has been opened yet.The report also mentioned that jail superintendents have been instructed to purchase additional mobile phones to allow inmates to speak to their families and lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/269-inmates-73-jail-staffers-across-state-prisons-covid-positive-report/story-x5mfIDWtWxyS4R2p44fycK.html
16-06-2020||City||Bhiwandi mayor to propose complete lockdown in Bhiwandi||Pratibha Patil, mayor of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), is set to propose a complete lockdown in Bhiwandi considering the rise in Covid-19 cases. Patil has decided to propose the same in the general body meeting on Tuesday. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Bhiwandi is rapidly increasing, and yet there is no social distancing to curb the spread of the infection. There is a need to have complete lockdown in the city,” said Patil. “In several areas, people are not willing to come forward and get them checked even if they have symptoms. People are not cooperating. A lockdown will help curb the spread in the city,” she added. The mayor will propose this to the general body of BNCMC for discussion and emphasise on implementing it. “Even if the state government has initiated unlock 1.0, local civic bodies can take individual decisions considering the situation in their vicinity,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-mayor-to-propose-complete-lockdown-in-bhiwandi/story-nwcRHzCNj3PSmOhgKkac6O.html
16-06-2020||City||Man tests positive 4 days after wedding, 144 quarantined||A 22-year-old man who works as a lab technician with a hospital in Jawhar tested positive for Covid-19 just four days after his wedding. While his wife has tested negative, Dr Kishore Desale, taluka medical officer of Jawhar, has quarantined 144 people who came in contact with them. Some villages in Jawhar have been declared containment zones.The lab technician and three nurses were tested for the virus after they came in contact with a bus driver who was admitted in the hospital for Covid-19 and the report arrived on Sunday stating that the technician was positive. The man is currently admitted in the newly opened Covid care centre in Posheri, said Desale.Meantime, the villages of Kelghar, where the wedding took place, along with Pipurna, Dongachi Mait, Navapada, Gorwadi, Jambhulvihir, Sakhri have been declared as containment zones, he said.In Palghar district, so far 61 Covid deaths have been reported with 1,911 positive cases, said an official from the district information office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-tests-positive-4-days-after-wedding-144-quarantined/story-VLiLfhgEQDE6MLxRtp1BrN.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Direct airlines to provide cash refund to passengers’||Former chief minister and member of legislative Assembly Prithviraj Chavan and member of Rajya Sabha from the Shiv Sena Anil Desai have written to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to clarify the ministry’s stand on passengers who could not fly due to the nationwide lockdown. The letter also seeks Puri to direct airlines to provide a cash refund to passengers who had booked their tickets before March 25 for travel dates during the lockdown. Chavan in his letter dated June 14, requested clarification on refund policies and to direct airlines to prevent abuse of consumer rights and provide a choice of cash refunds with settlement in a specific time period. His letter read, “Indian consumers who had to cancel their flight tickets after announcement of the lockdown are entitled to receive cash refunds.”Citing the Consumer Protection Act, Chavan added, “The contract between the airlines and the consumers gives the right to consumers to seek cash refund. Many airlines, including Air India, are not honouring this contract and are compelling passengers to accept vouchers...not all consumers are willing to accept a voucher for future travel.”On similar lines, Desai in a separate letter dated June 10, stated that passengers who booked their air tickets before March 25 for their travel have not been covered. His letter read, “The idea that air travel is only for the economically well-off is outdated and no longer holds true. Consumers from all strata of society now use air travel and with the imposition of the travel ban have suffered undue hardships for no fault of their own.”Pointing out the directives issued by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) to member states after consumer rights organisation Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP) sought their intervention in bringing about uniform regulations in the issue, Desai asked the government to direct airlines to design voluntary satisfactory voucher schemes for those who are frequent fliers and are not seeking refunds on their cancelled tickets. He also asked the minister to ensure a transparent process for confirmation, cancellation, return and refund of products and services. “The woes of consumers who are excluded from the specified period ought to be addressed by the civil aviation ministry by either refunding the ticket money or by extending the validity of such tickets till resumption of normal commercial flights,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/direct-airlines-to-provide-cash-refund-to-passengers/story-3cqzZRRWaEEoaHAmWBkNhM.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two weeks on, UT employee arrested for kidnapping a person in Mohali’s Kharar||Two weeks after a resident of Bhagandi village in Majri block of Kharar was kidnapped and thrashed, the Mullanpur and Kurali police have arrested a tube-well operator working for the UT administration.As per the police, on May 29 accused Natha Ram of Gura village in Majri block, along with seven accomplices, kidnapped Nirmal Singh of Bhagandi village and took him to their house. Singh was thrashed and he fractured his left leg. He was later rescued by the police. Natha Ram was posted at a pump house in PGIMER, Sector 12, Chandigarh.SHO Mullanpur Harmanpreet Singh said, “We arrested him from Raipur Rani in Haryana. We will produce him in the court on Tuesday and demand police remand. A case under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 365 ( kidnapping), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered.”Former sarpanch of Gura village, Chaudhary Sham Lal, said, “Nirmal Singh works with us and Natha Ram and his accomplices kidnapped him due to old political rivalry in the village. There are already six cases registered against Natha Ram in various police stations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-weeks-on-ut-employee-arrested-for-kidnapping-a-person-in-mohali-s-kharar/story-Na33XV9PR0ast79J2mLNLO.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Limit height of Ganesh idols for mandals to 5ft, city association tells sculptors||The Brihanmumbai Ganesh Murtikar Sangh, an umbrella association of more than 700 idol makers in Mumbai, has instructed sculptors to not make idols taller than five feet for mandals, and limit the height of household idols to two feet, instead of the conventional two-and-a-half feet. Idol makers said transporting larger idols will be difficult owing to the lack of enough manpower, as they have not received any directions on how many people will be allowed to gather for the celebrations owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Some members from the association have raised concerns over the non-allotment of space by the civic body to set up their stalls. Until last year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) would issue permissions three months prior to the festival to sculptors to make Ganpati idols at designated footpaths and other public spaces.“We met the police commissioner and he expressed his concerns over idol makers facing losses this year owing to the lockdown. As of now, we have asked our members to restrict the height of the Ganpati idols. We are also instructing them to make idols of clay so that devotees can carry out immersions at home if outdoor provisions cannot be made owing to the outbreak,” said Gajanan Tondwalkar, president of the association.Tondwalkar added that they got clearance to bring five containers of shadu clay from Gujarat only last week.“Though we have finally got shadu (clay), we don’t have workers nor do we have colours to paint the idols. Also, if the orders come like they did in the past years at the last moment, I doubt if we will be able to meet the demand. All these years, we would make additional idols, but this year due to the lockdown, we have limited number of idols,” said Rupesh Narvekar, who owns Om Morya Chitra Mandal workshop at Chembur. Though they had started making idols for this year’s celebrations, the lockdown has delayed their work. “We now make idols at home as we can’t go to the workshop due to the lockdown. Despite working from home, these idols will not dry soon due to monsoon,” he said. Some communities have decided to even postpone celebrations at their home, but many are keen on holding the celebrations with limited family members.Each year, around 11,000 large idols and 1.6 lakh household idols are made in the city using Plaster of Paris (PoP), while 75 large idols and 40,000 household idols are made from clay. Around 250 paper idols are made for the 11-day festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/limit-height-of-ganesh-idols-for-mandals-to-5ft-city-association-tells-sculptors/story-HtGR5iZEaB7tr2b5sBfl5I.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||YES Bank fraud: Wadhawans seek bail on ‘merits of the case’||Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan have approached the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court for bail on the merits of the case. The Enforcement Directorate has now been asked to submit its reply on their plea by June 20.The Wadhawans were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the YES bank fraud case on May 14. The agency initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7 against the two brothers as well as the bank’s promoter Rana Kapoor.As per ED’s allegations, YES Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in DHFL’s short-term non-convertible debentures between April and June 2018, for which Kapoor had received kickbacks worth ₹600 crore as loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited. Kapoor’s daughters hold 100℅ stake in DoIT Urban Ventures Private Limited.The two brothers have in their bail plea questioned the allegation of payment of kickbacks given to Kapoor. They have said that no other ‘defaulter’ has been arrested by the agency. The Wadhaans in their plea have claimed that their company is now under a court-appointed administrator and hence, there is no question of them tempering with any evidence related to the company records, if they are granted bail.The court has now asked ED to submit its reply on the brothers’ bail plea and scheduled the hearing for June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-wadhawans-seek-bail-on-merits-of-the-case/story-F2tGZXXYgMeFJ9ZybtW3aJ.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Feels different, but much safer, say commuters on train services||There was none of the chaos and thundering of a thousand feet on the platforms, when Mumbai’s local trains restarted operations on Monday. There was something like the usual chaos outside the railway stations, though.People with e-passes that let them drive around during the lockdown, thought they could finally hop on a train and go to their workshop / cousin’s house / check on their business (they couldn’t). Others with bank employee IDs headed there hoping to finally cut commute times. They weren’t allowed in either.While communication had been sketchy, security was airtight. You only got as far as a booking counter if you had a special railway e-pass or an ID that identified you as a specific kind of essential worker — state or civic employee; doctor, hospital or BEST staff; police personnel.On the platforms, it was another world. There was an eerie silence as everyone waited, masked and gloved, in ones. Then filed in quietly and were guided through the new seating norms — one person per berth; no more than 700 on a 12-car rake that usually carried over 5,000.Those leaving the station after a train ride were still elated. “I got on a train after three months and I’ve never experienced anything like this, but what a relief,” said Vaibhav Wadenkar, 29, a health department employee who lives in Andheri and works at Virar. “I’ve been taking buses all these days. The train has saved me one hour today already.”Shivaji Sade, 50, who lives at Amboli and works at Nair hospital in Mumbai Central, said the commute felt safer too. “There’s more distance between people here than on the buses. The compartments have been cleaned, railway staff are checking your temperature and ID. I felt safe.”For some, the whole thing felt more surreal than they’d expected. “The route is the same, the trains are the same, but everything felt different,” said Dr Virendra Yadav, 28, a general practitioner headed from his clinic in Dahisar to his home in Jogeshwari. “I hope they keep the numbers like this though. Because if the crowd grows, the risk of the virus spreading is too frightening to think about.”The constables stationed at every railway station would agree. Even with Monday’s stringent rules, the numbers took some handling. “People are constantly coming to us and asking whether they can take a train, when they can take a train. A lot of bank employees were insisting they be allowed in. But we have our orders and our lists. We hope things will be clearer in the future,” said a policeman who’d been on duty since 5.30 am, outside Andheri station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/feels-different-but-much-safer-say-commuters-on-train-services/story-H4kTr4ozrHInYS89MZcnXL.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Three constables succumb to Covid-19 on Monday||Three policemen from the city police force died of Covid-19 on Monday. All three deceased were from constabulary and one of them was also undergoing treatment for tuberculosis. The death toll in the city police is now 29 while the toll has risen to 43 in the state police department.Ankit Goyal, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 10, confirmed the deaths.Of the three constables, one was attached with Andheri police station. The 50-year-old police personnel was admitted to SevenHills Hospital on June 12 after developing high fever and breathing issues. He tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment when he succumbed on Monday morning, said a police officer from Andheri police station.The constable used to live in police quarters at Marol police camp, Andheri along with his wife and two kids, both school students.Another deceased cop is a 57-year-old head constable posted at Jogeshwari police station. The constable, a resident of Shivtekdi area in Jogeshwari, was suffering from tuberculosis and had been on medical leave since October 2019.“On June 10, he got in fever and also showed symptoms such as coughing and breathlessness. He was rushed to BYL Nair Hospital by his family members. His swab was collected which showed he was positive,” said a police officer.Another officer said, “While he was undergoing treatment, his health condition worsened on Sunday. He had to be put on ventilator. But on Monday morning he succumbed to the disease.”A 44-year-old constable attached with Nirmal Nagar police station also succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday around 6pm.Shashikant Bhandare, senior inspector, said, “The constable was in detection team and had tested positive in May and was admitted to SevenHills Hospital.”“Since the past few days, he was unable to breathe properly and was on ventilator support. On Monday around 6pm he died,” Bhandare added.The police officer said there are 19 policemen from Nirmal Nagar who tested positive, of whom 18 have already been discharged.The constable was living in Thane’s Vartak Nagar area along with his wife and a 10-year-old child.Mumbai Police has informed that a total of 2,180 cops have tested positive. Among the infected personnel, 314 are officers and rest 1,866 are from constabulary. Of the total cases, 1,339 policemen have recovered completely while 541 infected personnel are taking treatment in different Covid care centres across the city and 233 are admitted at hospitals. Between Friday and Saturday, four policemen had died of Covid-19, which is the maximum Covid deaths in 24-hours in a police force.To prevent the spread of the infections in policemen aged above 55 years, which is the most vulnerable group, they have been exempted from reporting to duty. In addition, cops in the 50-55 age group are not being assigned duties outside police stations. As a precautionary measure police personnel have also been asked to take hot water steam before coming to police station to ensure they have clear respiratory track.(With inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-constables-succumb-to-covid-19-on-monday/story-Pad2eWElQExKDppM9oLJJI.html
16-06-2020||Chandigarh||Unavailability of food, medicines worries the elderly in Chandigarh||On World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, which was observed on Monday, many senior citizens in Chandigarh pointed to a new kind of abuse — difficulty in getting supplies and medicines amid the Covid-19 lockdown.As per the 2011 census, of the 11.3 lakh population of Chandigarh, there were 83,952 senior citizens in the city and as per the 2019 Lok Sabha registered voters list, seniors formed 7.4% of the city’s population.As per president of Second Innings Association RK Garg, many seniors who lived alone couldn’t walk to the market to get supplies. “We had to look after seniors with Alzheimer’s who didn’t even know about the lockdown. Families being locked together led to arguments and many times we had to intervene,” he said.Gurnam Singh, a member of Chandigarh Senior Citizens Association (CSCA), who coordinates with the UT administration regarding cases of elder abuse said no cases of abuse had come up during the lockdown. Former president of CSCA Brig (retd) Keshav Chandra added that the stigma attached with Covid had kept many seniors from seeking help even if they were suffering from Covid symptoms.Vice-president of the Senior Citizen Welfare Association of Modern Housing Complex, Sector 13, Manimajra, SC Luthra said they helped arrange medicines for seniors living alone and those undergoing dialysis were taken to the hospital.Speaking about the administration’s role in helping seniors during the lockdown, UT social welfare secretary Yashpal Garg said, “For seniors living at the old age homes in Sector 15 and Sector 43, we had identified two separate rooms for Covid screening and provided them ration for two months so the premises could be sealed. Nobody from the outside was allowed to enter the premises,” he said, adding that the 1090 helpline for senior citizens was also working to assist seniors.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk said, “The police had reached out to hundreds of senior citizens living alone in the city through the police control room. We would call the seniors and ask them about their well-being. We would also supply groceries and medicines to them if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unavailability-of-food-medicines-worries-the-elderly-in-chandigarh/story-jnQ5AMuIyQhBN605o7x6pJ.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga: Central team set to survey losses||Amid a visit by the Central team, the state government is expected to soon submit a memorandum to the Centre for relief for the Cyclone Nisarga-hit coastal districts, including Raigad and Ratnagiri.Agriculture and horticulture crops on more than 30,000 hectares have been damaged in Raigad and Ratnagiri, where spot assessment is still being carried out.The Central team, led by joint secretary and advisor of National Disaster Management Authority Ramesh Kumar Ganta, comprises five other senior bureaucrats from various other departments. The team arrived in Mumbai on Monday evening and will visit Chaul, Diveagar and Kashid in Raigad on Tuesday and seven villages in Mandangad and Dapoli tehsils of Ratnagiri on Wednesday. They will hold meetings with district collectors during their visits. After its study, the team will submit its report to the Centre.Officials of the relief and rehabilitation department, which has prepared the memorandum, is expected to meet the Central team on Thursday. “We have prepared a memorandum for Central assistance. The final data on losses to crops, houses and livestock is yet to be accumulated. During our meeting, we may submit preliminary estimates,” said an official from the department.According to the preliminary estimates, in Raigad alone, 1.63 lakh houses have sustained damage, of which 3,120 pucca-kutcha houses have completely collapsed. Perennial crops, including mangoes, chikoos, betel nuts, on more than 22,000 hectares have been destroyed. In Ratnagiri, horticulture crop on 5,500 hectares and 40,000 houses have been damaged.Government structures, including schools and primary health centres, too, have collapsed. Electricity connectivity in hundreds of villages in Raigad is still disrupted. The Raigad district collectorate said that 85% of connections affected in cyclone have been restored. Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said, “We restored mobile connectivity in 24 hours and road connectivity in 72 hours. About 2 lakh of 6.5 lakh people are still without electricity, but it will be restored soon. More than 2 lakh trees have fallen and actual losses are worth more than ₹450 crore. Spot assessment of the damages to the houses and crop losses is expected to be completed now.” The state has already announced ₹100-crore relief for Raigad, ₹75 crore for Ratnagiri and ₹25 crore for Sindhudurg for repair of houses and infrastructure. The state has also tweaked the existing norms for the ex-gratia for losses to crops and houses. The ex-gratia for losses to trees has been increased to ₹50,000 from ₹18,000 per hectare, while the relief for partial loss of the houses has been increased to ₹15,000 from ₹6,000 and ₹1.5 lakh for fully damaged houses from earlier norms of ₹95,100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-central-team-set-to-survey-losses/story-i4FGRwif0LRTyG0ia6U7YN.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport to add 50 more flights from Tuesday||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will be handling 50 more flights from Tuesday, taking the total number of flights handled each day to 100. The airport commenced its flight operations from May 25 with 25 departures and arrivals each as per restrictions from the state government. The airport operator, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), said, “Starting June 16, the airport is permitted to cater to a total of 100 domestic commercial passenger flight movements which includes 50 departures and 50 arrivals.” Unlike other airports, the city airport was seeing 25 departure and 25 arrival flights as the state government had not permitted more flights to operate to and from the city. This was done as a precautionary step to avoid spread of Covid-19 to and from other states. The 25 departure flights mostly operated to places like Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Varanasi, Kochi, Gorakhpur, Jaipur, Patna and Hyderabad. “The move will see an increase in the sectors that we are currently handling. We are glad about the new progress that has come in favour of CSMIA, and we continue to relentlessly work towards ensuring the safety of our passengers and smooth functioning at the airport,” a MIAL spokesperson said. “The airport operator has alerted all the airlines about the development and a revised schedule of flights that will be operated on Tuesday will be made. This relaxation in the restriction is a big relief to all the stranded passengers who have not been able to fly back,” said an airport source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-add-50-more-flights-from-tuesday/story-dnYagH8TwtDVhNYDjXJnhK.html
16-06-2020||City||Man cheats over 2,500 women of ₹7.74 lakh, held||Manor police on Monday arrested a man for cheating 2,580 widows in Palghar taluka of ₹7.74 lakh. The accused Rahul Vadu, 25, from Kurje Dagdipada, promised them ₹40,000 each to start small businesses. Vadu would tell the women that he worked for a reputed charitable organisation, and asked them to pay ₹300 as ‘application fee’. The accused worked as a housekeeper in a city-based hospital.Vadu had quit the job in October 2019 and decided to cheat the widows, said assistant inspector Pratap Darade of Manor police station. He formed a 11- member team who fanned in the hamlets to lure victims. Vadu would tell the women to make a ₹300 demand draft as ‘application fee’ and in return they would get ₹40,000 as startup funds to start small businesses. He put up banners of the organisation all over Jawhar, Vikramgadh and other areas to win confidence of the victims, said Darade. He would also assure that the organisation will also construct roads, provide electricity, drinking water and would show slides of the projects undertaken, said Darade.One of the victim, Rajshri Tandel complained to police as Vadu did not return her Aadhar card, bank passbook, her husband’s death certificate, ration card and other documents.“We have arrested Vadu and booked him for cheating and impersonation and other allied sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said Darade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-cheats-over-2-500-women-of-7-74-lakh-held/story-nqtViqY7oVlUkXyBlvz9XP.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Final-year students’ job prospects likely to be hit||The Covid-19 lockdown has not only affected the regular academic calendar but also many graduating students are now facing delay in job prospects. The situation is, especially, stark for final year students who are currently unclear about the status of their examinations. In many cases, companies have already started online training of new entrants, while in other cases, companies have delayed their hiring process by a month or two, hoping their final year is cleared and normalcy in daily life is restored. “Some companies are currently in the process of getting graduates on board for training as well as other online exercises, whereas some companies have delayed joining dates to September and October,” said Nainesh Koli, placement coordinator of NM College, Vile Parle. He added that in some cases, colleges are in talks with recruiters to find a feasible solution to the ongoing problem to ensure students don’t lose job and training opportunities.Several higher educational institutes, including the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), were worried about companies, especially international recruiters, pulling out of their deals made during campus placements in Mumbai. Most technical institutes were, however, surprised to see recruiters reaching out to colleges to hire, even when the city was grappling with the second and third phases of lockdown. In many cases, colleges were holding Skype interviews for their final year students with interested companies in April and May 2020 as well.“Many IT companies have allowed students to join them with a mutual understanding that students will be relieved if and when their examinations are scheduled. While other companies are ready to hold their end of the deal for a couple of months and let students join them by August. We are trying our best to ensure our students are not at a loss,” said the spokesperson of a city-based engineering institute.The deal, says many principals, depends on how long the partial lockdown will be extended and the status of the virus spread by the end of this month. “While some companies are agreeing to defer joining dates for the recruited staff, we worry that even after lockdown ends, if the state insists on examination, that process will take another month or two, and that could be a problem with the investment and banking or consulting companies based out of the United States and Europe. The government should understand the plight of final year students,” said Gopakumaran Thampi principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-students-job-prospects-likely-to-be-hit/story-VjafYW8meCDxfvhwUNTAMK.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||City’s lifeline back on slow, wary track||After 84 days of lockdown, local trains in the city began operations for essential workers on Monday. The first train operated at 4.03am, between Panvel and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). Distancing norms were observed and passengers were screened before boarding trains. Train services for the general public remain suspended.Late on Sunday night, the railways had issued a notification allowing Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR) to resume select suburban train services for essential staff, as identified by the state government. On Monday, approximately 60,000 passengers travelled by local trains, according to CR and WR. The state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) submitted a list of who would travel from their respective stations to the railways. Nearly 40 thousand railway tickets were sold on Monday.To board trains, passengers had to undergo thermal screening and show their identity cards. Entry and exit points at stations have been limited and are being manned by Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), Mumbai Police personnel and railway ticketing staff.A total of 700 passengers were allowed on board each train, with approximately 58 passengers inside each compartment. “The number of passengers boarding from the railway stations was received from state government and BMC. Employees were asked to report early. The timings of local trains have also been coordinated with office shift timings,” said a senior CR official.There was some confusion regarding which essential services qualified for train travel. Those working in the banking sector, media and postal services were not allowed to enter railway stations. “I work for a bank in Andheri and was not allowed to travel by local train. As I reached the railway station and showed my identity card, the police personnel told me that I’m not permitted to travel,” said Dominic Rebello, a Virar resident.On Monday afternoon, WR’s divisional railway manager (DRM) clarified on Twitter that train services were running for BMC, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, Mumbai Police personnel as well as those working at Mantralaya and in government and private hospitals.For commuters, the experience was different from their pre-pandemic experiences on local trains. “The journey was nostalgic and very overwhelming. I have never seen trains this empty. There was strict scrutinising of passengers outside railway stations,” said Ghatkopar resident Anjana Choudhury.The expected estimate of essential service employees who would commute by local train is approximately 1.25 lakh. Officials expect more commuters to use the train today. “Limited number of people were aware of local train services restarting on Monday as the approval came in late at night. Scrutinising, screening of passengers and maintaining social distancing could be a challenge from Tuesday,” said a senior railway official.The railways have asked BMC to issue e-passes with QR codes to essential service employees. E-passes will be issued by BMC in coordination with Mumbai Police’s IT cell.BMC has been appointed the nodal authority to draw up lists of essential workers from BMC, BEST, Mantralaya and private hospitals. Other agencies, including Mumbai Police, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation, will supply details of their employees directly to the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-lifeline-back-on-slow-wary-track/story-VpPU2AHWH0nmS3uggXwwsK.html
16-06-2020||City||Train services reduce travel time for essential workers||Central Railway (CR) has resumed around 130 services along the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Kasara, Karjat, Kalyan or Thane route for those identified by the state government as essential workers. These trains halt at major stations and the train timings have been scheduled to match working hours. For commuters like Vilas Shankar Dattatray, 52, who travels daily from his home in Kalyan to his office in Ghatkopar, this came as a great relief. “For the past week, I have been struggling to get to work, the long queue and the traffic would lead to three hours of travelling one way. Today, thanks to the railway, I managed to reach Ghatkopar station within 45 minutes,” said Dattatray, who is a state government employee.Commuters who travelled on Monday said processes worked smoothly at the stations. “All entry and exit points at stations were sealed and only one common entrance was kept open. At various spots, police and ticket checking staff were deployed to ensure smooth functioning. Only limited people were allowed on trains, ensuring distancing,” said Kalyan resident Deepak Dubey.However, the queues and crowds at bus stops continues to be large. “The frequency of buses was fewer than other days, which led to longer queues at bus stops. Although train services have resumed, they are only for government employees and essential services. Private sector employees continue to travel by bus. We need more services and a proper system in place at bus stops as well,” Ditya Chachad, 26, who has to travel from Dombivli to Churchgate.Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation said its buses made between 400 to 600 trips between Mantralaya and places like Thane, Kalyan and Badlapur. “Depending on the number of drivers we have each day, we provide trips on this route. This is the reason why on some days we have fewer trips and the frequency of buses decreases, keeping everyone waiting for longer. But we adjust by ensuring that in the morning hours there are more buses plying towards Mantralaya and in the evening towards Badlapur,” said an officer from MSRTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-services-reduce-travel-time-for-essential-workers/story-F1rFkRFG6pkKwORDfCbX3O.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Civic body has not listed 950 deaths, alleges Fadnavis||Former chief minister and leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday alleged the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had allegedly not registered as many as 950 deaths caused due to the pandemic as Covid-19 deaths.Until Sunday, the city had recorded 2,182 deaths due to Covid-19 with fatality rate of 3.7%. Covid-19 fatality rate has increased from 3.2% on June 1 to 3.7% on June 12.Fadnavis, who released the letter to the media and also tweeted about it, said the death audit committee set up by BMC had declared 451 deaths caused by the disease as non-Covid ones. The committee has been formed to scrutinise all such deaths before those are officially recorded as Covid-19 deaths.“All these deaths were caused by coronavirus as per Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) norms. Under whose pressure did the audit committee not show these deaths as due to Covid-19? Will the state government take action against the committee? Now after this has come to light, the government has belatedly asked BMC to update the data,” read the letter.Fadnavis claimed that of these 451 deaths, 356 deaths were declared non-Covid while the remaining were pending for scrutiny. He further alleged there are another 500-odd deaths that took place in private hospitals due to Covid-19 but were not referred to this committee at all. “Both of these instances are extremely serious in nature and criminal in intent,” said Fadnavis.There was no official reaction from the BMC on Fadnavis’ allegations. A senior civic official said, “There could be a pendency of cases before the committee, but there is no pressure or any attempt being made to stifle Covid-19 death numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-has-not-listed-950-deaths-alleges-fadnavis/story-ZtQ2zIIiTFzCfT3fQrm6AL.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Noida sector 94 cremation ground being sanitized daily||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Noida authority is conducting regular sanitisation drives at the cremation ground in Sector 94, officials said Monday. According to the NGO, Noida Lok Manch (NLM), which maintains the cremation ground, on average 300 bodies are cremated a month during the lockdown. “The Noida authority sanitizes the ground daily with sodium hypochlorite solution to keep it virus free. And we are disinfecting the facility daily on our own too to ensure that people visiting the cremation ground do not face any infection risk,” said Mahesh Saxena, general secretary, NLM.The cremation ground located near Kalindi Kunj Barrage on Yamuna is spread over 13 acres along the embankment road.In view of the Covid-19 crisis, one of the two CNG chambers that was not working earlier has been repaired, said the NGO.“As of now, there is no waiting time or pressure on us because the facility has the capacity to cremate at least 30 bodies daily. We can cremate 12 bodies with the help of wood and the remaining in the two CNG chambers,” said Saxena.For the cremation of a Covid-19 positive body, the staff use personal protective equipment (PPE) and follow the protocols of the health department, said an employee at the facility. There are 27 staff members, including four gardeners, at the facility to take care of the operations.“We have recently got 200 PPE kits, apart from the 50 kits we already had with us. We use a PPE kit once and then dispose of it scientifically. If we cremate more than one body at a time, then the PPE kit is disposed of once our work is over,” Saxena said.Noida authority officials confirmed that they are disinfecting the cremation ground on a daily basis.“Apart from this, we also take care of the sanitation work at the cremation ground,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-sector-94-cremation-ground-being-sanitized-daily/story-r4TJmJP0dn4Lh91M8D7zhO.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid toll crosses 4,000; recoveries exceed active cases||Maharashtra on Monday crossed the 4,000 mark in coronavirus fatalities with 178 deaths — highest number reported in a day — taking the toll to 4,128. It recorded 2,786 more Covid-19 cases, taking the state tally to 1,10,744. The state for the first time has more recovered cases than active ones after 5,071 people were discharged on Monday, taking the count of those recovered in the state to 56,049. The recovery rate in the state stands at 50.61% with 50,554 active casesMumbai recorded 1,067 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 59,293. The city also recorded 68 additional fatalities, taking the toll to 2,250. Besides Mumbai, Vasai-Virar recorded 20 deaths, 14 were reported in Pune, 13 each in Mira-Bhayander and Dhule, 12 each in Navi Mumbai and Thane, nine in Kalyan-Dombivli, seven in Panvel, three in Jalgaon, two each in Solapur and Jalna, one each in Palghar, Raigad, and Ratnagiri. Of the fatalities on Monday, 29 have been reported from the past two days, while the remaining 149 occurred earlier.The mortality rate or case fatality rate of the state has now increased to 3.73%, which was 3.25% on May 25. The first fortnight of June, the state recorded 1,842 deaths, which means 44.62% of the total fatalities in the state have been recorded in the past 15 days. Of the last 15 days, Maharashtra has recorded over 100 deaths, except on June 1 and June 7, when 76 and 91 fatalities were recorded, respectively.The health department official said that the number of fatalities seems high in the daily reports due to reconciliation. The percentage of fatalities has remained the same as the number of cases, but the absolute number of deaths has seen a rise in the last fortnight, said Anup Kumar Yadav, state health commissioner.Yadav said the department is expecting that the fatalities would reduce in the coming days as they have strengthened the health infrastructure and are focusing on “bed management”.“The mortality rate is almost the same as it is earlier. The absolute number of deaths has increased therefore it is reflecting higher. By and large, the composition of fatalities remains the same — comorbidities, people arriving late for treatment and the virus manifesting in a different kind of conditions. Comorbidities in the higher age segment is the main reason. Now it [the fatalities] should gradually come down. We have prepared our infrastructure in terms of dedicated facilities, ICU beds, ventilators; we have got more manpower, including doctors and nurses. We are focusing on bed management; aiming to provide a bed to anyone who has any symptomatic condition, we can control the fatalities through this.”Of the fatalities recorded on Monday, 69.34% of the people had comorbidities, including diabetes, high blood pressure, heart diseases, etc. Of them, 91 people were over age of 60, 74 people were between 40 and 59 years, the data provided by the public health department stated.The state government is expecting cases to rise in the next 15-20 days and the state would see a peak in Covid-19 cases by early next month. Officials said that they had anticipated the rise and have prepared for it.A senior health department official said, “After the lockdown has been relaxed in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) cases here have increased. It was expected to. The last five days before Monday consecutively saw over 3,000 new cases in the state. We are preparing that the ‘unlock’ (referring to relaxation in lockdown) doesn’t make ouR battle too steep.”Yadav added that with the movement of people, a complete redistribution of cases will begin. “The virus is following its natural course. With the increased movement of people after [lifting restrictions], it is only going up. A complete redistribution of cases is happening. It is expected to go on for about a month after which it will settle down. We will see a peak by July.”Meanwhile, 5,79,158 people are under home quarantine, while 28,084 are at institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-toll-crosses-4-000-recoveries-exceed-active-cases/story-JoJslkbqAWyYIr5QOmQxvO.html
16-06-2020||City||Nodal officers want Ghaziabad to focus on reducing Covid-19 deaths||The nodal officers appointed by the state to oversee the Covid-19 containment measures in Ghaziabad district have asked the district officials to focus on bringing down the death rate of Covid-19 infections which is on the rise since June 1. The nodal officers have been assigned by the chief minister to 11 districts, including Ghaziabad, which have a high incidence of Covid-19 cases.According to official records, till June 14, Ghaziabad has a total of 625 cases, of which 320 have been recorded since June 1. Of the total 22 deaths due to Covid-19, 18 were in the month of June.As a result, the death rate in Ghaziabad stands at 3.52%, which is higher than the state average of 2.93% (till June 14). During a meeting on Monday, the two nodal officers for Ghaziabad -- Senthil Pandian C chairman of the power utility board and Dr Anil Chandra, professor of neurosurgery from King George’s Medical University, Lucknow -- directed the Ghaziabad officials to come up with a strategy to reduce deaths due to Covid-19.“The officials have asked us to undertake a detailed investigation of every death case and provide a detailed report on each such case. This is to help have a better understanding of case and disease management in the future. Further, L1 category Covid hospitals (those treating non-critical patients) are overburdened. Around six patients from a L1 hospital were directly referred to L3 hospitals (facility for critical cases) after their condition deteriorated.They should have been referred to L2 hospitals ( for serious cases),” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, said.The officials said treatment imparted at L1 hospitals needs to be improved. Of the 22 deaths reported from Ghaziabad, nine have taken place at Ghaziabad hospitals, while 11 others died in Meerut and one each in Noida and Delhi.The officials also discussed the rising number of cases. About 246 of the 625 cases reported so far have links to Delhi. “There are 246 cases which are related to patients who have travelled to Delhi or have acquired the infection while undergoing treatment in Delhi. The figure also includes close contacts of such patients. The officials have told us that we need to have 4,000 Covid beds ready in order to deal with the rising number of cases,” CMO added.The Ghaziabad officials said they would require about 1,300 additional health care professionals, including 240 doctors, 360 staff nurses and about 350 ward staff and an equal number of cleaning staff. The proposal for 4,000 new Covid beds has been chalked out and 13 colleges in the district have been identified where these beds can be set up.Despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Ghaziabad district has a good recovery rate with 40% patients recovering in March, 66.66% by the end of April and 76.39% till the end of May. The overall recovery rate at present is 62.72% (till June 14).Apart from Ghaziabad, nodal officers have been appointed to Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut, Agra, Firozabad, Kanpur City, Aligarh, Moradabad, Bulandshahr, Jhansi and Basti districts.“The officers have been issued detailed instructions. They will conduct inspections for better management of hospitals, equipment such as ventilators, oxygen cylinders and PPE kits, besides reviewing cases, implementation of infection prevention protocols and a review of L1, L2 and L3 Covid hospitals,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nodal-officers-want-ghaziabad-to-focus-on-reducing-covid-19-deaths/story-7IBE1RSQznsKqASjpzxwyO.html
16-06-2020||City||GB Nagar’s Covid tally crosses 1,000 mark||Noida Gautam Budh Nagar district on Monday witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, with at leas 76 new people being infected with the virus.The district’s total tally of virus positive cases as of Monday stood at 1,085 , including cross-notified cases.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that out of 76 positive cases on Monday, 21 people were tested by private laboratories, while the remaining had given their samples at government laboratories. “Of the 76 positives today, at least 43 people have ILI (influenza-like illnesses),and 27 contracted the virus after coming in contact with other infected patients. The remaining cases are those of health care workers. One patient, who was tested positive today, has symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI),” he said.He further said that no positive patient was cured and discharged from any hospital today. “Apart from the 76 new cases, 74 other patients have been cross notified to other districts and states. Twelve Covid-19 positive patients have so far lost their lives in the district. As a result, the district now has 489 active cases,” he said.Ohri also said that death audits of three patients — a 74-year-old male patient from Sector 76, a 42-year-old male patient from Nithari and a 29-year-old male patient from Sector 57 — is being done. “They all died on Monday and they all had other co-morbid conditions. The exact cause of their deaths is yet to be ascertained,” he said. Dr Ohri further said that altogether 13,644 samples have been collected in the district for testing so far. Giving details of 74 cross notified Covid-19 positive cases, the CMO said while 23 of them are from Delhi, one patient each is from Haryana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. “While 10 patients have duplicate entries in the log, the remaining 38 are from other districts of Uttar Pradesh, including 11 from Ghaziabad, eight from Bulandshahr, two each from Hapur and Aligarh and one from Agra,” he said.Ohri also said health camps were organised in 12 places in the district on Monday, including at Mamura, Nithari, Sarfabad, Harola, and sectors 8, 9 and 10. “A total of 723 patients were screened on Monday and 15 of them, who had symptoms of fever, have been referred to the district hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-s-covid-tally-crosses-1-000-mark/story-jC4gmhkWVxGvn5Dfrg5LvO.html
16-06-2020||City||Rumours of another lockdown trigger rush back to home towns||Rumours that the government might implement another lockdown, to contain the rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi-NCR, led to a rush for seats on Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses in the second week of June. According to data maintained by the UPSRTC for the Ghaziabad region, state-run buses ferried at least 1,45,201 passengers out of the district between June 8 and June 14, as compared to 53, 247 passengers ferried between June 1 and June 7 from Ghaziabad to various towns in the state.“In the past week (June 8 to June 14), there has been a sudden increase in the number of passengers travelling on UPSRTC buses from the Ghaziabad region. When we spoke to some of the passengers, they told us that they are heading home as there could be another lockdown in the region soon. During the past week, thousands of people have reached the bus terminal in Kaushambi and boarded buses to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh,” AK Singh, regional manager, UPSRTC, said. The Central government has recently refuted some social media posts hat a lockdown would be imposed in Delhi-NCR again from June 18, while Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday categorically said there will not eb another lockdown. “Many people are speculating whether another lockdown is being planned in Delhi. There are no such plans,” Kejriwal tweeted.As many migrant workers wanted to return home, the UPSRTC had to be rope in more buses to accommodate the rise in number of passengers, officials said. While over 2,444 trips were made from June 1 to June 7, the number more than doubled a week later with 5,115 trips being made between June 8 and June 14.“There were a lot of talk in my neighbourhood about another lockdown, and I did not want to get stranded the way I was during the first lockdown. When I tried to go back home during the first lockdown, there was a heavy rush at the bus terminal and I could not leave. So I am heading home now,” said Mahipal, a 42-year-old garment factory worker. Mahipal, who lives in Loni, was at Kaushambhi bus terminal and was heading to his home town Bareilly on Monday afternoon.The first nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19, and was extended four times with considerable relaxations made in the last two phases. Currently, the lockdown is only effective in containment zones until June 30.Shakeel Ahmad, a daily wager who works at Muzaffarabad in Delhi, was also at Kaushambhi terminal looking for a bus to his home town Mahoba. “The first lockdown was announced all of a sudden, and I could not go home. Now when news about another lockdown is doing the rounds, I am heading home. I will try to return when the situation becomes normal,” he added.Of the total 7,559 departures made by state-run buses between June 1 and June 14, a large number of passengers boarded buses from the Kaushambi terminal. The terminal accounted for 4,480 bus departures which ferried at least 14, 1396 passengers of the total 198,448 travellers, according to the corporation’s data.For the past one week, Kaushambi terminal has been packed with passengers with many private bus operators also trying to get long-distance travellers. “Besides hundreds of UPSRTC buses at Kaushambi, many private buses were parked in our township lanes. They were regularly ferrying passengers to their home towns. We had to seek help from the local police, and no private buse was seen on the internal lanes on Monday,” said VK Mittal, president, Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA (residents’ welfare association).The Kaushambi terminal, opposite to Delhi’s Anand Vihar, had witnessed a large outpour of migrant workers since the first lockdown was announced. The UPSRTC officials said after Centre’s announcement refuting rumours, they are expecting the number of passengers to go down. “To cater to the rising number of passengers over the past week, we had deployed more buses. We now believe that there will be a decline in passengers numbers in the coming days,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rumours-of-another-lockdown-trigger-rush-back-to-home-towns/story-Hked99x2Hbg8KSC6gXehiJ.html
16-06-2020||City||20% surge in sale of foreign liquor in Noida after shops reopen on May 4, beer sales drop||Noida: The city consumed more liquor after the model shops were reopened last month on May 4, with the excise department recording a 20% hike in foreign liquor sales in the month of May 2020 as compare to the same period last year.Officials said liquor worth ₹64.31 crore was sold in May 2020 as compared to ₹62.77 crore sold during the month of May in 2019, which works out to a 2.45% hike in the overall sales. The department officials said the profit came despite a 40% drop in the sale of beer and an 8% drop in the sale of county liquor. Model shops were shut on March 25 in the wake of nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. They were reopened on May 4, with restrictive timings (which were extended to June as well) and limited stock, even as most shops remained closed as they were located in containment zone (area from where Covid-19 cases were reported).“More revenue was generated in May even as the sale of beer and country liquor fell. That was because the sale of foreign liquor surged by 20% and made up for the low sale of from beer and country liquor,” RB Singh, district excise officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.“There is no clear reason as to why there was a spurt in the sale of foreign liquor,” Singh said.However liquor vend owners believe that the spike in foreign liquor sales was mainly due to the availability fact or -- since stocks of Indian-made foreign liquor and beer were low, people had no option but to buy the more expensive foreign liquor brands.“We are seeing more customers from Noida and Greater Noida buying foreign liquor as compared to earlier months. These people earlier used to purchase liquor from Delhi. However, with the lockdown and sealed borders, residents started buying from the local shops,” Ashok Yadav, a liquor shop owner in Greater Noida, said.Officials attributed the reduction in the customer base of beer to bars, colleges and IT companies remaining closed due to the pandemic. They said there were no directions from the state government as yet on the opening of bars.“A number of migrant labourers also went back home, and they are the major customers for country liquor,” Singh said. Of total ₹64.31 crore generated, ₹16.34 crore was generated in May through the sale of county liquor.Meanwhile, the excise department expects sale to pickup once more as adequate stock have reached liquor vends and more shops are reopening in the city.“The total number of liquor shops in the district is 520 and of this, 22 are in containment zones and thus closed while rest are all functional,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-surge-in-sale-of-foreign-liquor-in-noida-after-shops-reopen-on-may-4-beer-sales-drop/story-3ge8HW2GRHjNEhAn4jSvNP.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Peak-hour traffic snarls continue as Noida Police monitors both entry and exit of vehicles||Commuters travelling between Noida and Delhi continued to face traffic congestion during peak hours on Monday as the district police started monitoring both exit and entry of vehicles from and to the city.Noida Police from Saturday had started checking both entry and exit points to the city to better regulate the flow of the traffic and prevent the entry of those who do not have the necessary permission to travel. However, several commuters complained of traffic congestion, especially between 9.30am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm. “It took me more than two hours to travel from Noida to Daryaganj via DND flyway. We started around 10am and reached our destination at around 12.30 pm. Earlier, there used to be checking by Noida Police while entering the city. Now they are monitoring even while exiting the city,” said Rishi Oswal, a resident of Delhi, who owns a showroom in Sector 18 in Noida. Gautam Budh Nagar had sealed its border with Delhi in early April to avoid the spread of Covid-19 in the city. According to the data released by the district health department on June 1, at least 42% of the cases in the district have been traced to sources in Delhi. As such, the district administration continues to maintain status quo on the issues of sealing of borders with Delhi. In an order passed on May 31, the district administration had clarified that the border will continue to remain sealed until further orders. Delhi, on the other hand, had not initially sealed its border. However, on June 2, the national Capital closed its border, only to remove restrictions within a week. Police officials claimed that the traffic volume has been lower ever since the monitoring of vehicles has started. “There was slightly less traffic on Monday. People who did not have the requisite passes or were not essential services providers were asked to turn around. This has helped to ease the traffic entering Noida. The movement of the traffic only slowed down during the peak hours. We are, however, unable to comment on how long will the sealing of the border with Delhi continue,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1. Some commuters, however, welcomed the decision of monitoring vehicles on both sides, given the rising number of cases in Noida.“The border should continue to remain sealed. The number of Covid-19 cases in Noida is relatively lower compared to Delhi. If interstate movement is stopped, the situation will be easier to handle,” said NP Singh, a resident of Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/peak-hour-traffic-snarls-continue-as-noida-police-monitors-both-entry-and-exit-of-vehicles/story-lN5cTOWHcaTjvHPJGkCg6J.html
16-06-2020||City||Nigerian national held for killing 3-month-old daughter||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old foreign national was arrested by the Ecotech 3 police Monday morning for allegedly killing his three-month-old daughter and then throwing her body from their second storey apartment in a highrise in Greater Noida.The man was identified as Ozioma Declan, a Nigerian national living in Greater Noida’s Imperia society since 2019 with his wife, Julie, and their daughter.According to an acquaintance of the family he ran an export business for wigs and had been suffering from depression for the past six months.According to Charles Kennedy, a representative of the Nigerian Association in Greater Noida, “He exported wigs to Africa and was suffering from financial losses during the lockdown. He was alright till December but had started getting depressed from January. On Monday morning, he lost control and hit his daughter after which she died, at 6.47am,” said He said Julie is with family friends while they are waiting for the autopsy to be completed.Police officials said they rushed to the spot when they were informed of domestic violence by the wife, who alleged that Declan was mentally disturbed and had beaten her and killed their infant daughter. He was taken in custody from the spot.“Based on what his wife told us, he had been depressed for a while and was very aggressive in the past week, sometimes even assaulting her. He even had an incident in church on Sunday in which he had shouted at some people; he had not slept at all for the past few days,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.The couple had allegedly been fighting since Sunday night and on Monday morning, Julie asked him to sleep even as the baby was crying, after which Declan lost control, said the police.He allegedly picked her up from next to Julie and smashed the girl’s head on the floor after and then threw her from their second storey house before Julie could even react. He seemed mentally disturbed, said the police. Hearing her shout for help, neighbours and guards rushed to the spot and the girl was taken to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead by 7.30am.“He was taken into police custody and sent to jail while the Nigerian embassy has been informed about the incident,” said the DCP.Declan was booked at the Ecotech 3 police station for murder (section 302 of the Indian Penal Code) based on Julie’s complaint, while the body of the child was sent for an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nigerian-national-held-for-killing-3-month-old-daughter/story-lt5cb6rlV7R224xQyhpquL.html
16-06-2020||City||Nine injured and 20 arrested as two groups clash over discharge of drain water in fields||Greater Noida: As many as nine people, including three women, were injured on Monday when two groups belonging to different communities clashed in the Jarcha area over the discharge of drain water in fields. Twenty people were also arrested, the police said.The incident was reported around 8am from Upralsi village under Jarcha police jurisdiction. According to police officials, there was tension among two factions of the villagers from different communities over the discharge of drain water in the fields in the area.“One of them alleged that the other party was being careless with the discharge which was destroying their fields. They also alleged that the other community people’s cattle were also destroying their produce. Because of this there was a skirmish on Sunday evening when two families clashed and four people were arrested in this regard,” said Anil Rajput, station house officer, Jarcha police station.He said that with local public and police intervention, the matter was resolved.However, on Monday morning, the two communities clashed again pelting stones at each other, in which nine people, including three women, were injured. The officials said that the injured were taken for treatment and eight people have already been discharged while one person is still undergoing treatment.“In connection with this, a total of 20 people have been arrested while police are taking necessary suo motu action. The situation is under control and more people will be apprehended,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.While 13 of the arrested people are from one community, seven are from the another, the police said.A case was registered at the Jarcha police station against the suspects under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 452 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code.The arrested persons were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-injured-and-20-arrested-as-two-groups-clash-over-discharge-of-drain-water-in-fields/story-fwGJDYcqyNjkvPn2UJN4xK.html
16-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad admin asks private schools to submit balance sheets by June 25||District administration officials on Monday directed private schools to send their responses, with proofs, on various complaints related to fees and online classes, among others, till June 25. The officials said that if the schools fail to submit replies as directed, they could face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act.The officials on Monday issued formal orders and directed the schools to submit their balance sheets for the financial years 2018-19 and 2019-20. They have also directed the schools to submit proofs that no hiked fees are charged for 2020-21.“We have also sought replies whether the schools have paid salaries to teachers and staff members for the months of April and May. If not, they will have to specify reason. They are also required to certify that no student was barred from taking online classes and no names have been struck off from rolls. They are also directed to submit proofs that no transport fee is charged,” said Ravi Dutt, district inspector of schools, Ghaziabad.“We have also directed the schools to use NCERT books as part of curriculum. There have been a lot of complaints from parents that schools are prescribing books of private publishers, and it has resulted in undue financial burden on parents. In case the schools fail to reply by June 25, they will face action under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act,” he added.Last week, the district magistrate had held separate meetings with representatives of schools and the members of different parents’ associations.The representatives of different schools during the meeting had said that their expenses are on the rise due to online classes and they are also facing difficulties in paying salaries to their staff for March and April.The members of parents’ associations had raised issues that online classes were adding additional financial burden on parents and also raised the issue of schools prescribing books of private publishers.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had said that he will look into the issues of both the sides.In May, the UP government had directed that no schools can charge transport fees during the lockdown period. It also said that no schools shall increase their fees for academic year 2020-21, and should be charging fees on monthly basis instead of quarterly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-asks-private-schools-to-submit-balance-sheets-by-june-25/story-7cPkk1i3gQnciKsYISqHNK.html
16-06-2020||Noida||Noida residents’ bodies arrange doctors via video call for medical advice||Several residents’ bodies in the city have started arranging doctors over video calls for residents who need medical advice in their respective societies and high-rises. Recently, the apartment owners association (AOA) of Stellar Kings Court in Noida Sector 50 roped in two doctors, who help the residents over video calling facility. Residents are wary of visiting a doctor at hospitals due to the coronavirus pandemic. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have formed a Covid task force that will help those who seek medical help as many feel that visiting a doctor or hospital is not safe in these times. So, we arrange a doctor on video call and try to help the patients comfortably at home. If the doctor suggests a Covid-19 test, then further help can be sought from the district administration,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Stellar Kings Court AOA.The Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of about 70 housing societies’ apartment owners associations, has suggested other societies to arrange doctors for residents and also for domestic helps, security guards, drivers and others.“Many residents who suffer from a normal fever, cough, pain or other symptoms might feel they have Covid-19. In such a case, a doctor on video call can provide the right advice,” said Singh, who is also president of NOFAA. In some housing societies like Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, doctors are providing free medical advice to domestic helps.“We have tied up with a doctor who lives in our society to help those who need medical help. He suggests medicines via video call to patients. He charges them a reasonable fee but provides free medical assistance to domestic helps,” said Amit Gupta, president of Prateek Wisteria AOA. The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said it is happy that the apartment owners are making efforts to arrange doctors for residents and others.“Although we appreciate the sentiments, we want to assure them that our bed availability is sufficient to cater to their needs. We have more than three times the number of beds required for active Covid-19 patients in the district. We are in touch with RWAs regularly and their feedback is routinely sought,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-residents-bodies-arrange-doctors-via-video-call-for-medical-advice/story-xd0NUBsuAmhGMxr10ZFFNN.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees a dip after recording over 2k cases three days in a row||Delhi saw a dip in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after recording over 2,000 a day for three days in a row. The city reported 1,647 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases to date to 42,829.Delhi recorded 73 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the city’s total toll to 1,400, according to data provided by the Delhi government in its daily bulletin. This puts Delhi’s case fatality rate at 3.2%.The number of active cases—or those still living with the infection—rose to 25,002 on Monday. Of these, there are 5,420 patients with severe symptoms, such as elevated respiratory rate of 30 or more (the normal is 12 to 20 breaths per minute) or oxygen saturation below 90% (the normal is 95% to 100%) admitted to hospitals.The Delhi government data shows that 794 patients, or 3.17% of active cases, continue to be in the intensive care unit. Of these, 197 patients, or almost 0.8%, need ventilator support.The Delhi government plans to augment its ventilator strength by 500 in the coming month, of which 200 ventilators are being provided by the centre. The government estimates the need for 1.5 lakh hospital beds by July-end.Currently, 18,215 people are in home isolation—this accounts for almost 73% of those living with the infection.With several laboratories in the city resuming testing for Covid-19, the number of tests a day has gone up in Delhi over the last two days, with 7,353 samples being tested as per June 14 data and 6,105 as per June 15 data. Last week, on average, 4,900 samples were being tested daily.With the increase in the number of samples, the positivity rate has also started coming down. The positivity rate— or percentage of people who tested positive among those tested—stood at almost 27% on Monday. The highest positivity rate of almost 37% was recorded on June 13 when 2,134 people among the 5,776 tested turned out to be positive.“This just means that currently the numbers are on a rising trend and there is transmission happening in the community. There is no other way that the city could record so many cases every day. However, the increasing positivity rate could also be a result of the labs testing only those with symptoms. If you test only the people who are likely to have the infection, the positivity rate will, of course, be high,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Mohalla Clinic doctor diesA doctor working in a mohalla clinic in Najafgarh, Dr UC Ghosh, died of Covid-19 on Monday. He was 65.He had started working at the clinic just three months back, after his wife died of cancer in March this year. “He was lonely and depressed after his wife died. He had given up his practice to take care of his wife. The clinic came as a welcome respite to him. But, he was likely infected there,” Dr BK Dey, 65, his family friend, who works in Maharshi Valmiki hospital, said.Dr Ghosh was diabetic and hypertensive, according to a Delhi government official.“We have asked our senior doctors to not reopen the clinic as of now. However, there are still several volunteers who want to work there,” the official said.According to his friend, Dr Ghosh started losing his sense of taste and smell about 12 days ago and also felt lethargic. “He would come home from the clinic and just go to bed. His daughter did not think too much of it, but maybe that’s when he got the infection,” Dey said.Dr Ghosh started vomiting and developed a high-grade fever four days ago and had to be admitted to a hospital in Dwarka, where he lives. “He was admitted to the ICU and was put on the ventilator a couple of days ago. His test came back positive yesterday, but by then his condition was already deteriorating,” said Dr Dey, who continues to go to the hospital in the absence of a written directive asking those who are aged to stay at home.Dr Ghosh is reportedly the second doctor who died of Covid-19 in the city so far. Earlier this month, Dr JN Pande, former head of the medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences had succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-a-dip-after-recording-over-2k-cases-three-days-in-a-row/story-LILnNCbTn0RULm7KSIaNbP.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Vigilance department probing if Delhi cops misused Section 188||Did Delhi Police misuse Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code to harass people while enforcing the lockdown? That’s what the department’s own vigilance cell seems to think according to a circular issued. In the circular, a copy of which has been seen by HT, the cell asks all station house officers to “scrutinize arrests made or to be made” under Section 188 (the technical phrasing is “disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant”) and to “exercise provisions of the section judiciously”.The lockdown lasted 68 days and ended on May 31 although some restrictions still continue. Delhi police data accessed by HT shows that between March 23 and June 8, Delhi police registered 25,679 cases under section 188 . At least 25,000 people were also arrested in the same period and released on bail.The data also shows that in the same period, police detained 3,97,836 people for violating lockdown under section 65 of the Delhi Police act (the technical phrasing is “persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of police officer) and impounded 41,021 vehicles.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said offences under section 188, in the current context, may lead to six months of imprisonment or Rs 1,000 fine or both.In the circular dated May 28, the joint commissioner of police, vigilance, said that “many complaints have been received against police officials regarding misuse of section 188 during enforcement of lockdown guidelines. It has further been observed that section 188 is being misused sometimes as a tool for unnecessary harassment.”The circular adds that the commissioner of police has taken “a serious view of this and directed that all station house officers shall scrutinize all arrests made or to be made in the FIRs registered under section 188 and ensure that the provision for arrest are exercised judiciously.” Delhi police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police MS Randhawa said the station house officers have been asked to monitor the situation at their level and ensure zero harassment to the public.The police did not share the number of total complaints received against policemen misusing section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-department-probing-if-delhi-cops-misused-sec-188/story-vNctjEI63QBeadjW1q4p4L.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Govt to rope in 12,000 more civil defence volunteers by weekend||The Delhi government is looking to rope in around 12,000 more civil defence volunteers as part of its drive to scale up the city’s hospital bed capacity to 150,000 by July 31 to combat the raging Covid-19 pandemic.“As many as 11,930 individuals have applied between June 1 and June 14 to enrol as civil defence volunteers in Delhi. We are trying to officially induct them by the end of this week,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The official further said, “In normal circumstances, a month-long training programme and a thorough police verification process follow the application. But the Delhi government has requested the office of the directorate of civil defence to postpone both the training and verification process at least till the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. We need volunteers urgently.”As part of the current augmentation drive, volunteers familiar with computers shall be engaged as data operators, assistants to digitise health records and perform other back-end tasks, while others will primarily help guard the facilities, ranging from banquet halls and hotels to sports complexes and sheds in open grounds, facilitate the movement of patients before admission and after discharge, and assist in healthcare logistics among other tasks, a senior official in the government’s revenue department, who did not wish to be named, said. Delhi is sanctioned around 238,000 civil defence volunteers, according to the Union ministry’s website. However, senior government officials said the city has only 46,000 enrolled volunteers, of which around 13,000 are on active duty. The volunteers are not bound by any job contract and are paid an emolument of around ₹730 for a day’s duty.“The new induction is likely to take the number of active civil defence volunteers to around 25,000. After this, we will still need 25,000 more volunteers by mid-July,” the revenue department official said.During Sunday’s meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union home minister Amit Shah had said that volunteers of the National Cadet Corps, Scouts and National Service Scheme shall be deployed for Covid-19 management in Delhi. “This can be immensely helpful, but, so far, there is a lack of clarity on the volunteer strength that will be available for Delhi,” said the revenue department official.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said: “Civil defence volunteers continue to play a major role in the capital’s fight against Covid-19 — from manning barricades at containment zones to the doorstep delivery of essentials, the distribution of food at hunger centres, the distribution of ration and the adherence to government guidelines in public buses. In the next few days, we are looking forward to more recruitment.”“We will need more helping hands as the city gets ready for an intense exercise focused on augmentation of its healthcare capacity in the next two months,” Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Technically, the revenue department official explained, the induction of civil defence volunteers is a round-the-year exercise. But whenever there is a specific task, the government publishes advertisements, anticipating bulk applications.The last such advertisement — published on May 23 — faced heavy criticism as it mentioned the state of Sikkim as part of a neighbouring country. The advertisement led to the suspension of a senior officer in the directorate of civil defence (headquarters). The correct version of the advertisement was re-published on May 25 in several publications.On Sunday, when HT visited the premises of a spiritual organisation in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, civil defence volunteers were spotted guarding a shed which is being converted into a 10,000-bed capacity makeshift hospital. Kuldeep Nagar, a volunteer at the site, said that he was earlier deployed at a ration distribution centre for crowd management to ensure social distancing, and that all beneficiaries in the queue wore face masks. “I have also guarded a containment zone that was de-notified in the first week of May,” he said. Dharamveer Nagar, another volunteer deployed currently in east Delhi, said: “The spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, especially among those working on the frontlines, is a cause of concern. Will we be given beds in the temporary hospitals being set up if one of us contracts the disease?”Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The participation of volunteers plays an important role in any public health initiative. They not only help the administration in a wide range of works, but also do better to change the perception of the people, which is much needed, as the number of Covid-19 cases is going up exponentially now. However, there is no substitute for proper training.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-to-rope-in-12-000-more-civil-defence-volunteers-by-weekend/story-n40R00KF4DKpt6YkymK2xK.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Restricted entry into stations, destination-specific queues likely in Metro reopening plan||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is working with the Delhi Police and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials to work out a list of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed before restarting train services, officials with direct knowledge of the matter said. Metro services in Delhi have remained suspended since March 22, when the janta curfew was observed. While other modes of public transport have been allowed with restrictions during the gradual easing of lockdown norms, Metro services have remained suspended. Before it was halted, Delhi Metro carried 24 lakh passengers daily. Officials said some of the ideas under discussion include restricting the entry of passengers at the station gates, marking separate entry/exit gates and maintaining queues based on the destination. HT had reported last month about several other measures that are being taken by the DMRC as preparations to restart train services. These included increasing the stoppage time at each station, marking seats for commuters to sit alternately inside the trains, earmarking space on station floors, including platforms, for passengers to stand while in queue, etc. These measures are based on guidelines provided by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) to all Metro corporations in the country to drafting SOPs.While no senior officer, who is authorised to speak to the media, wished to comment on how the Metro may start its operation, HT has learnt that the three agencies -- DMRC, Delhi Police and CISF -- have agreed on some protocols. “Entry inside the platform will be restricted. The Delhi police will be responsible for ensuring social distancing of passengers outside the gates. It will be a joint effort. The CISF, which handles security inside the station, will inform police in real time about the status of crowd inside so that they could allow gradual entry of passengers. It was unanimously decided in the meetings that every effort will be made to ensure no crowd on the platforms,” a police officer, who did not wish to be named.A senior DMRC officer, privy to the discussions, said at major stations which witness high footfall every day, the entry gates will be changed to destination specific gates. This means, the officer explained, at a station where the trains go to different stations, separate queues will be maintained for different destinations. “Every person standing in a queue outside the station will be standing in a destination specific queue and entry gate. Hand sanitisers will be made available at each gate. The CISF personnel will also record the temperature of the passengers using the thermal scanner. It has to be a coordinated effort between the three agencies in real time,” the officer added.The CISF may also install glass curtains near the X-ray baggage scanners. At the airport and railway stations, the CISF and the Delhi police are already using such glass curtains. It has also received a good feedback, a police officer said. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in a notification issued last month, said it will take a call on restarting metro services in the third phase. Under the first phase, markets, malls, shops and religious palces were allowed to open. Phase two envisages reopening of schools, colleges, coaching centres after the Centre holds consultations with the state governments. The decision on reopening these institutions will be taken in July based on the scale of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital region (NCR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restricted-entry-into-stations-destination-specific-queues-likely-in-metro-reopening-plan/story-fZGPaB7u9okUYLOQKnM7dO.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM constitutes committee to cap Covid-19 treatment cost in private hospitals||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was in the city on Monday, constituted a committee to put forward recommendations regarding a price cap on the escalating on the treatment costs of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals of the city. With Gurugram being largely dependent upon the private healthcare sector to tackle Covid-19 crisis, cases have been reported where people are paying more than ₹80,000 per day for the ICU facility.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The chief minister has constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the divisional commissioner to give recommendations on the treatment cost of Covid-19. These recommendations have to be submitted within a week,” said VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), who is also the monitoring in-charge for Covid-19 in the district. Another senior official present at the review meeting held on Monday evening, said, “Currently, private hospitals are charging ₹80,000 per day for ICU facility. The proposal is to reduce the charges to ₹23,000 per day. However, some private hospitals have raised objections to this proposal. Therefore, a committee has been constituted comprising the divisional commissioner, MCG commissioner and chief medical officer(CMO)to submit the final report.” The state government in the last two months has issued a series of orders on fixing the package rates of Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals and colleges. As per the order, government employees, pensioners and their dependents would avail the treatment as per the state government’s reimbursement policies. Any patient who has public or private health insurance will avail the treatment as per the policy. The beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat would be covered under the scheme. As per the rates defined under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, per day cost of an isolation bed is ₹2,000 and ₹5,000 for those hospitalised in the intensive care unit, having ventilators and other facilities.On May 22, the state health department issued another order for patients who do not fit in the mentioned categories. In such a situation, Covid-19 hospitals will have to charge as per their existing rates and state government would reimburse the expenditure as per the Ayushman Bharat scheme. The balance amount would be paid by the patient. Out of the final medical bill, the details regarding the portion to be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme would be submitted to the civil surgeon. The bills submitted by the private hospitals will be reimbursed to the private hospitals, only after verification by the committee chaired by the civil surgeon, or the chief medical officer and the district nodal officerDuring the review meeting, a proposal was also placed before the CM to impose lockdown in order to break the chain of transmission as the number of cases are increasing, confirmed the senior officials present in the meeting. “A decision regarding the reimposition of a lockdown is yet to be taken,” said the senior official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-constitutes-a-committee-to-cap-the-covid-19-treatment-cost-in-private-hospitals/story-VcMuLUxgLtASztlYZxtSlN.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram records 183 new cases; Covid-19 count inches closer to 3,500||With 183 new coronavirus cases being reported on Monday, the district’s total Covid-19 tally touched 3,477 cases, as per the data revealed by the district health department bulletin. Six people succumbed to the infection on Monday, with the death toll reaching 37. Out of the 183 new cases, 162 cases were reported from Gurugram city block, 14 cases from Pataudi block, four from Farukkhnagar block, while three cases are from Sohna block.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageGurugram currently has 1,702 active cases of Covid-19, of which 157 are under care at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals (DCH). Of the remaining number of active cases, 364 patients are under care at dedicated Covid-19 healthcare centres (DCHC), while 76 are under watch at the district Covid-19 care centres (DCCC), based on their symptoms. The remaining are in home isolation. However, Gurugram’s chief medical officer(CMO), Dr Virender Yadav, said that a significant majority of those testing positive for Covid-19 continue to be either asymptomatic or display mild symptoms. As of Monday,1,068 patients have been kept in home isolation. “Home isolation is a more effective containment measure. If their symptoms worsen, they will be taken to any one of the DCH, DCHC, or DCCC facilities, depending on the severity of the symptoms,” said Yadav. The district conducted 308 new tests on Monday, up from 169 tests conducted the previous day. The test positivity rate(TPR), although high at 59.4%, was down from 69% on Sunday. The district’s cumulative TPR worked out to be 18%, up from 17%, on Sunday. Gurugram’s cummulative TPR is four times that Haryana’s, which stands at 4.19%. “The cumulative TPR numbers in Haryana and Gurugram are showing an upward trend in the past few weeks. This is also the case in many other states with a high case load. This indicates that testing in the state and the district has not been able to keep up with the spread of the virus and that a large number of cases remain undetected within the population at large,” said Dheeraj Singh, a city-based data scientist, who has been tracking the state and district data.Meanwhile, Haryana recorded 514 new cases on Monday, marking the biggest single-day jump in the number of positive cases so far. Gurugram contributed the largest share of this increment, followed by Faridabad, which reported 128 new cases, and Sonepat, which reported 63 new cases. The tally of the state now stands at 7,722 cases, with close to half having recovered from the infection. With 562 new discharges on Monday, Haryana’s recovery rate now stands at 46%. Monday’s bulletin also provided data, disaggregated by sex. Of the 7,722 cases, 5,293 are male, while 2,429 are female. Of the 100 deaths recorded in the state so far, 68 are males, while 32 are females. The state’s current doubling rate is eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-records-183-new-cases-covid-19-count-inches-closer-to-3-500/story-zxVTIoxzX9PkZDhOxHh26L.html
16-06-2020||Gurugram||Many shut shops while others seek reduced rent at Gurugram markets||Owners of establishments, such as retail outlets, gyms and standalone eateries, in city’s popular markets are renegotiating their rent agreements and seeking suspension of payments as the three-month-long lockdown has created uncertainty over their businesses.Many business owners have also vacated their shops at markets in sectors 22, 23 and 31, and other markets of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), seeking relief for the next few months, till the situation normalises. While occupants of some establishments have been able to get relief, a majority of them have been left in limbo due to the tough situation, according to market associations.A majority of the shop owners in HSVP markets sign leases, which are notarised, for 11 months and pay monthly rent in the first week of the month.Rakesh Malik, the president of the Sector 22 market association, said that in view of the prevailing situation, they had held a meeting with owners and tried to convince them to reduce and even remit rent in extreme cases. “We haven’t approached the government yet and are trying to manage the situation on our own, but if things go further downhill, we might seek help from authorities,” he said.Shabnam Manchanda, who runs a state-of-the-art gym in Sector 22, says that besides paying ₹2.5 lakh per month in rent, she has to pay electricity bills, maintenance costs and salary of her employees. “Right now, the rent and electricity bills are the biggest worries and we have requested our owner to reduce it so that we can survive the tough situation. The government should also help by either remitting the power bill or offer a large discount,” said Manchanda, adding that even when her gym opens, there is no certainty that members would return.The worst-hit establishments are small cafes, eateries and restaurants, as the business has remained negligible even after resuming operations.There are 134 shops in the sector 22 market, out of which 15 to 20 shops have either vacated or are in the process of shutting shop.Inderpal Singh, who runs a popular eatery in Sector 22, said that he used to pay ₹70,000 in rent for two shops, but with business down to just 10% of the pre-Covid days, he is vacating the larger shop to cut down on rent. “I come from Delhi daily, have to pay salaries and other overheads. The government must change restaurant timings so that people can order food for dinner and this is how the industry can survive,” he says.Shops have been left without customers as around 15,000 IT and ITes employees, who used to live in 428 paying guest houses (out of the 619 total plots) in Sector 22, have returned to their home states, says Rakesh Malik, president of the Sector 22 market Association. “This huge population used to visit the restaurants, gyms, juice shops and other establishments in sector 21, 22 and 23 markets and adjoining areas. Now, they are gone and business is in a lurch,” he said, adding that one of his tenants also vacated a shop, while another has asked for heavy remission of rent.The situation is similar in Sector 31 as well, says Abhinay Baweja, who runs a restaurant and food business. “Almost 10 to 15% of the shop owners, especially those who were new, have vacated the shops as they could not pay rent. Others are trying to get their rent reduced and remitted, but these efforts mostly are not very successful,” he said.There are around 200 shops in the Sector 31 market, of which 30-40 shops are in the food business. Around 12 to 15 shops in the market have vacated and many tenants are trying to negotiate reduced rents with the owners.Baweja says that the property owners should take a reasonable view of the situation and handhold business owners in these difficult times. “All of us paid rent on time, but the situation at present is unimaginable, as no one can predict what will happen,” he said.In Sector 23, shop owners say that not many have vacated shops. “The situation is no doubt bad, but we are trying to manage,” said a shop owner on the condition of anonymity.Satinder Yadav, general secretary of the market said that in Sector 23, there are around 150 shops. The market association has tried to ensure that those businesses, which can’t pay rent, are given relief. “We are asking everyone to be reasonable in these difficult times and as such, only a few shops have vacated,” he said.In Palam Vihar, property owners said that there has not been an instance of owners vacating shops, but that tenants are requesting for major rent remissions. “No shop owner has yet vacated the premises but if the situation remains similar, this is also going to happen,” said Gaurav Kumar, who owns a chemist shop.Harender Rana, the president of the Palam Vihar Market Association said that small eateries and takeaway shops have shut operations, but larger shops are surviving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/many-shut-shops-while-others-seek-reduced-rent-at-city-markets/story-X10mMCYibeijUSAjRfy9SO.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi High Court allows two hotels to be used as Covid facilities||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed the Delhi government to attach two city hotels as extended Covid-19 facilities after a two-doctor court-appointed committee said it was possible to use them as Covid care centres for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms.The court had on June 11 formed a committee comprising AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and Niti Aayog member VK Paul to submit a report on the feasibility of using the hotels as extended Covid facilities. The hotels -- Crowne Plaza, Okhla and Hotel Surya, New Friends Colony — had moved court against the Delhi government’s decision to convert them into hospitals.The committee in its report submitted on Monday said even though the hotels have not been designed as hospitals and the guest rooms do not have oxygen supply, patient monitoring devices, etc, they have banquet halls, which can be appropriately equipped and converted into dedicated Covid health centres, if need arises, on account of an acute shortage of hospital beds in the capital.Justice Navin Chawla allowed the government to use the hotels after additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government advocate Gautam Narayan and the petitioners agreed with the findings of the report. The report said medical care must be provided to Covid patients in these hotels by the attached hospitals in line with the requirement as these are primarily to be used as Covid care centres for asymptomatic (with no facility of home quarantine) patients and mild cases. Crowne Plaza is attached with Batra hospital and Hotel Surya with Apollo.“The triage and initial evaluation for all patients being admitted to these hotels should be done at the attached hospital and the responsibility of clinical care of all patients admitted in these hotels shall rest with the hospital. A telephonic assessment of all admitted patients’ general status should be done at least once in 12 hours and physically once daily,” the report said.The committee recommended a slew of steps for the hospitals that would be attached with the hotels, including training of hotel staff in infection-control practice, including donning and doffing, a process of removal and disposal of contaminated PPE kits. It said the hospital should ensure availability of hydroxychloroquine and adequate PPE for all its health care workers and hotel staff.The report said the hotels should actively support the hospital and deploy their medically and physically fit staff for patient care activities after training by the attached hospital. It said the Delhi government should identify nodal officials as a single point contact for these hotels and the attached hospitals to facilitate any requirement such as additional manpower, outsourcing of services, help in arranging common provisions, etc.The committee did not make any recommendations on the concerns of the hotels such as loss of business, their financial condition, non-functional support systems and non-availability of manpower and left it to the Delhi government to examine.The court asked the hotels to give a representation to the Delhi government on the unaddressed grievances and posted the matter for July 29. The counsels of both hotels refused to comment, stating that the matter was subjudice.The Delhi government had on May 29 ordered five hotels to be used as Covid facilities to meet the requirement for beds in view of the spike in coronavirus cases.  The hotels are Crowne Plaza (attached with Batra Hospital; Hotel Surya (Apollo ); Hotel Siddharth (B L Kapur Memorial Hospital); Hotel Jivitesh (Sir Gangaram Hospital); Sheraton Saket (Max Super Speciality Hospital).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-allows-two-hotels-to-be-used-as-covid-facilities/story-nTFxC15q5z3IVMqyTAZg5J.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Respond to plea quashing FIR against Ganga Ram Hospital: HC to govt||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which sought the quashing of an FIR lodged by the Delhi Police against it for allegedly violating Covid-19 regulation norms. The FIR was based on a complaint filed by the city government.Justice C Hari Shankar issued a notice to the Delhi government and said that it would hear the interim application seeking a stay on the proceedings of the FIR on Tuesday.Appearing for the hospital, advocate Rohit Aggarwal told the court that they were seeking the quashing of the FIR lodged on June 5 at Rajendra Nagar police station under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and the proceedings initiated thereafter.He contended that the FIR registered against them was “vague” and did not show that any offence was committed under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said that the FIR did not say as to how disobedience, as alleged by the Delhi government, caused obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel (criminal) for the Delhi government, sought some time from the court, following which the argument on the stay application was listed for Tuesday.The Delhi government had filed an FIR against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajendra Nagar for not following protocols for testing patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The FIR was filed in June on the basis of a complaint by the deputy secretary of Delhi’s department of health and family welfare, Amit Kumar Pamasi.The FIR has been filed under Section 188 of the IPC that allows the punishment of one month’s simple imprisonment and/or ₹200 fine or six months imprisonment and/ or ₹1,000 fine if the offence puts human life at risk. The section of the IPC can be invoked under the Epidemic Diseases Act that has been in force in Delhi since mid-March as the city battles the Covid-19 pandemic.On June 3, the hospital was asked by the Delhi government in an order to stop Covid-19 testing, citing violations of ICMR guidelines. However, on Saturday, the Delhi government had again granted them permission to start testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/respond-to-plea-quashing-fir-against-ganga-ram-hospital-hc-to-govt/story-vVQJvPFzumIVNbP7ikXj7H.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Commuting remains a challenge in a city slowly crawling back to life||After waiting for nearly 35 minutes at a Barakhamba Road bus stop, Neeraj Kumar (25), a resident of Moti Nagar, manages to get on to a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus headed towards his house. Three buses to his destination did not stop at the stand; they were full as per social distancing norms set by the Centre, he says.“This is the new normal. Commuting has become a big problem, as the Metro is not working and buses often don’t stop as they are full,” said Kumar, who works as a field agent with a chartered accountancy firm.Anita Devi (45), a resident of Sultanpuri, said it took her two-and-a-half hours to reach the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. While waiting at the bus stop outside the hospital, she said: “I came here after almost three months to get medicines, but neither could I meet the doctor nor get the medicines. I have been waiting for 45 minutes. But the buses are also not stopping at the stand.”As the national capital opens up from a lockdown in a phased manner amid the Covid-19 outbreak, commuting has become a hurdle for many. The Delhi Metro is yet to resume services and buses are operating only in limited numbers. DTC has a fleet of 3,724 buses and the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) has 2,830 cluster buses. While DIMTS officials say that all its 2,830 buses are operating, DTC has been able to press into service only about 50% of its fleet.With nearly six million passenger trips daily, the Delhi Metro is the transport lifeline of Delhi-NCR. With no word on when the Centre will allow the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to resume operations, the state-run bus system is the only cost-effective option available to people.According to a senior official in the transport department, close to 700 buses are on police and special duty. “Of the remaining 3,000, nearly 1,800 buses are plying on the roads. We have not received any complaints so far about shortage of buses,” the official said, asking not to be named.When asked why fewer DTC buses were operating, the official cited multiple reasons. “There are many reasons. Some of our drivers are not able to come as they live in neighbouring states which have strict border restrictions. Some others are 55 and above in age. Some of our staff has also tested positive for Covid-19 due to which others had to be placed in home quarantine. But we are trying to work out a way so that sufficient numbers of buses are on the roads.”Commuters say they now plan their work keeping in mind the time it takes to reach home, as there is a curfew in place after 9pm. “We now have to plan our work schedule according to the availability of buses,” said Mahinder Singh, an IT professional.Due to the restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 — curfew from 9pm, limited number of passengers in buses and e-rickshaws and inadequate public transportation — Singh said commuting was proving to be a challenge.“Earlier, I would visit 4-5 places for work. But now, I don’t take any assignments after 4pm, as I have to plan my trip back home. Now, we have to wait for a minimum of 30 minutes for buses. I can’t afford to take auto-rickshaw every day as I have to visit multiple locations,” said Singh, who lives in Rajouri Garden.Transport expert Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that efforts should be made to ensure availability of adequate public transport system so that people don’t switch to private vehicles. “People are switching to personal vehicles due to safety reasons and also due to a shortage of public transport. The capacity of buses has further gone down due to the restrictions of 20 passengers. Like they do during the odd-even scheme in peak pollution season, the government should pool resources to meet the requirement of public transport.”A senior government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “So far, there is no plan to rope in private players. But we are trying to ensure that 90-95% DTC buses are out on the roads, especially during peak hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/commuting-remains-a-challenge-in-a-city-slowly-crawling-back-to-life/story-lChJPqiY0ICvpBEjF0T23L.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Bodies piling up at Lok Nayak hospital was an ‘unfortunate’ incident, govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Monday told the Delhi High Court that piling up of the dead bodies at Lok Nayak hospital mortuary last month was an “unfortunate incident” because of “unavoidable circumstances”. The government also stated that it is now working on a war footing to clear the backlog of bodies.The submissions to the high court were made by advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, while hearing a plea which the court had initiated. The high court had filed a public interest litigation on the basis of a May 27 Hindustan Times report that highlighted how bodies were piling up at the mortuary as the four CNG furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat CNG crematorium lay defunct. Most bodies were being returned to the mortuary. The Delhi government in its submission also informed the court that a team from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) took stock of the ground situation at the hospital and gave its preliminary report stating that on their inspection last week, they found no bodies lying in the corridor and also emergency patients being attended to. The NHRC had visited the hospital last week, after residents took to social media to complain that there were no beds for patients at the hospital. On Monday, advocate Ghose told the court that the NHRC’s preliminary report said that no critical patient is being denied admission in the hospital and patients are allowed to carry mobile phones and home cooked food. He also said that from May 30 to June 12, at least 338 bodies were sent to the crematoriums. The government in its submission also presented data of the total bodies cleared from the mortuary since May 30. He also said that free of cost ambulance services were being given by the Delhi government for transporting bodies to the crematoriums.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain told the court that the Supreme Court has also taken suo moto cognizance of the reports of bodies at Lok Nayak hospital. He urged the court to wait for the order of the Apex court and sought for an adjournment. Following this, the court posted the matter for further hearing on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bodies-piling-up-at-lok-nayak-hospital-was-an-unfortunate-incident-govt-tells-hc/story-bpJ2HTeIYiZhnOBTCz1MtK.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||No plan to bring back lockdown: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said there was no plan on any further lockdown in the Capital, dismissing speculation about reimposition of restrictions in the light of a severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.“Many people are speculating whether another lockdown is being planned in Delhi. There are no such plans,” Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, soon after senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Sanjay Singh and Pankaj Gupta attended an all-party meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss strategies to fight Covid.According to Monday’s health bulletin, Delhi recorded 1,647 new Covid cases and 73 more deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative total to 42,829 and 1,400 respectively.Last week, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain had dismissed as rumours all speculation about Delhi witnessing another lockdown from June 15. The Centre had also said there was no plan to reintroduce restrictions.On June 1, the Delhi government had relaxed lockdown norms, allowing markets and industrial areas in the city to operate all day and reducing curfew timings. On June 8, the government allowed shopping malls, restaurants and religious places to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-plan-to-bring-back-lockdown-kejriwal/story-xCEmkUJ1g1VnqKIkCLB0vN.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Confusion at Anand Vihar amid news of isolation coaches||Confusion prevailed at Delhi’s Anand Vihar Railway Station amid reports that train services would be stopped from the station on Monday as all platforms would be reserved for Covid-19 isolation coaches.A day after the Centre promised assistance in mitigating the shortage of beds across the capital to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, the Railways on Monday announced that 500 railway coaches converted into isolation wards would be deployed in Delhi—of which around 180 would be stationed at Anand Vihar. Earlier, the Railways had deployed 50 coaches at the Shakur Basti Railway Station (which are unused so far). “Around 50 coaches containing 900 beds have already been deployed at Shakur Basti. Around 170-180 coaches will be placed at Anand Vihar by Tuesday and the rest will be placed at other stations. Around 20 more coaches will be stationed at third station by Tuesday. The name of the third station will be finalised by Tuesday morning,” Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer of Northern Railways, said on Monday.“These refurbished coaches can be used to isolate suspected and confirmed cases. The Railways will provide water, electricity, charging facilities and three oxygen cylinders per isolation coach. We have installed ramps and drawn circles to ensure social distancing,” Kumar said.However, unlike Shakur Basti, where the coaches are deployed in the washing area and have not interrupted train services, the five trains running to and from Anand Vihar will be operating from the Old Delhi Railway Station, until further orders, beginning Tuesday. Railways officials at Shakur Basti said the entry-exit of patients is from a different area and the functioning of trains will not be disrupted.However, passengers outside the Anand Vihar Railway Station were confused on Monday. “We got to know through news reports that trains to and from Anand Vihar would run from Old Delhi Railway Station from Monday. So we went there first. But we were told to go back to Anand Vihar. Due to this confusion, we had to travel extra miles in this weather unnecessarily,” Vijay Kumar, who works as a contractual driver in a private firm in west Delhi, said.Railways officials said that the notices were issued while keeping the “journey commencing dates” in mind. “For instance, trains coming from Muzaffarpur, which started today, will terminate at Old Delhi Railway Station on Tuesday instead of Anand Vihar. The journey commencing date from the other end had to be taken into account,” said a Railways official, requesting anonymity. The station bore an empty look on Monday, barring sanitation workers and very few functioning food stalls. “We visited the Anand Vihar Railway Station on Monday to take stock and formulate plans regarding security once the coaches arrive tomorrow,” said DCP (Railways) Harinder Kumar Singh.At the Shakur Basti Railway Station—where the first Covid Care Centre was deployed on May 31—the Railway Protection Force is in charge of guarding these coaches. Any untoward incident is to be taken care of by the local police, officials said. So far, there are no Covid-19 patients in these coaches. On Monday, the Railway Board Chairman said that Covid isolation coaches are meant to be used when the health infrastructure of various states is exhausted due to the spike in Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/confusion-at-anand-vihar-amid-news-of-isolation-coaches/story-frHZbwMfaAKwRdk52obIKL.html
16-06-2020||Delhi||Mohalla clinic doctor dies of Covid-19||A doctor working at a mohalla clinic in Najafgarh died due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday. He was 65.The doctor, UC Ghosh, had started working at the clinic just three months ago after his wife died of cancer in March this year. “He was lonely and depressed after his wife died. He had given up practice to take care of his wife. The clinic came as a welcome respite for him. It is likely that he got the infection there,” said Dr BK Dey, 65, his family friend, who works at Maharshi Valmiki hospital.Ghosh was diabetic and hypertensive, according to a Delhi government official. “We have asked our senior doctors to not open clinic at present. However, there are many who still volunteer to do so,” the official said.According to his friend, Ghosh started losing his sense of taste and smell about 12 days ago and was very lethargic. “He would come home from the clinic and just go to bed. His daughter did not think too much of it, but maybe that’s when he got the infection,” Dey said.Ghosh started vomiting and developed high-grade fever four days ago and had to be admitted to a hospital in Dwarka, where he lives. “He was admitted to the ICU and was put on ventilator a couple of days ago. His test came positive yesterday, but by then his condition was already very bad,” said Dey, who continues to go to the hospital in the absence of a written directive asking the elderly to stay at home.Ghosh is reportedly the second doctor to have died with Covid-19 in the city so far. Earlier this month, Dr JN Pande, former head of medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, had died due to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohalla-clinic-doctor-dies-of-covid-19/story-XvfThrytBpHEIWGJEPZuqK.html
16-06-2020||Pune||Home isolation option allowed in Pune: Divisional commissioner||As per the state government’s instructions, Covid-19 positive patients showing mild symptoms can undergo home isolation instead of getting admitted in hospitals.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar in a press conference on Monday said, “Residents having mild symptoms can take treatment at home, but those showing serious symptoms like high fever should need to immediately contact a medical officer.”Mhaisekar said that the state government had issued the guidelines for home isolation for those patients who have separate room along with individual toilet facility.The coronavirus positive person should need to stay in his room only. The utensils used by him should be cleaned by soap. Even the cloths and all equipment utilised by the positive resident should need to be cleaned properly.The caretaker should need to ensure that the positive patient has not contracted any serious symptoms related to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The used mask should be destroyed properly.Earlier, the Pune municipal commissioner said that as there are enough bed facility in Pune, they are hoping for institutional quarantine. But as the state government issued the circular for it, now administration is allowing to do home isolation facility, but the person should need to give affidavit for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-isolation-option-allowed-in-city-divisional-commissioner/story-TCK5F0e3mSFtw2wwRw2YKO.html
16-06-2020||Pune||Pune schools begin online classes, parents struggle with additional homework||For Cleta Pardeshi, a working professional and mother of two primary school children, it’s been difficult to manage home, work and kids’ studies since schools started online and digital classes from Monday. “My husband and I have changed our work from home schedules to sit with kids during their online classes. With the lockdown restricting movement of domestic helps, I need to look after cooking, cleaning and maintaining the house, and now my kids’ digital schooling. As children of these age are not so attentive, I need to sit with them when teachers are giving instructions and write it down for them,” said Cleta.The Pardeshi family resides at Kanchan Galli lane on Law College road. Cleta works at a senior position in a private IT company and her husband Rajasatyen Pardeshi is a chartered accountant. Their daughter Saanvi Pardeshi is studying in Class 2 and son Mitansh Pardeshi in Class 1. “Recently we bought a laptop for children’s online studies and school assignments. It is also a financial burden during this crisis situation.” said Rajasatyen.State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after a meeting with education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday announced that online or digital schools can start from June 15. According to the state government, there will be no online classes for students till Class 2, and also announced the daily timings for online lessons for Class 3 to Class 10.For Atul Jain and his family residing at Bibvewadi area, the online classes has become an additional homework for them. “My daughter is in Class 4 and is getting online assignments from school and we have a two-year-old son. Our shop was closed due to lockdown, but now I need to sit in shop as relaxations have been announced. We parents share the responsibility of sitting with kids, but poor internet connectivity and long hours in front of mobile or laptop screen are issues that needs to be looked into.”The lockdown restrictions have left families with school-going kids to struggle to manage online studies of children, their professional responsibilities and household chores.Schools have started online classesWinifred Bhalerao, principal, St Paul’s School, Pune said, “For Class 1 to 8, we are doing digital classroom activities and for Class 9 and 10 online classes are been conducted by our teachers. In digital classroom, WhatsApp group of parents is done standard wise and daily school assignments are been given to students. For online lessons we take only two hours classes daily and a detailed timetable of each week is sent to students, so that they are prepared for the subject. Parents have downloaded the ‘Topscorer’ mobile application in which there are subject wise videos and worksheets to complete. Even our teachers are preparing worksheets, making video lecturers and sending it to parents.”Sanjay Shendge, principal of Seth Dagaduram Katariya English Medium High School, said, “I do not support online classes, but have started it for students on temporary basis. So Class and division wise classes are been taken on Google Meeting and Google Classroom mobile applications. Daily we take classes for two hours, 1 to 2 pm then a break of half and an hour and then 2.30 to 3.30 pm. Only for Class 8, 9 and 10, the class duration is for three hours. So, students do not get much affected by mobile or laptop screens.”Instructions given to schools Talking about conducting online classes, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We have received the guidelines from the state education department and sent to all schools. As per the education department’s instructions, schools can take online or digital classes for students. Schools not following the instructions will face action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-schools-begin-online-classes-parents-struggle-with-additional-homework/story-tzYV6jHpQG3ujneot3K90H.html
16-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC’s focus areas: Reducing deaths; quicker medical help||The city will soon be able to bring down its mortality rate to 3%, from the current 3.2%, and on a par with the national average of less than 2%, assured Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief IS Chahal on Tuesday.“We have managed to bring down Mumbai’s mortality to 3.2% from the high figure of over 7% in April. This was a result of targeted measures taken by the civic body. With the measures in place, in a few days, mortality will further go down to 3%,” Chahal said at a video-conference with the media organised on Tuesday evening.As of Tuesday, Mumbai has a total of 32,974 Covid-19 cases, with 1,065 deaths. According to data from the BMC, there are 22,912 active cases in Mumbai (total cases minus the number of deaths and discharged patients). Mumbai has so far conducted 1.75 lakh tests, with 13,000 tests per million of the population. Among the measures taken are contact-tracing and early detection of high-risk co-morbid persons, shifting such persons to government facilities for observation, detecting elderly and co-morbid patients with low oxygen saturation, streamlining rules of dialysis. “We cannot let the number scare us. We have to gauge Mumbai’s situation by our health infrastructure’s ability to handle a surge. We have to see if we have doctors, nurses, beds and equipment such as critical beds, ventilators, and oxygen beds.”Contrary to the projection that Mumbai will have 44,000-46,000 cases by the end of May, the city is expected to have 26,000 to 27,000 active cases by the end of May, the municipal commissioner said. In comparison, Mumbai will have 14,000 hospital and healthcare beds by May-end, and already has 29,949 beds for mild symptomatic patients, called Covid Care Centres - category 2 (CCC2) facilities, he said.Following reports of delays in bed and ambulance allocation to critical patients, with allegations of deaths of such patients due to delay, the BMC has decided to revamp its bed management system. Chahal attributed the delay to BMC’s cycle of reporting cases and preparing a bed demand chart, over-burdened 1916 helplines, and private labs relaying information of patients upto 4 or 5 days late. “The earlier cycle of reporting patients was 2pm to 2pm. Labs would report cases up to 4pm. Hence, the final list of patients would be compiled by 7pm. Bed allotment would start after 7pm, and go on till 1.30am or later. Doctors were tired, and patients were receiving calls of bed availability in the middle of the night.” With the new cycle, the list will be prepared overnight after reporting is completed at midnight and bed allotment will start at 8am, with a deadline for bed allotment to these cases till 12 noon. Reporting and bed allotment will also happen at 2pm, 3pm, 5pm, and 9pm, said Chahal.Private labs have been instructed not to delay in reporting names of Covid-19 positive patients, that must be submitted on the same day. At the end of the day, there should be zero pending cases to be reported to BMC. If this procedure is not followed, labs can lose their licence.BMC has decided to increase the number of 1916 helplines. To ensure ambulance services are received on time, ambulances will be fitted with a GPS tracker, and will be centrally allotted to nearest persons based on their location. “Citizens will also be able to Uber an ambulance very soon,” Chahal said.“Based on the CM’s request for Covid warriors, 3700 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff responded for Mumbai. We asked them for a choice of where they want to work”, Chahal said. “Of these, 570 doctors and nurses have chosen jumbo facilities, or Seven hills hospital, and received their appointment letters on Tuesday.” BMC needs their help in opening clinics for non-Covid patients, because facilities for Covid patients are being managed well. To ensure all satellite medical services are fully functional, Chahal said, suburban trains should be started on a “skeleton basis” during work hours of 7am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm, to ferry workers home. “Presently, staff from neighbourhoods of Mumbai such Nerul and Panvel travel to Mumbai by road, and spend up to six hours per day changing buses and commuting to and from work.” This is reduced to 2.5 hours per day by local train. If trains cannot be started, BMC has decided to increase the frequency of BEST buses.It has also launched ‘Chase the Virus Mission’ to trace upto 15 high-risk contacts per positive person in slum areas, up from the earlier target of 10 high-risk contacts per positive person.Will continue giving HCQS to frontline workers, high-risk contacts: State govtThe state government has clarified that it will continue administering Hydroxychloroquine (HCQS) given to high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients and the frontline workers, as per the Indian Council For Medical Research (ICMR) protocol. The government officials said that the doses given in the country are milder in quantity than the World Health Organization (WHO) trial and the concerns raised by the WHO were not applicable here.“We have been giving two tablets of 400mg in the first week and then one tablet of 400 mg each for the next six weeks.WHO was giving two tablets of 800mg each in the first week and 800mg in the subsequent six weeks. The benefit of the HCQS is outweighed by the potential risk in people to whom the doses are administered,” said Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-s-focus-areas-reducing-deaths-quicker-medical-help/story-ESgUzQWTamMu8TRsyXNjiM.html
16-06-2020||World||For Syrian family with 16 children, life at Turkish border only gets harder||Providing for 16 children including four sets of twins is only getting harder for Ahmad Yassin al-Ali and his wife Fawza Umri, Syrians who were forced to flee their home nearly a decade ago and are now crammed into a tent at the Turkish border.Ali, whose wife is eight months pregnant with more twins, says the little money he can scrape together gathering and selling scrap plastic buys less and less, reflecting soaring prices caused by the collapse of Syria’s currency.“Two of my children help me. The days I can sell, I buy bread, potatoes and tomatoes,” Ali said. “Because of the collapse of the Syrian currency, prices have increased to the point where we don’t have the money to buy food and bread.”The opposition-held area where Ali, 35, and his family live in Idlib falls outside President Bashar al-Assad’s control, but the pound is still used there.The U.N. agency OCHA says the halving of its value since the beginning of May has pushed the price of basic necessities to record highs and further out of reach of the 4 million people in the area.Umri, 35, says the recent Eid al-Fitr holiday, marking the end of the Islamic fasting month of Ramadan, was a time for despair rather than celebration. “I hated my life,” she said.One of their daughters suffers from hearing difficulties and is unable to speak, and another is paralysed on one side, but they cannot afford medical treatment.“Food is a big problem for us. We cannot buy vegetables and most days they eat bread and nothing else,” she said.The war has killed hundreds of thousands of people, uprooting more than 6.6 million in Syria and forcing 5.5 million to flee to neighbouring countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-syrian-family-with-16-children-life-at-turkish-border-only-gets-harder/story-ghAl9TTBzViaeYiKm2mUHO.html
16-06-2020||World||France sends police reinforcements to Dijon to quell unrest||The French government sent police reinforcements and a top official to the Dijon region Tuesday to quell four nights of unusually violent clashes between rival groups that have left several injured and cars burned and rattled the community.The exact reasons for the unrest are under investigation, but local officials say it appears linked to the drug trade and tensions between members of France’s Chechen community and other groups.Similar clashes erupted in the Mediterranean city of Nice in recent days, which the mayor attributed to tensions over drug territory between local Chechen residents and their rivals. Four people were reported injured there.The unrest in Dijon’s Gresilles neighborhood began last week after a 16-year-old from France’s Chechen community was attacked by local residents, according to the regional prosecutor.Members of the Chechen community called for revenge on social networks, and a group of 50 descended on the area Friday, according to a local police official. A pizzeria manager was seriously wounded by gunfire, and the next day some 200 people turned out, the official said.After tensions continued through the weekend, the interior minister ordered police reinforcements to the area and announced Monday that the government would take over management of the situation.Images from BFM television showed two cars and several garbage cans on fire Monday, black smoke rising over a leafy neighborhood of low-rise apartment buildings. Young people wearing hoods and masks carried metal bars or bats as they roamed the area, and a makeshift gasoline bomb in a plastic bottle lay on the pavement.A police helicopter circled overhead, and a dozen police vans lined a nearby street as firefighters sought to douse the scattered blazes. People looking out from nearby balconies covered their mouths from the smoke.The local administration says at least 10 people have been injured so far.As of Monday, no one had been arrested.Unidentified local residents told BFM they felt abandoned by police over the weekend.“The Chechen community came to make people respect its own laws,” Mayor François Rebsamen said. “There weren’t enough police” to take on such a large, well-armed group, he said.After the government sent reinforcements, Nunez visited the area to show support for the population and insisted that “no one should carry out justice themselves.”“At a time when we ... talk of violent police, racist police, the (officers) proved they are the guarantors of our republican order,” he said. He said the national reinforcements would remain in the area “as much time as necessary.”Graffiti on a nearby shopfront read “Long Live Putin,” in reference to Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose military fought Chechen militants in two wars in the 1990s and early 2000s. France offered asylum to many Chechens at the time, and there are now Chechen communities scattered around France.The unrest comes amid tensions between French police and the government. Amid protests around France over racial injustice and police brutality, the government said last week it would ban police from using chokeholds to subdue people. But the government backed down Monday after police themselves protested. France is experimenting with expanding the use of stun guns as a potential alternative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-sends-police-reinforcements-to-dijon-to-quell-unrest/story-qsJOSe5FQ6eKqe8sUdlrPN.html
16-06-2020||World||Biggest breakthrough, says PM Boris on dexamethasone drug trial results||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday called the life-saving results of a drug trial announced by the University of Oxford as the ‘biggest breakthrough’ so far in global efforts to find a vaccine or treatment for the coronavirus that has infected millions across the world.Soon after the university announced the results of the dexamethasone trial, the UK government announced its immediate adoption in hospitals treating patients, calling it the “the world’s first coronavirus treatment proven to reduce the risk of death”.Johnson hailed the trial’s results at the daily Downing Street briefing along with the chief scientific officer Patrick Vallance, and Peter Horby, professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases at Oxford, who said the drug is cheap, stable, widely available for the last 60 years and can be used immediately across the world.Johnson said: “I am delighted the biggest breakthrough yet has been made by a team of scientists here in the UK. I am proud of these British scientists. This drug can now be made available across the NHS. We have taken steps to ensure we have enough supplies, even in the event of a second peak.”Horby and Vallance stressed that the drug is effective only for certain patients: those who are on ventilator or need oxygen.The trial’s results show that the anti-inflammatory steroid dexamethasone can save the lives of people seriously afflicted by coronavirus, cuts the death risk by a third for those on ventilators, and by a fifth for those on oxygen.The university said that in March, the RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trial was established to test a range of potential treatments for Covid-19, including low-dose dexamethasone. Over 11,500 patients have been enrolled from over 175 hospitals.A total of 2104 patients randomly received 6 mg of the drug once per day (either by mouth or by intravenous injection) for ten days and were compared with 4321 patients randomised to usual care alone.Among the patients who received usual care alone, 28-day mortality was highest in those who required ventilation (41%), intermediate in those patients who required oxygen only (25%), and lowest among those who did not require any respiratory intervention (13%).It said: “Dexamethasone reduced deaths by one-third in ventilated patients…and by one fifth in other patients receiving oxygen only…There was no benefit among those patients who did not require respiratory support”.“Based on these results, 1 death would be prevented by treatment of around 8 ventilated patients or around 25 patients requiring oxygen alone,” the university added.Horby said: “Dexamethasone is the first drug to be shown to improve survival in Covid-19. This is an extremely welcome result. The survival benefit is clear and large in those patients who are sick enough to require oxygen treatment, so dexamethasone should now become standard of care in these patients. Dexamethasone is inexpensive, on the shelf, and can be used immediately to save lives worldwide.”Vallance added: “This is tremendous news…It is particularly exciting as this is an inexpensive widely available medicine. This is a ground-breaking development in our fight against the disease, and the speed at which researchers have progressed finding an effective treatment is truly remarkable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biggest-breakthrough-says-pm-boris-on-dexamethasone-drug-trial-results/story-kbQv3i0AySNMzUR8RHrHbN.html
16-06-2020||World||New policy requires NYPD to release body camera footage||A new policy will require New York City police to release all body camera footage of shootings and other instances when force is used and injury or death occurs, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday in what he billed as an additional step toward police reform.The announcement regarding body cameras overturns a policy that gave the New York Police Department wide discretion on when it made the videos public. It came a day after the nation’s largest police department disbanded a plainclothes anti-crime unit long criticized for its aggressive tactics.“Body-worn cameras are only as powerful as the transparency that comes with them,” de Blasio said. “This is a good thing for everyone involved. … When people see this kind of transparency, it will build trust.”Starting in 2017, the NYPD began deploying 24,000 body cameras for its patrol force and other street units, the most in the nation. The previous policy required that the department make videos involving force public if the police commissioner found it would address a specific “public concern” and “preserve peace.”The new policy calls for mandatory release of footage within 30 days if an officer fires a gun and hits someone or could have caused injury, uses a stun gun, or makes use of any other force that causes harm. The videos will be posted on the internet after civilians who were involved have seen it first, the mayor said.A message was left Tuesday seeking comment from the Police Benevolent Association, the city’s largest police union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-policy-requires-nypd-to-release-body-camera-footage/story-PnpZ3CqqDmjmmyl8eUWDjI.html
16-06-2020||World||In longest closure since World War II, Eiffel Tower to reopen amid pandemic measures||Workers are preparing the Eiffel Tower for reopening next week, after the coronavirus pandemic led to the iconic Paris landmark’s longest closure since World War II.France’s tourism industry is opening back up, but the 324-meter (1,063-feet) tall wrought-iron tower won’t immediately welcome visitors the way it did before the country went into lockdown in March.Only limited numbers of people will be allowed in when the Eiffel Tower opens again on June 25. Elevators to the top will be out of service, and only the first and second floors will be accessible to the public.“At first, only visits by the stairs will be available,” Victoria Klahr, the spokeswoman for the tower’s management, said Tuesday.Everyone over 11 years old will be required to wear face masks, and crowd control measures will be in place.“We are optimistic that visitor numbers will pick up, even if it will likely be local tourists who visit the monument in the first weeks,” Klahr said.A stringent cleaning operation is in place and that will continue daily from next week.“There is a new protocol. (One) novelty is that the day cleaning teams will be able to clean all the points of contact every two hours, from the opening of the site to its closing,” said Eiffel Tower hygiene consultant Alain Miralles.Tourists planning trips to the City of Light are advised to book tickets to visit the Eiffel Tower online. The online ticket office is set to open Thursday.Paris tourism officials have expressed muted optimism about the city’s reemergence as a travel destination. Tourism levels have dropped by around 80% compared to the same month in previous years, they say.“To visit Paris now is quite exceptional, as we of course don’t have many visitors and we don’t expect this summer to be at the same level as previous ones,” said Corinne Menegaux, the director of Paris’s businesses and tourism office.She said the French capital remains welcoming and charming despite all the restrictions still in place.“Let’s also not forget that Paris is one of the greenest cities around so there are plenty of outdoor activities available that can be done with families,” Menegaux said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-longest-closure-since-world-war-ii-eiffel-tower-to-reopen-amid-pandemic-measures/story-ZS4VchPk0snQQQUP2cUpEO.html
16-06-2020||World||Karan Bilimoria elected president of UK business body||Karan Bilimoria, member of the House of Lords and a leading Indian-origin entrepreneur, was on Tuesday elected president of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), the representative body of 1.9 lakh UK companies employing nearly 7 million people. Hyderbabad-born Bilimoria, 58, was elected by an overwhelming majority at CBI’s annual general meeting to replace John Allan, who becomes the organisation’s vice-president. Cambridge-educated Bilimoria becomes the first CBI chief from a non-white background.The CBI said: “He is one of the country’s leading entrepreneurs. He founded Cobra Beer in 1989...and was also founding chairman on the UK-India Business Council. A former chancellor of Thames Valley University (now the University of West London); he was the youngest university chancellor when appointed”.“In 2014, he was appointed as the 7th chancellor of the University of Birmingham. He is also chair of the University of Cambridge Judge Business School Advisory Board. Lord Bilimoria has been an independent crossbench peer in the House of Lords for 14 years”, it added.Bilimoria said on his election: “Ensuring the CBI is seen as a home for entrepreneurs and SMEs is first among my top four priorities during my time as president. Secondly, establishing the UK as a trading powerhouse, which is vital for our future prosperity”.“Thirdly, I will use my background in higher education to champion the UK’s unique soft power offer. And last but by no means least is the importance of acting to increase inclusive workplaces. Diversity drives better decisions. And it will be my aim to get better Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic (BAME) representation in boardrooms across the country,” he addedBilimoria has campaigned for easier and better visa terms for Indian and other international students coming to the UK, besides participating in trade and business links with Indian ministers and interlocutors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/karan-bilimoria-elected-president-of-uk-business-body/story-u4SIWG9Ytyo5s4a5zhivXO.html
16-06-2020||World||Beijing shuts city schools again as coronavirus cases spread||Beijing has ordered all schools to close in an escalation of containment measures as it struggles to halt a new coronavirus outbreak which has already spread to neighboring provinces.The Chinese capital on Tuesday lifted its emergency response to level two and said that people will have to be tested for the virus before being allowed to leave the city.The total reported number of infections has reached 106, according to the National Health Commission, while cases linked to the Beijing cluster have already been reported in two provinces in China’s northern region.While the decision to close schools and limit people leaving signals the severity of the growing crisis, officials have so far taken a more targeted approach towards the latest outbreak compared to similar resurgences in Wuhan and in the country’s northeast region. The stakes are higher in Beijing, where the country’s business and political elite reside, and an aggressive lockdown risks undoing China’s economic re-opening and nascent moves to restart travel with other countries.Salmon Shunned in China After Link to Beijing Virus OutbreakBeijing has restricted movement only in areas where new cases have been found. While taxis and cars from ride-hailing apps have been banned from leaving Beijing and passenger buses from some cities in nearby provinces have been halted, trains and most other forms of transport to and from Beijing remain open.The costs of imposing an across-the-board shutdown are too high as Beijing’s population is much larger than that of Wuhan, said Yanzhong Huang, professor at the Center for Global Health Studies of Seton Hall University.“A city-wide lockdown in Beijing would not only reverse the process of economic and social reopening, a key policy objective of the party, but also undermine considerably the government’s own narrative on the success of its anti Covid-19 campaign,” Huang said. “The social, economic, and political pain might be way too high to justify a city-wide lockdown.”Beijing on Tuesday closed another food market located near the financial district after a case linked to the original cluster was discovered. Eleven other food markets have been shuttered and almost 300 others sanitized, while nearly 30 housing compounds have been put under lockdown, local officials said.Key Three DaysHousing compounds and companies are collecting information from their residents or workers on whether they have been to or had contact with anyone who has been to Xinfadi, the fruit and vegetable market where the new cluster was first discovered. It supplies around 80% of the city’s farm produce and tens of thousands of people pass through daily.With mass testing and contract tracing underway, the next few days will be crucial in deciding whether to reinstate the strict measures in place during the height of China’s epidemic, when workplaces and restaurants were shut and social gatherings were banned.The city of more than 20 million has said it can test over 90,000 people a day. It tested more than 70,000 on Sunday.“Beijing’s reported cases in the next three days will determine where the epidemic is going,” Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist with China’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told state television on Monday night. Those who have contracted the virus should display symptoms in around two days and if cases aren’t surging by then, it’s safe to say the outbreak has basically stabilized, said Wu.“There’s no obvious sign of family clusters, or cross-infection between patients,” he said.Zeng Guang, a senior expert with the National Health Commission, said he sees a high chance of a “mild second wave” when the number of infections increases in the next couple days before the spread is contained.“But even if the virus spreads across China and lockdowns have to be implemented, Beijing will not be the second Wuhan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-shuts-city-schools-again-as-coronavirus-cases-spread/story-Y3JP3lfshdnkeamS5doSiP.html
16-06-2020||World||Man accused of choking, stabbing Tinder date pleads not guilty||A Utah man accused of choking and stabbing a woman he met on the dating app Tinder pleaded not guilty to murder on Tuesday.The lawyer for Ethan Hunsaker, 24, said he’s planning to get a psychological evaluation done on his client.Attorney C. Markley Arrington didn’t elaborate on the reasons for the evaluation during a virtual hearing held online, but authorities have said previously that Hunsaker had been diagnosed with an unspecified mental illness.Hunsaker is accused of killing 25-year-old Ashlyn Black in an unprovoked attack on May 24 after the two met on Tinder.They met for a few drinks at a bar before going to his apartment in Layton, authorities have said. He called 911 to report the slaying early Sunday morning and told police to shoot him, according to court documents. Hunsaker told police he choked and then stabbed her unprovoked as they cuddled, according to the document.Police found Black lying on the floor, suffering from multiple stab wounds. Emergency workers tried to resuscitate her, but she was pronounced dead of her injuries at the scene.If convicted, Hunsaker faces at least 15 years and up to life in prison. He didn’t speak during the hearing other than answering a few basic questions from the judge. Hunsaker appeared wearing a mask and jail scrubs from inside the Davis County jail, where he’s being held without bail.Black’s parents have called Hunsaker a “monster” who killed their daughter in “a crime as senseless as it was evil.”Black had worked during her life to be a “voice of those who could not speak out for themselves” and had a gift for working with special needs people, her family has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-accused-of-choking-stabbing-tinder-date-pleads-not-guilty/story-FyPUjHeJyGiBstKIbT4DEK.html
16-06-2020||World||Iran to send France black boxes of Ukraine airline mistakenly shot down ‘soon’: Trudeau||Iran has said it will “soon” send France the black boxes of a Ukrainian jetliner its forces mistakenly shot down in January, Canada’s prime minister said Tuesday.“The black boxes are supposed to be sent to France soon,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told a daily briefing, adding that the coronavirus pandemic had delayed the handover.“We’re going to continue to put pressure on the Iranian regime alongside our international partners to get answers, to get justice, to get compensation for the families,” he added.The prime minister said he raised the analysis of the black boxes in a telephone call with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky “a couple of days ago.”Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 was struck by two missiles and crashed shortly after taking off from Tehran’s airport on January 8.The Islamic republic admitted days later that its forces accidentally shot down the Kiev-bound jetliner, killing all 176 people on board.Tehran’s air defenses had been on high alert at the time in case the US retaliated against Iranian strikes hours earlier on American troops stationed in Iraq.Those strikes were carried out in response to the killing of a top Iranian general, Qasem Soleimani, in a US drone strike near Baghdad airport.The black boxes are expected to contain information about the last moments before the aircraft was struck.Many of those on board the downed airliner were Canadian, and Ottawa has demanded for months that Iran, which does not have the technical means to decode the black boxes, send the items abroad so that their content can be analyzed.On Monday, Iran said the coronavirus pandemic, which has seen most international flights canceled, had slowed its plans to send the black boxes overseas.“From the first days of this painful incident, we announced our readiness to cooperate in investigating the black boxes of the Ukrainian plane,” Iran government spokesman Ali Rabiei said.He said they would be sent to either Ukraine or France to be read, adding: “We will resume this process with the gradual resumption of international flights and the clarification of the results of the negotiations” between Iran and others involved in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-to-send-france-black-boxes-of-ukraine-airline-mistakenly-shot-down-soon-trudeau/story-9QguwPZvCqYq5q0tszY7LL.html
16-06-2020||World||Racism means black, Asian and minority communities harder hit by coronavirus: UK Report||A new study by Public Health England has confirmed that historic racism and social inequalities are contributing factors that increase the risk of black, Asian and minority communities contracting and dying from the coronavirus in the U.K.Britain’s government has been under heavy pressure to do more to directly address the issue after data consistently showed that coronavirus death rates were significantly higher for blacks and ethnic minorities compared to white people.The report, published Tuesday, didn’t look at genetic factors, but said it was clear that the pandemic “exposed and exacerbated longstanding inequalities” in the country. Relevant factors included “racism, discrimination and stigma, occupational risk, inequalities in the prevalence of conditions that increase the severity of disease including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and asthma.’’Citing a strong association between economic disadvantage and COVID-19 diagnoses, it said black people and minority groups are more at risk because they are more likely to live in cramped housing, use public transportation and work in jobs with a higher risk of virus exposure.It added that historic racism and poorer experiences of health care or at work meant that minority groups are less likely to seek care, or demand better protective equipment at work.“Lack of trust of NHS (National Health Service) and healthcare treatment resulted in their reluctance to seek care on a timely basis, and late presentation with disease,” the paper said.The report said officials should start more comprehensive collection of ethnicity health data and ensure ethnicity is recorded in death certificates. It also recommended targeted messaging on smoking, obesity and improving management of common health conditions like diabetes.The report’s release has been controversial. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government has been accused of holding back the material when it published an earlier report on the issue.The first report looked at why black people and ethnic communities may be at higher risk from COVID-19, but made no recommendations and made no reference to the 17 sessions in which around 4,000 people offered insight on the issue.Tuesday’s report said that those consulted “expressed deep dismay, anger, loss and fear in their communities about the emerging data and realities of black, Asian and minority ethnic groups being harder hit by the COVID-19 pandemic than others.”Amitava Banerjee, associate professor in clinical data science at University College London, said that overall the disproportionate impact on minorities is “due not only to racism, but much more to do with ethnic inequalities in the social and economic determinants of health, which require urgent action.”On Monday, Johnson announced a commission to look at what more can be done to fight racial inequality in the U.K. Thousands protested across the country for two weekends in demonstrations spurred by the May 25 death of George Floyd by police in Minneapolis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/racism-means-black-asian-and-minority-communities-harder-hit-by-coronavirus-uk-report/story-9y5s5XWW3t5emd41WrinkK.html
16-06-2020||World||US President Trump signs police reforms order that seeks to cut use of choke holds||President Donald Trump on Monday signed an executive order to reform policing in the United States that seeks to discourage the use of choke holds to subdue suspects and creates a national database of tainted officers as antiracism demonstrations continue across the country and a protestor was shot in New Mexico by a private militia.“This is a big, big step -- a step that hasn’t been taken before,” Trump said before signing the order. “We have to break the old patterns of failure.”But, he went on to add, siding with law enforcement, “I strongly oppose the radical and dangerous efforts to defend, dismantle and dissolve our police departments, especially now when we achieved the lowest recorded crime rates in recent history,.”Trump’s executive order has essentially three key elements. It seeks to create a national database of police misconduct so that an officer with a record of aggressive behaviour doesn’t simply move to another state or department, as has been also envisioned by a sweeping police reforms legislation put forward by Democrats.Trump’s order will also seek to address the use of force. “Choke holds will be banned except if an officer’s life is at risk, the president said. Federal funding will be provided to police departments based on certification of their use of force. And training will be provided to officers on de-escalating situations.And, finally, the order will recommend a greater role for social workers and mental health professionals; for them to work closely with officers, when responding to certain calls.The US president said that he had met families of victims of police violence before coming out to sign the order.Earlier in New Mexico, the victim in the shooting, who was among protestors trying to pull down a statue of the Spanish conquistador in Albuquerque, is in critical but stable condition. Four shots had been fired at the protestors from the direction of a group of men in military garb and armed with semi-automatic weapons.State governor and city’s mayor, both Democrats, have condemned the shooting and said the statute will be pulled down. No arrests have been announced yet.Antiracism protestors have encountered counter protests in many instances. A bunch of them marched in support of law enforcement in Miami Sunday; they also chanted slogans in Trump’s support. Another group, which included motorcycle gang members, showed up in Bethel, Connecticut.President Trump’s executive order comes amidst rising calls to reform the police, sensitise its handling of minorities, specially African Americans, and de-militarise it. Minneapolis, where George Floyd was killed by a white police officer triggering these countrywide protests, has decided to disband its police department, for one.New York city police has announced it is disbanding its anti-crime units, whose plainclothes personnel have been involved in many shootings across the city. The 600 officers of these units will be reassigned to other other department, commissioner Dermot F Shea said Monday, calling it a “seismic shift”.And congressional Democrats earlier introduced a sweeping legislation to outlaw choke holds, a technique used by police officers to subdue suspects, create a national database of tainted police officers to prevent them from being employed elsewhere and discontinue the practice of no-knock warrant, which allows law enforcement personnel to enter a property without a knock on the door or a warning.The order is already been called “police friendly” by critics. President Trump has been extremely supportive of law enforcement through this civil unrest, as before, and has shown little support for protestors or their cause. On Monday, the US embassy in Seoul, South Korea, removed a huge “Black Lives Matter” banner that had hung down the front of the building for several days attracting attention around the world. The orders to pull it down came reportedly from the state department leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-expected-to-sign-police-reforms-order-as-antiracism-protests-continue-in-us/story-fHFrAKR7ZmEUsQP9wvRXfL.html
16-06-2020||World||What’s dexamethasone, the cheap steroid hailed as ‘big breakthrough’ against Covid||More than 100 potential vaccines against Covid-19 are in development around the world but none has yet been solidly proven to be able to effectively protect people from the virus that has killed more than 400,000 people worldwide.Amid the race for a vaccine, Dexamethasone, a cheap and widely used steroid, has become the first drug to be able to save the lives of Covid-19 patients.Here is a look at the latest at the latest treatment and development on the vaccine front:Dexamethasone’s encouraging performance has prompted scientists to hail it as a “major breakthrough”.Trial results announced by the University of Oxford on Tuesday showed dexamethasone, which is used to reduce inflammation in other diseases such as arthritis, reduced death rates by around a third among Covid-19 patients on ventilators and by a fifth for those on oxygen.Scientists at Imperial College London will start the first clinical trials of a potential Covid-19 vaccine this week with funding from the British government and philanthropic donors.The trials involve about 300 healthy volunteers who will receive two doses of the vaccine to test whether it is safe in people and whether it produces an effective immune response.In Singapore, scientists testing a vaccine from U.S. firm Arcturus Therapeutics plan to start human trials in August after promising initial responses in mice.AstraZeneca’s potasssssential coronavirus vaccine is likely to provide protection against contracting Covid-19 for about a year, the company’s chief executive said on Tuesday.The vaccine being evaluated by Singapore’s Duke-NUS Medical School works on the relatively-untested Messenger RNA (mRNA) technology, which instructs human cells to make specific coronavirus proteins that produce an immune response.Also read | ‘Ground-breaking’: Trial shows drug cuts death risk by third in Covid casesIn China where the coronavirus originated, China National Biotec Group (CNBG) said on Tuesday its experimental vaccine has triggered antibodies in clinical trials and the company plans late-stage human trials in foreign countries.The vaccine, developed by a Wuhan-based research institute affiliated to CNBG’s parent company Sinopharm, was found to have induced high-level antibodies in all inoculated people without serious adverse reaction, according to the preliminary data from a clinical trial initiated in April involving 1,120 healthy participants aged between 18 and 59. (with inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-s-dexamethasone-here-s-all-about-the-cheap-steroid-that-saves-lives-of-covid-19-patients/story-S47BemoEbdnQAKOyMGE0tJ.html
16-06-2020||World||Kim Yo Jong: North Korean leader’s increasingly powerful sister||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s sister warned at the weekend that a Korean liaison office would soon be seen “completely collapsed”. On Tuesday, Pyongyang reduced it to rubble.Kim Yo Jong is one of her brother’s most trusted advisers and among the most powerful women in the isolated regime, but her public profile is mounting rapidly and she has been mooted as a potential successor.The first statement issued in her name came only in March this year, but in recent days and weeks, she has been at the forefront of Pyongyang’s denunciations of defectors in the South sending leaflets across the border.Officially she is only an alternate member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee, but in a weekend statement carried by the official KCNA news agency, she referred to “my power authorised by the Supreme Leader, our Party and the state”.Born in 1988, according to the Unification ministry, Yo Jong is one of three children born to Kim’s predecessor Kim Jong Il and his third known partner, former dancer Ko Yong Hui.She was educated in Switzerland alongside her brother and rose rapidly up the ranks once he inherited power after their father’s death in 2011.Her existence was barely known to the wider world until his funeral, when she was seen standing right behind Kim Jong Un on state television, looking tearful and ashen-faced.But more recently she has seemed to be constantly at her brother’s side. Yo Jong has “been very faithful in promoting him as the supreme leader, burnishing his domestic and international image, and helping him practically as his de facto chief of staff,” said Katharine Moon, a politics professor at Wellesley College in the United States.On their 60-hour train journey to Hanoi for his summit with Trump -- which collapsed without a nuclear deal -- Yo Jong was seen bringing him an ashtray when he stepped off for a cigarette break.There was “no doubt” that Kim has an exceptionally close relationship with his sister, said Yang Moo-jin, of the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.“Jong Un and Yo Jong spent much of their lonely childhood overseas together -- I think this is when they developed something that is similar to comradeship, on top of sibling love,” he told AFP. Seat of honourThe North has never had a woman leader but speculation swirled over Yo Jong as a potential successor in the event of the death of her brother, after he was absent from public view for weeks earlier this year. Leadership has always been a family affair in the North, and she is now one of the most prominent members of the “Paektu bloodline” -- a Northern term for Kim Il Sung and his descendants, who have led the nuclear-armed country since its foundation.And analysts say that her portrayal in state media as the voice of Pyongyang’s anger over the activists -- and now a role in a highly visible action -- could be intended to bolster her credibility with the North Korean military and other hawks.Until recently, Yo Jong has been more associated with the North’s diplomatic efforts.An inscrutable smile played on her lips when she rode down an escalator at Incheon airport as her brother Kim Jong Un’s envoy to the 2018 Winter Olympics, becoming the first member of the North’s ruling dynasty to set foot in the South since the Korean War.Every detail of her visit was closely watched, from the clothes she wore to the bag she was carrying and even her handwriting.When she had a brief meeting with Seoul officials on arrival, the delegation’s titular leader Kim Yong Nam -- at the time Pyongyang’s ceremonial head of state and a man in his 90s -- offered her the seat of honour.The Games ushered in a rapid diplomatic rapprochement on the peninsula and she attended a series of summits as aide to her brother, sometimes straying into shot as he walked with US President Donald Trump or the South’s Moon Jae-in.But in keeping with the secrecy shrouding North Korea’s leaders, it is not known whether she is married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-yo-jong-north-korean-leader-s-increasingly-powerful-sister/story-1mxo2Ip5jumt8wWbWyBKzN.html
16-06-2020||World||‘Ground-breaking’: Trial shows drug cuts death risk by third in Covid cases||Results released on Tuesday by the University of Oxford say that the use of the cheap and easily available anti-inflammatory steroid dexamethasone saves the lives of people seriously afflicted by coronavirus, cuts the death risk by a third for those on ventilators, and by a fifth for those on oxygen.The results were described by experts such as the UK government’s chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance as “ground-breaking”, as Imperial College London announced its human trial for a vaccine from this week.The university said that in March, the RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trial was established to test a range of potential treatments for Covid-19, including low-dose dexamethasone. Over 11,500 patients have been enrolled from over 175 hospitals in the UK.A total of 2104 patients randomly received 6 mg of the drug once per day (either by mouth or by intravenous injection) for ten days and were compared with 4,321 patients randomised to usual care alone.Among the patients who received usual care alone, 28-day mortality was highest in those who required ventilation (41%), intermediate in those patients who required oxygen only (25%), and lowest among those who did not require any respiratory intervention (13%).It said: “Dexamethasone reduced deaths by one-third in ventilated patients…and by one fifth in other patients receiving oxygen only…There was no benefit among those patients who did not require respiratory support”.“Based on these results, 1 death would be prevented by treatment of around 8 ventilated patients or around 25 patients requiring oxygen alone,” the university added.Peter Horby, professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases, said: “Dexamethasone is the first drug to be shown to improve survival in Covid-19. This is an extremely welcome result”.“The survival benefit is clear and large in those patients who are sick enough to require oxygen treatment, so dexamethasone should now become standard of care in these patients. Dexamethasone is inexpensive, on the shelf, and can be used immediately to save lives worldwide.”Vallance added: “This is tremendous news today from the Recovery trial showing that dexamethasone is the first drug to reduce mortality from Covid-19. It is particularly exciting as this is an inexpensive widely available medicine”.“This is a ground-breaking development in our fight against the disease, and the speed at which researchers have progressed finding an effective treatment is truly remarkable. It shows the importance of doing high quality clinical trials and basing decisions on the results of those trials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-breakthrough-drug-dexamethasone-cuts-covid-19-deaths/story-UHqj9yfOWOGwbrcWwFCZfI.html
16-06-2020||World||Infantry battalion carried out high-altitude tank drills in Tibet, says China’s PLA in rare announcement||An infantry battalion has carried out extensive drills with tanks and armed airborne personnel at heights over 15000 feet in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) announced Monday. The rare announcement by PLA did not specify when the drill was held but said it was the armed forces’ Xizang (Tibet) Military Command that organised the exercise at heights over 4700 metres.The Xizang Military Command falls under the Chengdu Military region.The PLA’s announcement comes in the backdrop of the unprecedented escalation of India-China border conflict on Monday when three Indian soldiers were killed soon after a talk to deescalate the ongoing tension at the border descended into violence.Until late evening Tuesday, China was yet to confirm or deny reports that said the PLA had suffered casualties as well.It’s rare for the PLA to announce drills; it’s the state media, which do it from PLA’s handouts and visuals.Published in PLA’s online mouthpiece, the Lhasa-datelined report said the exercise focused on “…infantry and tank offensive formation, enemy firepower strike, initiation of attack, defensive counter-impact, in-depth attack, etc.”The exercise focussed on “…long-distance strike by tanks at enemy’s forward firepower points, infantry-guided maneuver of tank, tank-guided marching of infantry, fast maneuver of infantry facilitated by tanks”.The drill was a test check for coordination between infantry and tanks.“The participating troops included ground forces, battlefield service and airborne penetration forces. They have been brought to a completely unfamiliar high-altitude area, which set a severe test for the coordination between the commanders and different arms,” the report written by Ren Feng and He Penglei from PLA-sponsored China Military Online said.It was a stock-taking exercise too.After the drill was over, the battalion went through the problems and deficiencies exposed by it, the report said.China’s state-controlled media has in the past weeks carried out reports of PLA’s high-altitude drills, often connecting it with the ongoing border tension with India, which started in early May.On June 7, state media said the PLA had carried out a large-scale drill involving thousands of paratroopers to check its preparedness in transporting soldiers and armoured vehicles from the central Chinese province of Hubei to border areas to the northwest of the country.The largescale “maneuver operation” was done in the backdrop of the ongoing border friction with India, the nationalistic tabloid, Global Times and national broadcaster CCTV said in reports.The news on Chinese state media came out on a day when New Delhi said India and China will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve a weeks-old stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).This was after talks were held between delegations led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps and egation led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/infantry-battalion-carried-out-high-altitude-tank-drills-in-tibet-says-china-s-pla-in-rare-announcement/story-8vYXqgn8Yjp7hrBdANXZ8L.html
16-06-2020||World||Imperial College London’s Covid-19 vaccine human trial to begin this week||A vaccine developed at Imperial College London will go into the human-trial phase this week in the hope that it will be available for mass vaccination in the spring of 2021, as another trial at the University of Oxford in its second phase is said to be “progressing quickly”.The college announced the human trial on Tuesday as new figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) showed that London has recorded the sharpest decline in the number of dead and cases in recent weeks. The capital was a hotbed in April and May.Unlike traditional vaccines based on a weakened or modified form of virus, or parts of it, the Imperial vaccine adopts a new approach using synthetic strands of genetic code (called RNA), based on the virus’s genetic material. Nearly 300 healthy volunteers are to receive two doses.Once injected into muscle, the college said the RNA self amplifies – generating copies of itself – and instructs the body’s own cells to make copies of a spiky protein found on the outside of the virus. Experts hope that this will train the immune system to respond to the coronavirus so the body can easily recognise it and defend itself against the virus in future.Robin Shattock from the Department of Infectious Disease at Imperial College who is leading the vaccine study, said: “From a scientific perspective, new technologies mean we have been able to get moving on a potential vaccine with unprecedented speed”.“We’ve been able to produce a vaccine from scratch and take it to human trials in just a few months – from code to candidate - which has never been done before with this type of vaccine. If our approach works and the vaccine provides effective protection against disease, it could revolutionise how we respond to disease outbreaks in future,” he added.ONS’s figures are considered more thorough than the daily numbers of the Department of Health, which only cover people who tested positive for coronavirus and died, whereas the ONS figures cover any death where coronavirus was mentioned as a factor on the death certificate.The ONS said that the number of deaths involving coronavirus continued to decrease across all English regions with the number of deaths in London falling below the five-year average. In Week 23, Wales had the highest percentage of all cause deaths above the five-year average with 14.8%.“In contrast, the number of deaths in Week 23 registered in London was 2.8% fewer than the five-year average, the first region in England to go below the five-year average since Week 13”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imperial-college-london-s-covid-19-vaccine-human-trial-to-begin-this-week/story-NAgkQPIHYxFhZtVzcHLeKP.html
16-06-2020||World||Europe wants nuclear watchdog IAEA to ‘rebuke’ Iran for refusing inspections||Major European powers want to admonish Iran at the UN nuclear watchdog over its ongoing refusal to give access to inspectors at sites suspected of activities that may have been part of a nuclear weapons programme, a draft resolution showed.The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has issued two reports this year rebuking Iran for failing to answer questions about nuclear activities almost two decades ago before its 2015 nuclear deal at three sites and for denying it access to two of them.A draft resolution, seen by Reuters and dated June 10, put forward by Britain, France and Germany calls on Iran to cooperate fully and promptly with the IAEA.It asks Tehran to provide access to the locations specified and implement obligations under the Additional Protocol, referring to texts governing the IAEA’s mission and activities.“The Europeans couldn’t sit back and not do anything,” a Western diplomat said.US intelligence agencies and the IAEA believe Iran had a secret, coordinated nuclear weapons programme that it halted in 2003. Israel’s obtaining of what it calls an “archive” of past Iranian nuclear work has, however, given the IAEA extra information on Iran’s previous activities.“If the three countries take such steps, Iran will have no other choice but to react accordingly,” Iran’s IAEA representative Kazem Gharibabadi was quoted as saying by the semi-official Fars news agency.The IAEA has also reported that Iran remains in breach of many of the restrictions imposed by its nuclear deal.Iran began breaching the accord after the United States withdrew in May 2018 and reimposed economic sanctions on Tehran.Britain, France and Germany, which remain in the deal, have accused Iran of violating the terms of its 2015 agreement, but hope to persuade Tehran to reverse course rather than join a U.S. maximum pressure campaign it imposed since withdrawing from the accord in 2018.Russia and China, the other participants in the deal, are likely to oppose the resolution. It would be put forward this week at the IAEA board of governors meeting for approval either by consensus or a vote.The Covid-19 outbreak has complicated the process with the 35 countries meeting virtually. Some member states, including Russia, have said decisions should be made when a physical meeting can take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-wants-nuclear-watchdog-iaea-to-rebuke-iran-for-refusing-inspections/story-1g8LAg62qmL6k2bQ7mhUGK.html
16-06-2020||World||Salmon shunned in China after link to Beijing virus outbreak||A fresh outbreak of coronavirus cases in Beijing is being blamed on imported salmon, prompting a nationwide boycott of the fish.Salmon has been taken off the shelves in major supermarkets like Walmart Inc. and deleted from grocery delivery platforms across China, while top experts are warning people not to consume the omega-3 rich fish. Provinces and cities from Yunnan to Shanghai are testing the seafood at local wet markets for the virus.The backlash came after the chairman of a major fruit and vegetable market called Xinfadi, the site of over 100 newly-detected infections in Beijing, said that the virus was traced to the chopping board used by a seller of imported salmon.While it is unclear if the virus can be actually be transmitted through frozen food that’s later thawed, the furore has put a $700 million market for imported salmon at risk, dealing a blow to major exporters like Denmark, Norway and Australia.The swift shunning of salmon reflects China’s growing fears over the abrupt resurgence of cases in its capital city -- the cultural and political center of the country where 20 million people reside. Over 20 housing compounds have been placed under lockdown and some schools closed while local officials race to track down people who’ve visited or had contact with the Xinfadi market.Chinese authorities have contacted Norway seeking information about infection risk connected to the production of fresh salmon and the Scandinavian country aims to reply as quickly as possible to limit the impact on the industry, Norwegian Fisheries Minister Odd Emil Ingebrigtsen said in a statement on the government’s website Tuesday.“We have yet to find out whether human beings transmitted the virus to salmon, or salmon contracted the virus first,” said Zeng Guang, a senior expert with the National Health Commission, in an interview with state media on Sunday. He warned Beijing residents not to eat raw salmon or purchase imported seafood for the time being.Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist of China’s Center for Diseases Prevention and Control said on Sunday that the virus can survive on the surface of frozen food for up to three months and that the agency “highly suspects” contaminated goods as the source of the latest outbreak.Beijing Outbreak Grows to Nearly 100 Cases in Test for ChinaThe salmon boycott is another setback for exporters of the seafood to China, after the coronavirus pandemic caused sales in the first four months of the year to plunge over 30%. Prior to the crisis, the four biggest exporters according to China customs data -- Chile, Norway, Australia and Denmark’s Faroe Islands -- had seen demand steadily grow to $686 million last year due to rising middle-class incomes and a shift to healthier diets.The situation drove stocks of pork producers up on Monday, with Jiangxi Zhengbang Technology Co. jumping as much as 8.6% and Wens Foodstuffs Group Co. climbing as much as 4.7%. The gains were likely fueled by expectations that demand for the meat will rise as consumers shun seafood, said Ken Chen, an analyst with KGI Securities Co. in Shanghai.Local authorities across China are heightening their scrutiny of wet markets and the seafood sold there. In provinces like Yunnan, Hubei and Shandong, fresh seafood and equipment like chopping boards and knives are being tested for the virus. Wet market workers are also being screened.In a study published in April, researchers with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations concluded that the coronavirus is not known to infect aquatic food animals or contaminate their products.The risk “should be negligible” with “proper food handling and sanitation,” although their surfaces might potentially become contaminated when handled by people who carry the virus, scientists including Melba G. Bondad-Reantaso wrote.(Updates throughout with details on seafood testing, China seeking information from Norway)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/salmon-shunned-in-china-after-link-to-beijing-virus-outbreak/story-WgadJS4uLUlijFx7vGRiSN.html
16-06-2020||World||Trump’s Tulsa rally defies public health and protest concerns||Donald Trump’s resumption of his signature campaign rallies this week is intensifying criticism of his response to the biggest domestic crises of his presidency: The deadly coronavirus pandemic and widening protests over police brutality against Black Americans.The June 20 rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, is shaping up as a nightmare scenario for public health officials. Trump plans to address supporters inside an arena that holds nearly 20,000 people, with no special capacity limits, despite concern that crowded, indoor events are ideal for transmitting the coronavirus.The campaign plans to give a mask and hand sanitizer to everyone who attends -- and require them to agree to a waiver absolving the campaign of liability if they get sick.Trump’s choice of venue and date are also proving fraught as he confronts the national outcry that has followed the death of an unarmed Black man, George Floyd, in Minneapolis police custody last month. Tulsa was the site of one of the worst episodes of racial violence in U.S. history -- the 1921 Tulsa massacre, when a White mob sacked a prosperous Black neighbourhood.While Trump has conceded an error in the scheduling -- he bumped the rally a day to avoid holding it on Juneteenth, which commemorates the end of slavery -- he is pressing ahead undaunted, and has said he plans to hold more of the events in other states with rising coronavirus cases, including North Carolina and Arizona.“To have an indoor rally, intentionally, at this very moment in time, is just not smart,” said Michael Mina, an assistant professor of epidemiology at Harvard’s T. H. Chan School of Public Health. “It puts people at risk. I think that it is liable to cause deaths.”The administration on Monday repeatedly downplayed the rising numbers of cases of Covid-19 in states including Texas, Arizona, Georgia and Florida. Both Trump and Vice President Mike Pence attributed the increasing caseload to expanded testing for the virus.“If we stop testing right now, we’d have very few cases, if any,” Trump told reporters at the White House. Pence said the administration was weighing the deployment of additional federal health officials to some states, adding that the Tulsa rally could proceed safely in part because “their hospital capacity is abundant.”On Twitter he said that “despite hyperventilating by some in the media, only 11 counties out of over 3,100 are seeing a true acceleration in new Coronavirus cases & less than 2% of counties show any significant increase in cases.”Mina said the growing number of infections is likely due at least in part to states lifting social distancing requirements. “As social distancing measures have been lifted, increasingly in many of these areas we are seeing that no place is immune to this virus, and it will travel where people travel,” he said.Oklahoma itself has had reported fewer than 10,000 cases of Covid-19, among the fewest in the country and one reason Trump’s campaign chose the state. But the head of Tulsa’s health department has warned against the rally, and the department said in a statement Monday that it “is concerned about the safety of any large gathering of people in enclosed spaces where social distancing is difficult to maintain.”The BOK Center in Tulsa, where the rally will be held, has canceled or postponed a series of other events, including concerts by Bon Jovi, KISS and Justin Bieber, over the next several weeks “in light of the ongoing Covid-19 situation and out of an abundance of caution,” according to its website. Other than Trump’s rally, the next scheduled event is July 30.Trump has boasted about a crowd so big that it’ll spill over into the nearby city convention hall, which he said holds 40,000 people. “I’m going to have 22,000 plus 40,000,” he said at the White House Monday. Brad Parscale, his campaign manager, has said more than 1 million people have requested tickets.“We’re going to talk about out nation, where we’re going, where we’ve come from,” Trump said. “And I can tell you on Covid or coronavirus or whatever you want to call it, plenty of names, tremendous progress is being made.”‘Wrong Time’Though Tulsa hasn’t experienced the kinds of protests, riots and looting that have convulsed some US cities this month, the arrest earlier this month of a pair of teenagers who the police said were jaywalking has evoked many of the same questions driving unrest across the USA major in the Tulsa Police Department is also under fire for saying in a radio interview that police shoot Black people “less than we probably ought to be based on the crimes.” In the same interview, he denied the existence of systemic racism.Trump and his supporters have pointed to the nationwide protests as an excuse for him to resume his rallies, arguing that if it’s safe enough for Americans to demonstrate on city streets against the police, he can invite thousands of his supporters to join him in arenas to build enthusiasm for his re-election. Health officials have regularly warned that the virus spreads more easily indoors.Yet the Tulsa World newspaper said in an editorial on Monday that “this is the wrong time and Tulsa is the wrong place for the Trump rally.”“We can’t see any way that his visit will be good for the city,” the paper said. “The public health concern would apply whether it were Donald Trump, Joe Biden or anyone else.”Parscale said Monday on Twitter that everyone attending the rally at the BOK Center, which is owned by the city, would have their temperature checked in addition to being issued masks and sanitizer. There’s no indication that attendees will be required or encouraged to wear the masks, however -- Trump has never worn a mask in public and has mocked Biden for taking the precaution.Meredith Matone, the scientific director of PolicyLab at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and assistant professor of pediatrics at the University of Pennsylvania, said in an interview on Monday that political rallies were “something where individuals are going to have to make their own risk assessment.”“I myself would not attend a rally without a mask and the ability to physically distance from people,” she said.Trump’s DecisionBut there’s no sign Trump is considering re scheduling the gathering again and it’s unlikely anyone else would cancel it. A spokeswoman for the city of Tulsa said the event was the responsibility of Trump’s campaign and the firm that manages the arena.“Every entity has the same access and constitutional right to hold events in public spaces,” spokeswoman Michelle Brooks said.A spokeswoman for the arena’s manager declined to comment. City officials have scheduled a news conference for Wednesday regarding the virus.The city’s mayor and Oklahoma’s governor, both Republicans, have generally supported the Trump rally, with caveats. Mayor G.T. Bynum encouraged the campaign to have “enhanced hygiene considerations for attendees” but that the city would “protect the free and peaceful exchange of ideas.”“I am excited to host the president on Saturday, June 20, as we celebrate restarting our economy and getting Oklahomans back to work,” the governor, Kevin Stitt, said in a statement last week.And Oklahoma’s lone Democrat in Congress, Representative Kendra Horn, stopped short of criticizing the president for holding the rally. She instead urged him to avoid divisive rhetoric “as our nation faces the health and economic consequences of a deadly pandemic and grapples with the tragic reality of systemic racism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-tulsa-rally-defies-public-health-and-protest-concerns/story-pMphaUlMQetcRoWLhi5wiM.html
16-06-2020||World||South Korea vows to respond sternly if North keeps raising tensions||South Korea’s presidential office said on Tuesday it will respond sternly if North Korea continues to raise tensions after destroying a joint liaison office that was a symbol of inter-Korean reconciliation. The destruction of the office “broke the expectations of all people who hope for the development of inter-Korean relations and lasting peace on the peninsula,” deputy national security adviser Kim You-geun told a briefing. “We’re making clear that the North is entirely responsible for all the consequences this might cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-vows-to-respond-sternly-if-north-keeps-raising-tensions/story-EPIEs2Ym4nGsYN9h2CYsFL.html
16-06-2020||World||UK and EU see Brexit deal a step closer after Johnson call||The UK and European Union moved a step closer to reaching a deal over their future relationship, with the bloc’s top officials confident Boris Johnson is willing to compromise and the prime minister saying the prospects for an accord are “very good.”An hour-long video call on Monday between Johnson and the bloc’s leadership has injected fresh momentum into the deadlocked negotiations, according to people on both sides with knowledge of the conversation. The EU inferred from Johnson’s contributions that he is willing to soften his position and European officials told him they are ready to do the same.“I don’t think we are actually that far apart -- what we need to see now is a bit of oomph in the negotiations,” Johnson said in a pooled TV interview after the call. “The faster we can do this the better: we see no reason why you shouldn’t get that done in July.”Johnson’s first direct intervention in the discussions since the UK left the bloc at the end of January marks the start of six weeks of intensive discussions to reach an agreement. After three months of trade talks ended in stalemate, both sides wanted to use Monday’s meeting to assess whether a deal is still attainable before Britain’s final split with the bloc at the end of the year.In a sign that major obstacles remain, EU Council President Charles Michel warned the EU isn’t prepared to “buy a pig in a poke” in any rush to sign an agreement. In a Twitter post, he reiterated that the contentious requirement for a level competitive playing field between the two sides will be “essential” for any accord.“We won’t just speed up,” Michel’s spokesman Barend Leyts said on Twitter. “We have to remain focused on content and consequences.”Intensive TalksFormal discussions will resume on June 29 in a more concentrated format than the previous series of talks every three weeks. The British government, which has ruled out extending the December deadline for negotiations, had been pushing for the discussions to be sped up.In a sign that the EU is responding to that pressure, the two sides also committed to “if possible, finding an early understanding on the principles underlying any agreement” -- implying that an outline of a deal could be reached before it is fleshed out.While Johnson said he doesn’t want the talks “going on until the autumn, winter, as perhaps some in Brussels would like,” the UK last week agreed to a timetable that includes a negotiating round in mid-August. During the video call, Johnson didn’t set out a hard deadline, according to a person based in Brussels.Privately, officials from Brussels and London say they are focusing on reaching an accord between mid-August and a summit of EU leaders scheduled for mid-October.No BacktrackingJohnson told EU officials the UK is committed to the terms of the Brexit Political Declaration, which set out the broad parameters for the two sides’ future ties, a person familiar with the conversation said.The declaration includes some of the EU’s key demands but the British government has questioned it since agreeing to it, saying it isn’t legally binding. Previously, the bloc’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, accused Johnson of backtracking on the commitments.Since the negotiations started, both sides have struggled to make progress on a free-trade agreement and other aspects of their future relationship, such as fishing rights and security cooperation. The UK still rejects the EU’s call for a level playing field, which would bind Britain to some European rules in areas such as state aid and environmental law.Those differences may not be irreconcilable, according an official with knowledge of the talks -- but neither side has yet broken with its key red lines. In particular, the UK is sticking to its refusal to allow the European Court of Justice to be involved in settling any disputes between the two sides, a key demand of the EU.Johnson’s call with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, Michel and other EU officials, came after he formally ruled out extending the negotiating period beyond the end of the year. Failure to get a deal by then would see Britain and the EU trading on World Trade Organization terms, meaning tariffs and quotas would be imposed at a time when the region’s economy is still reeling from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-and-eu-see-brexit-deal-a-step-closer-after-johnson-call/story-2ONp85AxmBvjKIEBenDf2O.html
16-06-2020||World||Spain may quarantine UK visitors: Report||Spain is considering imposing a quarantine on visitors from Britain when it re-opens its borders next week, Spain’s Foreign Minister said, in response to a similar policy introduced last week for travellers to Britain.Arancha Gonzalez Laya told the BBC she hoped Britain would lift its restriction, making a reciprocal Spanish one unnecessary.“We will be in a dialogue with the UK to see whether or not we should be introducing reciprocity as they have different measures than the rest of the European Union,” she said in an advance excerpt from current affairs programme HARD talk.Britain, with more than 41,000 documented coronavirus-linked deaths, and Spain, with more than 27,000, have been two of the countries hardest hit by the pandemic.Both, along with other European countries, are in the process of easing lockdown restrictions that have included border closures.Spanish officials gave no mention of any quarantine curbs on Sunday, when the government moved forward the date for allowing European visitors back into the country to June 21 from July 1.In recent weeks, Spain has caused some confusion in neighbouring countries by repeatedly changing the date and conditions for lifting the ban on foreign visitors it imposed in March in response to the epidemic.Spain counts on tourism for about 12 percent of its economy and more than one in eight jobs, making it essential for the country to try and salvage some of the summer holiday season.Britain’s Finance Minister Rishi Sunak told Sky News on Sunday that the quarantine was among measures it would review, saying the government could make changes including introducing travel corridors with specific countries.Spain’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-may-quarantine-uk-visitors-report/story-5QRAj0Gl12YF69XKhPUHYM.html
16-06-2020||World||UK unemployment rising ‘faster than during Great Depression’ due to Covid-19 crisis||The number of people in the UK claiming job-related benefits increased by a monthly 23.3% in May to 2.8 million, according to official figures released Tuesday that likely underestimate the heavy toll on the labor market of the coronavirus lockdown.The Office for National Statistics said the so-called claimant count —which includes both people who work on reduced income or hours and those who are actually unemployed — was 125.9% higher than in March, the month when lockdown restrictions were imposed.The statistics agency also said the number of people on payroll fell by 2.1%, or 612,000, between March and May.“If the public health crisis is just starting to ease, today’s figures show that the unemployment crisis is only just beginning,” said Tony Wilson, director of the Institute for Employment Studies.Wilson said that unemployment is rising faster than during the Great Depression in the 1930s and is set to top 3 million this summer.The actual spike in unemployment would have been much higher were it not for the British government’s Job Retention Scheme, which has been paying a big part of the salaries of more than 9 million people.Many companies have held off from cutting jobs during the lockdown as a result of the scheme, under which the government pays up to 80% of the salaries of workers retained, up to 2,500 pounds ($3,150) a month.Treasury chief Rishi Sunak has said that from August, firms will have to start making contributions to the salaries of workers that are retained but not working, and that the scheme will close two months later.That’s raised concerns that Britain will see a huge spike in the official unemployment rate, which stood at 3.9% in April. Government figures released Tuesday showed that 9.1 million jobs have been furloughed under the scheme by 1.1 million employers at a cost to the government of 20.8 billion pounds ($26 billion).Some of those furloughed workers will have returned to their jobs on Monday, as a result of the reopening of non-essential shops in England for the first time in nearly three months.It’s clear that not everyone will be able to sidle back into their jobs given that many firms are likely to go bust as a result of the lockdown. Figures last week showed the British economy shrank by a massive 20% in April alone.Unions and employers are urging more support from the government. Sunak is expected to announce a big fiscal stimulus in the coming weeks.“Unemployment falls unevenly across society and leaves scars that last generations,” said Matthew Percival, director of people and skills at the Confederation of British Industry. “The urgent priority must be creating inclusive jobs today, by turbo charging the sustainable industries of tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-unemployment-rising-faster-than-during-great-depression-due-to-covid-19-crisis/story-x64q86fOKkT4o3LEyF23MK.html
16-06-2020||World||China continues its intrusion into Taiwanese airspace with advanced Su-30s||Taiwan air force jets “drove away” a Chinese fighter plane that briefly entered Taiwan’s air defence identification zone on Tuesday, the defence ministry said, reporting the third intrusion in a week.The single J-10 fighter was given radio warnings to leave before the Taiwanese air force jets ushered the intruder out of the airspace southwest of the island, the ministry said. On Tuesday last week, the ministry said several Su-30 fighters, some of China’s most advanced jets, crossed into the same airspace and were also warned to leave.On Friday, the ministry said a Chinese Y-8, a propeller aircraft based on a Soviet-era design some of which have been retrofitted as surveillance aircraft, was warned too by Taiwan’s air force to leave the air space, again in the southwest.The Y-8 flight came a few hours after Taiwan said it had carried out missile tests off its eastern coast.Taiwan has complained that China, which claims the democratic island as its own, has stepped up military activities in recent months, menacing Taiwan even as the world deals with the coronavirus pandemic.China has not commented publicly on the last week of Chinese air force activity near Taiwan. Beijing routinely says such exercises are nothing unusual and are designed to show the country’s determination to defend its sovereignty. China has never renounced the use of force to bring Taiwan under its control. One of China’s most senior generals last month said China would attack if there was no other way of stopping Taiwan becoming independent.China is deeply suspicious of Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen, whom it accuses of being a separatist intent on declaring formal independence. Tsai says Taiwan is already an independent country called the Republic of China, its official name.The United States has stepped up its military activities near the island too, with semi-regular navy voyages through the narrow Taiwan Strait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-continues-its-intrusion-into-taiwanese-airspace-with-advanced-su-30s/story-4f1DN3JAGHPQSdfjRw248O.html
16-06-2020||World||Pakistan reports over 4,000 new cases, tally crosses 145,000-mark||Pakistan’s Covid-19 cases reached 148,919 after 4,443 new infections were detected, while 111 more people have succumbed to the coronavirus, pushing the death toll to 2,839, the health ministry said on Tuesday.According to the Ministry of National Health Services, 25,015 tests were done in the last 24 hours taking the total number of COVID-19 tests conducted in the country to 922,665. Out of the total 148,919 infections, Punjab has reported 55,878 cases, Sindh 55,581, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 18,472, Islamabad 8,857, Balochistan 8,327, Gilgit-Baltistan 1,143 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 663.The ministry said that 111 more patients died in the last 24 hours. With the new deaths, the tally of persons who succumbed to the virus reached 2,839 and another 56,390 people have fully recovered so far across the country.According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 80,00,000 people and killed more than 4,35,000 across the world. The US is the worst affected country with over 2.11 million cases and more than 1,16,000 deaths. The COVID-19, which originated in China’s Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a “severe recession”. PTI SH AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-reports-over-4-000-new-cases-tally-crosses-145-000-mark/story-cHwdexJwKmEe7EYkU1R1AI.html
16-06-2020||World||The first Covid-19 vaccines may not prevent infection||Desperation for a way to keep economies from collapsing under the weight of Covid-19 could mean settling for a vaccine that prevents people from getting really sick or dying but doesn’t stop them from catching the coronavirus.Although a knock-out blow against the virus is the ultimate goal, early vaccines may come with limitations on what they can deliver, according to Robin Shattock, an Imperial College London professor leading development of an experimental shot.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Is that protection against infection?” Shattock said. “Is it protection against illness? Is it protection against severe disease? It’s quite possible a vaccine that only protects against severe disease would be very useful.”As countries emerge warily from lockdowns, leaders are looking to a preventive shot as the route to return to pre-pandemic life. Fuelled by billions of dollars in government investment, vaccines from little-known companies like China’s CanSino Biologics Inc. and giants like Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc are in development.At least one of the fastest-moving experimental shots has already advanced into human trials after showing an impact on severe disease -- but less so on infection -- in animals. Experts say such a product would probably be widely used if approved, even if that’s as much as it contributes, until a more effective version comes to market.“Vaccines need to protect against disease, not necessarily infection,” said Dennis Burton, an immunologist and vaccine researcher at Scripps Research in La Jolla, California.Still susceptibleThere are drawbacks, though. While holding the potential to save lives, such vaccines might lead to complacency in lockdown-weary nations, said Michael Kinch, a drug development expert who is associate vice chancellor at Washington University in St. Louis.“My guess would be that the day after someone gets immunized, they’re going to think, ‘I can go back to normal. Everything will be fine,’” he said. “They’re not going to necessarily realize that they might still be susceptible to infection.”Covid-19 is already thought to be spread by people without symptoms, and a symptom-preventing vaccine may create even greater numbers of them.Vaccines are among the most effective weapons against infectious disease, and prevent up to 3 million deaths a year, according to the World Health Organization. Yet few, if any, are 100% effective in all people who get them. For example, about 3% of people who get measles vaccine develop a mild form of the disease, and can spread it to others.130 shotsIn their attempts to confront a rapidly growing threat, developers are turning to technologies that have never been used successfully in humans. More than 130 shots are in the works for Covid-19 prevention, according to the World Health Organization.Vaccines work by presenting the immune system with a form of a germ -- or a key part of it -- preparing the body to respond when a real exposure occurs. When that happens, immune proteins called antibodies glom onto the virus, halting its entry to cells. Sometimes vaccines ramp up immune T-cells, which don’t do as much to prevent infections, but can slow and eventually stop their progression.The drugs and vaccines that might end the coronavirus pandemicA common approach to raising levels of antibodies is with injection of a virus that’s been inactivated or killed. About nine of these are in experimentation: One, made by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd., led to high levels of Covid-targeted antibodies in monkeys.Another shot developed at the University of Oxford uses an innovative approach in which Covid genes are inserted into a different, harmless virus. Those make proteins that are recognized by the immune system, which raises defenses against a real infection.About a quarter of the experimental shots listed by the WHO, including two already in human studies, follow the same approach as the Oxford vaccine. One of the advantages of the technology is its speed. AstraZeneca, which is partnering with Oxford, has said it will begin delivering doses for the U.K. as soon as September, and will have doses for the U.S., which helped fund development, the following month.On Saturday, AstraZeneca and four European Union countries said they reached an agreement to distribute hundreds of millions of doses of the vaccine. Beijing-based Sinovac Biotech Ltd. also said over the weekend that results from testing its coronavirus shot in humans support advancement to final-stage studies.Antibody levelsHow the shot being developed by Oxford and AstraZeneca affects infections and infectiousness still isn’t clear. William Haseltine, a former HIV researcher at Harvard University, pointed out in a blog for Forbes that animals had roughly the same amount of viral genetic material, called RNA, in their systems, whether or not they’d received shots. Levels of antibodies against the virus weren’t as high as in very protective vaccines, he said.However, clinical signs of severe infection, like high breathing rate and pneumonia, were better in vaccinated monkeys. That might still make such a shot useful, according to Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.“That vaccine doesn’t look like it’s a knockout for protecting against infection, but it might be really very good at protecting against disease,” Fauci told the medical news website Stat.The vaccine will be a success whether it heads off infections or severe symptoms, AstraZeneca Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said in a BBC interview. The vaccine’s progress to advanced studies was approved by an independent scientific panel, and the company is waiting to see how it performs, a spokesman said.Fauci’s NIAID is partnered with Moderna Inc. on a Covid vaccine test whose primary goal is to show their vaccine prevents people from developing symptoms, the company said June 11. Preventing infections is a secondary goal.Successful preventives must also bar onward transmission, said Dan Barouch, a researcher at the Center for Virology and Vaccine Research at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard University. Effective shots may allow some cells to become infected, but control the growth of the virus before it can be passed on to others, said Barouch, who is developing a vaccine with Johnson & Johnson. He said his efforts are aimed at a vaccine that prevents infections.Preventing illnessThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration is considering options for a vaccine that prevents illness.“We would potentially consider an indication related to prevention of severe disease, provided available data support the benefits of vaccination,” FDA spokesman Michael Felberbaum said in response to questions. “For licensure we would not require that a vaccine protect against infection.”Licensed vaccines including some against whooping cough have not been demonstrated to protect against infection with the pathogen that causes the disease but have been demonstrated to protect against symptomatic disease, Felberbaum said.The notion of using imperfect vaccines and therapies is “fine,” Kinch said. “That’s just practicality. And we may follow those up with more-perfect. There will never be a truly perfect vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-first-covid-19-vaccines-may-not-prevent-infection/story-3SjkO710WgkSrLwq5XtvFO.html
16-06-2020||World||Uncommon for Covid-19 to spread from mother to baby during pregnancy: Study||It is uncommon for Covid-19 to spread from a mother to her newborn child during pregnancy, according to a study which says the rate of infection is no greater when the baby is born vaginally, breastfed, or allowed contact with the parent. The research, published in BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, also found that babies that did test positive for Covid-19, were mostly asymptomatic. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the scientists, including those from the University of Nottingham in the UK, early reports had suggested that in order to reduce the risk of mother-baby Covid-19 spread, it was safer to have a caesarean, and isolate the baby from the mother at birth, as well as to formula feed the newborn. However the researchers said there was very little evidence to support these guidelines. In the current review research, the scientists systematically analysed 49 studies looking into this topic. The review included an analysis of 666 newborn babies, and 655 women (as some women delivered twins). According to the researchers, of the women who delivered their babies vaginally, only eight out of 292 (2.7 per cent) had a baby that tested positive for Covid-19. Of the 364 women who had a caesarean, they said, 20 (5.3 per cent) had a baby which tested positive for Covid-19. Based on these findings, the researchers said neonatal Covid-19 infection is uncommon, and also commonly asymptomatic in those babies who are affected. They said the infection rates were found to be no higher when the baby was born vaginally, breast fed, or allowed contact with the mother immediately after birth. “There has been a lot of concern around whether pregnant women should be concerned for the health of their babies if they contract Covid-19,” said Kate Walker, study co-author from the University of Nottingham. “We wanted to look at the outcome for babies whose mothers contracted the virus and see if the route of birth, method of infant feeding, and mother/baby interaction increased the risk of babies contracting the virus,” Walker explained. She added that the chances of newborn infection with Covid-19 is low. “We would also stress that a vaginal birth and breast feeding are safe for mothers who find themselves in these circumstances,” Walker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uncommon-for-covid-19-to-spread-from-mother-to-baby-during-pregnancy-study/story-jS0QzcFWto2vvzFQzyZnmO.html
16-06-2020||World||Covid-19 immune response may remain stable for two months after diagnosis, scientists say||Immune response to the novel coronavirus remains stable in the blood of the majority of infected individuals almost two months after diagnosis, and possibly longer, according to an antibody testing study that may help contain the spread of Covid-19.Scientists from St. George’s University of London in the UK said antibodies were not detectable in everyone exposed to the virus, opening discussions on how best to interpret antibody and viral tests.The yet to be peer-reviewed study, published in the preprint repository medRxiv, sheds light on the duration for which people remain immune after contracting Covid-19, and provides insight into how different age and ethnic groups respond to infection. In the research, the scientists analysed the antibody test results from 177 individuals diagnosed with Covid-19, and measured the levels of antibodies against the novel coronavirus they had. According to the scientists, in patients with an antibody response, the levels of the immune molecules remained stable for the duration of the study (almost two months). Based on the study, the researchers said patients with the most severe infections who have the largest inflammatory response were more likely to develop antibodies. They hypothesised that this may be due to antibody responses working in parallel with an inflammatory response to severe disease.The scientists said a higher viral load may also lead to greater stimulation of the inflammatory and antibody development pathways.However, the researchers cautioned that further work is required to understand if and why this may be the case. Between 2 and 8.5 per cent of patients did not develop Covid-19 antibodies at all, they added. According to the scientists, this may be because the body’s defence response in these patients could be through other mechanisms like the immune system’s T-cells. Another option, they said, could be that relatively mild infections may be restricted to particular locations in the body, such as within mucosal cells of the respiratory tract, where antibody responses are dominated by a secretory immune system. The scientists also assessed the associations between different characteristics and antibody responses. They said older patients and those with other conditions, such as with hypertension and being overweight were also more likely to have an antibody response. “Our results provide an improved understanding of how best to use viral and antibody tests for coronavirus, especially when not every person exposed to the virus will have a positive response,” said Sanjeev Krishna, co-author of the study from St George’s, University of London. Krishna believes that interpreting the results from these tests can help in controlling the spread of the virus, as well as identifying those who may be immune to the disease. “We hope that by sharing our data at an early stage, this will accelerate progress towards effective use of test results around the world,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-immune-response-may-remain-stable-for-two-months-after-diagnosis-scientists-say/story-BUBqEAHbk75yjj0y8oxLcN.html
16-06-2020||World||Black smoke billowing from cruise ship docked near Tokyo||Black smoke was billowing Tuesday from a cruise ship docked at a port near Tokyo as dozens of firefighters and coast guard members battled to control it. The cause of the smoke was not immediately known, and the coast guard reported no injuries.The local coast guard branch said the smoke was coming from the top desk of the Asuka II, one of Japan’s largest cruise ships.The cruise ship has been docked in Yokohama Port, west of Tokyo, since early April and no passengers were on board, Japanese media reported. Japanese authorities were checking other details including the number of crew members on essential ship duty and their conditions.Yokohama Port is where the Diamond Princess cruise ship earlier this year had a coronavirus outbreak that infected more than 700 people. The ship has since left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-smoke-billowing-from-cruise-ship-docked-near-tokyo/story-BXF5YB6CxpO3134wzZ2jXO.html
16-06-2020||World||North Korea destroys inter-Korean liaison office as tensions rise||North Korea has confirmed it destroyed an inter-Korean liaison office on Tuesday, as it continued to dial up pressure against rival South Korea amid stalled nuclear negotiations with the Trump administration.Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency said the North destroyed the office to correspond with the “mindset of the enraged people to surely force human scum and those, who have sheltered the scum, to pay dearly for their crimes,” apparently referring to North Korean defectors who for years have floated anti-Pyongyang leaflets across the border.The news agency did not detail how the destruction of the office was carried out, but said it was “tragically ruined with a terrific explosion.” Also Read: North Korea says it may send troops into parts of demilitarized zoneAlso Read: Kim Jong Un’s sister threatens South Korea with military actionThe North, which has a long track record of pressuring South Korea when it fails to extract concessions from the United States, has repeatedly bashed the South in recent weeks over declining bilateral relations and its inability to stop leafleting by defectors and activists.The detonation of the office came hours after the North’s military threatened to move back into zones that were demilitarized under inter-Korean peace agreements, which experts say could create security threats for the South along the land and sea borders.North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office building just inside its border in an act Tuesday that sharply raises tensions on the Korean Peninsula amid deadlocked nuclear diplomacy with the United States.Seoul’s Unification Ministry said the building in the North Korean border town of Kaesong was destroyed at 2:49 p.m. It gave no further details.Photos from Yonhap News Agency showed smoke rising from what appeared to be a complex of buildings. The agency said the area was part of a now-shuttered industrial park where the liaison office was located.North Korea had earlier threatened to demolish the office as it stepped up its fiery rhetoric over Seoul’s failure to stop activists from flying propaganda leaflets across the border. Some experts say North Korea is expressing its frustration because Seoul is unable to resume joint economic projects due to U.S.-led sanctions.On Saturday night, Kim Yo Jong, the influential sister of North Korea’s leader, warned that Seoul will soon witness “a tragic scene of the useless North-South liaison office (in North Korea) being completely collapsed.” She also said she would leave to North Korea’s military the right to take the next step of retaliation against South Korea.In 2018 , the rival Koreas opened their first liaison office at Kaesong to facilitate better communication and exchanges since their division at the end of the World War II in 1945. When the office opened, relations between the Koreas flourished after North Korea entered talks on its nuclear weapons program.Earlier Tuesday, North Korea’s military threatened to move back into zones that were demilitarized under inter-Korean peace agreements. The General Staff of the Korean People’s Army said it’s reviewing a ruling party recommendation to advance into unspecified border areas that had been demilitarized under agreements with the South, which would “turn the front line into a fortress.”While it wasn’t immediately clear what actions North Korea’s military might take against the South, the North has threatened to abandon a bilateral military agreement reached in 2018 to reduce tensions across the border.Inter-Korean relations began strained since the breakdown of a second summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump in Vietnam in early 2019. That summit fell apart because of disputes over how much sanctions should be lifted in return for Kim’s dismantling his main nuclear complex.Kim later vowed to expand his nuclear arsenal, introduce a new strategic weapon and overcome the U.S.-led sanctions that he said “stifles” his country’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-appears-to-destroy-inter-korea-liaison-office-report/story-eo431xMP4FY1oKXPyv0OwJ.html
16-06-2020||World||Man shot during protest over Spanish conqueror’s statue||A man was shot Monday night as protesters in New Mexico’s largest city tried to tear down a bronze statue of a Spanish conquistador outside the Albuquerque Museum, prompting the city to announce that the statue would be removed until officials determine the next steps.The man was taken to a hospital and was listed in critical but stable condition late Monday, said Albuquerque police spokesman Gilbert Gallegos.A confrontation erupted between protesters and a group of armed men who were trying to protect the statue of Juan de Oñate before protesters wrapped a chain around it and began tugging on it while chanting: “Tear it down.” One protester repeatedly swung a pickax at the base of the statue.Moments later, a few gunshots could be heard down the street and people started yelling that someone had been shot.Gallegos said police used tear gas and flash bangs to protect the officers who intervened and detained those involved in the shooting. He said they were disarmed and taken into custody for questioning as police worked to secure the scene. He said detectives were investigating with the help of the FBI but he did not immediately release any other information.“The shooting tonight was a tragic, outrageous and unacceptable act of violence and it has no place in our city,” Mayor Tim Keller said in a statement. “Our diverse community will not be deterred by acts meant to divide or silence us. Our hearts go out the victim, his family and witnesses whose lives were needlessly threatened tonight. This sculpture has now become an urgent matter of public safety.”Democrat Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham issued a statement in which she took aim at the armed individuals, saying they were there to menace protesters. She said no matter who strikes first, there would be no room in New Mexico for any sort of escalation of what she called “reckless, violent rhetoric.”“The instigators this evening will be rooted out, they will be investigated, and they will be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law,” she said.The violence came just hours after activists in northern New Mexico celebrated the removal of another likeness of Oñate that was on public display at a cultural center in the community of Alcalde. Rio Arriba County officials removed it to safeguard it from possible damage and to avoid civil unrest ahead of a scheduled protest.A forklift pried the massive bronze statue of Oñate on horseback from a concrete pedestal. Cheers erupted among bystanders who saw the memorial as an affront to indigenous people and an obstacle to greater racial harmony, though several people also arrived to defend the tribute to Oñate.County Manager Tomas Campos said the statue was placed in storage for its own protection. He expects the three-member county commission to solicit public comment on what to do next with the public works project commissioned by the state in the early 1990s.“This is public property and I’m not going to allow it to be damaged,” Campos said. “Plus, I don’t feel like risking my sheriff’s deputies or state police to defend it.”The Oñate statues have been a source of criticism for decades.Oñate, who arrived in present-day New Mexico in 1598, is celebrated as a cultural father figure in communities along the Upper Rio Grande that trace their ancestry to Spanish settlers. But he’s also reviled for his brutality.To Native Americans, Oñate is known for having ordered the right feet cut off of 24 captive tribal warriors that was precipitated by the killing of Oñate’s nephew. In 1998, someone sawed the right foot off the statue — an incident that weighed in the decision to stash away the statue.Luis Peña of Espanola, an artist and computer network engineer, started a public petition last week to remove the statue in Alcalde. He said he was heartened to see it taken off display.Removal of the statue was followed by a few heated roadside discussions about local colonial history, under the gaze of a half-dozen sheriff’s deputies.Tony Valerio, 65, rushed to the site after a neighbor alerted him that the statue was being taken down.“He’s my hero. He brought a lot of good things to New Mexico,” Valerio said of Oñate. “What’s next? The Statue of Liberty?”Lujan Grisham, who has campaigned on her heritage as a 12th-generation New Mexican, called the statue’s removal a “step in the right direction” in an earlier Twitter post.By Monday evening, dozens had joined a celebratory gathering with Native American dancing and drumming outside the cultural center where demonstrators left hand prints in red paint on the empty statue pedestal.Meanwhile, the scene in Albuquerque turned into chaos as people ran for cover. Police in riot gear could be seen taking at least two people into custody following the shooting as some protesters heckled the officers. It was more than two hours before the area was cleared.Monuments to European conquerors and colonists around the world are being pulled down amid an intense re-examination of racial injustices in the wake of George Floyd’s death at the hands of police.Albuquerque city officials have promised to convene a council of community leaders and artists to consider the concerns about the public art piece.Titled “La Jornada,” the sculpture depicts Oñate leading a group of Spanish settlers to what was then the northern-most province of New Spain in 1598. The collection of statues includes an indigenous guide, a priest, women settlers and soldiers. The names of the families who accompanied Oñate are listed on plaques below as part of the “Wall of Spanish Ancestral Heritage.”“Recent calls for altering ‘La Jornada’ remind us that works of art often challenge communities to debate ideas, pursue empathy, grapple with multiple perspectives, reconcile conflict and interrogate history,” said Shelle Sanchez, head of the city’s Cultural Services Department.___Lee reported from Santa Fe. Attanasio reported from Alcalde.___Attanasio is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-shot-during-protest-over-spanish-conqueror-s-statue/story-h5E4mlBPJQaUekqj0FXuzO.html
16-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter banner removed at US Embassy in Seoul||A large Black Lives Matter banner has been removed from the US Embassy building in South Korea’s capital three days after it was raised there in solidarity with protesters back home.The banner was put up on Saturday with Ambassador Harry Harris tweeting that his embassy “stands in solidarity with fellow Americans grieving and peacefully protesting to demand positive change.” But the banner was taken out on Monday.The embassy said the banner’s removal was meant to avoid any misperception that it aimed to encourage donations for certain unspecified organizations.Harris “wanted to highlight the enduring American values of racial equality, freedom of speech, and the right to peacefully protest,” the US Embassy said in a statement. “However, the Ambassador’s intent was not to support or encourage donations to any specific organization. To avoid the misperception that American taxpayer dollars were spent to benefit such organizations, he directed that the banner be removed.”On Tuesday morning, a huge banner commemorating the 70th anniversary of the start of the 1950-53 Korean War, which falls on June 25, was seen draping on the embassy building in Seoul. The black-and-white banner carries the image of a lone soldier blowing a bugle.The Black Lives Matter banner was seen as support of worldwide movements honoring George Floyd, a black man who died in handcuffs while a white Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee on his neck. His death last month has prompted weeks of protests in the United States and around the world with the same theme: Black Lives Matter.The US Embassy statement said its removal of the banner “is no way lessens the principles and ideals expressed by raising the banner.” It said it “will look for other ways to convey fundamental American values in these times of difficulty at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-banner-removed-at-us-embassy-in-seoul/story-SeWNWiN8QbZI1b8oCZLXqN.html
16-06-2020||World||US Democrat senator Ilhan Omar’s father dies due to coronavirus||Father of Somalia-born US Representative Ilhan Omar died on Monday night of complications from the novel coronavirus, local media reported.“It is with tremendous sadness and pain to say goodbye to my father,” the Minnesota congresswoman tweeted late on Monday. “No words can describe what he meant to me and all who knew and loved him.” إِنَّا لِلّهِ وَإِنَّـا إِلَيْهِ رَاجِعُونَSurely we belong to God and to him shall we return.It is with tremendous sadness and pain to say goodbye to my father, Nur Omar Mohamed. No words can describe what he meant to me and all who knew and loved him. pic.twitter.com/gb7q0gMXG2Omar and her father Nur Mohamed came to the United States as refugees in 1995 from Somalia during the country’s civil war and eventually settled in Minneapolis, according to Politico.Omar was elected along with Michigan Representative Rashida Tlaib in November 2018 making them among the first two Muslim women to serve in the US Congress.The Minnesota representative did not respond to Reuters request for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rep-ilhan-omar-s-father-dies-due-to-coronavirus/story-1ubbWcx6DfxcmWDvTGPg6K.html
16-06-2020||World||3 New York cops fall ill after suspected contamination of drinks||Three New York City police officers fell ill and were hospitalized on Monday after drinking beverages at a fast-food outlet that a police association said were believed to have been contaminated with bleach.A representative of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) said the three had been taken to hospital after consuming an unknown substance at a Shake Shack Inc outlet and police were investigating.“At some point during their meal period, the MOS (members of service) discovered that a toxic substance, believed to be bleach, had been placed in their beverages,” the New York City Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association said in a statement.The officers had been assigned to a protest in Lower Manhattan, the association said.Like most US cities, New York has had daily protests demanding racial justice since the May 25 killing of George Floyd, a black man who died in police custody in Minneapolis.Shake Shack said on Twitter the outlet was horrified by reports of injured officers.The officers were being treated and their illness was not life threatening, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-new-york-cops-fall-ill-after-suspected-contamination-of-drinks/story-DiKZ01U7vAlbYpHcqU2R8H.html
16-06-2020||World||Hong Kong chief says opponents of security law are ‘enemy of the people’||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam on Tuesday urged opponents of Beijing’s plan to impose national security legislation in the financial hub to stop “smearing” the effort, saying those who did were “the enemy of the people”.Beijing last month announced a plan to introduce legislation in Hong Kong to tackle secession, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference.Critics see it as the most serious threat to a “one country, two systems” formula, agreed when the former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997, aimed at ensuring its freedoms and role as a global financial centre.The Chinese government and Lam’s Beijing-backed city administration say the law will not curtail freedoms but will target a small number of “troublemakers” and help bring stability after a year of anti-government protests.“I urge opponents who still use the usual tactics to demonize and smear the work to stop because by doing this they become the enemy of the Hong Kong people,” Lam said before a cabinet meeting, referring to the legislation.“The vast majority want to restore stability, and have safety, satisfaction and employment.”Lam was speaking a year after Hong Kong’s biggest ever demonstration, when about 2 million people, according to organisers, marched against another bill the city wanted to introduce that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China.Critics saw that bill as a threat to judicial independence and though it was later withdrawn, protests broadened into a campaign for greater democracy and clashes with police intensified.This year, the coronavirus outbreak brought a lull in protests but they have resumed since Beijing announced the plan for the security law.Details have not been announced but it has been widely criticised, not only by democracy activists but by diplomats, lawyers and business leaders who also fear it could erode rights and freedoms.Lam also said the government was considering relaxing restrictions aimed at stopping the coronavirus but it was unlikely they would be completely scrapped.Hong Kong’s borders are almost fully closed and groups are limited to eight people although life is returning to normal.The rules have helped limit numbers at demonstrations, with police citing the coronavirus in rejecting applications for rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-chief-says-opponents-of-security-law-are-enemy-of-the-people/story-Xztry3sg40ZGV52VuXZvoN.html
16-06-2020||World||German neo-Nazi on trial for politician’s murder||A German neo-Nazi stands trial Tuesday on charges of murdering pro-refugee politician Walter Luebcke, in a case that shocked the country and highlighted the growing threat of right-wing extremism.Federal prosecutors believe the main suspect, 46-year-old Stephan Ernst, was motivated by “racism and xenophobia” when he allegedly drove to Luebcke’s house on June 1, 2019 and shot him in the head.Ernst is to appear before the higher regional court in Frankfurt alongside co-defendant Markus H. who is accused of helping Ernst train with firearms -- including the murder weapon.The killing has been described as Germany’s first far-right political assassination since World War II.The trial is expected to draw huge interest but seating in the courtroom will be limited because of coronavirus social distancing measures.Luebcke’s wife and two adult sons plan to attend the opening hearing.“Hatred and violence can have no place in our society,” they said in a statement. “All of us who stand for a free democracy must not fall silent, but take a clear position.”- Pro-refugee speech -Luebcke, 65, belonged to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservative CDU party and headed the Kassel regional council in the western state of Hesse.He supported Merkel’s 2015 decision to open the country’s borders to refugees during Europe’s migrant crisis and spoke in favour of hosting asylum seekers in a local town.Prosecutors believe Ernst and his accomplice attended a speech by Luebcke in October 2015 when the politician defended helping refugees and said anyone who didn’t agree with those values was “free to leave the country”.The remark was widely shared online and sparked a furious reaction from people on the far right.After the speech, Ernst “increasingly projected his hatred of foreigners” onto Luebcke, prosecutors said in the indictment.Following mass sexual assaults by migrants against women in Cologne on New Year’s Eve 2015 and a 2016 Islamist attack in the French city of Nice, Ernst allegedly began tracking Luebcke’s movements.Between 2016 and 2018, prosecutors say he worked with Markus H. to improve his skill with firearms, and the two are said to have attended right-wing demonstrations together.In the course of their investigations, prosecutors separately charged Ernst with attempted murder for allegedly stabbing an Iraqi asylum seeker in the back in 2016.They also uncovered a cache of weapons and ammunition belonging to Ernst, including revolvers, pistols and a submachine gun. Although Ernst initially admitted to killing Luebcke, he later retracted his confession and said Markus H. had pulled the trigger.But prosecutors maintain that while the accomplice “accepted and supported” the danger Ernst posed, he was not aware of concrete plans for an attack.- ‘Biggest threat’ -In 1993, Ernst was convicted for an attempted bomb attack on an asylum home. In 2009, German media say he also took part in neo-Nazi clashes targeting a union demonstration.But Ernst then slipped off the security services’ radar, fuelling criticism that German authorities weren’t taking the far-right threat seriously enough.German police came under fire years earlier for overlooking racist crimes after it emerged that a neo-Nazi terror cell, the National Socialist Underground, had killed 10 people, mainly immigrants, between 2000 in 2007.Luebcke’s killing was followed by a shooting at a synagogue in Halle, eastern Germany, that left two dead in October 2019, while another gunman shot dead nine people of migrant origin in the central town of Hanau in February this year.Several politicians have reported receiving far-right death threats in recent months, including Germany’s only black MP Karamba Diaby. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer has since declared far-right extremism the “biggest security threat facing Germany”.He has promised tougher security measures, including a crackdown on online hate speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-neo-nazi-on-trial-for-politician-s-murder/story-fh0GB2OfXSUEIL6QgGL5eI.html
16-06-2020||World||Over 8 million infected with Covid-19 globally||Global cases of the novel coronavirus reached over 8 million on Monday, as infections surge in Latin America and the United States and China grapple with fresh outbreaks.The United States still leads the world with the highest number of infections, about 2 million or 25% of all reported cases. However, the outbreak is growing fastest in Latin America, which now accounts for 21% of all cases, according to a Reuters tally.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBrazil’s Covid-19 cases and deaths have surged to make it the No.2 hot spot in the world.The first case was reported in China in early January and it took until early May to reach 4 million cases. It has taken just five weeks to double to 8 million cases, according to a Reuters tally. Global deaths stand at over 434,000 and have doubled in seven weeks. Although Brazil’s official death toll from the pandemic has risen to nearly 44,000, the true impact is likely far greater than the data show, health experts said, citing a lack of widespread testing in Latin America’s largest country.Click here to follow Covid-19 live updatesIn the United States, which has over 116,000 deaths, testing is still ramping up months after the start of the outbreak. After cases declined in much of the United States for weeks, many areas are now reporting record new cases and hospitalizations. Fears of a second wave in hard-hit states - or a failure to get a grip on the first wave in some others - have led health experts to plead with the public to wear masks, avoid large gatherings and maintain social distance.China is also grappling with a resurgence of the virus just as its economy is trying to recover from shutdowns earlier this year. After nearly two months with no new infections, the capital Beijing has seen a spike in cases linked to the biggest wholesale food market in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-8-million-infected-with-covid-19-globally/story-8rgengEmEoFwTt2ASZnEPK.html
16-06-2020||World||Only US agencies failed to grasp HCQ’s benefits, says Trump as FDA revokes emergency use status||The US Food and Drug Administration on Monday revoked its emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19, but quickly came under fire from President Donald Trump, who said only US agencies have failed to grasp its benefit in fighting the coronavirus.Based on new evidence, the FDA said it was no longer reasonable to believe that hydroxychloroquine and the related drug chloroquine may be effective in treating the illness caused by the novel coronavirus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe FDA also warned that the drugs have been shown in lab studies to interfere with Gilead Sciences Inc’s antiviral drug remdesivir - the only medicine so far to show a benefit against Covid-19 in formal clinical trials.The move comes after several studies of the decades-old malaria pills suggested they were not effective either as a treatment for or to prevent Covid-19.British scientists earlier this month halted a large trial after deciding that hydroxychloroquine was “useless” at treating Covid-19 patients.Hydroxychloroquine’s anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties suggested it might help Covid-19 patients, and the FDA authorized its emergency use in March at the height of a pandemic for which there were no approved treatments. The early enthusiasm was partly based on laboratory experiments in which the drug appeared to neutralize the virus. Chloroquine, which is not approved for any use in the United States and has more side effects, has not fared any better in human clinical trials. In March, Trump said hydroxychloroquine in combination with the antibiotic azithromycin had “a real chance to be one of the biggest game changers in the history of medicine,” with little evidence to back up that claim. He later said he took the drugs preventively after two people who worked at the White House were diagnosed with Covid-19, and he urged others to try it.“I took it and I felt good about taking it. I don’t know if it had an impact, but it certainly didn’t hurt me,” Trump said on Monday.Trump said there had been “great reports” out of France, Spain and other places, without offering any evidence or further explanation. France is one of the countries that has already stopped using the drug for Covid-19 patients.US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar said the drug is still being studied for possible use at an earlier stage of the disease.“A lot of the data that has come out that was more negative was people who were quite ill in the hospital,” he said.The drug can still be used with a doctor’s prescription, Azar noted. Any drug with US approval can be used in any way a doctor sees fit regardless of what it has been approved for.DRUG’S USE ALREADY IN DECLINEDoctors in recent weeks had already pulled back on the use of hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19, after several studies suggested it is not effective and may pose heart risks for certain patients.The Infectious Diseases Society of America on Monday backed the FDA decision “to revoke emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine.”Half of hospitals responding to a mid-May survey conducted by the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP) reported excess supplies of hydroxychloroquine that they expected to return to wholesalers.Current US government treatment guidelines do not recommend its use for Covid-19 patients outside of a clinical trial.France, Italy and Belgium late last month halted use of hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19 patients. But the United States last month sent 2 million doses to Brazil, which has emerged as the pandemic’s latest epicenter.Hundreds of trials testing hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine as interventions for Covid-19 are still underway, including a US study designed to show whether hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin can prevent hospitalization and death from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-us-agencies-failed-to-grasp-benefits-of-hcq-says-trump-as-nation-revokes-emergency-use-status/story-qKkWtTB1UjEPJX0TSHektL.html
16-06-2020||World||India slams Pak for raising Kashmir at UNHRC, asks it to ‘introspect’ its grave human rights situation||India on Monday ripped into Pakistan for raising the Kashmir issue at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) here and expressed “serious concern” over Pakistan’s audacity to accuse others of “effecting a state-sponsored genocide.”Exercising its Right of Reply after Pakistan raised Kashmir at the 43rd session of UNHRC, Senthil Kumar, the First Secretary of India’s Permanent Mission called out Islamabad for misusing the rights forum and its mechanism and asked the neighbouring country to introspect on its grave human rights situations before extending unsolicited advice to anybody.Drawing the attention of the Council to crimes against humanity in Pakistan, New Delhi stated that enforced disappearances, state violence, forced mass displacement, extrajudicial killings, army operations, torture camps, detention centres, and military camps are a regular feature in Balochistan.Maintaining that India’s decision to revoke Article 370 of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August year does not have any external ramifications, Kumar said that the people have marched ahead despite Pakistan’s “nefarious attempt” to derail peace and prosperity. “It’s unfortunate that Pakistan continues to maintain its track record of misuse of the Human Rights Council and its mechanism. It’s a matter of serious concern that Pakistan being the only country in South Asia of effecting a state-sponsored genocide would have the audacity to accuse others of it,” Kumar said.“It’s questionable that a country of serious credibility issues would talk about human rights and self-determination. This country emerged out of religious fundamentalism and bloodshed and its history rigged with assassinations, coups and puppets running,” he added.Kumar elaborated on the human rights abuses and persecution faced by the minority communities in Pakistan. He talked about the misuse of Blasphemy in Pakistan to terrorize minorities and cited examples of systemic targeting of minorities through blasphemy laws.“Systemic misuse of Blasphemy in Pakistan has terrorized the minorities in Pakistan. The recent fate of two Hindu girls in Sindh, one Christian girl in Lahore, one Ahmadi lady in Chaleki, two professors from Khairpur are the examples of systemic targeting of minorities through blasphemy laws. The state of Pakistan is well manifested in the impunity in the murder of 65 transgenders in Pakistan since 2015,” Kumar explained.“Enforced disappearances, state violence and forced mass displacements, harassment, extrajudicial killings, army operations, torture, kill-and-dumps, torture camps, detention centres, military camps are regular features in Balochistan.India also pointed out that there was no information on the fate of 47,000 Baloch persons and 35,000 Pashtuns who have been missing till date. It added that sectarian violence has claimed over 500 Hazaras in Baluchistan and more than 100,000 Hazaras have fled Pakistan,” he added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-slams-pak-for-raising-kashmir-at-unhrc-asks-it-to-introspect-its-grave-human-rights-situation/story-8h5viPtN4WKwjNKacfL6tL.html
16-06-2020||World||Beijing Covid-19 cases cross 100 in 5 days, 2 lakh linked to cluster market screened||Beijing on Tuesday reported 27 more domestically transmitted Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 106 in five days, the sharpest rise for the city. The spike in cases has prompted lock down of dozens of communities, sealing of food markets and large-scale nucleic acid testing.The WHO has called Beijing’s new cluster infection a cause of concern, calling for a thorough and systematic investigation into the new outbreak in the city after not reporting a single case for nearly two months.Overall, China reported 40 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland on Monday, of which 32 were domestically transmitted and eight were imported.Of the domestically transmitted cases, 27 were reported in Beijing, four in Hebei Province, and one in Sichuan Province, the national health omission (NHC) said in its daily report.In Beijing, a city of more than 21 million residents, most of the new cases confirmed from June 11 have been linked to the now-closed Xinfadi market, a large wholesale market of fruits, vegetables, and meat in Beijing’s Fengtai district, according to the local health commission.Epidemiological investigations are ongoing into the cases which are seemingly not connected to the market.According to the official news agency, Xinhua, more than 8,000 dealers and workers at the Xinfadi market have received nucleic acid tests and are under medical observation.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Until Sunday, Beijing carried out nucleic acid tests on nearly 77,000 people in the neighbourhood of the primary site for the new outbreak.“About 200,000 people who had visited the market since May 30 were interviewed via door-to-door inquiries, calls, social media platforms and other methods. Nucleic acid tests for these people are underway while they are asked to stay at home for medical observation,” the Xinhua report said“Strict closed-off management has been implemented in a total of 21 residential compounds in the vicinity of the Xinfadi market as well as the Yuquandong commodities trading market in Haidian District, where new infections were also reported,” the report added.“The next three days will be a critical time for Beijing to face the epidemic, and the number of cases reported in the city during the next three days will determine the trend of the epidemic. Beijing was hit by the outbreak on June 11 but responded quickly on June 12 and 13, bringing the outbreak under control in time. For infected patients, the onset would be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow; if the number of reports do not increase, so to speak, (the epidemic) will basically remain stable,” Wu Zunyou, the chief epidemiologist, Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention told CCTV on Monday.The WHO, which is yet to send a team to inspect the primary infection cluster site, said Beijing’s situation is a matter of concern.“A cluster like this is a concern and it needs to be investigated and controlled—and that is exactly what the Chinese authorities are doing,” WHO’s emergencies director, Mike Ryan told a press conference in Geneva late on Monday.Ryan added that countries which have implemented an immediate and comprehensive spread of measures have generally been able to contain new clusters.“However, Beijing is a large city and a very dynamic and connected city, so there is always a concern,” he said, adding: “And I think you can see that level of concern in the response of the Chinese authorities, so we are tracking that very closely.”Ryan, according to reports from Geneva said the WHO had offered support to the Chinese authorities leading the probe and may reinforce its own team in Beijing in the coming days as the investigation grows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-covid-19-cases-cross-100-in-5-days-2-lakh-linked-to-cluster-market-screened/story-cZzwru3bVqwcKlEQCEl39I.html
16-06-2020||World||Justin Trudeau’s personal brand tied to Canada’s UN Security Council race||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will face the biggest test of the impression his government has made on the international stage when elections for non-permanent seats to the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) are held on Wednesday. Trudeau has personally spearheaded the country’s campaign to secure a place on the council and even during the Covid-19 pandemic made multiple calls to leaders of several nations to secure their support ahead of the June 17 vote for the 2021-2022 term.On Monday, it tried to shore up its global image announcing that Canadian Armed Forces will provide “airlift support to transport urgently needed medical and humanitarian supplies” and these will be transported from distribution hubs in Africa, Europe and the Middle East on behalf of the World Food Programme and the World Health Organization (WHO). On Saturday, Canada’s foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne was dispatched to New York, where the United Nations is headquartered, and he will remain there and lobby Permanent Representatives of countries.Trudeau will “participate in a virtual event with Permanent Representatives to the United Nations, to highlight and conclude Canada’s campaign for a Security Council seat” on the eve of the vote, according to a statement from his office.Canada is vying for one of the two seats from the Western European and Others Group or WEOG. However, it is facing a “close contest”, according to analysts, because the challengers are Norway and Ireland, both of which have been campaigning for a seat longer than Canada.Trudeau will also call several world leaders on Tuesday, including his counterparts in Spain, Ethiopia and Saint Kitts and Nevis. But the most significant could be his call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India is near-certain to be elected to UNSC as it is running unopposed from the Asia-Pacific Group. However, as things stand, it is unlikely to vote for Canada despite Ottawa having assured New Delhi of its support. The reason, Indian officials explained, was not a difference with Canada but simply how international diplomacy is conducted with reciprocal arrangements in place with Ireland and Norway even before Canada entered the UNSC race.Both those nations have been in the running for a decade, while Canada only entered the contest in 2016, months after Trudeau’s Liberal Party was elected to form the government for the first time.If India does, in fact, not support Canada it will be a replay of the 2010 elections when it chose Germany and Portugal instead. Canada lost that election and has not figured on the UNSC since.Trudeau personally announced Canada’s candidacy in 2016, and now is trying to change New Delhi’s outlook by reaching out himself to Modi. The Canadian prime minister will hope that recent history does not repeat itself after he has invested so much capital in the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-s-personal-brand-tied-to-canada-s-un-security-council-race/story-iO0E579oVK6072jtpYovJK.html
16-06-2020||World||UK begins trial of latest virus vaccine candidate this week||Scientists at Imperial College London will start immunising people in Britain this week with their experimental coronavirus shot, becoming the latest entry into the race to find an effective vaccine to stop the pandemic.In a statement on Monday, the British government said 300 healthy people will be immunized with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed at Imperial, which has been backed by 41 million pounds (USD51 million) in government funding.So far, the vaccine candidate developed by Imperial College London has only been tested in animals and in the laboratory, where it produced much higher levels of antibodies than would normally be seen in infected people.Many scientists have warned that the pandemic might only be stopped with an effective vaccine, which typically takes years to develop.“In the long term, a viable vaccine could be vital for protecting the most vulnerable, enabling restrictions to be eased and helping people get back to normal life,” said Robin Shattock, who is leading the vaccine research.The vaccine uses synthetic strands of genetic code based on the virus. Once injected into the muscle, the body’s own cells are instructed to make copies of a spiky protein on the coronavirus. That should in turn trigger an immune response so that the body can fight off any future Covid-19 infection.About a dozen vaccine candidates are currently in early stages of testing in thousands of people. There are no guarantees any will work but there’s increasing hope that at least some could be ready by the end of the year. Oxford University recently began an advanced study involving 10,000 volunteers, and the US is preparing for even larger studies in July that involve 30,000 people each testing different candidates, including Oxford’s and one made by the National Institutes of Health and Moderna Inc.Scientists have never created vaccines from scratch this fast and it’s far from clear that any will ultimately prove safe and effective. Still, numerous countries, including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the US, have already placed advance orders for millions of vaccines that could be available by the end of the year if they prove to be effective.The World Health Organization noted on Monday that there have been about 100,000 new cases reported every day for the past two weeks and that relaxed restrictions in many countries have led to a new surge of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-begins-trial-of-latest-virus-vaccine-candidate-this-week/story-kZXrVX2HD5tgLBSODB2G1O.html
16-06-2020||World||China warms to idea of four more years of Trump presidency||Donald Trump has argued frequently of late that China is rooting for Joe Biden come November’s U.S. presidential election. In Beijing, however, officials have come around to support four more years of Trump.Interviews with nine current and former Chinese officials point to a shift in sentiment in favor of the sitting president, even though he has spent much of the past four years blaming Beijing for everything from U.S. trade imbalances to Covid-19. The chief reason? A belief that the benefit of the erosion of America’s postwar alliance network would outweigh any damage to China from continued trade disputes and geopolitical instability.While the officials shared concerns that US-China tensions would rise regardless of who was in the White House, they broke largely into camps of those who emphasized geopolitical gains and those who were concerned about trade ties. Biden, the former vice president, was viewed as a traditional Democrat who would seek to shore up the US’s tattered multilateral relationships and tamp down trade frictions.“If Biden is elected, I think this could be more dangerous for China, because he will work with allies to target China, whereas Trump is destroying US alliances,” said Zhou Xiaoming, a former Chinese trade negotiator and former deputy representative in Geneva. Four current officials echoed that sentiment, saying many in the Chinese government believed a Trump victory could help Beijing by weakening what they saw as Washington’s greatest asset for checking China’s widening influence.The general assumption underlying their views was that little could be done to halt the slide in relations between the world’s two biggest economies. Thus, China needed to accelerate efforts to develop high-end indigenous industries, expand into developing markets and look for opportunities to work with nations in Europe and Asia to counter any US isolation efforts.Over the course of Trump’s term, the realization has taken hold in Beijing that opposition to China enjoys deep bipartisan support in an otherwise-polarized Washington. The coronavirus outbreak, which was first discovered in the country’s central city of Wuhan, has only hardened American views toward Beijing.‘Getting Worse’“I don’t think the election will change the relationship in a fundamental way. The deep feeling in the US is that the US should contain China,” Zhou said. “Whether Trump wins, or Joe goes to Washington, things will get worse.”Chinese officials, eager to avoid a repeat of their surprise when Trump upset former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 2016, have been pressing American contacts for insights about who will win. Senior members of the American business community in Beijing say recent weeks have seen a sudden up tick in outreach from well-connected Chinese friends who in some cases haven’t contacted them for years.Although Republicans traditionally emphasized economic ties with China, Trump has moved the party in a more confrontational direction, challenging the country in virtually every area of the relationship from China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea to trade, public health, human rights and technology. The Democrats have largely supported those efforts, helping to pass legislation to support Hong Kong protesters and give more military aid to Taiwan.Even Biden, who had long backed an “engagement” strategy with China, adopted a harsher tone as the Democratic presidential primaries heated up. In recent months, Biden has described President Xi Jinping as a “thug,” lauded the “extraordinary bravery” of democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong and accused China of “predatory” trade practices. He labeled the mass detention of Uighur Muslims in the far Western region of Xinjiang “unconscionable.”Although Chinese officials continue to steer clear of criticizing Trump directly, Internet censors have allowed more nationalistic-tinged criticism of the US to circulate online. One foreign diplomat said China’s foreign ministry was “combative” and “angry” toward US officials.“Trump has destroyed a lot of goodwill,” said Wang Huiyao, an adviser to China’s cabinet and founder of the Center for China and Globalization. “At the start of the trade war, there were a lot of people who were pro-US, but they are now sympathetic to the hard-liners.”Trump has sought to capitalize on his reputation for confronting China in the election, despite his early praise for Xi’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak. In April, he told Reuters that “China will do anything they can to have me lose this race,” asserting without evidence that Beijing’s response to the virus was focused on a desire to see him lose in November.China’s foreign ministry reiterated its longstanding position that it never seeks to interfere in the internal affairs of other nations. In a possible sign that the two sides are seeking to manage the election year disputes, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo was expected to meet top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi in Hawaii later Tuesday, according to two people familiar with the plans.US StabilityOne Chinese official said the election result didn’t matter since relations won’t improve either way. China’s best hope, they said, was that things didn’t deteriorate further.Some in Beijing are wondering aloud about Trump’s long-term impact on US stability, pointing to surging coronavirus cases, protests against police discrimination and speculation about whether the pandemic election might end in chaos. “The US as we know it may no longer exist,” said Gao Zhikai, a former Chinese diplomat and interpreter for Deng Xiaoping.Trump’s “America First” policies have created similar frictions in capitals that have traditionally been friendlier to the US, as he levies tariffs on key trading partners, presses allies for greater spending on collective defense, withdraws from multilateral agreements and supports the UK’s break from the Europe Union. Chinese officials privately acknowledge that a Democratic administration might prove more formidable if it worked with allies to present a united front.Even if a Biden presidency proved more difficult for Beijing, two current Chinese officials said he might open up more areas for cooperation such as restoring US participation in the Paris climate deal -- negotiated while he was vice president under then-President Barack Obama.“He supports working on topics like climate change, WTO reform and TPP,” said Wang. “There are areas where we can cooperate.”On a more personal level, some Chinese officials involved in trade negotiations with the Trump administration support a Biden victory simply so they can spend more time with their families, according to one person familiar with their thinking. China’s trade team shows up to work looking exhausted, the person said.Both sides may find it difficult to escape the pattern of confrontation no matter who wins. Huawei Technologies Co. executive Meng Wanzhou is still detained in Canada awaiting a decision on a US extradition request, while Beijing’s plan to impose a security law on Hong Kong has caused outrage in Congress and brought the countries’ “phase one” trade deal into question.“Nowadays in China people are becoming more and more clear about the US’s objectives,” said Zhou, the former Chinese representative in Geneva. “We have not yet reached the darkest hour in the relationship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-warms-to-idea-of-four-more-years-of-trump-presidency/story-CUBbkd0y6E9aEpcwyLxclO.html
16-06-2020||World||North Korea says it may send troops into parts of demilitarized zone||North Korean state media said Kim Jong Un’s regime is reviewing a plan to send its army into some areas of the demilitarized zone separating the country from South Korea.The General Staff of the Korean People’s Army said it was on high alert, according to a report Tuesday on the official Korean Central News Agency, escalating its threats aimed at forcing South Korea to halt activists from sending anti-Pyongyang leaflets across the border by balloon.“Our army is keeping a close watch on the current situation in which the north-south relations are turning worse and worse, and getting itself fully ready for providing a sure military guarantee to any external measures to be taken by the Party and government,” the army staff was quoted as saying by KCNA.North Korea didn’t provide details of what areas it meant but appears to be referring to a disarmed region near a now-shuttered joint factory park with South Korea in the western city of Kaesong and a closed joint resort on the east around North Korea’s Mount Kumgang, Yonhap News Agency reported.The plan doesn’t appear to call for a scrapping of the terms set out in the 1953 Armistice Agreement that ended fighting in the Korean War and led to a 4-kilometer (2.5-mile) wide demilitarized zone buffer to be set up across the peninsula. North and South Korea have about 1 million troops stationed near their ends of the buffer zone, making it one of the most heavily fortified borders in the world.North Korea has also called on South Korea to abide by the terms of a 2018 agreement between the two nations aimed at reducing accidental border clashes. The accord, seen as a landmark in reconciliation, led to the two Koreas to each destroy 10 front-line guard posts, enforce a ban on military exercises in the area and impose a no-fly zone.The announcement follows rising tensions with Seoul since two activist groups sent anti-Kim leaflets by balloon across the border into North Korea early this month. That prompted Kim’s younger sister to issue an unusual statement saying that it was “high time” to break ties with South Korea.The sister, Kim Yo Jong, said that the next action against the “enemy” would come from the army, raising memories of a decade ago, when North Korea shelled a South Korean island, killing four, and was suspected of torpedoing the South Korean warship, killing 46 sailors.South Korean President Moon Jae-in tried to defuse tensions by seeking to cancel the licenses of the two groups -- Fighters for Free North Korea and KeunSaem -- over the leaflets. That effort drew criticism from Human Rights Watch, whose Asia director, Phil Robertson, called the move “a blatant violation of freedom of association that cannot be justified with vague appeals to border security and relations with the North.”Millions of leaflets have flown across the border for more than a decade bearing messages critical of North Korean leaders, with the latest coming as Kim made fewer public appearances over the past several weeks than normal, leading to global speculation about his health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-says-it-may-send-troops-into-parts-of-demilitarized-zone/story-ULcBGfw63uFS08UFkrNr1I.html
16-06-2020||World||WHO ‘fully expects’ China to share genetic sequencing of new coronavirus cases||The emergencies chief of the World Health Organization said he “fully expects” China to share the genetic sequences from the resurgence of coronavirus that have recently hit Beijing, even though they have not yet done so.Chinese officials said that their examination of the virus shows it originated in Europe, but they have not yet shared the sequences with WHO or the global scientific community.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We fully expect our colleagues in China will share that information,” said Dr. Michael Ryan at a press briefing on Monday. Ryan said the finding that this virus genome “may represent a strain commonly transmitting in Europe” is significant but that verifying the hypothesis requires the sequences be shared.Ryan said the new cluster of cases in China was of particular concern given that Beijing had gone 50 days without a new case, but expressed confidence Chinese authorities would be able to contain it.In a story published earlier this month, the Associated Press found China delayed sharing critical virus information with WHO for more than a week after three government labs had decoded the information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-fully-expects-china-to-share-genetic-sequencing-of-new-coronavirus-cases/story-gVaxP3uqBtY1VkbeolgDjJ.html
16-06-2020||World||Coronavirus more efficient at infection after mutation; diseased lungs more receptive||The following is a brief roundup of some of the latest scientific studies on the novel coronavirus and efforts to find treatments and vaccines for Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus.Virus mutation makes it more efficient at entering cellsA genetic mutation in the new coronavirus that significantly increases its ability to infect cells may explain why outbreaks in Northern Italy and New York were larger than ones seen earlier in the pandemic. Scientists at Scripps Research in Florida say the mutated virus was seen infrequently in March, but by April accounted for some 65% of cases submitted from around the world to the GenBank database run by the National Institutes of Health. The mutation, designated D614G, increased the number of “spikes” the virus uses to bind to and break into cells, and made them more stable, researchers found in the study undergoing peer review. In test tube experiments, the mutated virus was roughly 9 times more efficient at breaking into cells and infecting them. “The number - or density - of functional spikes on the virus is 4 or 5 times greater due to this mutation,” said study co-author Hyeryun Choe. It is not clear to what extent the changes affect symptoms and transmission, “but it is hard to believe they do not have some effect,” said Michael Farzan, another lead researcher. “However,” he said, “this particular virus changes slowly, so I wouldn’t expect anything as dramatic as D614G for a while. We don’t expect the virus to become more deadly, just more efficient at propagating itself.” Compared to virus particles without the mutation, the mutated viruses were just as vulnerable to treatment with antibodies from the blood of recovered coronavirus patients, the researchers said.Diseased lungs more receptive to coronavirus infectionNew data helps explain why people with respiratory conditions appear to be more vulnerable to coronavirus infections. The virus breaks into cells via a receptor protein on the cell surface called ACE2. People with conditions like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary hypertension, and smokers have more of the ACE2 receptors on their lung cells than healthy people do, researchers found. In their analysis of lung cell genes from 700 people with these conditions, they also found that other proteins in addition to ACE2 impacted the “viral life cycle.” This means genes for those proteins “can be potentially important for SARS-CoV-2 cell cycle and invasion/attachment,” they wrote in the Journal of Infectious Diseases. These other genes may also be potential “targets for treating and preventing severe COVID-19 cases,” they said. Virus has staying power on protective equipment; cotton may be kingA new study highlights the potential risks of handling personal protective equipment (PPE) items after use by front-line healthcare workers. Researchers contaminated eight different types of protective equipment and materials with virus, including nitrile medical examination gloves, reinforced chemical resistant gloves, N-95 and N-100 particulate respirator masks, coveralls made of Tyvek (a textile common in PPE clothing), plastic, cotton, and stainless steel. Under the experimental conditions, potentially contagious virus was still present - although at extremely low levels - after 21 days on a plastic visor, 14 days on stainless steel and Tyvek coveralls, 7 days on nitrile gloves and 4 days on chemical resistant gloves. But only an hour after virus particles were applied to 100% cotton fabric, the amount of active virus had decreased by 99.9%, and it was completely undetectable in less than 24 hours. “These results have direct relevance to infection prevention and control practices, laundering and waste handling protocols in healthcare settings,” the researchers write in a not-yet-peer-reviewed paper posted on Friday on the preprint server medRxiv. “These results suggest that the use of cotton-based fabrics in healthcare settings may present a lower risk during handling for subsequent decontamination and reuse.” Expert advice to combat sleeping trouble during pandemicFaced with the health and economic anxiety of life during the coronavirus pandemic, many people are having trouble sleeping. In the journal Behavioral Sleep Medicine on Saturday, the Society of Behavioral Sleep Medicine published a free article with links to two handouts, one for patients and one for doctors. Among the advice for patients: Keep a daily routine; get exposure to sunlight early in the day, preferably outdoors; find ways to socialize by phone or social media (but focus on sharing things that are uplifting or amusing); watch what you eat (and when); and turn off pandemic news coverage a few hours before bed and use the rest of the evening for more relaxing activities. To access the full handouts from the article, click on the “Supplemental Material” link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-more-efficient-at-infection-after-mutation-diseased-lungs-more-receptive/story-KEHppoNwKJJkCSykIYbBeP.html
16-06-2020||World||Former adviser John Bolton faces ‘criminal charges’ if book released, says Trump||President Donald Trump has said that his former national security adviser, John Bolton, could face a “criminal problem” if he doesn’t halt plans to publish a new book that describes scattershot, sometimes dangerous, decision-making by a president focused only on getting re-elected.Trump said on Monday it would be up to Attorney General William Barr to issue any charges, but hinted that the matter would end up in court. “We’ll see what happens. They’re in court — or they’ll soon be in court,” Trump said about the book, set to be released early next week.The president accused Bolton of not completing a pre-publication review to make sure the book does not contain classified material. That contradicts statements from Bolton’s attorney, Chuck Cooper, who says his client worked painstakingly for months with classification specialists at the White House National Security Council to make changes to avoid releasing classified material.Barr echoed Trump’s accusation. During an event at the White House, the attorney general said administration officials who have access to sensitive information typically sign non-disclosure agreements that require them to go through a clearance process before they can publish something based on information they accessed in the job.“We don’t believe that Bolton went through that process — hasn’t completed the process — and, therefore, is in violation of that agreement,” Barr said. The Trump administration is “trying to get them to complete the process — go through the process — and make the necessary deletions of classified information,” Barr said.Bolton’s book, “The Room Where It Happened: A White House Memoir,” was supposed to be released in March. Its release date was twice delayed and it is now set to be released next week by publisher Simon & Schuster.“Bolton covers an array of topics — chaos in the White House, sure, but also assessments of major players, the president’s inconsistent, scattershot decision-making process, and his dealings with allies and enemies alike, from China, Russia, Ukraine, North Korea, Iran, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany,” according to the publisher.“I am hard-pressed to identify any significant Trump decision during my tenure that wasn’t driven by reelection calculations,” Bolton writes in the book, according to a news release from the publisher.In a recent op-ed published in The Wall Street Journal, Cooper accused the White House of using the pre-publication review process as a way to protect the president from embarrassment.He said he sent Bolton’s manuscript to classification specialist Ellen Knight on December 30, 2019. Knight and Bolton, who was Trump’s national security adviser for 18 months ending September 10, 2019, spent nearly four months going through the nearly 500-page book multiple times, “often line by line,” Cooper said.In a March 27 letter, Knight thanked Bolton for his efforts to address the classification issues, but said additional edits were required to ensure national security information was protected. She outlined her concerns in 17 single-spaced pages of typed comments, Cooper said. He said Bolton worked through that weekend and sent Knight a response the following Monday. Bolton accepted most of Knight’s suggestions and proposed alternative solutions to others, Cooper said.In mid-April, after resolving a shorter list of remaining issues, it appeared that the pre-publication review process had been finalised. Yet when Bolton asked for a letter confirming his book was cleared for publication, Cooper said his client was told his book had prompted “very delicate” interactions at the White House and there remained “some internal process considerations to work through.” Knight said she thought the letter might be ready soon, but more than six weeks later, Bolton still hasn’t received it.  On June 8, Bolton got a letter from John Eisenberg, the president’s deputy counsel for national security, who claimed that Bolton’s manuscript still contained classified information and that publishing the book would violate his nondisclosure agreements.“This is a transparent attempt to use national security as a pretext to censor Mr. Bolton, in violation of his constitutional right to speak on matters of the utmost public import,” according to Cooper. “This attempt will not succeed, and Mr. Bolton’s book will be published June 23.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-adviser-john-bolton-faces-criminal-charges-if-book-released-says-trump/story-8Nb5Q78CJXY8VVKGO75mHO.html
16-06-2020||World||Donald Trump announces major US troop cut in ‘delinquent’ Germany||President Donald Trump has said he is ordering a major reduction in US troop strength in Germany, a move widely criticized by members of his own party as a gift to Russia and a threat to US national security.“We’re putting the number down to 25,000 soldiers,” Trump said at the White House on Monday.The US currently has about 34,500 troops in Germany — far fewer than during the Cold War, when Germany was the central focus of American and NATO efforts to deter invasion by the former Soviet Union. In recent decades, Germany has hosted key American military facilities and provided a jumping-off point for troops deploying to the Middle East, including during years of conflict in Iraq.Trump faulted Germany for failing to pay enough for its own defence, calling the long-time NATO ally “delinquent.” “We’re protecting Germany and they’re delinquent. That doesn’t make sense,” the president said, referring to Germany’s failure thus far to attain a goal set by all NATO members in 2014 to spend at least 2 pe cent of gross national product on defense by 2024. Germany says it hopes to reach 2 per cent by 2031.Since his election in 2016, Trump has pushed for the 2 per cent as a hard target, and he has repeatedly singled out Germany as a major offender, though many others are also below the goal.In his White House remarks to reporters, Trump suggested his troop withdrawal decision was intended to punish Germany, noting that the presence of American troops is a boost to local economies.“Those are well-paid soldiers,” he said. “They live in Germany. They spend vast amounts of money in Germany. Everywhere around those bases is very prosperous for Germany. So Germany takes, and then on top of it they treat us very badly on trade.” In addition to the 34,500 US troops in Germany, there also are approximately 17,500 Defense Department civilians.The administration has contemplated a partial troop withdrawal from Germany since last year, and in recent weeks it became apparent that Trump was ready to move forward, although no decision had been announced.The decision was not discussed in advance with Germany or other NATO members, and Congress was not officially informed — prompting a letter from 22 Republican members of the House Armed Services Committee urging a rethink.“The threats posed by Russia have not lessened, and we believe that signs of a weakened US commitment to NATO will encourage further Russian aggression and opportunism,” Rep. Mac Thornberry of Texas wrote in a letter to Trump with his colleagues. Sen. Jack Reed, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, slammed Trump’s move as “another favour” to Russian President Vladimir Putin.Liz Cheney, a Republican from Wyoming, said last week that Trump appeared to be making a serious mistake.“America’s forward presence has never been more important than it is today, as our nation confronts the threats to freedom and security around the world posed by Vladimir Putin’s Russia and the Chinese Communist Party,” Cheney said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-announces-major-us-troop-cut-in-delinquent-germany/story-eUoUhv0x1vpPhgPRN3esYI.html
16-06-2020||World||24 Malian soldiers killed in ambush near Mauritania border||Armed men killed at least 24 Malian soldiers in an ambush on an army patrol in the Segou region near Mali’s border with Mauritania, the army has said.Mali’s armed forces on Monday said eight soldiers survived Sunday’s assault in Bouka Were, about 100 kilometres (60 miles) from the Mauritanian border. The army said four vehicles were destroyed.Mali’s security has deteriorated in the past few years.Al-Qaida and Islamic State-affiliated extremists are present and stage regular attacks. Since 2015, extremists have been moving from the arid north into the country’s more populated centre, stoking animosity and deadly violence between ethnic groups in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/24-malian-soldiers-killed-in-ambush-near-mauritania-border/story-ondlIUrcZVPO7qzCvfjNLI.html
16-06-2020||World||FDA approves video game for treating ADHD in kids||The US Food and Drug Administration has for the first time approved a video game for treating attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children.The FDA said on Monday the game built by Boston-based Akili Interactive Labs can improve attention function.The game, called EndeavorRx, requires a prescription and is designed for children ages 8 to 12 with certain symptoms of ADHD.It’s the first time the FDA has cleared a digital therapy for improving ADHD symptoms, and the first time the agency has ever authorised marketing of a game-based therapy for any condition.The FDA says it looked at data from multiple studies in more than 600 children.A video of the game shows a character travelling a racecourse-like path in a hover board. Sensory and motor tasks are designed to help the player improve cognitive functioning.“We’re proud to make history today with FDA’s decision,” Akili CEO Eddie Martucci said in a statement. “We’re using technology to help treat a condition in an entirely new way as we directly target neurological function through medicine that feels like entertainment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-approves-video-game-for-treating-adhd-in-kids/story-iU7CxUr9pz0no2h01cGDvO.html
16-06-2020||World||US senate to introduce policing changes, restrict chokeholds in emerging bill||Driven by a swift-moving national debate, Senate Republicans are on the brink of introducing an extensive package of policing changes with new restrictions on police chokeholds and other practices as Congress rushes to respond to mass demonstrations over the deaths of George Floyd and other black Americans.It’s a sudden shift of GOP priorities with President Donald Trump signalling support. The White House will announce its own executive actions on law enforcement procedures on Tuesday, a crush of activity that shows how quickly police violence and racial prejudice are transforming national politics.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell opened the chamber on Monday declaring that Senate Republicans are developing “a serious proposal to reform law enforcement.” While the emerging GOP package isn’t as extensive as the sweeping Democratic proposal, which is headed for a House vote next week, it is perhaps the most far-reaching proposed changes to policing procedures from the party long aligned with a “law and order” approach. Confronted with a groundswell of public unrest over police violence, in cities large and small nationwide, even the most conservative senators are joining the effort.Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina, the sole African American Republican in the Senate, has been crafting the package set to roll out Wednesday. He said the chokehold, in particular, “is a policy whose time has come and gone.” Over the weekend, the shooting death of Rayshard Brooks by a white officer in Atlanta led to a renewed public outcry, more street protests and the police chief’s swift resignation.Democrats have said the GOP package doesn’t go far enough to match the outpouring of support for reforms. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer warned Republicans not to settle for minor changes.“Now is the time to seek bold and broad-scale change, not change around the margins,” Schumer said Monday.Two senior administration officials told reporters that Trump’s executive order would include establishing a data base that tracks police officers who have complaints about excessive use of force in their records.The officials said the executive order would also establish a national credentialing system that would give police departments a financial incentive to adopt best practices on such things as use of deadly force.The two officials briefed reporters on the executive order on the condition that they not be identified. They said that they expect major law enforcement trade groups to back the effort.With the political debate fluid, it is unclear whether the parties will be able to find common ground. The proposals share many similar provisions but take different approaches to address some of the issues. Neither bill goes as far as some activists want in their push to “defund the police” by fully revamping departments.The debate is changing almost daily, complicated by the fall election, with the Senate Republican majority at risk. McConnell, who is also up for reelection in November is backing the GOP effort after the death of Breonna Taylor when police entered her home in Lousiville. It’s a dynamic political environment in the aftermath of the killing of black Americans and the outpouring of protests and Black Lives Matter demonstrations that have overwhelmingly altered the national conversation.The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to consider policing issues at a hearing on Tuesday.Central to the Republican package would be the creation of a national database of police use-of-force incidents, a way to improve transparency so law enforcement officers cannot transfer from one department to another without public oversight of their record. The Democrats have a similar provision.The GOP bill would encourage police body cameras and include a long-stalled effort to make lynching a federal hate crime.Additionally, the Republican package is expected to restrict the use of chokeholds by withholding certain federal funds to jurisdictions that continue to allow the practice, according to a Senate Republican unauthorized to discuss the pending bill and granted anonymity.While chokeholds have become a symbol of police brutality — and a ban is included in the Democrats’ bill — the maneuver is already banned in many departments. Police nationwide are far more likely to kill someone by shooting.Yet, the Republican bill does not go as far as the Democratic proposal, particularly on the the issue of “qualified immunity,” which aims to enable those injured by law enforcement personnel to sue for damages. The White House has said that is a line too far. As an alternative, Scott has suggested a “decertification” process for officers involved in misconduct.Still, Democrats signalled a willingness to look at the Republican approach for areas of common ground.Leading civil rights groups have backed the Democratic bill but it’s unclear if the Republican proposal will be extensive enough to gain broad support.At the same time, the large police union, the influential Fraternal Order of Police, said in a statement it is working with Congress and the White House on the proposals, having provided “feedback” on the Democratic bill and “substantial input” on the emerging GOP package from Scott.The House Judiciary Committee is set to consider the Democrats’ bill on Wednesday ahead of next week’s scheduled House vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-to-introduce-policing-changes-restrict-chokeholds-in-emerging-bill/story-gPlYFqg2UHLqTGly75DVoM.html
16-06-2020||World||US Supreme Court extends workplace protection to LGBTQ community||The US Supreme Court on Monday extended workplace protection against discrimination to the LGBTQ community in a widely welcomed landmark judgment that was also a defeat for the Trump administration that had argued against providing these same rights on the question of social orientation.It was a 6-3 decision with Trump appointee Justice Neil Gorsuch writing the majority opinion. He was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and the four liberal justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. Brett Kavanaugh, the other Trump nominee, dissented along with Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas.“For an employer to discriminate against employees for being homosexual or transgender, the employer must intentionally discriminate against individual men and women in part because of sex.,” Gorsuch wrote in the majority opinion. “ That has always been prohibited by Title VII’s plain terms.”Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 protects employees from discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion or national origin. The Trump administration and lawyers for employers had Title VII protections applied only to ensure there was no discrimination on gender or race, not on sexual orientation.“Fantastic news. No one in America should face discrimination for being who they are or for who they love,” said Bernie Sanders, Senator and former candidate for the White House, in a tweet. “Together, we are going to defeat the hate and bigotry of this administration and stand with our LGBTQ+ family. Congratulations to everyone who fought to make this happen.”Experts have said this ruling has far more significantimplications for the LGBTQ community and being allowed to marry. Not all gay and lesbian people marry, but they all work and need the workplace protections available to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-extends-workplace-protection-to-lgbtq-community/story-fwufUA6FaxHi9Q2tLqF8DN.html
16-06-2020||World||Study reveals Covid-19 may present neurological symptoms before respiratory issues||A Northwestern Medicine study suggests that coronavirus poses a global threat to the entire nervous system, and its neurological symptoms may appear before fever or cough.A review of neurological symptoms of Covid-19 patients in the current scientific literature was conducted and the results are published this week in Annals of Neurology.About half of hospitalized patients have neurological manifestations of Covid-19, which include headache, dizziness, decreased alertness, difficulty concentrating, disorders of smell and taste, seizures, strokes, weakness, and muscle pain.“It’s important for the general public and physicians to be aware of this, because a SARS-COV-2 infection may present with neurologic symptoms initially, before any fever, cough or respiratory problems occur,” said lead author of the review, Dr Igor Koralnik, Northwestern Medicine chief of neuro-infectious diseases and global neurology and a professor of neurology at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.The review describes the different neurological conditions that may occur in Covid-19 patients and how to diagnose them, as well as likely pathogenic mechanisms.“This understanding is key to direct appropriate clinical management and treatment,” Koralnik said.The disease may affect the entire nervous system, including the brain, spinal cord, and nerves as well as the muscles. There are many different ways Covid-19 can cause neurological dysfunction, he said. Because this disease may affect multiple organs (lung, kidney, heart), the brain may also suffer from lack of oxygenation or from clotting disorders that may lead to ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes.In addition, the virus may cause a direct infection of the brain and meninges. Finally, the reaction of the immune system to the infection may cause inflammation that can damage the brain and nerves.Koralnik and colleagues have formed a Neuro-Covid research team and started a retrospective analysis of all Covid-19 patients hospitalized at Northwestern Medicine to determine the frequency and type of neurological complications, as well as response to treatment. Since knowledge about the long term outcome of neurologic manifestations of Covid-19, is limited, Koralnik also will follow some of those patients prospectively in his new outpatient Neuro-Covid clinic to determine if neurological problems are temporary or permanent. These studies will provide the foundation on how to diagnose, manage and treat the many neurologic manifestations of Covid-19, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-reveals-covid-19-may-present-neurological-symptoms-before-respiratory-issues/story-anY4iGILFoSbWZobsTxzvN.html
16-06-2020||India||Rajasthan minister joins party men 3 days before Rajya Sabha polls||Rajasthan food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena finally on Tuesday evening joined other Congress law-makers from the state, six days after they were put up at a Jaipur luxury hotel to safeguard against possible defection or poaching ahead of June 19 Rajya Sabha polls.Meena said he was joining his party men after apprising the party leadership in Delhi of his certain demands related to the public.The state Congress had had moved the legislatures to the hotel on Wednesday. Even chief minister Ashok Gehlot himself has been staying at the hotel to thwart any possible bid by political rivals to destabilise his government.“I had some general demands and I have apprised the party leaders about it. I had some problems which are connected with people, which has been communicated to Delhi,” said Meena, addressing newspersons before entering the hotel.He said that he has got assurance that the party will look into his demands. However, he refused to comment on the demands, saying “I will tell once the (RS polls) result come”.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesWhen asked about the party’s charges of horse trading and the Congress MLAs being approached with offer to switch side in exchange for cash, Meena said, “I am not aware of any such thing.”On Meena’s absence from the hotel housing the Congress group, the AICC general secretary Avinash Pande had stated that Meena was away from the camp due to some personal reasons and has assured the party of his full support.Party officials, not wanting to be named, claimed that two AICC leaders had a long meeting with Meena, who proceeded to the hotel after their assurances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minister-joins-party-men-3-days-before-rajya-sabha-polls/story-AHvh2zt2e4JUNCcUwhoxNN.html
16-06-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 1,328 more deaths after Covid-19 review, death toll past 5500||Maharashtra added 1,409 deaths including 81 casualties reported in the last 24 hours to take the toll past the five thousand mark to reach 5,537. 1,328 additional fatalities apart from the daily death count was added to the state’s tally after a reconciliation of figures done in a review of cases amid BJP’s allegations of fudging of data by the BMC.The state also added 2,701 new Covid-19 cases taking the Covid 19 tally to 1,13,445. Mumbai reported the lion’s share of these with 935 fresh cases.“The state reported deaths of 81 people today (Tuesday) by Covid-19 and added 1,328 (fatalities) which were not reported previously. The total number of the deceased stands at 5,537,” state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said on Tuesday.Mehta threw further light on the reason for the bulk addition of 1,328 deaths to the state’s tally and said figures had been revised after a fresh review of cases in the state.862 of these Coved-19 deaths had taken place in BMC areas and the remaining 466 in the rest of Maharashtra, he said.The figures were revised following the state government’s instruction to medical authorities to complete the reconciliation of Covid-19 deaths by June 15.Also Read: When will schools for children between 6-14 years start, Bombay HC asks Maharashtra governmentThe development came a day after the leader of opposition (LoP) in the assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging fudging of figures of deaths by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), reported a news agency.Fadnavis had accused the BMC of an alleged cover up to hide around 950 deaths in a gross violation of ICMR guidelines.In other important numbers, a total of 57,851 patients have been cured and discharged in the state leaving 50,044 active cases. A total of 6,84,268 samples have been tested for the disease.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTo put into perspective, India saw an increase of 10,667 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours with the total crossing 3.43 lakh on Tuesday, including 380 deaths reported in the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 9,900. The country’s recovery rate has improved to 52.47 per cent.It was also a day of hectic politics in the state with the BJP taking potshots at the ruling coalition for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic amidst simmering tension between the allies.Ram Kadam on Tuesday said that the state government has been indifferent to Covid-19 situation and patients were dying due to insufficient preparation.He added that the coalition was “busy talking about a squeaking old bed” and was not bothered about the deaths due to “lack of beds” during the pandemic.Kadam was referring to an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna targeting ally Congress and likening the grand old party with an “old cot” that made “noise”.Shiv Sena editorial was widely seen as a response to murmurs in Congress that it doesn’t have much say in governance of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-1-328-more-deaths-after-covid-19-review-death-toll-past-5500/story-uEO1TYtDmFrL0UtCLcRVjL.html
16-06-2020||India||Delhi ramps up fight against Covid-19 as tally swells over 44,000||Delhi recorded 1,859 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday to take the tally to 44,688, the Delhi government’s health department said.Casualties have gone up to 1,837 with 93 more deaths.A total of 520 patients were discharged on Tuesday that took the total number of those cured/discharged to 16,500, the health department said.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain who was admitted to a hospital due to high fever, tested negative. He will be tested again for Covid-19 on Wednesday.The Delhi government has also ramped up its fight against Covid-19 as it attached the 5-Star Taj Mansingh Hotel with Sir Ganga Ram Hospital to help the city deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases. In an order, the government said that the central Delhi hotel will “isolate and place all its rooms at the disposal of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for accommodating more number of Covid-19 patients.”It has ordered other hotels also to be attached to hospitals to cope with rising numbers of Covid-19 patients in the capital.In another development, the Northern Railways moved around 300 isolation coaches at the Anand Vihar terminal in east Delhi.“Only, people with mild symptoms will be kept here. Management of coach and patient will be done by the state,” the Northern Railways chief public relations officer (CPRO) was quoted as saying by ANI.Last week, the government estimated that the capital might need 5.5 lakh hospital beds for Covid-19 patients by the end of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ramps-up-fight-against-covid-19-as-tally-swells-over-44-000/story-9A0Y4OckKJZrv3hmyazLuL.html
16-06-2020||India||18 aftershocks and 2 quakes rattle Gujarat’s Kutch since Sunday||As many as 18 aftershocks and two quakes have been experienced in Gujarat’s Kutch district in three days since the earthquake of 5.3 magnitude rattled parts of the state on Sunday, an official from the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said on Tuesday.Of the 20 aftershocks, the ISR has categorised two tremors recorded on Monday of 4.6 and 4.1 magnitudes as separate earthquakes, because they occurred in different faultlines, the official said.An aftershock of 3.7 magnitude was recorded at 10.49 am on Tuesday, while three other aftershocks -- of magnitudes 2.3, 1.7 and 1.9 -- were recorded on Monday night, he said.Of 19 tremors recorded till Tuesday morning, two are new earthquakes with 4.6 and 4.1 magnitudes that had occurred on separate branches of the main south Waghad faultline on Monday, said Sumer Chopra, director of Gandhinagar-based ISR.“Not all of these tremors are aftershocks of the Sunday’s quake. Some of them are from nearby fault lines as well,” he said. The 5.3-magnitude earthquake occurred on south Wagad fault, which is a system of faults with many branches. When a moderate intensity quake occurs, it disturbs the nearby branches, Chopra said.“So, when this moderate intensity shock occurred, it disturbed nearby connected faults and passed on the energy to them,” he said. The quakes with intensities of 4.6 and 4.1 magnitude that occurred on Monday were on the branches of the main south Waghad fault, and were technically separate earthquakes, the official said.According to the ISR, an earthquake of 4.6 magnitude occurred at 12.57 pm on Monday with its epicentre 15 km north-northeast from Bhachau in Kutch and this was followed by a quake of 4.1 magnitude at 3.56 pm at six km north-northwest of Bhachau.The combined aftershocks of these three earthquakes stand at 17 so far, the official said.The 5.3 magnitude earthquake recorded at 8.13 pm Sunday night shook Kutch and parts of Gujarat including Rajkot and Patan.According to the Kutch district administration, no casualties or major damage to properties were reported in any of these earthquakes.Kutch district is located in a “very high risk” seismic zone, and earthquakes of lower intensity occur regularly there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-aftershocks-and-2-quakes-rattle-gujarat-s-kutch-since-sunday/story-oxUAvJsL7vETNc4urWfN7O.html
16-06-2020||India||BJP, Congress accuse Odisha govt of scaling down Covid-19 tests||As Covid-19 cases surged past 4,100 in Odisha, opposition BJP and Congress on Tuesday accused the Naveen Patnaik government of scaling down testing for Covid-19.BJP state general secretary Golak Mahapatra alleged that while chief minister Patnaik last month had announced conducting 15,000 tests daily in June, the number of tests have now gone below 3,000 over the last few weeks. “On June 15, a total of 2,988 tests were conducted, on June 14 the number of tests were 2,499. The number of tests is going down over the weeks,” alleged Mohapatra. He also demanded that all inmates of quarantine centres across the state should undergo Covid-19 tests.On the other hand, neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is testing 15,000 people daily and has so far tested five lakh people.Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray also criticized the government for testing only two lakh people while over five lakh migrants have returned to the state. “From 5,000 tests a day in May, it is inexplicable how the number of tests came down drastically,” he said, alleging that the government has failed the migrants by not providing adequate testing facilities.Reacting to Mahapatra’s charges, BJD spokesperson Dr Sasmit Patra said the BJP and Congress should not play politics in the times of pandemic. “Odisha is conducting Covid testing of all symptomatic persons as per the ICMR guidelines. Though testing capacity has been increased to 15,000 per day Odisha is carrying out the tests as per ICMR and Government of India guidelines. The same testing process is also being followed by BJP and Congress-ruled states across the country,” said Patra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-accuse-odisha-govt-of-scaling-down-covid-19-tests/story-opQQXP7bYzwwk9H02jdLPP.html
16-06-2020||India||In Andhra Pradesh’s budget of Rs 2.24 lakh cr, a revenue deficit of Rs 18K cr||Andhra Pradesh finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy on Tuesday presented the budget for 2020-21 in the state assembly with an outlay of Rs 2.24 lakh crore and a revenue deficit of Rs 18,434 crore.The budget was scheduled to be presented in the last week of March but was delayed because of the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.As a result, the state government had to promulgate an ordinance on March 30 to draw around Rs 70,000 crore from the state consolidated fund for the first three months of the financial year commencing on April 1.As the two-day budget session of the state assembly commenced on Tuesday, the finance minister presented the full-fledged budget for the 2020-21 fiscal, which included the amount drawn for the first three months.Out of the total budget outlay of Rs. 2,24,789 crore, Reddy projected revenue expenditure of around Rs. 1,80,393 crore and capital expenditure, including loan repayments and other capital disbursements of around Rs 44,396 crore.He said the budget estimates entail an overall decrease of 1.4% over the 2019-20 budget estimates because of major economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the revenue deficit was estimated at around Rs 18,434 crore, the fiscal deficit was projected at around Rs 48,295 crore. The fiscal deficit will be around 4.78% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), whereas the revenue deficit will be around 1.82 % of the GSDP.The finance minister said in 2019, the new government (of YSR Congress party) had inherited an economy which had been slowing down. “The tsunami of pending bills to the tune of Rs 60,000 crore left by the previous government only made matters worse. The decline in transfer of central taxes in 2019-20 and 2020-21, the reduced share in the divisible pool for the year 2020-21 and the precipitous decline of revenue realisation on account of Covid-19 induced lockdown measures, further added to the financial stress,” he said.Reddy, however, said the government had been overcoming challenges and going ahead in the path of development and welfare. “We rolled out a new template for pro-people governance through village and ward secretariats and appointment of over 1.2 lakh village/ward secretaries and more than 2.5 lakh volunteers. “Through these secretariats, people can avail 536 services at their doorsteps cutting across multiple government agencies,” he said.The finance minister made considerable allocations to the key departments as part of implementing the welfare agenda of the state government through implementation of Nava Ratnalu (nine jewels) – a set of nine promises made in the election manifesto.He announced allocation of Rs 22,604 crore for secondary and intermediate education and Rs 2,277 crore for higher education. “We have brought in a renewed emphasis on human resources development through schemes like Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Deewana and Jagananna Vasati Deewana, while upgrading public school infrastructure through Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu programme,” he said.For health sector, Reddy said an allocation of Rs 11,419 crore was made, primary to extend affordable health care to the poor under Dr YSR Aarogyasri scheme, apart from expanding the fleet of ambulance services by adding another 1,000 vehicles to the existing 439.The minister announced allocation of Rs 11,891 crore for the agriculture sector, including Rs 3,615 crore for the implementation of Dr YSR Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan scheme under which an investment support of Rs 13,500 per year is provided to each of 46.51 lakh eligible farmers to meet the input needs.He also announced implementation of free crop insurance scheme and interest free loans and setting up Rythu Bharosa centres. “Besides, the government has taken a historic decision to set up a Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF) of Rs 3,000 crore for market intervention for crops selling below MSP or for non-MSP crops selling below normal price,” he said.The other major allocations made in the budget were: Rs 16,710 crore for panchayat raj and rural development, Rs 11,806 crore for water resources development, Rs 6,588 crore for transport, roads and buildings, Rs 6,984.73 crore for energy and Rs 2,075.56 crore for industrial development.Similarly, an amount of Rs 1,279 crore was allocated for animal husbandry and fisheries, Rs 8,000 crore for provision of 30 lakh house sites for the houseless poor, Rs 3,456 crore for women, child and disabled welfare, Rs 1,365 crore towards zero-interest loans to women self-help groups, Rs 16,000 crore for pensions and Rs 3,000 crore towards YSR Cheyutha scheme to provide financial assistance of Rs 18,750 crore for SC, ST, OBC and minority women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-andhra-pradesh-s-budget-of-rs-2-24-lakh-cr-a-revenue-deficit-of-rs-18k-cr/story-GksTfz9Ctcohz2ffr4ZewJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Manipur records 10 new Covid-19 cases, total count reaches 500||Manipur reported 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number in the north eastern state to 500, health department officials said. There have been no deaths from the disease so far.“In the last twenty four hours, 10 people (3 male, 7 female) were confirmed as new Covid-19 positive cases from the VRDLs (Virus Research & Diagnosis Laboratory) of Regional Institute of Medical Sciences-4 and Jawaharlal Institute of Medical Sciences-6 (JNIMS),” Dr Kh Sasheekumar Mangang, additional director and spokesperson of health department said in a press release. “They are being shifted to the Covid Care Facilities,” the release added.It stated that all necessary medical precautionary measures like containment and contact tracing are in place in the state.“The total number of positive cases has increased to 500 and the number of active cases to 341,” it said. The total number of recovered cases is 159 and recovery rate of 31.8 percent.”Giving information about the skills up-gradation of frontline workers, the release said that till date, the state Covid-19 training team has trained 522 medical medical officers, 917 staff nurses, 349 allied healthcare providers, 902 auxiliary nurse midwives and ,1573 accredited social health activists.To deal with the rising numbers of coronavirus cases, the state government is planning to increase the number of beds to 300 from the initial 100 beds at the newly-opened Covid Care Centre at UNNACO school campus at Meitram, on the outskirts of capital Imphal.At present, Covid-19 patients are treated at RIMS, JNIMS and a few district hospitals.Till Tuesday, 27,523 samples had been tested for Covid-19 while 2,70,778 were screened at various entry points of the state, according to the latest status update report issued by the state surveillance officer of integrated disease surveillance program. Around 20,961 people are presently at quarantine centres while 21,483 others have completed quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-records-10-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-reaches-500/story-ElPKwYRzwJyBWoPgFXGB7L.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Switch off lights for 3 mins’: Kerala Congress’ power tariff hike protest||Protesting the steep hike in electricity charges in Kerala, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) is exhorting people to switch off lights for three minutes on Wednesday at 9 pm and sign an online campaign to register their anger.This is a marked departure from the usual protests seen in the state.An online petition, Change.org, has also been launched as part of protest to force the government to roll back the hike.“As a responsible opposition, we don’t want to endanger the lives of people by organising huge protests in the time of pandemic. But we can’t allow the government to get away with its anti-people decisions either. Switching off lights for three minutes on June 17 at 9 pm gives an opportunity for them to register their protest,” said state opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, adding the steep hike was a cruel blow as many people are reeling under job-loss and income crunch further compounded by the coronavirus crisis.The Congress leader complained that the government’s move amounts to robbing people. “Many of them have lost jobs and are struggling to feed their families. There is no justification in hiking when the people are in the midst of a deep crisis. This tantamount to robbing the hapless,” he said. Despite protests happening all over Kerala, the state government has not taken any steps to address the issue of inflated power bills. Let's raise our voice against this. Join the #LightsOffKerala protest at 9pm tomorrow (June 17) and switch off lights across Kerala for 3 minutes pic.twitter.com/Ml88TMTZf4There are widespread complaints that many consumers are getting bills that are three to four times higher than what they have been paying.Malayalam actor Madubal had got a bill of Rs 5,714 for his locked house but after he posted his woes online, it was reduced to Rs 300 in a day. Many such glaring complaints came to light in recent days.State electricity board chairman SN Pillai said due to lockdown meter-reading was not done in three months and consumers were charged nominally during this period and later differences were settled in the latest bill. Although he promised that the excess amount, if any, will be adjusted later, but the people without a regular income say it is a real shock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/switch-off-lights-for-3-mins-kerala-congress-power-tariff-hike-protest/story-WGZp8UD0WsUlphHPmJY7rO.html
16-06-2020||India||Monsoon advances further, intense rainfall expected over eastern India||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the Southwest Monsoon has advanced further to cover more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh which is likely to result in an increase in rainfall intensity over eastern India.An official statement by the national weather forecaster said that a low pressure area was likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood areas around June 19.“Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of West Madhya Pradesh, most parts of East Madhya Pradesh, and some more parts of East Uttar Pradesh. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) now passes through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich,” said the statement.It added that a cyclonic circulation was present over east Uttar Pradesh and areas in the vicinity. This circulation extended up to 3.6 km above mean sea level and a trough was running from northwest Rajasthan to the cyclonic circulation over east Uttar Pradesh across south Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh, which extended up to 0.9 km above mean sea level.It said that under the influence of these two systems scattered heavy to very heavy falls and isolated extremely heavy falls over Konkan & Goa was likely during the next two days and isolated heavy to very heavy rain falls were expected over central Maharashtra during the next 48 hours.The advance of the Southwest Monsoon was likely to result in increased intensity of rainfall in east India along with isolated heavy to very rainfall over the region between 17th and 19th June.Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim during the next 5 days it added.The forecast said that widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls were likely to continue over Assam & Meghalaya and Tripura & Mizoram during the next 5 days with isolated heavy to very heavy falls over west Assam & Meghalaya during the next 3 days.A few places in West Rajasthan, however, will continue to reel under heat wave conditions for the next 2 days and there was little likelihood of any significant change in maximum temperatures over most parts of the country during the next 3 days, according to IMD’s prediction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-advances-further-intense-rainfall-expected-over-eastern-india/story-Y9A9xJDCPM6asIRkaBCVmK.html
16-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief granted bail in ‘fake bus list’ case||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, who was arrested on charges of fraud for allegedly submitting a fake list of 1,000 buses to the Yogi government for ferrying migrant labourers, was granted bail on Tuesday by the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court. Justice Attau Rahman Masoodi approved the bail application of the Congress leader who was arrested from Agra on May 20. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi appeared on behalf of the UP Congress chief through videoconferencing.“Having heard learned counsel for the parties and keeping in view the overall facts and circumstances of the case but without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, let the applicant Ajay Kumar Lallu be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond with two sureties to the satisfaction of the court concerned,” observed the court.Earlier, the Agra court had granted bail to the UP Congress president but the Lucknow police again arrested him in connection with the alleged forgery related with the list of buses provided by the Congress party that allegedly had registration numbers of auto-rickshaws, cars and trucks.“The applicant shall remain present, in person, before the trial court on the dates fixed for opening of the case, framing of charge and recording of statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C,” said the court.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s personal secretary Sandeep Singh is a co-accused in the same case and has applied for anticipatory bail. The case will come up for hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-chief-granted-bail-in-fake-bus-list-case/story-Q9keX01K7n5opc4IuPR1IM.html
16-06-2020||India||Goa Speaker given 3 weeks by SC to reply in Cong MLAs disqualification case||Congress was “compelled to move the Supreme Court” after the Goa Assembly Speaker refused to schedule timely hearings on the issue of disqualification proceedings against 10 of its legislators who defected to the BJP last year, party’s state party president Girish Chodankar said on Tuesday.After hearing the Congress petition, the apex court on Tuesday issued notice, returnable within three weeks, to Goa Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. The 10 MLAs have also been made respondents in the case. Speaking to media persons, Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said, “the party was compelled to move to the SC after the Speaker refused to schedule timely hearings, despite being reminded that Supreme Court guidelines stipulate that disqualification petitions need to be disposed of with an outer limit of nine months. “In the Manipur matter there are clear guidelines of the Supreme Court to all the legislative assemblies and the speaker that any petition regarding disqualification considering the duration of the legislative assembly or of parliament is just five years, the outer limit to dispose of the petition is just three months,” Chodankar said. “It has been almost nine months since we filed this (petition) before the Speaker and we expected that it will be disposed of quickly. But our Speaker decided to keep the disqualification pending. He has not given respect to SC guidelines despite us reminding him in February,” he added.“We are pleased that the SC issued notice to the Speaker and 10 defected MLAs. The notice is returnable after three weeks. Our petition was represented by Kapil Sibal,” he added. Besides seeking directions to the Speaker that he dispose of the matter within one month, the Congress petition has also sought that the 10 MLAs concerned be restrained to officiate as MLAs and ministers. In July 2019, ten of the 15 Congress legislators announced that they were ‘merging’ with the BJP citing a provision in the law that if more than 2/3rd of the legislators of a political party ‘merge’ with another, it will not attract provisions of the anti-defection law.The Congress has contended that the ‘merger’ of 10 of its MLAs into the BJP was not a merger of parties as envisaged by the 10th schedule of the constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-speaker-given-3-weeks-by-sc-to-reply-in-cong-mlas-disqualification-case/story-9IO51rI31CaJU3jEcZivpN.html
16-06-2020||India||Kerala firm on Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning home||Despite protests from expatriates and opposition parties, the Kerala government on Tuesday underlined that it will make Covid-free certificates mandatory for those returning to the country from abroad.Last week, the government had said the Covid-free certificates would be mandatory for those taking chartered flights from West Asian countries.On Tuesday, the government modified its stand to include everybody flying in from abroad from June 20.“We can’t take chances now. Besides chartered flights we want people coming in ‘Vande Bharat’ flights also tested before they take flights. It is meant to ensure the safety of all,” said state industry minister E P Jayarajan.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who participated in the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, did not get a chance to speak. But two days ago, he had sent a letter to Modi seeking his help on the issue.The state will soon submit a list of its demands to the Centre and Covid-free certificate will be on top of it, said a spokesman of the government. He said around 90 per cent of recent Covid-19 cases are expatriates or people who returned from other states and the state cannot take any further risk.But many expatriates said the state was keen to maintain its records and not interested in its people who were desperate to return home from West Asian countries.“The government’s move is quite impractical. In many Gulf countries, tests are expensive and time-consuming. The Kerala government wants to discourage the return of its people. It is an inhuman act,” said Mansoor Paloor, a leader of the expat community. There are an estimated 18 lakh people from Kerala working in Persian Gulf countries. On Tuesday, the state reported 79 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 2,621. Of these, 1,336 are active cases, said State Health Minister K K Shailaja. Out of the 79 fresh cases, 49 had arrived from abroad and 26 others from other states and five got infected from primary contacts, she said.A 33-year-old man who came from a West Asian country and was under observation allegedly committed suicide by immolating himself in Kollam district, police said. A total of 21 people have died of Covid-19 in Kerala so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-firm-on-covid-free-certificates-for-expatriates-returning-home/story-2aDLX6XRjtfcP8VAFNhL2I.html
16-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu registers most Covid deaths in a single day, CM says death rate low||Tamil Nadu has reported 49 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday- the highest in a single day-- taking the death toll in the state to 528 even as 1,515 new coronavirus cases pushed the tally of number of infected in the southern state to 48,019, as per state health department data quoted by PTI.While the state recorded its highest single day spike in deaths, chief minister K Palaniswami was quoted as saying that the recovery rate from the contagion was high in the state but the fatalities remained low.He attributed it to a “slew” of measures taken by the government.“In view of a slew of anti-Covid-19 initiatives being taken by the government, the recovery rate was high,” Palaniswami was quoted as saying by PTI.“The deaths due to Covid-19 are very low,” he further added.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTamil Nadu is India’s third-worst affected state after Maharashtra and Delhi and the chief minister on Monday decided to clamp a fresh 12-day-long lockdown starting June 19 in the four most affected districts, namely, Chennai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram.The government’s decision came only three days after it had told the Madras High Court that it didn’t intend to reintroduce lockdown, terming such talks as rumours.The government’s decision followed a warning from a panel of experts constituted by the government which said a second wave of infections was possible if strict measures were not taken.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The panel said that the infection in Tamil Nadu was currently at its peak and the number of cases will gradually come down, however, they warned of a second wave-- like seen in China, where over 40 new cases were detected due to local transmission of the disease—if strict measures were not taken.The panel also sought an increase in testing and manpower and intensifying of containment and quarantine measures.The four districts where lockdown will be reintroduced account for 83.69% of the state’s total cases. Chennai alone accounts for 71.49% of all cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-registers-most-covid-deaths-in-a-single-day-cm-says-death-rate-low/story-9uJ3MYSSYAUmvi7TH23VQL.html
16-06-2020||India||HC asks state to inform when primary and pre-primary schools will start||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) has directed Maharashtra government to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Ezra Foundation, which has sought to bar reopening of primary and pre-primary schools – both online and offline – in the state till September because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The court sought to know about the status of classes for students up to the age of 14 years after the state government informed the HC that it had issued a notification on June 15, which had stated that schools for students up to class II wouldn’t be reopened till September.State advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said he would respond by Friday on the directions sought by the court.Earlier, a two-member division bench of the HC, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated, while hearing the PIL, filed by Ezra Foundation, through video-conference, was informed by the petitioner’s advocates Shashikant Chaudhari and Manoj Kumar Singh that the health and well-being of children in the age group between six and 14 years would be at risk if schools were allowed to start, either online or offline.The advocates prayed before the court that the students in that age group would be most vulnerable to contract SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, if they are asked to attend classes.Similarly, their heath would take a toll, if they are asked to attend online classes for a prolonged duration and many parents also would not be able to provide expensive tools required for e-learning, they pleaded.The advocates also urged the court to direct the state government to frame guidelines for a “common fee structure” for private schools for the academic year (2020-21), as many parents are facing huge financial constraints due to the lockdown restrictions.They also drew the court’s attention to how many parents have been coerced by several private school authorities to pay fees for the new academic session even though the classes are yet to begin because of the viral outbreak.They prayed for a court-monitored committee for framing guidelines for reopening of schools across the state and also a list of erring schools be prepared for charging fees in advance and called for revoking their registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-state-to-inform-when-primary-and-pre-primary-schools-will-start/story-uccIcMzb4ZsPKox1ieHkkO.html
16-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: Two wild elephants were found dead||Raipur: Two wild elephants were found dead in Chhattisgarh’s Dhamtari and Raigarh districts on Tuesday, as five pachyderms have died over the past eight days in the state.In Dhamtari district, an elephant calf died late on Monday night after it got stuck in a swamp, while a male elephant got electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire at a farm in Raigarh district’s Dharamjaigarh area.The state forest department officials have recovered the bodies of five elephants from four districts --- Surajpur, Balrampur, Dhamtari, and Raigarh -- since last Tuesday.“The elephant calf was part of a herd that was roaming on the border of Dhamtari and Gariyaband districts. The calf was found dead near Urputi (Mongri) village in the marshland of the Gangrel reservoir in Dhamtari district on Tuesday morning. The animal died late at night on Monday,” said Arun Kumar Pandey, additional principal chief conservator of forest, (wildlife).“We were tracking the herd, but it’s a tough task to keep track of their movement at night. The herd’s footprints were found near the calf’s carcass, which suggests that the animals unsuccessfully tried to pull the baby elephant out,” he added.The forest officials are awaiting the autopsy report to ascertain the exact cause of its death.In another incident, a tusker got electrocuted early Tuesday morning in Girisha village under the Dharamjaigarh forest division.A herd of 27 elephants was roaming for the last couple of days, and on Tuesday morning a tusker was found dead.“Primary investigation suggests that a villager had pilfered electricity to operate a borewell on his farm. The tusker came in contact with the naked wire and got electrocuted. Two persons, Bhadoram Rathia and Bal Singh, who owns the farm, have been arrested,” said Santosh Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Raigarh district.The bodies of two elephants were recovered from the Pratappur forest range, while another jumbo was found dead in the neighbouring Balrampur district last week.Later, three state forest department officials and a guard were suspended, while a show-cause notice was issued to a divisional forest officer in Balrampur district for alleged dereliction of duty.North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants that have led to several man-animal conflicts in the past few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-two-wild-elephants-were-found-dead/story-ULYXu7PcQiOqsL3mlh42EL.html
16-06-2020||India||Will decide in July on international flights’ resumption if states, aviation ecosystem onboard: Hardeep Singh Puri||India will take a decision on resumption of international passenger flights in July if coronavirus behaves in a “predictable manner” and the entire aviation ecosystem and state governments are onboard, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. The country resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months amid the coronavirus pandemic. Scheduled international passenger flights, however, continue to remain suspended in India.  “I am often asked, when can you start international civil aviation? If you leave it to me, and if the ecosystem works, and if we have the predictability in terms of behaviour of the virus, I think in the coming month we should start taking the decision. But those decisions will not be taken by the Indian civil aviation ministry,” Puri said. “Those decisions will be taken by the governments after looking at their domestic situation,” he said at a webinar titled ‘Reposing the Faith in Flying’ organised by the GMR group. “As we have seen recently that there is a major state in south India, after we opened up, they ordered the lockdown back. I have seen this happening in other countries. We are trying to ensure that this does not happen,” the minister noted.  The Tamil Nadu government had recently decided to impose lockdown in the capital city of Chennai, starting June 19 for a period of 12 days, in view of rising number of Covid-19 cases. Puri said the central government is trying to make sure that “when we take steps, they are incremental, and they are predictable, and that we increase the ways of travel domestically and that we move in the direction of opening international travel systematically without endangering and inviting a backlash”.“For us to be able to receive passengers on international routes, our states must be ready. We are in a constant dialogue with them,” he added.  The aviation minister said a decision regarding resumption of international travel can be taken in the coming months, even earlier, when domestic air traffic would reach 50-55 per cent of its pre-Covid-19 capacity, and other states would be in the position to absorb more number of passengers coming in.“In any case, it is not our call. It is a call where all the stakeholders, including the passengers and the entire ecosystem, are ready,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-decide-in-july-on-international-flights-resumption-if-states-aviation-ecosystem-onboard-hardeep-singh-puri/story-DpXEqC2gkGA9MRVNl83ziN.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Pak should practise good neighbourliness towards us’: India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday skewered Pakistan at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), underlining how most “human rights violators, terrorists breed under its nose” and urged the neighbour to practise tolerance. “They [Pakistan] should practise tolerance towards their minorities and good neighbourliness towards us so that the South-Asian region sees eternal peace the absence of which can mostly be attributed to Pakistani deep state,” said Vimarsh Aryan, first secretary at the ministry of external affairs. New Delhi on Monday impressed upon Pakistan to give up its territorial ambition and criticised it for raising the Kashmir issue at the UN body and expressed “serious concern” over Pakistan’s audacity to accuse others of “effecting a state-sponsored genocide”.“It’s unfortunate, however, not unexpected from the deep state of Pakistan which is continuing incessant abuse of its membership of this august Council for propagating an illegal, immoral and inhuman territorial ambition.“It very conveniently ignores that Vienna Declaration & Programme of Action (VDPA) explicitly states that the principle of self-determination must not be used as a garb to promote activities detrimental to the territorial integrity and political unity of member states in violation of the UN Charter,” said the India representative.Drawing the attention of the council to “unabated torture”, “systematic persecution” of religious minorities in Pakistan, New Delhi said it is highly irresponsible on Islamabad’s part to raise the issue of Kashmir. “This epicentre of global terrorism (Pakistan) very irresponsibly harps on self-determination of the already democratic Jammu and Kashmir.“We are witnessing in Pakistan unabated torture, maiming and systematic persecution of religious minorities. Attacks on a Hindu funeral procession and a Christian church days ago in Sindh and Punjab provinces portray the horrific plight of various minorities in Pakistan,” said Aryan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-should-practise-good-neighbourliness-towards-us-india-at-unhrc/story-wJKW5iyuG0nL4pmNNn31bI.html
16-06-2020||India||Rajasthan man forced to drink urine as punishment for love||A Rajasthan man was forced to drink urine for being in a relationship with a woman of his own community. The victim reported this to police on Monday night following which six accused were detained on Tuesday.This comes close to the Jhalawar incident in which a 16-year-old boy was brutally beaten, stripped naked and had his face blackened on the charges of stealing a goat on Friday.A video of the inhuman act in which the man was forced to drink urine was posted on microblogging site Twitter on Tuesday. People tagged the chief minister and Rajasthan police in the tweets.Rajasthan offers Covid testing facility to neighbouring statesPolice said a 20-year-old man of Pali district was taken to Sardapura village in Sirohi where he was beaten and forced to drink urine. “The accused wanted to teach him a lesson for being in love with a woman of the same community,” said a police official.An FIR for this was registered in Sumerpur police station in Pali district on Monday night and three accused were detained, police said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn a similar incident in September 2019, a couple in Udaipur district was held captive and brutally tortured including forced to drink urine. It was alleged that the woman had decided to enter into a polygamous relationship with the man in line with a traditional custom called ‘Nata’ without the permission of community leaders, resulting into being chased, abducted and tortured along with the man she had fled with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-forced-to-drink-urine-as-punishment-for-love/story-fBs2xxx3K9KoHgIWoZ2T9O.html
16-06-2020||India||Losses due to Covid-19 can be minimised if all rules are followed: PM Modi||India is among countries with least number deaths due to Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday and noted that the country minimise its losses if all the rules to prevent the spread of coronavirus are followed.The Prime Minister made the remarks on the first day of his sixth meeting with chief ministers and union territories through video conferencing on ways to deal with crisis created by coronavirus.“The recovery rate has gone above 50 per cent in India. For us the death of even one Indian is unsettling but it is also true that India is one of the countries where there have been least deaths due to Covid-19,” he said. “The two weeks of `Unlock 1’ has given us a lesson that if follow all rules and directions, then the country will be able to minimise its losses. To even think of stepping out without a mask or face cover is not right at present. ‘Do gaj ki doori’, hand-washing and use of sanitisers is of utmost importance. With markets opening and people stepping out, these precautions are even more important,” he added. The Prime Minister said that green shoots are visible in the economy because of the efforts made in the last few weeks.He said that timely decisions have helped in containing coronavirus in the country.“Two weeks have passed since Unlock 1. Our experience during this time could be beneficial for us in the future. Today I will get to know ground reality from you. Your suggestions will help in chalking out future strategy,” he said. The Prime Minister said that timing matters a lot in overcoming any crisis.“Timely decisions have helped a lot in containing coronavirus in the country. When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism,” he said.The Prime Minister said that in the last few weeks, thousands of Indians returned to India from abroad and hundreds of migrant workers reached their home towns.“Almost all modes of transport have resumed operations, still Covid-19 impact has not been that huge in India as in other parts of the world,” he said.Prime Minister Modi held a detailed meeting with senior ministers and officials to review India’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday.With an increase of 10,667 cases and 380 deaths in the past 24 hours, the Covid-19 count in India reached 3,43,091 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/losses-due-to-covid-19-can-be-minimised-if-all-rules-are-followed-pm-modi/story-35YLQgQG4ZZvvMi5ZpuBhP.html
16-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand: One Covid-19 positive patient dies; 67 fresh cases take overall tally to 1,912||Uttarakhand reported 67 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases on Tuesday, as the overall tally in the hill state rose to 1,912.A Covid-19 positive patient (56) also died at Haldwani-based Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital on Monday. So far, the viral infection has claimed 25 lives in Uttarakhand.A bulletin issued by the state health department on Tuesday said the deceased Covid-19 patient was referred to Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital from Base Hospital in Haldwani.The deceased woman had returned from Delhi to Almora by bus on May 26 amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak, and was advised to remain quarantined at her home.Of the 67 fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported on Tuesday, seven were local residents and four were primary contacts of those who had earlier contracted SARS-COV-2, which causes the disease, and two were healthcare workers from Dehradun.The rest of the Covid-19 patients have returned to Uttarakhand from Maharashtra, Delhi-national capital region (NCR), Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, and Haryana.The new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the following districts: Almora (10), Dehradun (12), Haridwar (8), Nainital (2), Pauri Garhwal (2), Tehri Garhwal (14), Pithoragarh (7), Udham Singh Nagar (8), and Uttarkashi (4).On Tuesday, five Covid-19 patients, including Dehradun (4) and Almora (1), were discharged from hospitals after they recovered from the viral infection.Uttarakhand has tested over 47,000 swab samples of which the results of over 4,600 are still pending.Dehradun district has reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases at 493, followed by Nainital (340), Tehri Garhwal (308) and Haridwar (219). While Uttarkashi district is the least affected by the viral outbreak, as it has reported 38 Covid-19 positive cases to date.The hill state has a recovery and an infection rate of 62.45% and 4.61%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-one-covid-19-positive-patient-dies-67-fresh-cases-take-overall-tally-to-1-912/story-6mi03FukwFmBVCqggj6reO.html
16-06-2020||India||Private hospitals in Telangana oppose move to cap Covid-19 treatment cost||Private hospitals in Telangana say they will petition the state government over the upper limit fixed by it regarding the treatment of a Covid-19 patient in their hospitals. A meeting of various private hospitals in the state would be held in Hyderabad on Wednesday to discuss the implications of the government’s order and request it to reconsider its decision.“We shall work out the actual costs to be incurred by the private hospitals to treat a Covid-19 patient. We shall come out with a formula and place it before the government. We are planning to seek an appointment with the health minister and other senior officials shortly,” Dr B Bhaskar Rao, president of Telangana Super-speciality Private Hospitals’ Association, told Hindustan Times.The Telangana government, which announced on Sunday that the private hospitals would be allowed to admit and treat Covid-19 patients in the state, issued an order on Monday capping the cost of treatment for such patients. According to the order issued by special chief secretary (medical and health) A Santhi Kumari, the cost of the package to be charged by the private hospitals, including corporate hospitals, cannot exceed Rs 4,000 per day in normal wards (including isolation), Rs 7,500 in Intensive Care Units (ICU) without ventilator and Rs 9,000 with ventilator support.“The package includes monitoring (of patient) and investigations like CBC, urine routine, anti-HIV, ultrasound, ECG, 2D Echo, X-ray etc, apart from drugs, consultations, bed charges, meals and procedures like urinary tract catheterisation etc,” the order said.The hospitals, however, could charge additionally for PPE, interventional procedures like bronchoscopy, biopsy and pleural tapping, administration of high-end drugs and high-end investigations like CT-Scan, MRI, PET scan, etc.“We do not know how the government has arrived at this figure of upper limit of treatment cost for Covid-19 in private hospitals. The officials have neither consulted us nor discussed with us the cost of treatment for Covid-19,” Bhaskar Rao said.The private hospitals, Rao underscored, have to make a lot of arrangements for treating the Covid-19 patients. “We have to create separate isolation facilities, wards and ICUs without causing any inconvenience for other patients. We have to have dedicated manpower, including doctors and para-medical staff, exclusively to deal with Covid-19 patients, as they are not supposed to attend to other patients. We have to provide them PPEs and other facilities. The cost of treatment has to be worked out taking into consideration all these factors,” Rao pointed out.Upon being told that private hospitals are allowed to charge extra for antibiotic injections, various other procedures and creating additional facilities, Rao said there was no clarity from the government in this regard. “For example, we cannot use the equipment like a ventilator used for Covid-19 patients for other patients immediately. We have to fumigate the equipment thoroughly before using it again,” he said.The association president wondered why the government should worry about charging the Covid-19 patients by private hospitals. “Only those who can afford treatment will come to us. There are enough government hospitals to provide free and affordable treatment to other Covid-19 patients. Even Gandhi Hospital still has enough beds. Only if the government hospitals are insufficient to tackle the huge number of cases, the patients will come to private hospitals,” Rao argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-in-telangana-oppose-move-to-cap-covid-19-treatment-cost/story-GahaSkc8mPk8HnN83Z6QcM.html
16-06-2020||India||SC notice to Goa speaker on Cong’s disqualification pleas||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday issued notice to Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar after Goa Pradesh Congress President (GPCC) Girish Chodankar complained that a decision on the disqualification of 10 party members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), who had defected to the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) last July has been kept pending since August 8, 2019.Chodankar stated in his plea that though the matter was heard at length in February before the lockdown restrictions, which were imposed from end-March to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, a decision is yet to be taken.Earlier on July 10, 2019, the 10 Congress MLAs, claiming to form two-third of the lawmakers from the party in the 40-member state assembly, merged their outfit with the BJP.Speaker Patnekar took note of the merger and on assembly records, showed them as BJP lawmakers. Later, Chandrakant Kavalekar, Jenniffer Monserrate, and Filipe Rodrigues were inducted as Cabinet ministers in the Pramod Sawant-led state government.On Tuesday, senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Gourab Banerjee, appeared in the SC on behalf of Chodankar, and informed the apex court’s three-member bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and also included Justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna, that no decision has been taken on the disqualification pleas filed against the 10 MLAs on August 8, 2019.They cited a recent judgment of the apex court in Keisham Meghachandra Singh vs. Hon’ble Speaker of the Manipur Legislative Assembly (2020), where the court held that disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution should be decided either within a reasonable timeframe or within three months.“It’s clear that the respondent (Goa Speaker) has deliberately restrained himself from deciding the disqualification petition and also the interim reliefs. Such deliberate inaction or indecision on the part of the respondent clearly amounts to a failure to exercise the jurisdiction conferred under Tenth Schedule of the Constitution,” the petition stated.Sibal urged the court to direct Goa Speaker Patnekar for expeditious disposal of the disqualification pleas within a month.The petition has also demanded the 10 MLAs be restrained from functioning as ministers and MLAs till their disqualification pleas are decided.The bench issued notice to the office of the Goa Speaker, while the next date of the hearing has been fixed after three weeks.The election to the Goa assembly was held in March 2017.Though the Congress emerged as the single-largest party with 17 MLAs, the BJP combined with other regional parties formed the government headed by chief minister Manohar Parrikar.However, the state plunged into political uncertainty after CM Parrikar passed away in March, 2019. Congress’s Atanasio Monserrate, also known as ‘Babush’ Monserrate, won the by-poll in May, 2019, which was held to fill the Panaji assembly seat that had fallen vacant because of Parrikar’s death. Two months later, Monserrate and nine other Congress lawmakers merged their outfit with the BJP.Speaker Patnekar conducted the first hearing of the case on October 15, 2019, and the last one in February before the lockdown restrictions came into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-goa-speaker-on-cong-s-disqualification-pleas/story-IBcQFZh6QkYgRIy4YmJU1K.html
16-06-2020||India||With cleaner rivers after lockdown, Bengal expects big Hilsa harvest||The 84-day lockdown may prove to be a boon for millions of fish-loving Bengalis, who eagerly wait for this time of the year for the queen of fish - the Hilsa - to arrive from the sea.Experts said that as pollution in the river Ganga and its tributaries is less this year because of the lockdown, it could attract schools of Hilsa to migrate upstream to breed.“This year we are expecting a good catch. All the industries were shut because of the lockdown and pollution is down in the River Hooghly. This could attract schools of Hilsa. Also the rains and other conditions have been favourable,” said a senior official of the state fishery department.HT had earlier reported that for the first time in many years, several stretches of the Ganga including Kolkata were conforming to Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) standards for the quality of river waters. The biological oxygen demand was less than 3 mg/l, dissolved oxygen was more than 4 mg/l and ph 6 to 9. The biological oxygen demand is the oxygen needed by the river to sustain life.The Hilsa, which usually spend their lives in the sea, migrate into the rivers to breed during this time of the year. If they don’t find good waters in the Hooghly (a tributary of the Ganga) they head for the rivers in Bangladesh skipping Bengal. In 2012 Bangladesh had imposed a ban on export of Hilsa to India. The ban was lifted in 2019. “Cyclone Amphan, which has left the state devastated, may also boost the Hilsa harvest. Cyclonic storms churn up minerals from the sea bed which would help in plankton production. Plankton being a fish food helps in attracting more fish,” said Utpal Bhowmik, a hisla expert and the former head of the riverine fishery division at Central Inland Fishery Research Institute.Every year major fishing activities remain suspended between April 15 and June 14 to protect the fishery resources and biodiversity during the breeding season. This year the ban was from March 25 when the countrywide lockdown was announced.“The extended fishing ban because of the lockdown will surely boost fish production. The fishermen are all ready to venture into the sea within a day or two. The ban has been lifted but the sea is rough because of bad weather. We are just waiting for the weather to clear,” said Abdar Mallik, secretary of Sagar Marine Matsya Khuti Cooperative Society, a fishermen forum in south Bengal.But there is an irony. Fishermen in the coastal districts of the Bengal pointed out that even though they are expecting a bounty this time because of the lockdown, cleaner water and good rains, cyclone Amphan has left them devastated.“Thousands of fishing boats have been damaged in the storm. We know there is a bounty out there in the sea but there are not enough boats to venture out. Many people have lost their boats,” said Pradip Chatterjee, convener of National platform for small scale fish workers. More than 8,000 fishing boats have been damaged in the cyclone of May 20, while 37,711 fishing nets have been damaged, according to government estimates. The administration is providing Rs 2,600 to the affected fishermen for damaged nets and Rs 5,000 who have lost their boats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-cleaner-rivers-after-lockdown-bengal-expects-big-hilsa-harvest/story-oLX7JuorYlqSto6hIgrzfI.html
16-06-2020||India||‘India stood by PM Modi in fight against Covid-19, Janta Curfew was an example’: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday addressed the Kerala Jan Samvad rally via video conferencing and said that the entire country has stood by PM Modi in fight against Covid-19.“Janata Curfew was an example. The entire country came together to follow PM Modi,” he said. Nadda added that the prime minister took various state governments in cooperation and, together with the citizens of the country, he chalked out the country’s battle plan against Covid-19. Nadda underscored the importance and efficacy of technology and digital platforms in facilitating virtual events amid the Covid-19 crisis. “The party was mobilised and galvanised to the very grassroot level amid Covid-19 crisis with the help of digital tools and virtual events,” he said. Nadda started his address by saying that the entire world, including India, is facing the corona crisis. He paid his respects and homage to those who lost their lives to Covid-19 and wished a speedy recovery to ones who are recovering or suffering from the contagion.The BJP president also lauded the tireless fight put up by thousands of ‘corona warriors’ of the country. This comes after defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday addressed Uttarakhand Jan Samvad virtual rally. During the virtual event, Singh talked about India’s ties with Nepal and said any misunderstanding between the nations will be resolved via dialogue.“India-Nepal ties are not ordinary, we are bound together by ‘roti-beti’ and no power in the world can break it,” Singh said on Monday.Nadda’s Kerala virtual rally comes in a series on rallies addressed by senior BJP leaders. Amit Shah addressed the first such virtual event earlier this month - Bihar Jan Samvad rally - which took place on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-party-was-mobilised-galvanised-to-grassroot-level-amid-covid-19-crisis-via-digital-medium-nadda-during-kerala-jan-samvad-rally/story-ZqeYde0yL9I262yoNT7gAJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Congress seeks answer from PM Modi over killing of Indian soldiers in clashes with China||Congress has accused the centre of ‘maintaining silence’ on the issue of violent border stand-off with China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh take the nation into confidence following the killing of three Indian Army personnel during the de-escalation at the line of actual control (LAC) with China on Monday night.An official statement posted on the party’s twitter handle, says the government must come forward to explain the circumstances of the latest development and lists four questions for the centre to answer.“Will the PM and the Rakhsa Mantri take the nation into confidence as to how could our officer and soldiers be killed as the Chinese were reportedly withdrawing from our territory in the Galwan valley? How and under what circumstances were our officer and soldiers martyred?” Congress asked in one of the questions.Earlier in the afternoon, the army issued a statement which said it had suffered multiple casualties, including that of an officer, in a “violent face off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army on Monday night in eastern Ladakh. It also added that there were casualties on both sides.It added that the incident happened during the de-escalation process in the Galwan valley.HT learns that the officer killed in the clashes last night was the commanding officer of the unit involved and that one of the other casualties is that of a JCO. These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.The army also said that “senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation”.Also Read: Indian, Chinese army officials hold meeting to defuse tension after face-off in LadakhAll the deaths are from thrown stones and rods that were used by the soldiers, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The army, however, did not comment on this.Also Read: Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA; casualties on both sidesThe Congress statement said that “in the last five decades not a single casualty or martyrdom of our soldiers has occurred or happened on the Indo-China border” and demanded that the prime minister takes the nation into confidence.“Will the Prime Minister and Defence Minister now come forward to tell the Nation as to how much of our territory has been illegally occupied by the Chinese, post April/May 2020, and what are the circumstances that have led to the killing of our brave officer and soldiers by the Chinese, instead of the Chinese being forced to retreat to their original position on ‘Line of Actual Control’? Will the Prime Minister come forward and take the nation into confidence,” asks the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-answer-from-pm-modi-over-killing-of-indian-soldiers-in-clashes-with-china/story-FmN8g0MMw4izCxECIQWaDM.html
16-06-2020||India||Delhi gets 300 isolation coaches from railways in fight against Covid-19||Delhi’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic will get a boost with the Northern Railways moving around 300 isolation coaches at the Anand Vihar terminal on Tuesday, ANI reported.“Only people with mild symptoms will be kept here. Management of coach and patient will be done by the state,” the Northern Railways chief public relations officer (CPRO) said.Earlier Tuesday, the Delhi government directed the Taj Man Singh hotel to provide all its rooms to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital with immediate effect for accommodating Covid-19 patients.The government order said that the central Delhi hotel will “isolate and place all its rooms at the disposal of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital for accommodating more number of Covid-19 patients.”The Delhi government has ordered other hotels also to be attached to hospitals in the wake of the rising numbers of Covid-19 patients. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stands at close to 43,000 which includes 1,400 casualties.Last week, the government estimated that the capital might need 5.5 lakh hospital beds for Covid-19 patients by the end of July.A high-level meeting on Sunday called by Union home minister Amit Shah decided on a slew of measures to boost the national capital’s capability to fight the Covid-19 pandemic amid rising numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gets-300-isolation-coaches-from-railways-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-SyQtms9NF2WTNHCxxewspN.html
16-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Army officials hold meeting amid escalating tension between India and China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian, Chinese army officials hold meeting to defuse tension after face-off in LadakhMilitary commanders of Indian and Chinese armies are meeting on Tuesday after India said one of its officers and two soldiers were killed in a “violent faceoff” in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, in the first such incident in over four decades between the neighbours. Read more‘India’s fight against Covid-19 will be remembered as example of cooperative federalism’: Highlights of PM Modi’s meeting with CMsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting with chief ministers and heads of 21 states and Union territories to discuss the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. Read moreAndhra budget session begins, CM Jagan Reddy attends assembly sans face maskThe two-day budget session of the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly began on Tuesday amid stringent restrictions imposed by the authorities in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreOptimistic doggo, Raleigh is letting everyone know what she’s worth by being the first one at the dinner tableHaving pets can teach you a lot of things like patience and responsibility. This doggo, however, can teach a lesson on optimism not just to her own hooman parents but all of us as well. A tweet about this pooch is going viral for the best reason and chances are it’ll leave you smiling from ear to ear. Read moreSteve Smith names Pakistan pacer as ‘most skilful’ bowler he has facedAustralian superstar Steven Smith is among the best batsmen of the current generation. There is no bowling attack or condition in the world that he hasn’t dominated. So, when he showers praise on a bowler it really means a lot. Read moreDeepika Padukone as a ‘prop’, racism, Assad’s wife: Diet Prada calls out Vogue’s most controversial momentsDiet Prada, the fashion watchdog that calls out copycat collaborators, stylists, designers and the original inspiration behind India’s Diet Sabya, has taken the lead in calling out big brands for their homophobic, racist and sexist behaviour towards their employees. Read more‘Sushant Singh Rajput cried a lot when he found out Paani has been shelved, we both did’: Shekhar KapurFilmmaker Shekhar Kapur, who was to work with Sushant Singh Rajput in his ambitious directorial venture Paani, said that he must be remembered for his films and performances. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-escalating-tension-india-chinese-army-officials-hold-meeting-to-defuse-tension-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lKdfWRHYmjz4rZXn57uyzJ.html
16-06-2020||India||‘India’s fight against Covid-19 will be remembered as example of cooperative federalism’: Highlights of PM Modi’s meeting with CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting with chief ministers and heads of 21 states and Union territories to discuss the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country. During the meeting, the prime minister reiterated the significance of “do gaj ki doori” and underscored the importance of maintaining social distancing. He said wearing masks, regular hand washing and use of hand sanitisers are of the utmost importance in the fight against Covid-19.  It has been few days, but Uttarakhand has done a lot of work in the direction of Atmanirbhar Bharat. We have injected more than Rs 300 crore projects. The industry which came to halt due to COVID19 has now resumed & over 90% of it is working: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat pic.twitter.com/yfrkJWsWOfPM Modi also said that with the beginning of ‘Unlock 1’, economic activities across the country have resumed and “green shoots have begun to be visible in the economy”. When India's fight against #COVID19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in meeting with CMs of 21 states & UTs via VC pic.twitter.com/OQLdN9YTdUThis was PM Modi’s sixth video conference with chief ministers of different states and Union territories (UTs) amid the coronavirus pandemic. The states and UTs attending Tuesday’s video conference include Punjab, Assam, Kerala Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Goa, Manipur, Nagaland, Ladakh, Puducherry, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was among the chief ministers who spoke during the interactive session and said that the state government has done a lot of work in the direction of achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Here are PM Modi’s top comments from today’s meeting:• The more we can stop corona, the more it will stop growing, the more our economy will open, our offices will open, markets will open, the means of transport will open, and so will new employment opportunities.• Because of the efforts made in the last few weeks, green shoots have begun to be visible in our economy.• When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism. Because of the efforts made in the last few weeks, green shoots have begun to be visible in our economy: Prime Minister Narendra Modi. pic.twitter.com/lz6Ysf7XRo• To even think of stepping out without a mask or face cover is not right at present. ‘Do gaj ki doori’, hand-washing and use of sanitisers is of utmost importance. With markets opening&people stepping out, these precautions are even more important.• For us the death of even one Indian is unsettling but it is also true that India is one of the countries where there have been least deaths due to Covid-19.•The Covid-19 recovery rate has gone above 50% in India.  2 weeks have passed since #Unlock1, our experience during this time could be beneficial for us in future. Today I will get to know ground reality from you, your suggestions will help in chalking out future strategy: PM in meeting with CMs of 21 states & UTs via VC #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/0NaHJoM1Qo•In the last few weeks, thousands of Indians returned to India from abroad and hundreds of migrant workers reached their home towns.• Almost all modes of transport have resumed operations, still, Covid-19 impact has not been that huge in India as in other parts of the world.• Two weeks have passed since Unlock-1, our experience during this time could be beneficial for us in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-fight-against-covid-19-will-be-remembered-as-example-of-cooperative-federalism-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-meeting-with-cms/story-bV1l7yjutY1pN5rC8UTOCP.html
16-06-2020||India||Monsoon arrives over north-western India, may reach Delhi early||Monsoon has advanced into parts of north-western India on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities. It has covered many parts of eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP), western and eastern Madhya Pradesh (MP), they added.IMD scientists are also expecting monsoon to arrive in the national capital, Delhi, earlier than normal, but they will confirm depending on how favourable conditions are for its advancement in the next four to five days.“It will be humid and hot with maximum temperature ranging from 40 to 43 degrees Celsius in most parts of north-western India, including Delhi, but there will be no heatwave condition. We are expecting the monsoon to pick up again from Friday due to the formation of a low-pressure system and advance towards western UP, it could even reach up to Noida around Friday or Saturday. But we cannot say if the onset of monsoon can be announced immediately,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).The normal date for the onset of monsoon over Delhi is June 27.The northern limit of monsoon (northernmost boundary up to which monsoon rains have advanced) is passing through Kandla, and Ahmedabad in Gujarat; Indore, Raisen, and Khajuraho in MP and Fatehpur, and Bahraich in UP.Monsoon has reached UP at least four to five days in advance, as compared to its normal track.“Monsoon has advanced well so far with help from a low-pressure area, which developed over the Bay of Bengal last week. The low-pressure system had moved inland from the Odisha coast and helped it advance bringing a lot of rain. Another low-pressure system is likely to develop over the north of the Bay of Bengal on Friday. These low-pressure systems move west by north-westwards. If it does develop, it will strengthen the monsoon and help it advance further,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre (NWFC).The low-pressure system, which had helped the monsoon flow advance all of next week, has weakened. There is unlikely to be any rain in the north-western parts of the country in the next three days, according to IMD.A cyclonic circulation is lying over eastern UP and a trough runs from north-western Rajasthan to the cyclonic circulation over eastern UP across southern Haryana and western UP. Under the influence of these two systems, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Konkan, Goa, and over central Maharashtra during the next two days.Rainfall intensity over eastern parts of the country is likely to increase and heavy to very rainfall is likely over the region, including sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, in the next two days. There will be widespread rain over Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, and Mizoram during the next five days, according to IMD’s bulletin on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-arrives-over-nw-india-may-reach-delhi-early/story-Apc5VonimxegoMSJheUZEK.html
16-06-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath to head UP commission to safeguard workers jobs, rights||Uttar Pradesh cabinet headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath has approved the setting up of a commission to safeguard the interests of workers amid the huge migrant exodus to the state after clamping of nationwide lockdown following the coronavirus outbreak in March this year, according to a PTI report.The proposal to set up the commission towards the end of May had generated political heat following Yogi Adityanath’s suggestion that the migrant labourers from the state were ill-treated in other states, which, he said may have to procure permission from UP to hire native workers in future. This had led to a sharp reaction from Maharashtra NavNirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray, who said Maharashtra, too, in that case should place restrictions on entry of workers from UP. Yogi Adityanath government had instructed officials to thrash out the contours of the commission on a war footing to ensure that the huge migrant workforce could be provided employment in the state and their interests safeguarded with an effective regulatory framework.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe commission has been named UP Kamgar Shramik Sewayojan Avam Rozgar Ayog and it will be headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath as its chairman and will also include two vice-chairpersons, state minister Siddhartnath Singh was quoted as saying by the agency.Close to 30 lakh migrant labourers have returned to UP after losing livelihoods during the lockdown. The state government is also busy carrying out an exercise for their skill mapping. An official spokesman had recently said that the skill suggested that the largest number of migrant workers have come from the real estate development sector.On June 5, Yogi Adityanath had said that around 42 lakh people were already absorbed in the state through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and others were getting enlisted for several construction projects that have resumed in the state. Also Read: As migrants’ return slows down, Covid-19 cases decline in Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and MP“A comprehensive project has been prepared by the state. Skill mapping of all migrants is being done including other youth and unemployed workforce. We are working together with industries, businesses to provide them jobs. Additionally, there is a bid to increase employment in other sectors like agriculture.” Adityanath said while speaking exclusively to Shashi Shekhar, the chief editor of Hindi daily Hindustan.He added that his government was committed to providing good healthcare and means of sustenance to all migrant workers apart from providing them with appropriate jobs.He added that the new commission will bring ministers, worker representatives and industry people on one platform with one common goal. He said the government was looking at the MSME sector and the allied agriculture sector as major potential employment providers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-to-head-up-commission-to-safeguard-workers-jobs-rights/story-79Rbyw0X0JoB4woLi4p7aO.html
16-06-2020||India||Green shoots in economy, 2-wheeler sales at 70% of pre-lockdown numbers: PM||India’s fight against coronavirus will serve as an example of “cooperative federalism”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underscored in a meeting with chief ministers to discuss how best to tackle the health crisis due to this pandemic. The PM also stressed that the economy has started to look up. The meeting comes in the backdrop of a “violent face off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army on Monday night in eastern Ladakh.“We are coming back to normalcy through unlock 1. If we follow, all the precautions and the SOPs, we will be able to battle it out with minimal damage. When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism,” said the PM at the start of the two-day meeting.With an “economic focus”, the Centre, what it dubbed Unlock 1, went about gradually opening the economy in a three-phased plan. The domestic flights have started resumption of services; the shopping malls, restaurants, places of worship have been opened. Metro services, however, remain shut. Public transport - buses, private cabs - too is available under the new guidelines. A lockdown is still in place in containment zones till June 30.“Despite our large population, we minimised the deaths and our recovery rate is 50%. That has become a point of discussion across the world,’’ he said.The more precautions the states took, Modi underlined, the better abled they would be to fight Covid-19, which would lead to greater opportunities for the economy to bounce back.“In the next few days, we should be able to take examples of the positive stories of economic activities from the states and replicate. We are seeing green shoots in the economy, power consumption, for instance has increased, the sale of two wheelers was now at 70% of pre-lockdown numbers,’’ said PM Modi. He also highlighted how agriculture sector, on the back of recent reforms, was playing its role in reviving the economy.Spotlighting that many people have returned to the country in the recent past, the PM said yet the impact of the coronavirus here is not “that huge” as compared to the world situation. “In the last few weeks, thousands of Indians returned to India from abroad and hundreds of migrant workers reached their hometowns. Almost all modes of transport have resumed operations, still Covid-19 impact has not been that huge in India as in other parts of the world,” said the PM. Speaking about the ‘unlocking’ process that began on June 1, the PM Modi said that the call for “do gaj ki doori” (social distancing) was crucial at this point along with wearing a face cover while stepping out. Individual experiences of states could be shared with each other so that there was collective learning, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-shoots-have-begun-to-be-visible-in-economy-pm-modi-to-chief-ministers/story-qCsI3LK4ZtyiYDhqAuNciJ.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Improvement in recovery rate indicates more than 50% of Covid-19 cases have recovered’: Ministry of Health||Over ten thousand people were cured from Covid-19 or were discharged from hospitals across the country in the last 24 hours, the Ministry of Health stated on Tuesday emphasizing the improving recovery rate in Covid-19 patients in India. As many as 10,215 coronavirus patients were cured in the last 24 hours, taking that national tally of total cured patients to 180,012 patients till date.  Also read: India sets up first mobile Covid-testing labDuring the last 24 hrs, 10215 #COVID19 patients were cured. Total 180012 patients, so far, have been cured. The recovery rate rises to 52.47%, which is indicative of the fact that more than half of positive cases have recovered from the disease: Ministry of Health&Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/jXGlERr3yHIndia, at present, has more number of Covid-19 recoveries than active cases. India’s Covid-19 recovery rate, as of Tuesday, stands at 52.47 percent. The ministry also stated that the improvement in coronavirus recovery rate is indicative of the fact that more than half of positive cases have recovered from the disease.So far, India has reported 343,091 coronavirus cases and is the fourth worst-hit country in the world after the US, Brazil and Russia. India’s Covid-19 death toll nears 10,000. Maharashtra leads the national Covid-19 tally with over one lakh cases. Mumbai accounts for over 50 percent of the coronavirus cases in the state. Tamil Nadu comes second with more than 46,000 cases with capital city Chennai accounting for nearly 70 percent of the total Covid-19 cases in the state. The national capital follows at the third spot with over 42,000 cases followed by Gujarat which has reported over 24,000 coronavirus cases till date. Uttar Pradesh recently overtook Rajasthan as the fifth worst-hit state and accounts for over 13,000 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/improvement-in-recovery-rate-indicates-more-than-50-of-covid-19-cases-have-recovered-ministry-of-health/story-Jk7Ys5uomGwuOonXuYNutJ.html
16-06-2020||India||US donates first tranche of 100 ventilators to India||The US government on Tuesday donated the first shipment of 100 state-of-the-art ventilators valued at almost $1.2 million to India to assist in its fight against Covid-19. The donation is part of President Donald Trump’s offer of critical supplies in response to India’s urgent needs, the US embassy said in a statement.The ventilators, made in the US, use leading edge technology and are compact and deployable. They will provide India with flexibility in treating patients affected by the Coronavirus, the statement said.The ventilators, part of the 200 machines the US intends to provide to India, were donated through the US Agency for International Development (USAID). USAID is working closely with Indian health ministry, Indian Red Cross Society and other stakeholders in both countries to assist in the delivery, transportation and placement of the ventilators in select healthcare facilities across the country.At an event to commemorate the arrival of the ventilators in India, US ambassador Kenneth Juster said: “The Covid-19 pandemic poses an unprecedented global health threat. It is only through partnership and cooperation that we will be able to ensure a healthy future for people across the world. “In this spirit, the US is pleased to provide the people of India with a donation of ventilators, made possible by the generosity of the American people and the innovation of American private industry.”USAID is also funding a support package for the ventilators that includes accompanying equipment, medical supplies, technical assistance and service plans.This donation builds on the $9.5 million that USAID and the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have committed to India in response to the pandemic. The assistance is helping to strengthen clinical care, disseminate essential health messages and improve disease surveillance.The US has been the world’s largest provider of bilateral assistance in healthcare. Since 2009, it has provided more than $100 billion in health assistance and nearly $70 billion in humanitarian assistance worldwide. Trump first announced the plan to donate the ventilators through a tweet on May 16, when he said the two sides were also working on developing a vaccine for Covid-19. The donation of ventilators also figured during Trump’s phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-donates-first-tranche-of-100-ventilators-to-india/story-Wa7XtWoKD4oHUfRJmVZKQM.html
16-06-2020||India||India sets up first mobile Covid-testing lab||India has set up its first mobile testing laboratory in a bid to meet the growing demand to conduct coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests. The laboratory can be deployed at remote and inaccessible areas in the country, where there is no such facility, even as the overall Covid-19 testing capacity has reached three lakh swab samples per day.The mobile laboratory belongs to the biosafety level 2 (BSL-II) category, which was created within eight days by a team from Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone Limited.BSLs are ranked from one to four and are categorised on the basis of the organisms that the researchers are dealing with. BSL-I is considered to be the least hazardous, while BSL-IV poses the maximum safety risk. Each level builds on the previous category, adding more layers of constraints and barriers.The organisms include viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites, etc. SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, belongs to the BSL-II category.“India’s first mobile I-lab flagged off from @AP_MedTechZone. Built in eight days flat, it is an on the wheel Bio-Safety Level-2 Lab with on-site Elisa, RtPCR & Bio-chem analysers. It can be readily deployed in the remotest locations. Kudos to the team,” tweeted Alok Kumar, a member of the Niti Aayog.The Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone Limited, spread over 270 acres, is a dedicated zone to medical device manufacturing and was inaugurated by the Andhra government two years ago.The facility aims to put India on the global map of high-end medical equipment production and make healthcare products affordable and accessible not only in the country, but also the world at large.It also has set a target for reducing the cost of manufacturing up to 40% and also minimising the import dependency for the country, which is currently pegged at around 75%.However, over the past few months, the zone is producing several items that are key to the treatment of Covid-19 patients, including test kits and ventilators.India has been constantly ramping up its Covid-19 testing capacity since the viral outbreak first came to light in end-January after a medical student came back to her native Kerala from Wuhan, the epicentre of the pandemic in central China.Earlier, a single laboratory under the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune could conduct about 2,500 tests a day in February.Now, 907 laboratories – 659 and 248 in the government and private sectors, respectively, – across the country are conducting tests of around three lakh swab samples a day.“Though the turnaround time for a report varies, usually, we try to give it within 48 hours,” said a senior microbiologist in one of the government-run laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests.So far, 59,21,069 swab samples have been tested since January 22, including 1,54,935 in the past 24 hours.The Centre has reviewed the situation in the national capital, which has reported around 10,000 fresh Covid-19 positive cases over the past five days and each of its 11 districts in Delhi has been assigned a set of laboratories to conduct tests.“The swab samples from each of these 11 districts in Delhi are being sent to these laboratories to ensure timely testing and making the results available without any delay. At present, Delhi has 42 laboratories, which have a combined testing capacity of around 17,000 samples a day,” said a statement by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sets-up-first-mobile-covid-testing-lab/story-YvtNiwZnoUJlo6nMHl0SAM.html
16-06-2020||India||Shocking and unacceptable, says Congress on Indian Army casualties in Ladakh||The Congress has described the death of Indian soldiers in a violent face-off in eastern Ladakh as shocking, unbelievable and unacceptable.“Shocking, Unbelievable & Unacceptable! Will the Raksha Mantri confirm?,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted. Congress Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor said the development was “tragic news” and needed “resolute handling” by the government.“The tragic news from Ladakh is shocking & calls for resolute handling by our Govt. Meanwhile let us bow our heads in tribute to the three martyrs who gave their lives to protect India, & honour those who serve on our borders every day, risking their lives for our nation,” Tharoor said in a tweet.The clash in Ladakh came weeks after the stand-off began.Earlier on Tuesday, the army said in a statement that it had suffered multiple casualties, including that of an officer, in a “violent face off” with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday night in eastern Ladakh. It also said that there were casualties on both sides.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation after the clash on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), along with the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs.The clash in Ladakh came a day after Singh in a virtual rally that focused on Jammu and Kashmir said India and China want to resolve the stand-off between their border troops through dialogue. At the same time, he underlined that the government will never compromise on national pride and that India is no longer a weak nation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-and-unacceptable-says-congress-on-indian-army-casualties-in-ladakh/story-XV6VgvojORsyJLU0WUHVvK.html
16-06-2020||India||Andhra budget session begins, CM Jagan Reddy attends assembly sans face mask||The two-day budget session of the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly began on Tuesday amid stringent restrictions imposed by the authorities in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Majority of the members attended the session wearing face masks and special seating arrangements were made in the House to ensure adequate social distancing among the members.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, some of his cabinet colleagues, however, were seen without the face masks.Members of the opposition Telugu Desam Party, led by N Chandrababu Naidu, attended the session by wearing black dress to protest against the alleged witch-hunting of the party leaders by the state government by arresting senior TDP leaders in the last few days.For the first time in the history of any state legislature in the country, Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan addressed the members of the legislative assembly as well as legislative council through video conferencing from Raj Bhavan.Unlike in the past when the members of the assembly and council used to sit in the same hall to be jointly addressed by the Governor, this time the house authorities ensured that the members of the upper and lower houses sat in their respective houses, as the Governor’s speech was beamed live on the big screens.The Governor said the state government was committed to the decentralisation of administration so as to ensure uniform development of all the regions in the state. He asserted that the executive capital would be shifted to Visakhapatnam, while Amaravati would be retained as legislative capital and Kurnool would be made judicial capital.“At present, the three capitals bill is pending in the legislative process. I am confident that the bill would be approved soon,” he said.The state’s economy, the Governor added, had shown tremendous resilience within the context of a global slowdown, even in pre-Covid-19 times. Andhra Pradesh registered an economic growth rate of 8.16% in 2019-20, the Governor said, adding this is above the national average of 5% over the same period.The Governor also touched upon the development and welfare programmes initiated by the state government in the last one year in tune with the Navaratnalu (nine jewels) – a set of nine promises made in the election manifesto of the YSR Congress party.On the steps taken to fight the Covid-19 menace, the Governor impressed upon the house that the government has been taking stringent measures to contain the spread of the disease by stepping up tests and bringing down the death rate.Apart from sanitising every seat in the assembly and council halls, the health department authorities conducted Covid-19 tests on the MLAs and MLCs who had not undergone the tests earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-budget-session-begins-cm-jagan-reddy-in-assembly-sans-face-mask/story-i6YLf6vS0okX2yMP2iGhXJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Taj Man Singh taken over for Covid care after Hotel Surya and Crowne Plaza||Delhi government has directed capital’s premier Taj Man Singh hotel to isolate all their rooms and place them at the disposal of Sir Gangaram Hospital with immediate effect for accommodating Coved 19 patients, according to news agency ANI.The decision of the government follows efforts to hike capital’s capacity to treat coronavirus patients that is expected to rise to 5.5 lakh mark by the end of July and it comes on a day when the Delhi High Court allowed Delhi government to use premises of two other premium hotels in the city as temporary Coved-19 treatment facilities. An expert committee of doctors on Monday told the high court that it was both advisable and infrastructurally feasible to use hotel Surya and hotel Crowne Plaza as extended Covid-19 treatment centres. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and V K Paul, Member of the Niti Aayog also submitted a report to the court on the matter.The expert panel said Hotel Surya’s three huge banquet halls could easily accommodate around 50-60 patient beds and Hotel Crowne Plaza’s banquet hall could accommodate around 25 beds. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe committee’s report, however, found the guest rooms unsuitable for treating patients as they were not designed to have oxygen supply, patient monitoring devices and nurse call system.The hotels had raised objections to Delhi government’s order issued on May 29 and June 2 respectively to attach Surya and Crowne Plaza hotels to Indraprastha Apollo Hospital and Batra Hospital respectively.Apart from fears that it may impact their business, they had cited presence of air conditioning, lack of large lifts for stretchers and bio-waste disposal along with safety concerns for hotels’ work force. Also Read: Delhi govt asks Taj Man Singh hotel to provide rooms for Covid-19 patientsThey have also raised concerns regarding the compensation, timely payment, supply of PPE kits and staff availability.The attachment of hotels to hospitals in the city is part of a government plan to augment health infrastructure to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Apart from hotels, the government is also looking to turn stadiums, banquet halls and other open public spaces as Covid-care centres to ease the pressure on city’s public hospitals that currently have fewer than 10,000 designated beds for treatment of coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-man-singh-taken-over-for-covid-care-even-as-hotel-surya-and-crowne-plaza-contest-order/story-tKzhbSXTpoKz2nzwwglwNI.html
16-06-2020||India||Thane: 34-year-old dies while crossing railway track||A fish vendor (34) died after he hit by a local train at around 9.15am on Tuesday, while he was trying to cross a railway track between Kalwa and Thane.The Government Railway Police (GRP) authorities said that the deceased has been identified as Rizwan Abdul Shaikh, who was on his way to Mumbra to start the day’s business. The accident occurred near the Parsik tunnel, they added.“Shaikh was trying to cross the track, when a local train hit him. His body has been sent for post-mortem examination and his family members have been informed,” said Smita Dahke, senior inspector, GRP, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-34-year-old-dies-while-crossing-railway-track/story-YBGpIyRgQPbFcb7EJEOodP.html
16-06-2020||India||Gadget addiction among children during lockdown a cause of concern: Study||A study conducted by Jaipur-based JK Lone Children’s Hospital has found that the lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, have had an adverse impact on the physical, mental and emotional health of the impressionable minds, resulting in an addiction to electronic devices, obesity, and an irritable behavioural pattern.The study, which was conducted online across 30 Indian cities, has concluded that the children’s addiction to electronic devices during the lockdown increased up to three times, as they spent between two and five hours a day on their favourite gadgets.The survey revealed that 65% of the children became addicted to electronic devices, while 50% of them couldn’t stay away from their gadgets for even half an hour.A rise in incidences of no mobile phone phobia was also observed.“Children were found to be flying into a fit of rage, uncontrollable crying, disobedience to their parents, and also displayed irritable behavioural pattern, if they were told to lay off their electronic devices,” said Dr. Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent and senior professor at JK Lone Hospital. Dr. Gupta was the guiding force behind the study, which also included other doctors from the hospital such as Dr. Ramesh Chaudhary, Dr. Dhanraj Bagri, Dr. Kamlesh Agarwal, Dr. Vivek Athwani, and Dr. Anil Sharma.Dr. Gupta said it has been proven worldwide that the mental and physical development of children’s faculties is hindered due to excessive use of electronic devices. India might face a similar problem, he warned.The study said children’s linguistic skills, power of critical and analytical thinking would be vastly reduced because of their growing addiction to electronic devices.It urged parents and policymakers to be aware of this emerging trend of addiction to electronic devices and limit e-learning, as it cannot be a viable substitute for the traditional way of classroom teaching.The online survey was conducted from June 1 to 15 and the sample size was 203 respondents from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Alwar, Kota, Ganganagar, Sikar, Churu, Nagaur, and Bharatpur in Rajasthan and other big cities such as the Delhi-national capital region (NCR), Kolkata, Mumbai, Agra, Lucknow, and Chandigarh.Two-thirds of the respondent parents said they had noticed changes in their children’s behavioural patterns and habits during the lockdown restrictions.Complaints of daytime sleepiness and tiredness, headache, irritability, weight gain, back pain, etc; have been observed among their children.Also, 45% of the children have had difficulty sleeping at night because of reduced physical activity and a simultaneous uptick in addiction to electronic devices.The study found that the average sleep duration for the children during lockdown was 8.7 hours per day. Up to 7% of children’s bedtime anxiety increased by 32%. While the incidence of uncontrolled anger and tantrums rose by 30% among the children.Many respondent parents have expressed their reservations about e-learning. Around 33% of respondents said they didn’t see any improvement in the level of their children’s education and 19% felt that there was a dip in the standard, as compared to before.About 38% of the respondents had to buy new electronic devices for their children to attend online classes, which put a financial burden on them.Dr. Gupta, however, advocated a two-way interaction between teachers and students and emphasised on holding practical classes.“Over 50% of the schools share one-way pre-recorded or live videos to conduct online classes,” he added.Also, at least 83% of the respondent parents supervised their children’s studies and home tasks during the lockdown and 66% of the students did self-study at home. While 92% of the respondent parents gave consent to the schools to hold online classes.Mobile phones emerged as the most preferred medium for virtual teaching, which was between one and eight hours a day.There have been some positive spin-offs of online classes for the children, including a greater focus on self-study and value for time, exploring new technological tools, and showing greater affection to their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadget-addiction-among-children-during-lockdown-a-cause-of-concern-study/story-2Y2HmdPNnEVtZC6NBJWdzN.html
16-06-2020||India||Air India security officer succumbs to Covid-19||A 55 year old security official employed with Air India succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday after fighting a long battle against the virus.Leela Dhar Joshi tested positive for Covid-19 on May 25 during his pre-medical test done before clearance to operate the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indians stranded in foreign countries. The officer was supposed to be on flights AI 1969 and AI 1970 on the Delhi- Cairo - Delhi sector on May 29.Joshi was admitted to BL Kapoor hospital in New Delhi, a day after he was found to be positive. Senior officials of the national carrier said that the officer was on ventilator for the last few days before his passing. The officer breathed his last on Monday and his body was released from the hospital on Tuesday morning, following which his cremation rituals were completed.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe airline official quoted above said, “The 55 year old officer was down with fever and had applied for leave when he was posted in the cargo section. His leaves were however not approved by his seniors.” A comment from Air India was awaited at the time of the filing of the report.A couple of days ago on Sunday, a 42-year old passenger onboard Air India’s AI 906 flight from Lagos in Nigeria headed to Mumbai had died onboard.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Earlier on June 5, a 58-year-old Air India pilot, who retired in April this year, died due to suspected Covid-19 infection.On May 31, an Air India flight from Delhi to Moscow with no passenger on-board was asked to return midway after it was realised that one of the pilots of the plane had tested positive for coronavirus.Earlier in May, Air India’s Delhi office was sealed after one of the staff members tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-security-officer-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-7RhmuGfdvwCx6QJ3iu2gsO.html
16-06-2020||India||4 minors accidentally lock themselves in a car, 2 die of suffocation||Two of four children, all aged between four to seven years, who locked themselves inside a car while playing in Mundha Pande area have died, police said on Monday.“All four children were found unconscious in a car and they were taken to the hospital. Two of them died and the other two are undergoing treatment at the hospital,” said Amit Kumar Anand, SP (city) Moradabad.All the four children are cousins, the said.“They locked themselves inside the car. When we reached, the children were in an unconscious state. Two of the four children died. The incident occurred at around 8 am,” said a local who owned the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-minors-accidentally-lock-themselves-in-a-car-2-die-of-suffocation/story-Gg4EKQSusuyCvIqmn5hirI.html
16-06-2020||India||After Sonia’s letter on fuel price hike, Rahul’s message to PM Modi||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday slammed the central government over fuel price hike during Covid-19 crisis and said that these “tragic times” call for the money to be put “directly in the hands of the middle class and the poor”.  “PM Modi, these tragic times dictate putting money directly in the hands of middle class and poor. STOP profiteering from their misery,” Gandhi tweeted out on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and called the fuel price hike move amid the Covid-19 crisis “insensitive”.  PM Modi, these tragic times dictate putting money directly in the hands of middle class and poor. STOP profiteering from their misery. #ModiStopLootingIndia pic.twitter.com/g7wRhBWJxf“I am deeply distressed that in these exceedingly difficult times since the beginning of March, the government has taken the wholly insensitive decision to increase petrol and diesel prices on no less than ten separate occasions,” Sonia Gandhi’s letter read.She urged the Prime Minister to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit of low oil prices directly to the citizens of this country.“If you want citizens to be self-reliant then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward,” she wrote.The opposition party demands the Centre that the benefit of low international crude oil prices be passed on to the consumers and wants the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG be reduced to the August 2004 level.Fuel prices were raised for the tenth day in a row on Tuesday by state-run oil marketing companies even as crude oil rates have come down to multi-year lows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sonia-s-letter-on-fuel-price-hike-rahul-s-message-to-pm-modi/story-rdpjteBctx5mRwNrz3h34N.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Don’t have daring to visit Mumbai right now’: Union minister Nitin Gadkari||Don’t have “any daring” to go to Mumbai at present, admitted Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday as the coronavirus cases spiral in the metropolitan city. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state by the raging coronavirus, reported 2,786 new Covid-19 cases on Monday to take the state’s tally to 1,10,744, the state health department said. Financial capital Mumbai recorded 1,067 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the city’s tally of Covid-19 positive patients to 59,293.WATCH | ‘Don’t have daring to come to Mumbai’: Union minister Nitin Gadkari“I don’t have any daring to come to Mumbai right now, the way in which the situation is now. I feel the time will definitely change,” the minister said while addressing MSME and Infrastructure-Paving the growth path in Post-COVID World event.Nitin Gadkari, who holds the portfolios of road transport and highways and micro, small and medium enterprises, is a member of Parliament from Maharashtra’s Nagpur.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to meet chief ministers over the course of today and tomorrow to discuss the way forward and how best to deal with the pandemic. In the scheduled talks, Maharashtra gets to participate tomorrow. Mumbai’s ‘lifeline’ was back on track after being suspended for nearly three months as the Railways on Monday resumed suburban train services for ferrying essential staff.Last week, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ruled out the return of a strict lockdown to stem the rise in coronavirus cases. He has appealed to the people to strictly follow existing Covid-19-related restrictions to keep the spread of the highly contagious disease in check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-have-daring-to-visit-mumbai-right-now-union-minister-nitin-gadkari/story-gh2WUpv3qZRsgpmhSpKRBL.html
16-06-2020||India||Everest scaling Premlata Agrawal’s Padma Shri Award stolen in Jamshedpur||Miscreants allegedly stole Premlata Agrawal’s prestigious Padma Shri award from her house in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand on Monday, her husband Vimal Agrawal informed on Monday evening. Agrawal is India’s oldest woman to climb Mount Everest. Her husband filed a complaint with the police, a copy of which is with the HT, alleging that the thieves also stole Rs 20,000, 15 silver coins and two computer hard discs containing the videos and photos of his wife’s achievements and award-winning moments. The incident happened around 5 am.Also read: China’s survey team summits Mt Everest to remeasure its height“The thieves got into the house last night and took away my wife Premlata Agrawal’s Padma Shri Award along with Rs 20,000 in cash 15 silver coins and two computer hard discs containing videos and photos of her precious memories. Police team led by city Superintendent of police Subhas Chandra Jat had visited the spot – my 71, KD Flat house – with the dog squad this morning. The Inspector General and Kolhan Deputy inspector general of police too have taken cognizance of the incident. We are happy with the progress of the investigation,” said Vimal Agrawal. Vimal said the family was not present at their 71, KD Flat house as they had stayed the night in their new house on Marine Drive under Sonari PS area. “Half of the materials were shifted to our house in Marine Drive and the remaining materials were at our Kadma-based house. The thieves seemed to have exploited our absence at the house last night,” said Vimal, adding that he has lodged a written complaint with the Kadma Police Station.Leading mountaineer Premalata Agrawal was conferred the Padma Shri Award in 2013 and the National Adventure Award in 2017 among many other national and international awards. She became the oldest Indian woman to scale the world’s highest peak, Mt Everest, on May 20, 2011, at the age of 48.At 50, she became the first Indian woman ever to conquer the top peaks of all the seven continents, popularly called the ‘Seven Summits’ after climbing Alaska’s McKinley Peak on May 23, 2013. With this, she became the first Indian woman mountaineer to step on the highest peak of North America. Being a housewife and the mother of two was hardly an obstacle for her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everest-scaling-premlata-agrawal-s-padma-shri-award-stolen-in-jamshedpur/story-nREZwIuYziH4gMH5IFzCpM.html
16-06-2020||India||Aggressive testing, fewer returning migrants: Why 4 states see a drop in new Covid-19 cases||The number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly in the country. But there are four states - Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh - which are reporting a decline in the rate of new infections.These states have seen the rate of increase drop by nearly two per cent, giving relief to local authorities.Three of these states are the biggest source of migrant workers in the country. The number of Covid-19 cases starting swelling here when these workers started returning home due to the Covid-19 lockdown.There were fears that these migrants will take the pandemic to rural areas, which has very poor health infrastructure as compared to urban areas. So, the state governments kept the returning workers in quarantine for a period ranging from seven to 21 days.But now, since the number of migrants returning to home states has fallen, the rate of Covid-19 spread has also slowed down.“Most migrant workers have reached their home destinations. We continue to coordinate with the state governments to send back remaining migrant workers,” Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav said on Monday. Indian Railways has been running Shramik Special trains to ferry these migrants to their home states from different parts of the country.The railways had ferried over 60 lakh migrant workers in 4,450 Shramik special trains since May 1.In Bihar, the number of Covid-19 cases increased to 6,581 on June 15 from 3,923 on June 1. But, the rate of increase was 10.81 per cent in the second week of June as compared to about 12 per cent in the first week.According to Bihar public relations department, around 2.1 million workers have returned to Bihar since May 1, when the Shramik Special trains started. Of them, only 2,50,000 came in two week of June. Anupam Kumar, Bihar’s public relations secretary, said that the state government expects the cases to go down as very few workers are likely to return from this week onwards.State Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said that the state has ramped up its testing capacity with facilities installed in all the 38 districts. The number of samples tested till Monday was 1.27 lakh, he added.The Uttar Pradesh government’s health data shows that the weekly average of increase in the Covid-19 cases in the first week of June was 412 cases per day, which reduced to 356 cases per day in the second week. The state has deployed 1.21 lakh-strong surveillance teams to gather samples and test them. “These teams have surveyed over 92 lakh homes and covered 4.69 crore people,” Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.The second week of Unlock 1 that began June 1 has brought some reprieve for Jharkhand as well. The pandemic’s growth trajectory peaked on June 8 when the state recorded the highest ever single-day spike of 187 new cases. It took a downward trend thereafter with on average 50 cases per day being reported in the last four days. From 610 cases on May 31, the state’s tally on June 15 had increased to 1,151 cases.In Madhya Pradesh, the number of new cases recorded has fallen from 1,424 in last week of May to 1,401 in second week of June. The reason for this is just 54,282 workers came back to the state in June as compared to over three lakh in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-fewer-returning-migrants-why-4-states-see-a-drop-in-new-covid-19-cases/story-HqBxbPrdl8B042SAQx8diL.html
16-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 cases decline in Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and MP amid slowdown in migrants’ return and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As migrants’ return slows down, Covid-19 cases decline in Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and MPFor the first time in the past one week, eastern and central states, which received most of the returning migrant workers, have witnessed a decline in the number of the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since May 1, shows data. Read moreFurious at torture of 2 staffers, India considers reducing mission strength in PakIndia could consider reducing its diplomatic presence in Pakistan in light of the abduction and torture of two high commission staffers who had stepped out on Monday, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read moreKangaroo fell into a mine shaft. Watch how it was rescuedIn today’s edition of happy animal rescue, a kangaroo was rescued from a mineshaft that it fell in thanks to a bunch of nice people. A video of the animal’s rescue was shared live and has since been collecting several appreciative reactions. Read more100 days of Covid-19 moments: Living through the long waitThe extroverts have settled in, the introverts are reaching out. The plates are piling up in the sink even as everyone’s fed up of home cooking. See how one hundred days of pandemic life has changed us in unexpected ways. Read moreSaif Ali Khan calls Bollywood’s sudden love for Sushant Singh Rajput ‘ultimate hypocrisy’, says ‘that’s an insult to the dead’Saif Ali Khan is angry about the film industry’s sudden outpouring of love for Sushant Singh Rajput after his death on Sunday. He feels that a day of silence would be more appropriate than the ‘hypocrisy’ of pretending to care. Read moreNokia 5310 XpressMusic phone launched in India: Check price, specificationsThe 2020 version of the Nokia 5310 XpressMusic phone is official in India. The new feature phone comes in a new avatar but keeps the iconic dedicated music buttons. Read moreRohit, Gayle, AB de Villiers don’t have ability to rotate strike like Kohli: GambhirWhen Chris Gayle demolishes bowling attacks or Rohit Sharma pulls the fast bowler off his front deep into the stands or when AB de Villiers nonchalantly scoops and reverse sweeps to collect boundaries easily, they look terrific. Read moreCovid-19: Centre tells states to draw up rates for private hospitalsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, Centre tells states to draw up rates for private hospitals, PM to begin sixth round of consultations with states today, lockdown back in Chennai and more. Watch to know more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-cases-decline-in-bihar-up-jharkhand-and-mp-amid-slowdown-in-migrants-return-and-all-the-latest-news/story-9AOb38uwRao6EadJ6uhtWK.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Partnership and cooperation’: India receives first lot of 100 ventilators from US to battle Covid-19 crisis||US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster on Tuesday handed over the first lot of 100 ventilators from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to India at the headquarters of the Indian Red Cross in Delhi. Describing the Covid-19 pandemic to have posed an unprecedented global threat to all, Juster said that a healthy future can only be ensured through “partnership and cooperation”. Also read: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in hospital due to high fever, Covid-19 test todayDelhi: US Ambassador to India Ken Juster hands over the first lot of 100 ventilators from USAID (United States Agency for International Development) to India at the headquarters of the Indian Red Cross pic.twitter.com/3qLRE6VdYE“In the spirit of cooperation, the US government, through the Agency for International Development, is pleased to provide the Indian people with a donation of 200 ventilators and today. We are pleased to handover the first tranche of 100 ventilators to the Indian Red Cross,” he said. The first lot of ventilators arrived on Monday from Chicago, US and are manufactured by Zoll US-based firm.“On Monday, about 100 ventilators are arriving from the United States as a donation. Ventilators would come to India by Air India flight. This is entirely managed by the India Red Cross Society,” a senior government official told news agency ANI.Last month, in a tweet, US President Trump had said, “I am proud to announce that the United States will donate ventilators to our friends in India. We stand with India and@narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!”PM Modi thanked President Trump and tweeted, “In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from Covid-19”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partnership-and-cooperation-india-receives-first-lot-of-100-ventilators-from-us-to-battle-covid-19-crisis/story-RSqNcFRyLvqihGuyB4pSfP.html
16-06-2020||India||Over 90 terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir this year: IG Vijay Kumar||Security forces have killed 94 terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir so far this year, Kashmir’s inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday.Kumar’s comments came after three local terrorists were gunned down during a gun battle in Turkuwagan village of south Kashmir’s Shopian district earlier in the day. “We will ask people, who are claiming to be their parents, to come and identify the bodies. It was a clean operation, there was no collateral damage,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on encounter in Shopian.“Our focus now will be on north Kashmir,” Kumar added.The so-called commander of the Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) Adil Ahmad Wani and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) cadre Shaheen Ahmad Thoker were killed on May 25 at Khud Hanjipora Kulgam while Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander Parvaiz Ahmad Pandith and JeM commander Shakir Ahmed Itoo were neutralised on May 30 at Wanpora Kulgam.Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group commander Aaqib Ramzan Wani and Awanitpora JeM commander Mohammad Maqbool Chopan killed on June 2 at Saimoo Tral Awantipora.According to sources, on June 3, in a major breakthrough JeM top commander Fauji Bhai, who was a resident of Pakistan, HM top commander Manzoor Ahmad Kar, JeM commander Javaid Ahmad Zargar were neutralised at Kangan Pulwama.HM’s “top commander” Ishfaq Ahmad Itoo, JeM top commander Owais Ahmad Malik were killed on June 7 at Reban in Shopian. Three HM “commanders”, Adil Ahmad Mir, Bilal Ahmad Bhat and Sajad Ahmad Wagay, were also neutralised in the same encounter.On June 7, HM’s “operation commander” Umer Mohiuddin Dhobi, LeT’s “top commander” Rayees Ahmad Khan along with HM’s “commanders Saqlain” Ahmad Wagay and Wakeel Ahmad Naikoo were eliminated in Reban.Apart from Fauji Bhai, all terrorists were local residents of Jammu and Kashmir and most of them were from Shopian, Kulgam and Pulwama districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-90-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-this-year-ig-vijay-kumar/story-WSN0chMkmHl8cRn0oBHOdK.html
16-06-2020||India||Furious at torture of 2 staffers by Pak’s ISI, India to put downgrade in ties on table||India could consider reducing its diplomatic presence in Pakistan in light of the abduction and torture of two high commission staffers who had stepped out on Monday, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The two staffers were abducted by about 15 armed men from a petrol station in Islamabad’s upscale locality a short distance from the Indian mission, tortured for hours and framed for a road accident before being released. They have extensive injury marks to their neck, face, thighs and backNew Delhi has not formally reacted to the abduction and torture of its staffers.In their debriefing to Indian high commission officials, the two abducted staffers spoke extensively about their torture, the “scripted” confessions that they were forced to record on video and the threats that were hurled at them.Also Read: Beaten with rods, made to drink filthy water: 2 Indian staffers were tortured in Pak“The abductors, who we believe were from Pakistan’s ISI (Inter Services Intelligence), repeatedly told them this is the treatment that would be meted out to other mission officials as well in future,” a government source said.If the government of Pakistan cannot deliver on its commitment under the Vienna Convention to ensure the safety of Indian diplomats, Indian diplomats cannot possibly discharge their responsibilities. It would be natural, under the circumstances, to consider if India should scale down its presence to the bare essentials, a government source told Hindustan Times.Besides, Pakistan watchers in Delhi said Indian high commission officials could hardly move out of the mission due to fear that they would be picked up. In contrast, Pakistani officials in Delhi have been going around freely, some of them even tapping people for classified information. Two of them were expelled on May 31 for espionage.Since the strength of diplomatic missions are decided on a reciprocal basis, it would mean that Islamabad would also have to prune its strength in New Delhi if India pulls back some diplomats.Pakistan had last August downgraded diplomatic ties after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and carved out two centrally-administered union territories. The missions of the two countries have since then been headed by a charge d’affaires, not a high commissioner.Officials said the line of questioning that the two staff members, both drivers, were subjected to while in custody of the ISI on Monday indicated that this may not be the last such incident. They were interrogated about the specific role and function of all high commission officials, down to the most junior staffers and tortured to confess that alleged intelligence officials at the commission would get them to bring people hidden in the cars for meetings in the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/furious-at-torture-of-2-staffers-india-considers-reducing-mission-strength-in-pak/story-CaAfvJK4qCHd9EDe4jfKoM.html
16-06-2020||India||As Sushant Singh Rajput’s death sparks conversation around mental health, Shashi Tharoor makes an important point||All such tragedies should be approached with empathy and taken as an opportunity to educate ourselves about mental health issues, Congress MP and senior leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted on Tuesday as the country mourns the passing away of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Tharoor said that “those who have not endured mental illness have no idea what its victims are going through”. The Congress MP shared a snippet on depression written by late author David Foster Wallace who lost his life in 2008. Wallace’s write-up talks about depression and the act of suicide. “The person in whom its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from a window of a burning high-rise,” part of the extract tweeted by Tharoor read. Also read: Vivek Oberoi shares details of Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral, calls it a ‘wake-up call’ for film industryThose who have not endured mental illness have no idea what its victims are going through. We should all approach such tragedies w/empathy &use this opportunity to educate ourselves on this issue. Brilliant lines from author David FosterWallace whom we lost to depression in 2008: pic.twitter.com/4pDn8GcF5YThe news of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide sent shockwaves across the country. The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his apartment in Bandra (West) on Sunday. His last rites took place in Mumbai on Monday amid family, close friends and colleagues from the film industry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, amid scored of leaders, and eminent personalities, condoled the passing away of Rajput and described him as “a bright young actor gone too soon”.“He excelled on TV and in films. His rise in the world of entertainment inspired many and he leaves behind several memorable performances,” PM Modi tweeted.The actor wrote an emotional Instagram post dedicated to his late mother earlier this month. “Blurred past evaporating from teardrops, unending dreams carving an arc of smile and a fleeting life, negotiating between the two,” he wrote in his last post.Rajput’s passing away has sparked a dialogue around mental health and wellness across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-sparks-conversation-around-mental-health-shashi-tharoor-makes-an-important-point/story-xcFwweL5hgeiVZHiGiHlVN.html
16-06-2020||India||As migrants’ return slows down, Covid-19 cases decline in Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and MP||For the first time in the past one week, eastern and central states, which received most of the returning migrant workers, have witnessed a decline in the number of the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since May 1, shows data.This has come as a big relief to the respective state governments amid fears that the returning migrants would push the Covid-19 cases in the regions and take the pandemic to rural areas, which has very poor health infrastructure as compared to urban places.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile state governments kept the returning workers in quarantine for a period ranging from seven to 21 days, officials said the declining trend was because of a fall in the number of migrants returning home in the first and second week of June. “The peak of returning migrant workers is over,” Lokesh Kumar Singh, Bihar’s health secretary, said.Singh’s comment sums up the situation in the states that received a large number of migrant workers and is corroborated by the figures of the railways ministry, which has reduced the operations of its Shramik Special trains from June 15 as the demand from the states went down. In Bihar, the number of Covid-19 cases increased to 6,581 on June 15 from 3,923 on June 1. Although the total number of cases had steadily increased, the pace has slowed down in the past few days, Singh said. As compared to about 12% increase in cases in the first week of June, there was 10.81% rise in the second week.According to Bihar’s public relations department, around 2.1 million workers have returned to the state since May 1, when the Shramik trains started, and of them, only 250,000 came during the first two weeks of June.“Most of the migrant workers who have arrived by Shramik Special trains to Bihar between May 3 and June 11 have completed their mandatory quarantine period,” Anupam Kumar, Bihar’s public relations secretary, said. As on Monday, Kumar said, only 6,082 workers were in quarantine centres and others were back in their homes after completing the 14-day mandatory isolation. He added that the state expects the cases to go down as very few workers are expected to return from this week onwards.The situation is no different in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, where three million workers have returned since mid-April and which led to a spike in Covid-19 cases in eastern and western parts, the two regions, from where many people go for work to other states. After their return, almost half of them have been medically screened for Covid-19.The UP government’s health department data shows that the weekly average of the rise in the Covid-19 infections in the first week of June was 412 cases per day, which reduced to 356 cases per day in the second week.“Over 500 cases were reported on Saturday and Sunday because of the results of the pending test reports coming. Otherwise, the pace of increase in cases in on the downward trend,” Amit Mohan Prasad, the principal secretary of the health and family welfare, said. Prasad said health workers had screened 1.6 million migrants, who are under home quarantine, till June 14 and only 1,455 of them had symptoms of the disease. “Samples of those who had shown symptoms have been taken,” he said.The second week of Unlock 1 that began on June 1 has brought some reprieve for Jharkhand as well. There has been a declining trend in Covid-19 cases after 10 days of a steep spike as there was a substantial dip in the number of migrant workers returning. The pandemic peaked on June 8 when the state recorded the highest ever single-day spike of 187 new cases. It took a downward trend thereafter with 50 cases per day on average being reported in the last four days. From 610 cases on May 31, the state’s tally on June 15 had increased to 1,151. “The inflow of migrants was very high in May leading to a huge backlog of untested samples. As we cleared the backlog, there was a spike in cases,” Nitin Madan Kulkarni, the state health department’s principal secretary, said.“The inflow of migrants has substantially reduced in unlock-1 and we have seen a downward trend of Covid growth in the last four days,” he said. In Madhya Pradesh, another state with the high recipient of migrant workers, the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases has also slowed down. The number of new cases recorded has fallen from 1,424 in last week of May to 1,401 in the second week of June.And, the reason for this was just 54,282 workers returning in June as compared to over 3 lakh in May.“Out of these people 49,280 were home quarantined and remaining institutional quarantined,” said a rural development department official. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the number of new cases is coming down was a positive sign and showed their strategy was working.(With inputs from Ranjan in Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-migrants-return-slows-down-covid-19-cases-decline-in-bihar-up-jharkhand-and-mp/story-lRDeEvkQcVU7DLsPvlLhHN.html
16-06-2020||India||Supreme Court notices to Centre, IRDA on plea seeking insurance cover for mental illness||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the central government and Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) on a plea seeking directions to insurance companies to provide medical insurance coverage for treatment of mental illness.The plea, filed by an advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, stated that insurance companies are refusing to provide such coverage despite a mandate under the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017.Section 21 (4) of the said act states that “every insurer shall make provision for medical insurance for treatment of mental illness on the same basis as is available for treatment of physical illness”.Based on that provision, the IRDA had issued a circular in August 2018 to the insurance companies to comply with the same but to no avail.The IRDA, however, has not taken any action against insurance companies for such violation, Bansal pointed out. “The inaction by IRDA is hampering the rehabilitation process of thousands of persons with mental Illness,” the petition said.A bench headed by Justice Rohinton Nariman sought response from IRDA and central government.The mental health issue is again being debated after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.“Mental health needs to be addressed as a medical emergency. The shocking thing is that we lose young ones in such scenarios. The maximum number of suicide is happening in adolescence or early adulthood after which comes the old age population. We require a national helpline to prevent these things. We also require a great destigmatising programme of psychiatry. To tell the whole population of destigmatisation, we require a national policy,” said Dr Rajiv Mehta, Vice-Chairperson, Institute of Psychiatry and Behavioural Sciences, Sir Gangaram Hospital.“The fear and the stress at this time of Covid-19 pandemic have exposed the vulnerabilities of all individuals,” said Dr Manushree Gupta, Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry VMMC (Vardhman Mahavir Medical College) and Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notices-to-centre-irda-on-plea-seeking-insurance-cover-for-mental-illness/story-HEujUz31458YrsGa2hJyYO.html
16-06-2020||India||Jharkhand to launch mega door-to-door Covid-19 identification drive from June 18||The Jharkhand government is all set to carry out a mega door-to-door Covid-19 identification survey from June 18, state health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said on Monday.“Besides Covid-19, people suffering from respiratory diseases, blood pressure, tuberculosis and cancer will also be under the testing scanner. Their sampling will be done on priority basis and tested accordingly,” Kulkarni said.The week-long exercise will cover both rural and urban households. “I would like to appeal to every citizen of the state to cooperate in the exercise so that the Covid-19 could be checked completely in the state,” he said.Also read: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in hospital due to high fever, Covid-19 test todayHe said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has conducted sero-survey in 200 districts of the country to ascertain if there was any community transmission of coronavirus in any of the districts. The survey included three districts of Jharkhand-Pakur, Latehar and Simdega- where it found negligible possibility of community transmission in the three districts.“We have requested the ICMR to conduct sero-survey across the state so that we could know the actual status of transmission in the state. We hope the survey will be completed by the end of this month,” he said.The health secretary said Jharkhand witnessed a sudden growth in Covid-19 cases recently due to the influx of migrant workers from across the country.According to the state disaster management department, a total of 5,11,663 migrants workers have arrived in Jharkhand so far. As many as 4,12,357 have returned to Jharkhand on 238 special Shramik trains and buses.The health secretary said sampling of 78,423 migrant workers have been done so far, which is 15.16% of total migrant returnees. Till now, 1,477 migrants have been detected Covid-19 positive.The migrants, who are returning from Delhi, are carrying the highest Covid-19 positivity rate. Of the total Covid-19 positive cases among migrants workers, 2.83% cases are related to the migrants who returned from Delhi, while the same is 2.3% each for the workers returned from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.“Eighteen persons, who returned from Bangladesh, have been found positive for Covid-19,” the health secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-to-launch-mega-door-to-door-covid-19-identification-drive-from-june-18/story-dUaaMKwiSxza7KQGwV3dLJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What makes Centre-state relations different in national capital||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday said that the Centre’s decision to step in and help Delhi government combat the spiralling cases of Covid-19 infection in the national capital is a cooperative exercise rather than one where it has wrested control from the state.The party’s response has also been in sharp contrast to the political wrangling that erupted in the Opposition-ruled states of West Bengal and Maharashtra over their handling of the pandemic.A senior party functionary said the two governments are working together to address the situation instead of “trading blame”.According to party functionaries, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s statement made a week ago where he said that Covid-19 cases in the city are likely to reach 5.5 lakh by the end of July became the trigger for the central government to step in and steer the state’s response.“Sisodia’s statement was an indication that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government seemed to have loosened its grip on the situation. When the home minister (Amit Shah) decided to help the state; it was a move where the centre stepped in without over-stepping,” said a second person aware of the details.Since Sunday, Shah has held several rounds of meetings and even inspected a government-run hospital.The bitterness that erupted between the Centre and the governments of West Bengal and Maharashtra when inter-ministerial central teams were deputed to spot assessment of the situation has been largely missing this time.Within hours of the team being announced, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had questioned the Centre’s move. She also targeted Shah, claiming letters meant for the state government were released to the media before they reached the CMO (chief Minister’s Office).In Maharashtra, the ruling Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP combine has also blamed the BJP for politicising the issue. NCP’s Jayant Patil said if the BJP blames the Maharashtra government for the spread of virus in the state, should the Centre be blamed for the failure to check the spread of Covid-19 in the country.In contrast, following meetings with Shah, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Extremely productive meeting betn Del govt and Central govt. Many key decisions taken. We will fight against corona together.”Even as BJP state unit in Delhi has trained its guns on the Arvind Kejriwal government for not ramping up testing facilities and medical care infrastructure, the leadership has shown more restrain.On Monday, Shah, held another round of meetings, including one with all political party where the representatives reiterated the need to keep political differences aside to fight the pandemic.So what led the BJP to soften its stand against a political rival? “We have been demanding answers from the AAP government about the spending on medical infrastructure but there has been no response. We opposed the decision of not admitting people from outside Delhi to hospitals here; a decision that was reversed by the LG. It is not that the BJP has abdicated its duties as a responsible Opposition, but the challenge is such that we need to join forces to save lives,” said a Delhi state functionary.Commenting on the process of the political adversaries sitting across the table in Delhi to find a solution, Ajay Gudavarthy, professor of political science at Jawaharlal Nehru University said, “Modi-Shah working modality is geared towards election management. Bengal is due for election while in Delhi it’s over. We saw similar animosity towards Kejriwal before elections in Delhi. They also wish to create a perception that Mamta is aggressive and cannot work with the centre and in the process Bengal is losing out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-makes-centre-state-relations-different-in-national-capital/story-DqA6Q9aFM4k9EK33MzbFpL.html
16-06-2020||India||Cases surge in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal; over 800 fatalities so far: Covid-19 state tally||While Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat continue to witness a rapid rise in coronavirus cases, states like Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan are also struggling with a surge in infections. Uttar Pradesh recently overtook Rajasthan as the fifth worst-hit state in the country and has reported over 13,600 cases till date. In West Bengal, the Covid-19 tally recently breached the 10,000-mark and now stands at 11,494. Together, the two states account for nearly 900 Covid-19 fatalities in the country.  Also read: 1 in 5 people at risk of severe Covid-19 due to other illnessesWith 343,091 coronavirus cases, India’s is the fourth worst-hit country in the world. While 180,012 people have recovered from the deadly contagion across the country, India’s death toll stands nears 10,000 with 9,900 fatalities till death.Here’s a look at the statewise numbersWorst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 110,744 on Tuesday. As many as 4,128 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 56,049 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 46,504 in the southern state. Four hundred and seventy-nine people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 25,344 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 42,829 on Tuesday, 16,427 patients have recovered here while 1,400 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 24,055 on Tuesday. The state has seen 16,664 people recover from coronavirus while 1,505 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 13,615 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,268 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 399.States with rising numbers Madhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 10,935 on Tuesday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 12,981.  In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed beyond the 11,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,650 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 6,456 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,213 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 5,193 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,200-mark. Haryana have sen more than 7,700 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,055 while Assam has reported 4,158 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,000-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Manipur, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-surge-in-uttar-pradesh-west-bengal-over-800-fatalities-so-far-covid-19-state-tally/story-nFy3UtE2aA7BUzThLqNFrO.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Gujarat model exposed’: Rahul Gandhi in latest attack on Centre on Covid-19||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has sharpened his attack on the government over the Covid-19 situation. He particularly focussed on Gujarat, comparing it with six other states ruled by Congress or its allies.“Covid19 mortality rate: Gujarat: 6.25%, Maharashtra: 3.73%, Rajasthan: 2.32%, Punjab: 2.17%, Puducherry: 1.98%, Jharkhand: 0.5%, Chhattisgarh: 0.35%. Gujarat Model exposed,” Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday. Covid19 mortality rate:Gujarat: 6.25%Maharashtra: 3.73%Rajasthan: 2.32%Punjab: 2.17%Puducherry: 1.98%Jharkhand: 0.5%Chhattisgarh: 0.35%Gujarat Model exposed.https://t.co/ObbYi7oOoDThe former Congress president also attached a news article in his post on the tally in Gujarat.Gujarat reported 514 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the count to 24,104, while the death toll rose to 1,506 with 28 new fatalities, 23 of them in Ahmedabad, the state health department said.With 339 more patients discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries in the state increased to 16,672, it said.The state now has 5,926 active cases, out of which 71 patients are on ventilator and the condition of 5,855 others is stable, the health department said.Out of the 514 new Covid-19 cases recorded in the state between Sunday and Monday, Ahmedabad alone reported 327 cases, taking the total in the district to 16,967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-picks-up-gujarat-in-attack-on-government-over-covid-19/story-3aLWMcGehB2h7iYk2aoDaL.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Insensitive’: Sonia Gandhi slams fuel price hike during Covid-19 in letter to PM Modi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rollback the fuel price and pass on the benefit of reduced international crude oil rates to consumers, saying if “you want citizens to be self-reliant then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward”.In her letter, Gandhi also pointed the hike in excise duty of petrol and diesel has come at a time when the country is facing unprecedented public health, economic and social challenges during the ongoing battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.“I am deeply distressed that in these exceedingly difficult times since the beginning of March, the government has taken the wholly insensitive decision to increase petrol and diesel prices on no less than ten separate occasions,” she wrote.The letter came a day after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi criticised the government over the increase in petrol and diesel prices.Apart from demanding that the benefit of low international crude oil prices be passed on to the consumers, the Opposition party also wants the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG be reduced to the August 2004 level.The price of petrol then was Rs 36.81 per litre, diesel was sold at Rs 24.16 per litre and LPG Rs 261.60 per cylinder in Delhi, it said.Alleging that the government is earning out of the pockets of the poor by imposing high taxes on fuel, the Congress has also been demanding that petrol and diesel should be brought under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST).“Your government is seeking to earn an additional revenue of nearly Rs 2,60,000 crore by these ill-advised hikes in excise duty and increases in the petrol of diesel. As it is, people across the board are facing unimaginable hardships what to say of widespread fear and insecurity,” the Congress chief said.“These price increases are saddling our people with an additional burden of this enormous magnitude that is neither justified nor appropriate. It is the duty and responsibility of the government to alleviate suffering, not put the people to still greater hardship,” she added.Gandhi questioned the “logic” behind such an increase at a time when the economic impact of Covid-19 is “depriving millions of jobs and livelihood, devastating business big and small, rapidly eroding the income” of the middle class, even as farmers are struggling to sow the crop for the Kharif season.Given that the international price of crude oil has fallen by approximate 9% over the last week (coming after a collapse of crude oil prices over the last few months), she said the government is doing “nothing short of profiteering off its people - when they are down and out”.Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of the Congress parliamentary party (CPP), further said it is a matter of record that despite historically low oil prices over the last six years your government’s revenues have been massively enriched by the cumulative increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel on twelve different occasions (by an additional Rs 23.78 per litre on petrol and Rs 28.37 on diesel). “This translates into a 258% increase in excise on petrol and 820% hike in excise duty on diesel yielding in these six years a staggering Rs 18,00,000 crore from excise collection on petrol and diesel alone. If ever there was ever a time to deploy these resources in the service of the people, it is now,” she said.Gandhi urged the Prime Minister to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit of low oil prices directly to the citizens of this country.“If you wish for them to be ‘self-reliant’ then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward. And I am once again obliged to repeat what I have said before: please use the government’s resources to put money directly into the hands of those who need it in this time of severe hardship,” she said.Petrol and disease prices were raised for the tenth day in a row on Tuesday by state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) even as crude oil rates have come down to multi-year lows.The price of petrol was increased by 47 paise a litre on Monday while that of diesel by 57 paise a litre in Delhi. Petrol and diesel will now cost Rs 76.73/litre and Rs 75.19/litre respectively in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insensitive-sonia-gandhi-slams-fuel-price-hike-during-covid-19-in-letter-to-pm-modi/story-fe3eF9naaxiiAbS2gm543L.html
16-06-2020||India||1 in 5 people at risk of severe Covid-19 due to other illnesses: Study||One in five people worldwide have an underlying health condition that puts them at risk for severe Covid-19 illness if they contract the virus, a new study has claimed.The study has been published in The Lancet.An estimated 1.7 billion people - more than 20 per cent of the world’s population - are at risk, the study said. These people either have type 2 diabetes or heart disease, the researchers said. The other diseases listed by the researchers include chronic kidney disease, chronic respiratory disease and a range of other chronic condition.According to the study, a little over 20 per cent of the population has an underlying condition.The study has been conducted by a team of experts from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The researchers took risk factors highlighted in official guidelines and used broad epidemiology data such as the Global Burden of Diseases study to arrive at their estimates.Regions with younger populations, such as Africa, present less risk overall despite some spots where the prevalence of HIV and AIDS is high, the authors said. Others like Europe, where average ages are higher and almost a third of people have at least one health condition, may be less resilient.Researchers said the findings could help governments make decisions on who receives a Covid-19 vaccine first when one becomes available.Meanwhile, India on Tuesday reported 10,667 new Covid-19 cases and 380 deaths in the last 24 hours (between Monday and Tuesday). The country’s tally stands at 3,43,091, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll is 9,900.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, the number of active cases of the disease in the country is 1,53,178.Global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases crossed 8 million on Monday, with the pandemic gathering pace in Latin America and a raft of EU nations reopening borders to fellow Europeans, adding to concern over challenges the world will face in the long fight against Covid-19.The United States is the worst-hit country with 117,959 deaths from 2,170,722 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-in-5-people-at-risk-of-severe-covid-19-due-to-other-illnesses-study/story-P0wnDxUnVb5azyfLfWtzpM.html
16-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbs over 52%, tally at 3.43 lakh||India on Tuesday reported more than 180,000 people were cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pushing its recovery rate to over 52%, according to data released by the Union health ministry.The country has been reporting a rate of recovery of over 50% for the last three days now. With 180,012 people discharged from hospitals from across the country, India’s recovery rate is 52.46% on Tuesday. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn Monday, the recovery rate was a little over 51% as 169,797 patients were cured of the deadly infection and it was 50.59% on Sunday. There were 10,667 new Covid-19 cases and 380 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to at 343,091, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll is 9,900.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, the number of active cases of the disease in the country stands at 153,178.The dashboard shows 56,049 Covid-19 patients were cured in Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state and has reported 110,744 infections and 4,128 deaths so far. There are 50,567 active cases of the respiratory disease in the state.Tamil Nadu, which on Monday announced a lockdown from June 19 to 30 in its worst-affected districts, has reported 46,504 infections and 479 deaths till date. The number of those cure stands at 25,344.Its decision to announced the lockdown came after an expert panel warned the government that the state has hit its peak, but may witness another if strict measures aren’t followed.Delhi has 42,829 Covid-19 cases and reported 1,400 fatalities as Centre stepped up efforts to contain the spread and management of the infections in the national capital. In Gujarat, there are 24,055 infections so far and 1,505 deaths.The Centre wants states witnessing a large number of Covid-19 cases to keep the death rate, or the case fatality rate low. The emphasis on lowering death rates is in keeping with the government’s new strategy of not so much flattening the curve of infections, but living with the virus. Top government officials familiar with the thinking said that while aggressive testing, door-to-door surveys to track Covid-19 cases, and efforts to strengthen infrastructure will continue, there will be a renewed focus on keeping the death rate low. Prime Minister Narendra Modi may even raise the issue in his meeting with chief ministers on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the wake of rapidly spreading coronavirus disease.The Prime Minister will hold a video conference with the heads of 21 states and Union territories, including Punjab, Kerala, Goa and northeastern states. On Wednesday, also at 3 pm, he will meet with the 15 worst-affected - including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi.He will discuss the situation in Delhi separately on Wednesday along with Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-over-52-tally-at-3-43-lakh/story-GCl0t3JartZSy1luA1TwFO.html
16-06-2020||India||Monsoon advances but heatwave-like conditions return in North India: IMD||After a respite for nearly two weeks, the maximum temperature in north India started to rise again with parts of Rajasthan experiencing a heatwave-like condition.In Bikaner, the temperature soared to 46.2 degrees Celsius on Monday, followed by Barmer, Ganganagar and Jaisalmer at 45.3, 45.0 and 46.2 degrees respectively. News agency PTI reported that forecast agencies have predicted slow advancement of monsoon this week.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain in some places in the state but the heatwave is likely to prevail for at least the next 24 hours.On Monday, Delhi experienced a maximum temperature of 41.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, and it is likely to remain above 40 degrees Celsius for the next three days before light rains bring some relief.In Punjab and Haryana, too, the day temperatures were above normal. Hisar in Haryana was the hottest place in the two states at 42.9 degrees Celsius, recording a two-degree increase above the normal.The Southwest Monsoon, which arrived in Kerala on its usual date on June 1, moved ahead because of a deep depression in the Arabian Sea which later turned into Cyclone Nisarga and hit the Maharashtra coast on June 3.It has now covered whole of Maharashtra and parts of Chhattisgarh and Gujarat.In fact, isolated areas in the suburbs of Mumbai in Maharashtra recorded moderate to heavy showers on Monday allowing the city to achieve 50 per cent of its average rainfall for the month of June.The weather bureau on Monday afternoon revised its orange alert for the city (heavy to very heavy rain) to a yellow alert (moderate to heavy rain) and has issued an orange alert for Tuesday and Wednesday.The monsoon has, meanwhile, further advanced to Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Narsinghpur, Umaria and Balia, the IMD update at 8 am on Tuesday said. Rains are expected to continue in Gujarat, Diu, some parts of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Sikkim under the influence of East-West trough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-advances-but-heatwave-like-conditions-return-in-north-india-imd/story-P2dPaI4EYTIA1s6jO22FZN.html
16-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Commercial demand for dairy products dips due to Covid-19 lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Milk turns sour as sales tank in season of glutHouseholds consumed more milk, cheese and yogurt during the lockdown, raising sales by up to25% in large dairies, such as Amul. But that has not been enough to offset the sharp decline in demand from commercial buyers, such as hotels, confectioners and restaurants, which account for nearly 20% of the organised dairy sector’s revenues. Read more.Amid row, Nepal plans increase in border postsNepal plans to increase the number of its border outposts (BoPs) along the boundary with India by 100, from the existing 121 to 221 in the next year, in a move that, while it has been in the works for some time, comes at a time when friction between the two countries is high over a new map approved by the Himalayan country’s parliament that lays claim to territory that has always been with India. Read more.Centre wants states to focus on keeping Covid-19 fatality rates lowThe Narendra Modi government wants states that are seeing a large number of Covid-19 cases not to lose sight of the main objective in the rush of numbers -- keeping the death rate, or the case fatality rate low. Read more.Vivek Oberoi shares details of Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral, calls it a ‘wake-up call’ for film industryVivek Oberoi has shared heartbreaking details of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral, whose last rites were performed on Sunday in the presence of his immediate family members and a few friends. Vivek penned a note about how “the pain in his father’s eyes was unbearable” and added that the film industry needs to become a better place where “talent is nurtured and not crushed”. Read more.‘Unrealistic, very, very difficult’: Cricket Australia boss on staging T20I World Cup this yearCricket Australia chairman Earl Eddingson Tuesday told reporters that it would be ‘unrealistic’ to hold the T20I World Cup this year due to the ongoing global pandemic. Speaking to reporters, Eddings said: “While it hasn’t been formally called off this year, or postponed, trying to get 16 countries into Australia in the current world, where most countries are still going through COVID spiking, I think it’s unrealistic, or it’s going to be very, very difficult.” Read more.JBL enters Indian gaming market with seven ‘Quantum’ headphones, price starts at ₹2,500Most of us are aware of the brand JBL, which is better known for its speakers. While the Harman subsidiary has left quite a mark in the audio peripherals industry in India, it has not lately not tried something new, something like entering a new market. So that’s what it is doing today. Read more.Life Hacks: How to work through failureAlmost everyone I know has a despondent narrative to share — about pay cuts, furloughs, their jobs being on the line. This isn’t what life looked just 90-odd days ago. As the ground below our feet continues to quake, how do we plan for the future? Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-commercial-demand-for-dairy-products-dips-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iS6WlrCTQUXzyD8pmCNMdN.html
16-06-2020||India||Only sewage treatment plant in North-East inaugurated in Manipur||The Imphal sewage treatment plant, the only one in the North-East, was formally inaugurated on Monday. Two Integrated Water Supply Projects were also inaugurated along with it by Chief Minister N Biren Singh.Singh was accompanied by Public Health Engineering (PHE) Minister Losii Dikho. They inaugurated the projects through video conferencing.“Water is Life, we can’t survive without water. To give potable water to all the people of the State is a serious concern of the Govt. Glad to inaugurate two water supply projects and Imphal Sewerage Project Ph-1 today at different parts of Imphal East & Imphal West Dists.via VC,” he said on Twitter. Water is Life, we can't survive without water. To give potable water to all the people of the State is a serious concern of the Govt.Glad to inaugurate two water supply projects and Imphal Sewerage Project Ph-1 today at different parts of Imphal East & Imphal West Dists.via VC. pic.twitter.com/WbOHdSkCsJ“About 3,000 households have been connected by the Imphal Sewerage project so far and we’re targeting to provide the facilities to around 12,000 households,” the chief minister said in a video clip which was shared with the media after the inauguration.He appreciated the then government for taking up project and also appealed to the city dwellers, particularly those residing in the municipal areas, to avail the facility by connecting with the new (sewage) project to control pollution.The Imphal Sewerage Project Phase-I with a capacity of 27 MLD was constructed with a cost of Rs 345.43 crore and was launched in 2005.PHE Minister Losii Dikho said the project will benefit thousands in the Imphal area.Chief Minister Singh said that the New Development Bank has sanctioned Rs 3,000 crore to provide potable water to every household, adding that all the necessary processes including tenders, issue of work order etc have been completed.He also informed that major water supply schemes at Tamenglong, Senapati and Churachandpur districts will also be inaugurated soon.Mentioning that water is precious, he said that the Nambul River Rejuvenation project which aims to control river pollution by intercepting and treating urban waste between Iroisemba and Heirangoithong through a treatment plant at Mongsangei, has been started. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 95 crore.The Integrated Water Supply Project for Imphal Planning Area Phase-I at Porompat in Imphal East District was constructed at a cost of Rs 636.19 lakh while the Integrated Water Supply Project for Imphal Planning Area Phase-I at Iroisemba Hilltop in Imphal West District was constructed at the project cost of Rs 736.77 lakh.L Susindro, Chairman Loktak Development Authority, Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu, Additional Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, Commissioner (PHE) Nidhi Kesarwani, Secretary to Chief Minister Ningthoujam Geoffrey, Chief Engineer (PHE) Haobam Sunil and others were also present during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-sewage-treatment-plant-in-north-east-inaugurated-in-manipur/story-NN7qf4IGGtqwYugOMFGClN.html
16-06-2020||India||DK Shivakumar’s daughter set to marry CCD founder VG Siddhartha’s son||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief DK Shivakumar’s daughter Aishwarya and Cafe Coffe Day founder late VG Siddhartha’s son, Amarthya Hegde got engaged at SM Krishna Residence, Sadashivanagar in Bengaluru on Monday.Only family members were present in the event. Amarthya Hegde is also the grandson of former Union minister SM Krishna.Last year in July, the body of Cafe Coffee Day (CCD) founder Siddhartha was unearthed on the banks of Netravati river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dk-shivakumar-s-daughter-set-to-marry-ccd-founder-vg-siddhartha-s-son/story-GcQ5A1qNXCRr2nbuhVQH6I.html
16-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh mulls pulse oximeters in urban areas for screening Covid-19 patients||The Madhya Pradesh government will use pulse oximeters in every locality and colony in urban areas across the state to enhance survey and screening of people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a release from the government said on Monday.A pulse oximeter is a device used to monitor the amount of oxygen carried in the body. According to the release, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said the supply of pulse oximeters at mohalla and colony level is being considered for the control of Covid-19 to make survey work easier. “It will prove to be of help to rush any person found with disease symptoms to the health centre immediately for treatment. The general public will be made partners in corona control along with the administration,” the release said quoting the chief minister.The chief minister said that order to make the general public aware of the importance of social distancing, conscious representatives will be selected from the public and given the responsibility. “In order to free our state, the country and the whole world from corona, collective efforts are must, so that all of us can live a normal life, I would like to say to the people of the state that even God helps those who help themselves,” Chouhan said.Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, the principal secretary of the health department, said the state government will enrol volunteers who will have the pulse oximeters to check the oxygen level of people during survey and screening in localities and colonies. “If oxygen level of any person is found below the prescribed level, the details of the person will be entered in an app by the volunteer in his mobile phone so that the person concerned could be treated immediately,” Kidwai said.“The government is working on details and modalities of the plan as to how to implement it in the best possible manner,” he added.In reply to a question, he said initially the facility would be available in urban areas of the state.Madhya Pradesh has 10,935 Covid-19 patients, out of whom 465 have died, so far, according to the state’s health department bulletin released on Monday night. Indore tops the chart with 4,069 patients and 174 deaths followed by Bhopal with 2,235 patients and 72 deaths and Ujjain with 801 patients and 66 deaths. Till now, 7,903 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-mulls-pulse-oximeters-in-urban-areas-for-screening-covid-19-patients/story-kRp6HFPMHkAc6kE9K0RoZI.html
16-06-2020||India||3 killed in Odisha over witchcraft allegations||Three people, including a woman, were hacked to death and two were assaulted over suspicions of practising black magic in three districts in Odisha, police said on Monday.A 30-year-old man beheaded a woman in Mayurbhanj district before walking into the police station with the severed head and in Rayagada district, a man hacked two elderly people to death.Swarnalata Minz, Khunta police station inspector, said Budhuram Singh from Karakachia Nuasahi village of Mayurbhanj district killed his neighbour Champa Singh, 60, suspecting her to be responsible for the death of his young daughter last Wednesday. Champa was inside her house when Budhiram dragged her out and chopped her head with an axe. Later, he walked to the police station with the severed head and surrendered before the cops.Police in Rayagada district said Premananda Mandangi of Badakoshapad village under Seskhal Police station area of the district hacked his neighbours Jadumani Mandangi (45) and Poli Madangi (50). Both died on the spot.Premananda had earlier alleged that three of his family members were killed by Jadumani and Poli by performing black magic. A village meeting was held three months ago where Jadumani and Poli were asked to pay Rs 3,000 as a penalty for practising black magic. However, they didn’t pay the fine.The police arrested accused Premanand and seized the bodies of Jadumani and Poli after they were informed by the victims’ families.In a separate incident, an elderly man and his daughter were assaulted and forced to drink cow dung-laced water over suspicions of witchcraft in Balasore district.Police said Parshuram Barik, a 60-plus man from the district’s Nilagiri area, was assaulted by his neighbour and several other villagers after they suspected him to of practising black magic.They said after the daughter-in-law of Barik’s neighbour, Shantilata, fell ill, she called a witchdoctor to his home. The witchdoctor after conducting some rituals said Barik was casting a spell on her. Following this, other villagers tied him to a tree and assaulted him. When his daughter Puspanjali tried to save him, she was assaulted and both were forced to drink cow dung-laced water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-in-odisha-over-witchcraft-allegations/story-E1vykjX8eRORPcacm9sNGM.html
16-06-2020||India||PM Modi to meet chief ministers today on Covid-19 situation; discussion on Delhi on Wednesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet the chief ministers for over two days - Tuesday and Wednesday - to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the wake of rapidly spreading coronavirus disease.On Tuesday afternoon, PM Modi will hold a video-conference with chief ministers, Lieutenant Governors and administrators of 21 states and union territories.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThese include Punjab, Kerala, Goa, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and the North-Eastern states.The situation in Delhi will be discussed separately on Wednesday along with Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.This will be the PM Modi’s sixth round of consultation with the chief ministers, the last being on May 11. The main objective of the meeting, according to officials, is to keep the death rate, or the case fatality rate low. A detailed action plan for this purpose has already been chalked out, they added, and PM Modi may even raise the issue in his meeting with chief ministers.Click here to follow Covid-19 live updatesEven as India’s average death rate has remained low at 2.9 - the global average is 5.4% - the concern, the officials said, is that over 80% of the total deaths in the country are from just five states: Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh.“We have also noted with concern that 65 districts of India have more than 5% fatality rate. And the largest chunk, 19, of those districts are in Madhya Pradesh, followed by 11 in Gujarat and 10 each in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh,” said one of the officials who asked not to be identified.In Madhya Pradesh, Mandla, Sehore, Umaria and Chhindwara are among the districts; in UP, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Meerut and Agra; and in Maharashtra, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Dhule, and Aurangabad.The situation in Delhi was already discussed in detail in a series of meetings held by Union home minister Amit Shah in the last two days. Apart from Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, he also met the mayors and other officials from Delhi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.Shah also held an all-party meeting where leaders from different political parties offered solution to tackle to crisis.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed 3.3 lakh on Monday and the death toll surpassed 9,500. These include nearly 1.53 active cases, as close to 1.7 lakh have recovered already to give a recovery rate of over 51 per cent, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-consultation-with-chief-ministers-beginning-today-on-covid-19-situation/story-ZF8QUwF5CY9uifbCY5TXtJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Activists condemn naming Mander in Delhi riots case charge sheets||A group of at least 160 prominent academics, activists, and artists from across the country issued a statement on Monday condemning the police for mentioning the name of social activist Harsh Mander in charge sheets pertaining to the February riots in north-east Delhi. They said Mander’s name was mentioned to concoct a “chronology” and create a false narrative about the riots. The chronology has been mentioned in at least three charge sheets, including the one against suspended councillor Tahir Hussain (one of the main accused in the riots). Quoting from the charge sheet, the group said under the head, “Brief Facts of the Case - Chronology Of Events Leading To Riots In North-East, Delhi (Point 17. Para 4)”, police wrote: ”Mr. Harsh Mander, who visited the site on 16/12/19 and instigated the protestors to not have faith in the Supreme Court and to fight their battle on road to get justice. He, however, used a façade of peace in a part of his speech.” The group said in a joint statement, “There cannot be anything more ridiculous than saying Harsh Mander used a “façade of peace. He has devoted his entire life to the cause of peace and harmony in society.” Among the 160 academics and activists were Abhijit Sen , former member of the Planning Commission, Achin Vanaik, retired professor of international relations, Delhi University, Admiral L Ramdas, Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat, Air Vice Marshal (retd) Kapil Kak, film-maker and actress Aparna Sen, and JNU professor Atul Sood.Police have not charged Mander in any case related to the riots but have explained in the charge sheet that the anti-CAA protests led to the north-east Delhi riots and that some of the leaders of the protests were actively behind the conspiracy of the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-condemn-naming-mander-in-delhi-riots-case-charge-sheets/story-FmH39tJsFluxO7U0lvTOxJ.html
16-06-2020||India||A breakneck race to defeat the disease||The retraction of influential studies published in two of the world’s leading scientific journals last week was a rude reminder of the perils of moving at warp speed to find a treatment or cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has infected eight million and killed 430,000 in less than six months of the World Health Organisation (WHO)being informed by China about a cluster of pneumonia cases of unknown origin in Wuhan on December 31, 2019.By January 30, it had infected 7,818 people, of which 82 were in 18 other countries , which forced a seemingly reluctant WHO to declare the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), as it was then called, a public health emergency of international concern. Scientists from across the world stepped up to defuse the emerging health threat with every tool that they had. Never before have so many scientists, researchers and clinicians from across specialties focused on a single disease or used such a wide variety of innovative techniques and platforms for vaccine and drug development. Never before have regulatory processes been fast-tracked at such scale for emergency use of drug and vaccine trials.“The need for speed should not throw caution to the wind. Dubious data sources and poorly designed clinical trials of experimental drugs and vaccines have raised more concerns than solutions,” said Sujatha Rao, a former health secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare. Need for speed As on June 12, the US National Library of Medicine Registry of ClinicalTrials.gov had 2,122 registered studies on the disease, with hundreds more registered in national registries. “When publication is going at a high speed, you don’t always notice the traffic signals. There are three things happening now. People are publishing through a rapid review process, studies are being published in pre-prints, people are writing blogs where they can write anything and interpret anything they call data. In the usual (scientific journal) publication cycle, nothing gets published in three or four days. From submission to publication, it normally takes at least three to four weeks and often more than six weeks. If I get an article for review from The Lancet, which I frequently do, I get a minimum of 10 days,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.Pre-print publication is a practice borrowed from other sciences, such as physics and Math, where researchers put their papers on a website and invite comments from the scientist community, based on which they modify and correct their analysis before publication.What works for theoretical sciences, however, doesn’t work as well for medical research, which has immediate implications on health and life. “Rapid reviews are causing problems because the reviewers are chosen in haste and they don’t have adequate time to look at the data properly and they are under pressure to respond quickly,” said Reddy.Peer review is important to ensure quality of scientific communications, incorporating inputs of other experts. “While pre-publication peer-review is the standard, there are good examples of post-publication review as well. Validation by other researchers is perhaps the most important, especially when the findings are unexpected or controversial,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Review, reform But this very validation process spectacularly failed in the case of the two retracted studies in The Lancet and The New England Journal of Medicine. The Lancet paper raised safety concerns about the experimental use of the anti-malarial drugs for treatment and led to WHO suspending the hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine arm of its multi-country trial, much to the dismay of India, which is the world’s largest producer of these affordable generic drugs that have been used to treat malaria for close to a century. “The key concern for us was that the data was questionable that made analysis unreliable and any results misleading. If not for the name of the journal, the paper would have not have been taken as seriously,” said Agrawal.While journals have established validation processes, such papers can slip between the cracks because of several reasons, including the authors belonging to reputable institutions like Harvard University, or the reviewers having confirmation bias, where they agree with the study’s conclusion even before they begin scrutinising how the result has been arrived at.For a disease barely six months old, generating high-quality data quickly and efficiently is a challenge, which makes review and scrutiny all the more critical. “It’s the job of a journal’s editorial team to do an independent review and ensure it doesn’t get shoddy when it is inundated with research studies,” said Dr Jacob T John, former head of the department of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.Retractions are not rare, but they are growing. In 2019, there were 1,433 retractions from scientific journals, according to Retraction Watch, which has been tracking retractions for a decade. In 1997, the number was 44.Trial by error Vaccine development, on average, takes 10.71 years from the preclinical phase, and has a success rate of 6%, according to a study in the journal, PLOS One. Some remain elusive despite decades of massive investment, as we have seen in the case of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus that causes the Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome, or AIDS.Work on a Covid-19 vaccine began on January 11, within a day of China sharing the genome of the new coronavirus that came to be called Sars-CoV-2. By June 12, there were 10 experimental vaccines in advanced stages of clinical trials and 115 in pre-clinical evaluation stages, according to WHO. Scientists are working across emerging technology platforms that have never been used for vaccine development before. Moderna’s mRNA-1273, which entered into clinical trials just 66 days after Sars-CoV-2 was first sequenced in China, showcases the potential for DNA- and RNA-based vaccines that use the messenger RNA (mRNA) platform to elicit an immune response against the virus.“If it is approved, it will be the first messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine against any disease in the world. We don’t fully know the effectiveness of mRNA vaccines as yet. However, there is high quality science and pre-clinical evidence for this fast and flexible platform for vaccine development. We will have to wait and see,” said Agrawal.Vaccine development includes at least three human trials to test their safety, dosage and the strength and duration of the protection they offer, followed by production, licensure, deployment of vaccines and plans for post-marketing surveillance. Many of these trials have been collapsed and merged to have a vaccine ready for use within the next six to eight months.“With Covid-19, the goal from the beginning has been to develop, test and manufacture a vaccine on a scale of hundreds of millions of doses within 12 to 18 months, so an unprecedented approach has been adopted. With promising preliminary preclinical and phase 1 data available, meticulously planned trials are needed to separate the contenders from pretenders. Since approvals are expected for an emergency use vaccine, developers start mass manufacturing as soon as they complete phase 2 trials, and in doing so, risk the failure of phase 3. In such cases, consortiums and countries fund for risk reduction and provide market commitments,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research. This is where new technology lab-based platforms help. RNA- and DNA-based vaccines are faster and cheaper to produce than synthetic vaccines as they involve synthetic production of the genetic material, and not the virus. “The production is lab-based, so it can be quickly standardised and scaled up,” said Ganguly.Getting a large enough sample size across age groups is essential as the results in one population might not translate to the other. “Whether it is vaccines or drug development, what is crucial is independent scientific validation to ensure the vaccines and drugs are safe and effective because getting it wrong would mean playing with lives,” said Ganguly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-breakneck-race-to-defeat-the-disease/story-BqQWfheUwM7GNDVAPFVTXL.html
16-06-2020||India||In fourth encounter in less than 10 days, 3 terrorists killed in J-K’s Shopian||Security forces gunned down three local terrorists in a gun battle, the fourth in a little over a week, in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on Tuesday, officials said.The terrorists were killed after local police and Indian Army personnel had launched a joint operation in Turkuwagan village early on Tuesday in the district in south Kashmir.Sources said Kamran Zahoor Manhas is among the terrorists killed by security forces. He is the nephew of former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) legislator Zaffar Manhas, who has now joined the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari. The other two terrorists, sources added, have been identified as Zubair and Muneeb ul Islam. Both of them were from Shopian district.An army spokesperson said two AK-47 assault rifles and one INSAS rifle have been recovered from the encounter site, which is 400 to 500 metres away from the force’s Rashtriya Rifles camp.As many as 22 terrorists have been killed in the encounters that have taken place in south Kashmir’s Shopian district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian/story-4ZI4oODR9p84GPR0KH4OTM.html
16-06-2020||India||16-year-old raped by men on pretext of helping board train||Unidentified men allegedly drugged and gang-raped a 16-year-old domestic worker on Friday after luring her to a secluded place from the New Delhi Railway station on the pretext of helping her board a train to her home state of Jharkhand, police said on Monday.A police officer said the survivor, who worked in an East Delhi neighbourhood, was not in a position yet to tell investigators much about the crime scene and how many suspects were involved. “We do not have any hard clues right now, but we hope to solve the case soon and catch the culprits,” said the officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.The officer said the girl left the house where she was employed on Friday evening and reached Anand Vihar railway station. She somehow managed to reach the New Delhi railway station where she came across two to three men who promised to help her board a train to Jharkhand. They allegedly led her out of the station and took her to an unknown location where they forced her to drink alcohol and allegedly raped her.“Since the girl was intoxicated at that time and is not aware of the topography of the region, she is unable to help us with details of the crime spot,” said the officer. The men abandoned the girl, who walked for the next few hours, before a policeman noticed her disoriented condition and brought her to the Kotwali police station. “Our women officers interacted with her to get to know about the crime. The survivor was fed and medically examined,” said the officer.The survivor has been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee. Senior police officers authorised to speak to the media refused to comment.Police have registered a case of gang rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-year-old-raped-by-men-on-pretext-of-helping-board-train/story-dS5eiQGokE22ogs8vXGCRL.html
16-06-2020||India||Need to recover market share held by Indians abroad: MEA||India must take focused action to recover the market shares held by its workers in foreign countries as part of the country’s efforts to overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday.The Protectors of Emigrants (PoE), the section of the external affairs ministry responsible for safeguarding interests of Indian workers abroad, must rise to the “challenge of reviving post-Covid economy”, Jaishankar said.“We are currently focused on ensuring that the negative economic consequences of the pandemic on our talent and skills abroad are mitigated…It is imperative that we recover our market shares as quickly as possible. The coming months will see dedicated efforts in that direction,” he told the third annual conference of PoEs.As of late last week, more than 29,000 Indian workers and more than 11,200 professionals have returned from across the world under the Vande Bharat Mission. Several thousands of Indians have lost their jobs, mainly in West Asia, because of the economic fallout of the pandemic.The government has also given priority to the welfare and protection of Indians working in west and southeast Asia and has taken all steps to reduce their vulnerabilities, Jaishankar said.“Nevertheless, there are still cases of cheating, illegal agents and attempts to go for work in an irregular manner. The role of our PoEs in combating such practices is vital…We have all put in great efforts to secure the interests of the most vulnerable migrants, especially blue-collar workers, seamen and women migrants.” The e-Migrate system helps ensure the rights and protection of workers in collaboration with host governments and the integration of this platform with those of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, other GCC countries and Malaysia will facilitate these efforts, he said.The government has established three new offices of PoEs, taking the total to 13 and extending the reach to areas that provide migrant flows to foreign countries. It has also liberalised usage of the Indian Community Welfare Fund to provide welfare measures to Indians in distress overseas.“This has had a particular relevance as we responded to the economic distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Also of note is the Pravasi Bharatiya Bima Yojana,” Jaishankar said.The ministry is also working on skill mapping and collaboration with skill councils overseas so Indian workers are able to earn better incomes.HT Correspondentletters@hindustantimes.comNew DelhiIndia must take focused action to recover the market shares held by its workers in foreign countries as part of the country’s efforts to overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday.The Protectors of Emigrants (PoE), the section of the external affairs ministry responsible for safeguarding interests of Indian workers abroad, must rise to the “challenge of reviving post-Covid economy”, Jaishankar said.“We are currently focused on ensuring that the negative economic consequences of the pandemic on our talent and skills abroad are mitigated…It is imperative that we recover our market shares as quickly as possible. The coming months will see dedicated efforts in that direction,” he told the third annual conference of PoEs.As of late last week, more than 29,000 Indian workers and more than 11,200 professionals have returned from across the world under the Vande Bharat Mission. Several thousands of Indians have lost their jobs, mainly in West Asia, because of the economic fallout of the pandemic.The government has also given priority to the welfare and protection of Indians working in west and southeast Asia and has taken all steps to reduce their vulnerabilities, Jaishankar said.“Nevertheless, there are still cases of cheating, illegal agents and attempts to go for work in an irregular manner. The role of our PoEs in combating such practices is vital…We have all put in great efforts to secure the interests of the most vulnerable migrants, especially blue-collar workers, seamen and women migrants.” The e-Migrate system helps ensure the rights and protection of workers in collaboration with host governments and the integration of this platform with those of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, other GCC countries and Malaysia will facilitate these efforts, he said.The government has established three new offices of PoEs, taking the total to 13 and extending the reach to areas that provide migrant flows to foreign countries. It has also liberalised usage of the Indian Community Welfare Fund to provide welfare measures to Indians in distress overseas.“This has had a particular relevance as we responded to the economic distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Also of note is the Pravasi Bharatiya Bima Yojana,” Jaishankar said.The ministry is also working on skill mapping and collaboration with skill councils overseas so Indian workers are able to earn better incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-recover-market-share-held-by-indians-abroad-mea/story-JwJ4qDv0UnWsBN7AjqMDrN.html
16-06-2020||India||Covid-19 fuelling mother and child mortality rates||Priyanshi Kol was born in her parent’s one-room hutment in Ansara village in the Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh on May 21 because her mother Shivjanki, 26, couldn’t get an ambulance to reach Sanjay Gandhi Medical Hospital 100 km away.She died on June 13 from childbirth-related complications. She was 23 days old.Priyanshi was a so-called low-birth baby, weighing 2 kg at birth against the healthy birth weight of 2.5 kg or more.“When the ambulance didn’t arrive, women got together and delivered the baby at home. Within days, the umbilical cord started bleeding and we called for an ambulance, which didn’t come. We spent Rs 4,000 to take her to the district hospital on May 27, but brought her home because the doctors were busy with (the) corona(virus disease) and didn’t have time for us,” said her father Mithilesh Kor, who is a daily-wage worker.His baby girl developed fever again and when the ambulance didn’t reach them for the third time in three weeks, the Kors took her to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital again, where she died. “My son Piyush was born in a hospital, and he is safe. She would have lived if she had got treated,” said an inconsolable Shivjanki.“Institutional deliveries have fallen from around 75% to less than 25% in the districts we work in. Since Integrated Child Development Services were suspended on March 15, nutrition and immunisation services have take a huge hit and community health workers stopped visiting homes to immunise children because they are doing coronavirus-related work. District -level surveys show 50% children and 75% pregnant women being deprived of essential nutrition in the state,” said Sachin Jain, state coordinator of the Bhopal-based non-profit, Vikas Sansad Samiti, which works on issues related to hunger and maternal and child health in the state’s most underserved and largely tribal districts, such as Rewa, Shivpuri, Rewari, Panna, and Shivpuri. Around 80.8% births in Madhya Pradesh took place in hospitals in 2015-16, according to the National Family Health Survey-4, compared to the national average of 78.9%. State-level data on institutional births since March is not available.Falling immunisationAs public and private health systems across India geared up to respond to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they inadvertently did so at the expense of other critical public health services. This threatens to lead to a parallel explosion in illness and deaths from other preventable and treatable diseases, which will raise all-cause deaths across ages, say experts.Adding to the crisis is missing data. With states busy fire-fighting Covid-19, routine disease surveillance has been hit, creating huge gaps in data on outbreaks.The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), which is tasked with tracking outbreaks ranging from seasonal influenza H1N1 to child-killers like diarrhoea, chicken pox and measles, is busy tracking Covid-19 and hasn’t updated its live weekly outbreak dashboard since the end of February. The National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme, which tracks malaria, chikungunya and dengue, among others, hasn’t received state reports since March.Routine immunisation is floundering, but it’s difficult to assess the damage in the absence of data. “States haven’t sent immunisation data since the lockdown, but anecdotal evidence indicates there’s been a sharp drop. We have asked states that suspended services to organise catch-up vaccinations drives as soon as possible, with districts with high infant and child mortality, where communities are completely dependent on government services,” said Dr Pradeep Haldar, deputy commissioner, immunisation division, ministry of health and family welfare.One in five of the world’s 5.9 million under-5 deaths take place in India, with more than half being from vaccine-preventable and treatable infections, such as pneumonia, diarrhoea and sepsis. If all children are vaccinated after birth, more than half these lives could be saved.But children like Priyanshi who are born at home also miss three vaccines given at birth -- BCG against childhood tuberculosis, oral polio vaccine, and the first doses of hepatitis B vaccine that protects against liver infection and cirrhosis. Many others, like her two-year-old brother Piyush, who got immunised at birth have missed booster vaccines since March, which could lead to a resurgence of potentially fatal diseases, such as childhood pneumonia, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), hepatitis B and diarrhoea.This threatens to reverse the gains India has made by immunising children against vaccine-preventing illnesses to bring down its infant mortality rate (IMR) to 32 per 1,000 live births in 2018, from 129 in 1971, according to the Sample Registration System (SRS) data released in June 2019.“During the monsoons, there is a rise in malaria and vaccine-preventable diarrhoea, pneumonia and measles, which are the biggest cause of under-5 deaths in India. If childhood vaccines are missed, IMR, malnutrition and stunting will rise and prevent India from meeting its Sustainable Development Goal of bringing IMR down to 25 or less by 2030,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Public Health foundation of India Gandhinagar, Gujarat.Unsafe births, unsafe abortionsCovid-19 has also reduced access to contraception and abortion services, which is likely to lead to an increase in unwanted pregnancies and unsafe abortions. “The first four months of Covid-19, we estimate that access to 1.85 million abortions was compromised. This is around 47% of the estimated 3.9 million abortions that would have taken place in this period under normal circumstances,” said Vinoj Manning, chief executive officer, Ipas Development Foundation, a non-profit that promotes safe abortion services in India.Of the estimated 15.6 million annual abortions in India, 73% are through medical abortion pills that can be bought in pharmacies, 16% are in private health facilities, 6% in public health centres, and 5% through traditional unsafe methods, according to the first large-scale study on unintended pregnancies published in The Lancet in 2017.“Since medical abortions must be done within 12 weeks of pregnancy (first trimester), the restricted movement and services would have resulted in many pregnant women moving to the second trimester during the lockdown. Very few clinics and hospitals offers abortion services beyond 12 weeks, and the fear of Covid-19 is keeping women away from the ones that do. Add to that the out-of-pocket cost of visiting a hospital at a time of job loss and reduced income, and we find many women being forced to continue an unwanted pregnancy or seeking illegal and unsafe abortion services,” said Manning.An estimated 48% of all pregnancies are unintended because women don’t have information about safe sex or don’t have access to contraceptives, according to study published The Lancet study. Abortion is legal in India, but three unsafe abortions are performed for every two safe ones because 70% abortion clinics are in urban India, while 70% women live in rural areas, the study found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-fuelling-mother-and-child-mortality-rates/story-NvmX3Cn7KMqlff77R9BoZN.html
16-06-2020||India||NRI businessman charters flight for employees’ return||A Sharjah-based businessman flew 120 of his employees home to Kerala in a chartered flight on Sunday night, gifted them a months salary and a goody-bag, and, according to one of the employees who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity, has offered all of them the option of working for his company’s units in Coimbatore if they do not want to return to Sharjah. In addition to R Harikumar’s employees, the special flight, run by Air Arabia also carried 50 people from Kerala who lost their jobs in Sharjah and were desperate to get back home. “ It is my duty to protect my employees who stood with me though thick and thin,” said Harikumar, who is also a popular theatre artist. He came to Saudi Arabia from Alappuzha in Kerala, in search of a job 20 years ago and went on to become a successful businessman. His Elite group of companies makes aluminium extrusions in demand in the architectural sector and employs around 1200 people. He hails from the coastal town Alappuzha. “A good business firm is like a family. If employees are in trouble it is the duty of the firm to look after them,” he said, adding that he will help more Indians who have been stranded in the country due to Covid-19 restrictions return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nri-businessman-charters-flight-for-employees-return/story-9Uw1gvvgAEc38FQLxpNF5O.html
16-06-2020||India||Amid row, Nepal plans increase in border posts||Nepal plans to increase the number of its border outposts (BoPs) along the boundary with India by 100, from the existing 121 to 221 in the next year, in a move that, while it has been in the works for some time, comes at a time when friction between the two countries is high over a new map approved by the Himalayan country’s parliament that lays claim to territory that has always been with India.The idea is to eventually take this number up to 500, people familiar with the matter said. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards India’s borders with Nepal, and India’s central intelligence agencies have information that Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), deployed at the border, has already been given approval for an additional 100 border posts by that country’s home ministry. A proposal for taking this number to 500 is under consideration, a top government official said on condition of anonymity. Kedar Nath Sharma, joint secretary and spokesperson at Nepal’s ministry of home affairs, confirmed the immediate plan in a phone interview from Kathmandu.“Yes, we are going to increase the number of BoPs at the Indo-Nepal border from the existing 121 to 221 in the next Nepali fiscal year. I cannot say anything about the further plans”. The next Nepali fiscal year is from July 16, 2020 to July 15, 2021.A senior Nepal APF officer who asked not to be named said over the phone that the country is increasing the number of outposts to “keep a check on border crimes and to make sure unauthorised persons do not enter the country”. Interestingly, some of the outposts are around Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura, three of the territories Nepal now claims are its.On Saturday, Nepal’s parliament voted unanimously to amend its constitution to redraw the country’s political map laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura.India has termed the decision “untenable” and in violation of current understanding to hold talks on outstanding border issues. Queries sent to the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Nepal’s plans for new outposts remained unanswered.Experts are divided on the development, with some saying that erection of more outposts should not be a cause of concern as India and Nepal have a very good working relationship and there has never been a dispute between APF and SSB.Others believe the move is badly timed, given the current situation in the relationship between the two countries. Those subscribing to the first school of thought said India has 533 BoPs of SSB at the 1,751km-long open border with Nepal, and argued that Nepal’s APF, too, has a right to erect as many posts it wants. A senior SSB officer, who didn’t want to be named, said: “We (SSB and Nepal APF) guarding forces have a mechanism where commanding officers interact on regular basis, information is shared on network of criminals, human traffickers, counterfeit currency and drugs smugglers and even movement of terrorists.”In a one-off incident, Nepal APF fired upon a group of Indian villagers who had entered Nepal in violation of the lockdown underway there, near Sitamarhi (Bihar), killing one person and injuring two. The director general of SSB, Kumar Rajesh Chandra, didn’t respond to phone calls or texts seeking a comment. “It is in the interest of both countries that the open border between India and Nepal is not used by hostile elements whether for smuggling or trafficking in counterfeit currency or terrorist infiltration. For this, if Nepal APF wants to increase their presence and works in coordination with the SSB, which also has more than 500 BoPs, then I think it is a positive development,” Rakesh Sood, former ambassador to Nepal, said. But the timing is bad, said another former diplomat.Manjeev Puri, who has served as ambassador in Nepal, said: “India has reacted to Nepal laying claim to Indian territory in a new map in a firm but diplomatic manner, making clear that what the Nepalese have done is untenable. Nepal’s decision to add more BoPs on their side at this time should not have been done as it adds to an avoidable narrative of escalating tensions. India and Nepal have long-standing people-to-people relations, which need to be strengthened, especially during these unprecedented times of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-nepal-plans-increase-in-border-posts/story-dYc6QMuJumgl8tQngnR8KO.html
16-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On May 30, Hindustan Times published a news report about more babies being delivered at home in villages and towns in India’s hinterland during the 68-day lockdown that ended on May 31. There are still some restrictions on movement and activities but things are very different from how they were during the lockdown and the government itself likes to refer to this phase as Unlock 1.0.The data on deliveries provided by some of the states bears out what anecdotes have been suggesting for some time — the lockdown, and the focus of the health care system and frontline health care workers on Covid-19, meant that a lot of routine health care work had come to a halt. There’s nothing as routine as births (India’s big success at reducing maternal and infant mortality has come on the back of its years-long effort to make sure more children are delivered in health care centres and hospitals, not homes). And there is nothing quite as routine as immunisation. HT’s health editor Sanchita Sharma tells me that there is little data available on immunisation activity over the past three months — the states seem to have stopped collecting and uploading it. Anecdotally, at least, there are suggestions that like many other things in health care not connected to the coronavirus disease, immunisations have ground to a halt.That could be disastrous. And its impact could play out over years, affecting the health, development, intellectual abilities, even economic prospects of an entire generation. This shouldn’t surprise anyone. India has consistently underinvested in health care. It was only in 2018 that the government thought a nationwide health insurance scheme was needed. The country’s health infrastructure is inadequate and creaking; and there is a huge shortage of health care workers — doctors, nurses, epidemiologists and technicians. Indeed, this could prove to be the weak link in the huge exercise the Union and Delhi governments have undertaken to make more hospital beds available to Covid-19 patients in the Capital, which is seeing a surge of cases (42,829 cases; 30% of its total number of cases as of Monday night were added in the past week). Star hotels, banquet halls, railway coaches, even large prayer halls (one in South Delhi can accommodate around 10,000 people) are being converted into temporary hospitals. The important question is: where will the doctors and nurses come from?The state of India’s health infrastructure — to their credit, the country’s health care workers have stepped up, and worked tirelessly, often at great risk to themselves over the past three months — may well be one reason why the numbers of cases and deaths continue to increase in India. The country ended Monday with 342,902 cases, of which 152,898 are active, and 9,915 deaths.A recent article in The Wall Street Journal described the situation in Peru (where the number of cases is falling), which still has over 100,000 active cases (for comparison, India has over 150,000) and which, like India, was quick to impose a hard lockdown. Peru announced its lockdown in the middle of March. Yet, it has seen around 230,000 cases of Covid-19 and close to 6,700 deaths. The actual number of dead could be higher by a few tens of thousands, WSJ reports.Peru’s per capita national income is around $7,000, compared to India’s $2000. Both are countries with thriving informal economies, poor health care systems, and inadequate social safety nets for the most vulnerable. Inequality is high in both countries. The conclusion is inescapable: perhaps India’s hard lockdown would have worked better if the country had a better health care system and a wider and generously cushioned safety net. That’s a question for policy-makers to ponder when they sit down to discuss their post-Covid priorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-HDnEps1XQLKlsZFpMcOn7K.html
16-06-2020||India||Milk turns sour as sales tank in season of glut||Households consumed more milk, cheese and yogurt during the lockdown, raising sales by up to 25% in large dairies, such as Amul. But that has not been enough to offset the sharp decline in demand from commercial buyers, such as hotels, confectioners and restaurants, which account for nearly 20% of the organised dairy sector’s revenues. This has triggered an inventory build-up crisis. This year should have been a bright one. Good rains during winter made for cheaper fodder, the key input for cattle. As a result, the flush season (typically from October to March), which sees higher milk output production, stretched into April and May, leading to a two-month oversupply. A limping hospitality sector, however, has cut sales in the last two months, analysts say. Revenue from ice-cream, cheese, flavoured milk, curd and yoghurt, among other items, which give higher profits than liquid milk, have tanked. Processed dairy items make up a third of the organised dairy sector’s revenues. The effects of a revenue crisis in larger dairies ultimately ripple into smaller ones, who, on cue, pass on lower prices to unorganised farmers.India is the largest producer of milk in the world. In the past four years, output has grown by over 6% every year. Production is expected to be 177 million tonnes in 2019-20. Nearly 70 million rural households are occupied in dairy farming, which gives a regular income, unlike the seasonal earnings from crops. From a dairy owner’s perspective, the more lucrative sales come from what is internally called the ‘Horeca’ segment, an industry acronym for ‘hotel, restaurant and canteen’ sales. “Dairies in which commercial sales to the hospitality sector have a larger share have taken a larger hit of the lockdown,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. Inventories could rise by 14% in the first quarter, which is usually a peak season, according to Crisil Ratings, the credit ratings firm. Amul, the country’s largest milk brand, said its value-added segment, such as ice-cream, yogurt and cream, account for 20% of overall sales. “During the two months of lockdown, sales in this segment became zero. They have now revived a little, say about 15%,” said RS Sodhi, the managing director of Amul, a brand owned by the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd (GCMMF). Amul has been lucky because household sales have just about made up for falls in hospitality and commercial sales. The brand’s owner, GCMMF, said it has not reduced procurement prices ,ie, prices the dairy pays to farmers. However, thousands of unorganised, smaller farmers are already counting huge losses in states such as Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. In Madhya Pradesh, cooperatives have slashed wholesale milk prices to dairy farmers from ~7 a litre of milk to ~5.20, squeezing margins, said Kedar Sirohi, an Indore-based farm leader. “Small farmers who sell lower volumes have gone out of business,” he said.In April, there were reports of farmers from Kerala and Karnataka dumping milk on to roads because they were being offered too little for it.Analysts say a year of pain lies ahead. Demand of processed items are expected to “de-grow” 2-3% this fiscal year, according to Rahul Guha, a dairy business watcher and a director at Crisil Ratings. “That would reduce operating profitability by as much as 50-75 basis points.” One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/milk-turns-sour-as-sales-tank-in-season-of-glut/story-tNzg43Uy9DO383DwAKRlGL.html
16-06-2020||India||Daily tests to climb to 18,000 as Amit Shah holds all-party meet||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday urged all parties in Delhi to work together to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from stalking the city, and discussed plans to ramp up testing to 18,000 by June 20, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal denied there were plans to reimpose a complete lockdown . Shah chaired an all-party meet to discuss augmenting the Capital’s health care infrastructure, a day after the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader held separate meetings with Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to chalk out a road map to tackle the pandemic.Leaders of the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, and Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) resolved to bury political differences in the battle against the outbreak, with Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and the AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh saying the number of daily tests will be increased to 18,000 by the end of the week.Fewer samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Delhi over the past few days, with the number falling from an average of about 7,000 samples at the end of May to about 5,000 samples last week. Baijal recently issued an order that struck down the Delhi government’s decision to keep high-risk asymptomatic people out of the scope of testing in Delhi.Another order by the Delhi L-G last week overturned Kejriwal’s announcement to reserve beds in private and state government hospitals for local residents, a move that was seen as a potential flashpoint between the Centre and the Delhi government.“Political differences must be forgotten and all parties must work together for the people of Delhi. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we should all work together to fight this pandemic,” Shah said after Monday’s meeting.“Political unity will create confidence among the public and lead to improvement in the pandemic situation in the Capital. We have to improve Covid-19 testing capacity with newer techniques,” he added. Shah also asked the parties to mobilise their cadres and assist in implementing the decisions taken by the Centre and Delhi government.While AAP MP Singh said all parties decided to keep politics aside, Gupta added that a central team will give a report on the capping of charges at private hospitals, following which action will be taken to control “arbitrary” pricing. The Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) also attended the meeting, which was held at the North Block.On Sunday, the home minister announced a series of steps that included aggressive testing and the formation of two committees, aimed at augmenting health care infrastructure, possibly capping treatment costs in private hospitals, and effective containment of Covid-19 in the national capital.The developments come ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s consultations with chief ministers on Tuesday and Wednesday on ways to control the spread of the virus as India gradually exits a national lockdown necessitated by the outbreak.Delhi recorded 1,647 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to about 43,000, while the death toll mounted to 1,400. Even as the number of daily cases remained high, Kejriwal rejected speculation that the Capital will return to a complete lockdown to slow the spread of the infectious disease, which has so far killed about 9,500 people in India.“Many people are speculating whether another lockdown in Delhi in being planned. There are no such plans,” the Delhi CM tweeted.The Delhi CM’s assertion came on a day the Tamil Nadu government announced that a lockdown will be reimposed from Friday on about 15 million people in Chennai and neighbouring districts. The state is the second worst-affected hot spot of the pathogen after Maharashtra.Speaking to reporters after the all-party meeting in Delhi, Singh said that a Covid-19 test which will cost around ~450 was being considered for the Capital. “It has been decided that 1,900 beds in state government hospitals, 2,000 beds in central government hospitals and 1,078 beds in private hospitals will be added for Covid-19 patients,” he said.Singh added that 500 train coaches that will act as isolation wards will be provided by the Indian Railways for 8,000 patients. The number of coaches will be increased to 1,000 in the coming days, taking the capacity to 16,000 Covid-19 patients, he added.The AAP government has issued directions to ramp up Delhi’s hospital bed capacity by 20,000 by June 20. Chief minister Kejriwal recently said Delhi will need 150,000 Covid-19 beds by July 31, factoring in outstation patients who may travel to the city for treatment.Newly appointed Delhi BJP chief Gupta said Shah discussed door-to-door tracing and mapping of risk in all containment zones of Delhi. “The BJP demanded that 50% charges be waived off on testing. This demand has been approved by Union home minister Amit Shah,” he said. A meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority is scheduled on June 16, where this issue is likely to be discussed. “In this hour of crisis, we should fight against the pandemic together instead of trading charges,” the Delhi BJP chief said after the meeting.In Telangana, the cost of conducting a Covid-19 test at private labs was fixed at ~2,200 on Monday and the fee for treatment of the disease in corporate hospitals at ~4,000 per day. The charge for treatment of patients in intensive care units without ventilator support was fixed at ~7,500 per day, while it would be ~9,000 per day for those who are on such support.Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said he raised the issue of surging numbers of Covid-19 patients in Delhi, holding the BJP-ruled Centre and the AAP government in Delhi responsible for it. “The meeting was an exercise in mutual praise by both the BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party, though both the Central and Delhi governments have failed miserably in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. This meeting should have been held 84 days ago, on March 23 when the lockdown was implemented,” he said.Shortly after the meeting at the Union home ministry, Shah visited the LNJP Hospital to review the Covid-19 preparedness. He met senior doctors, who briefed him about the number of patients treated at the facility, fatalities and admissions from outside Delhi.The Union home minister directed the Delhi chief secretary to install CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards of every designated hospital in the national capital for proper monitoring, and set up alternative canteens for uninterrupted supply of food to the patients.“The Union minister interacted with doctors and medical staff and motivated them. He scrutinised the infrastructure and medical facilities in the hospital. For the last 10 days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been taking stock of all arrangements in LNJP Hospital. He has been monitoring all the grievances and issues highlighted and ensured that they are resolved immediately. Today’s successful visit of the Union minister was an endorsement of the better facilities in LNJP Hospital,” a spokesperson of the Delhi government said. The Delhi government has directed all laboratories and hospitals to work at full capacity and ramp up Covid-19 testing capacity. In an order issued on Sunday, Delhi health secretary Padmini Singla called for the processing of all samples within 48 hours. “There is no upper limit to send samples to private sector labs, provided they undertake to process the same within the stipulated time frame, that is 24 hours (preferably) and maximum within 48 hours,” the order said. On Monday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said laboratory facilities under the Centre in the national capital were also being extended to the Delhi government. “As far as increasing of testing capacity is concerned, in Delhi most of the lab facilities are under the Centre, so those are being extended to us,” he said.Sanjay Kumar, director at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said: “There is a great deal of politics happening right now in Delhi over Covid-19, which ideally shouldn’t happen.” (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-tests-to-climb-to-18-000-as-shah-holds-all-party-meet/story-LhXJ7mAaB0CRfFxqnzVJFM.html
16-06-2020||India||GST revenue fell 56% in April-May||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection and the consumption of diesel – the two weathervanes of economic health – fell by 56% and 42%, respectively in the first two months of the current financial year compared to same period a year ago due to the nationwide lockdown.Total GST collection in the first two months of FY-21 was Rs 94,323 crore, less than half of Rs 2,14,154 crore collected in the corresponding period of FY-20, according to a government document reviewed by HT.A sharp fall in GST collections in April and May was expected because of the nationwide lockdown since March 25 that disrupted economic activities, but the economy is recovering as the GST collection improved significantly in May compared to the previous month, a government official said requesting anonymity. GST, a tax on consumption, which fell by about 72% at Rs 32,172 crore in April this year, recovered substantially the following month to Rs 62,151 crore. However, the collection was about 38% short of Rs 1,00,289 crore collected in May 2019. India went through a four-phased lockdown between March 25 and May 31. The Indian economy has been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, and this was also reflected in a sharp fall in diesel consumption. The trend is more or less in the lines of GST collection figures as both represent the intensity of business activities, the official said.Spokespersons at ministries of finance and petroleum did not respond to queries.Diesel consumption saw a 55.6% fall in April 2020 at 32,50,000 metric tonnes compared to 73,23,000 metric tonnes in the same month last year, according to the oil ministry’s datakeeper Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC). “The drop would have been sharper, but sustained rural demand arrested the fall to some extent in the [Rabi, winter crop ] harvest season,” the official said.Sector-specific relaxation saw some recovery in diesel demand in May, he said. The diesel consumption in May was 54,95,000 metric tonnes compared to 77,88,000 metric tonnes in May 2019, a fall to 29.4%.Experts are hopeful that GST collections will rise and diesel consumption , recover in coming months as most economic activities have now been permitted.Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY said, “The fall in GST collections can be attributed to two main reasons, one is the muted economic activity in April and May due to Covid and the lockdown, and the other is the deferral of GST payment dates because of which some GST collections have been deferred. The fall in consumption of diesel and petrol seems largely on account of Covid and lockdown.”Anupam Manur, assistant professor at Takshashila Institution said, “The lockdown allowed the production, distribution and sale of only essential items, a lot of which (including agricultural products) do not attract a tax. The severe restrictions placed on the movement of people and vehicles and the resultant empty streets explains the fall in diesel consumption.”“Both the GST collections and diesel/petrol consumption should witness an uptick with lockdown being relaxed and the pickup in economic activity,” Jain said.Manur, however, said the recovery of diesel consumptions will be far quicker than that of GST collections. “With many of the strictest rules of the lockdown lifted and movement of people and travel allowed, demand for fuel will increase.”“Recovery of GST collections is a lot more complex and will depend on India’s ability to mend broken supply chains, restore people’s incomes and jobs, and increase consumer confidence, which will, in turn, greatly depend on how quickly we can contain the growth rate of Covid cases,” he added.According to the latest official data, the Indian economy grew 3.1% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The growth rate in the full financial year 2019-20 is expected to be 4.2%, the slowest in 11 years on the back of falling investment and consumption.The slowdown is also reflected in automobile sales. According to a report published in HT on June 12, retail sales of passenger vehicles plunged 87% in May from a year earlier to 30,749 units. The country’s factory output also contracted by a record 55.5% in April, official data released on Friday said.According to global rating agencies, the next financial year appears promising for India. S&P Global Ratings on June 10 said India’s economy is likely to achieve a strong 8.5% growth in fiscal 2020 following a 5% contraction in the current fiscal year. The same day, Fitch Ratings projected a 5% contraction in the GDP this financial year, but said it expected growth to rebound to 9.5% in the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-revenue-fell-56-in-april-may/story-E9dDKDTxL1BLcM1nWdMcAM.html
16-06-2020||India||ICMR advises rapid antigen kits for speedier diagnoses||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday validated the first point of care rapid antigen diagnostic test for Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that gives results in 30 minutes as compared to the five hours taken by a conventional reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test -- making it easier for government health departments to test widely and quickly, and hospitals to screen non-Covid patients being admitted, especially for surgeries. The test , the world’s first rapid test , can be used in field settings in containment zones, hotspots and hospitals, and its findings do not need to be confirmed through an RT-PCR test.The kit— Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit—has been developed by SD Biosensor, a South Korean company and jointly validated by ICMR and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has approved its import and manufacturing in the country.The company is yet to begin mass production of these kits in India.“We have just got ICMR validation so production will take some time. We will start manufacturing, may be around next week but the date has not been finalized yet. The price has also not been decided as yet but it will be much cheaper than RT-PCR kits,” said Punit Kumar, deputy manager, regulatory affairs, at SD Bio Sensor. “…Such tests would help in proper implementation of the Govt. strategy to test, track and treat. Such tests will also help in allaying the anxiety and fear of health care workers and aid in better clinical management of the patients…,” said ICMR in a statement.“We have issued an advisory to the states that it can be used for diagnosis of Sars-Cov-2 and test results that return positive using this antigen based test don’t require re-confirmation through RT-PCR. States can procure the kit and use it. ICMR has provided the broad guidelines and the rest is up to the states to see how well it can be deployed on ground,” said Dr Lokesh Sharma, scientist and spokesperson, ICMR.Sensitivity of the test (ability to detect true positives; which means the chances that an infected person will test positive) is 84%, depending upon the viral load of the patient wherein higher viral load correlates with higher sensitivity.ICMR has advised states to use this kit for Covid-19 diagnosis in containment zones, hotspots, and hospitals to test all symptomatic Influenza Like Illness (ILI), asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities, and asymptomatic high risk patients who are hospitalized or seeking hospitalization such as those undergoing chemotherapy, immunosuppressed patients including HIV positives, suffering from a malignancy, transplant patients and elder patients with co-morbidities.The test has also been allowed in asymptomatic patients undergoing aerosol generating surgical or non-surgical interventions such as neurosurgery, ear nose throat surgery, dental procedures, bronchoscopy (lungs examination by putting a tiny camera inside), Upper gastro-intestinal endoscopy (digestive track examination by putting a tiny camera inside) and dialysis.RT-PCR tests are the gold standard frontline test for diagnosis of Covid-19, but “…require specialized laboratory facilities in terms of equipment, biosafety and biosecurity. Minimum time taken… 2-5 hours including the time taken for sample transportation. These specifications limit the widespread use of the RT-PCR test and also impede quick augmentation of testing capacity in various containment zones and hospital settings,” added the ICMR advisory.“It can be used for diagnosis but if the test is negative, RT-PCR will be done to rule out infection,” said Dr RR Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology, ICMR.Hospitals say it is only after they start testing that they will be able to determine how beneficial this test is.“On face value, it does sound good to us as we are allowed to test in-patients and patients before admission, but then we will have to see how it helps us in our set-up of diagnosis. That we will come to know only when we start testing,” said Dr Chand Wattal, chairman, clinical microbiology and immunology, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.ICMR has asked other manufacturers and developers, who have antigen detection assays, to come forward for validation.“Currently, there is just one manufacturer but we are hoping many will come forward so that this testing can be expanded in states,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-advises-rapid-antigen-kits-for-speedier-diagnoses/story-PEcxZEDwxrQpQC2aLv8aBL.html
16-06-2020||India||Airlines can fill up middle seats but must follow SOP, says Bombay HC||MumbaiThe Bombay high court (HC) on Monday allowed all airlines to fill the middle seats provided the guidelines issued by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on May 31 and all other standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by civil aviation authorities are strictly adhered to. The court passed its order in a petition filed by an Air India pilot who complained that the national carrier had risked the safety of passengers in Vande Bharat special evacuation flights and alleged that the airline had not adhered to a March 23 circular of DGCA which stipulated that the middle seat should be kept vacant to maintain social distancing among passengers. DGCA had, however, withdrawn the said circular and issued a new circular on May 31 stating the middle seats could be filled given the passenger was provided with proper personal protective equipment (PPE) which includes face mask, face shield, wrap around gown and gloves.On Monday, a bench of justice SJ Kathawalla while hearing the petition was informed by DGCA and ministry of civil aviation that they had issued necessary instructions for both international and domestic airlines to protect passengers from contracting Covid-19 in its May 31 circular. The guidelines stated that the middle seats, which were to be kept vacant as per an earlier circular of March 23, could be filled up provided the airlines followed all SOPs and provided PPE to the passenger occupying the middle seat.The airline, namely Air India, represented by solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta, advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, advocates Arsh Misra and Kavitra Anchan informed the court that they would ensure that the May 31 circular and SOPs issued by various aviation authorities would be adhered to and urged that the petition be dismissed with costs.After hearing the submissions, the bench, which had passed an interim order on June 4 allowing filling up of the middle seats if May 31 DGCA guidelines were adhered to, said it was making final its interim order and the same would apply to all international and domestic flights including Vande Bharat flights that were pressed into service to evacuate stranded Indians abroad. The court, however, kept the petition pending to decide on the question of whether a cost was to be imposed on the petitioner pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-can-fill-up-middle-seats-but-must-follow-sop-says-bombay-hc/story-lNxmsh16tGxmPCYbEhfdgJ.html
16-06-2020||India||Cap treatment cost at private hospitals: Centre to states||Union health ministry on Monday directed the states to fix a price for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment in private hospitals after consultation with the sector as there have been reports of overcharging by private hospitals offering Covid-19 care.“…have consultations with the local private healthcare providers and arrive at reasonable rates, while factoring in cost elements for personal safety equipments for healthcare providers. It has been suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicized so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally,” said health ministry in a statement.The health minister pointed out that certain states have already taken initiative, and reached an agreement with the private sector on reasonable rates and arrangements to provide critical care for in-patients.“PMJAY package and Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) package rates are already available with the States. The latter rates are fixed area wise.”As there have also been reports of shortage of critical beds in certain states, the centre has also asked states to engage with the private sector for scaling up health care infrastructure to meet the shortage of hospitals with intensive care unit beds, ventilators, oxygen supported beds etc, for treatment Covid-19.“States have also been asked to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to Covid-19 patients.”As the Covid cases rise there has been an increased demand for critical care beds.As of now India has 958 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 intensive care unit beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds. There are 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 1,33,037 Isolation beds; 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.In 7,525 Covid care centres there are 7,10,642 beds now available in the country. There are currently 21,494 ventilators available for covid beds.“Private sector does not mind pitching in but what the government must keep in mind is that there is a fixed cost involved in testing and treating Covid-19 patients, and it is not possible to go below a certain price bracket. The plan should be designed in such as way that those who can pay should be allowed to pay and those who cannot must be provided services free of cost or at subsidized rates,” said a senior private lab owner in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cap-treatment-cost-at-pvt-hospitals-centre-to-states/story-ptoiQFLwMkw4anZ32oNuYP.html
16-06-2020||India||Cap Covid-19 treatment cost at private hospitals: Centre to states||Union health ministry on Monday directed the states to fix a price for coronavirus disease (covid-19) treatment in private hospitals after consultation with the sector as there have been reports of overcharging by private hospitals offering Covid-19 care.“…have consultations with the local private healthcare providers and arrive at reasonable rates, while factoring in cost elements for personal safety equipments for healthcare providers. It has been suggested that the rates, once fixed, must be widely publicized so that both the patients and service providers are fully aware and capacities are used optimally,” said health ministry in a statement.The health minister pointed out that certain states have already taken initiative, and reached an agreement with the private sector on reasonable rates and arrangements to provide critical care for in-patients.“PMJAY package and Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) package rates are already available with the States. The latter rates are fixed area wise.”As there have also been reports of shortage of critical beds in certain states, the centre has also asked states to engage with the private sector for scaling up health care infrastructure to meet the shortage of hospitals with intensive care unit beds, ventilators, oxygen supported beds etc, for treatment Covid-19.“States have also been asked to proactively engage with the private sector health providers and consider pooling in public and private healthcare facilities, as this will help in providing prompt, good quality and reasonable health care to Covid-19 patients.”As the Covid cases rise there has been an increased demand for critical care beds.As of now India has 958 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 intensive care unit beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds. There are 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 1,33,037 Isolation beds; 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.In 7,525 Covid care centres there are 7,10,642 beds now available in the country. There are currently 21,494 ventilators available for covid beds.“Private sector does not mind pitching in but what the government must keep in mind is that there is a fixed cost involved in testing and treating Covid-19 patients, and it is not possible to go below a certain price bracket. The plan should be designed in such as way that those who can pay should be allowed to pay and those who cannot must be provided services free of cost or at subsidized rates,” said a senior private lab owner in Delhi....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cap-treatment-cost-at-pvt-hospitals-centre-to-states/story-3GLTAwgHmafeoyn1JD7h8I.html
16-06-2020||India||25% Covid-19 patients at Lok Nayak from outside Delhi, medical director tells Amit Shah||Around 25% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients being treated at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital are from neighbouring states, according to data presented by the hospital’s medical director during a visit by Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday.In a live telecast of the meeting, the director said that the hospital has so far treated 2,200 Covid-19 patients since it started admitting those with the viral infection in March. On Monday, the hospital had 580 positive cases and 188 suspected cases admitted to its isolation wards. The Lok Nayak hospital is the largest Covid-19 treatment centre in Delhi, with 2,000 beds.“Around 25% of our admissions in the last three months have been people from neighbouring states. When it comes to the deaths, there have been 455 deaths from Delhi and 14 from outside Delhi,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director Lok Nayak hospital. The Delhi government earlier decided to reserve the services in Delhi government hospitals and private hospitals that did not handle superspeciality cases for Delhi residents. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, however, overturned the order on June 8. The Union home minister directed the Delhi chief secretary to install CCTV cameras in Covid-19 wards of every designated hospital in the national capital for proper monitoring, and set up alternative canteens for uninterrupted supply of food to the patients.In an order issued later in the evening, Vikram Dev Dutt, principal secretary, health and family welfare of the Delhi government, asked the Public Works Department (PWD) to get the CCTV cameras installed within 24 hours. “It is hereby directed that Covid wards in all Covid hospitals of the Delhi government shall have CCTV cameras for efficient monitoring and supervision of patient care. PWD, of Delhi government, is directed to install CCTV cameras in all Covid wards within 24 hours and submit a compliance report in this regard at pshealth@nic.in,” read the order. After the visit to the Delhi hospital, Shah also suggested psychosocial counselling of doctors and nurses engaged in fight against Covid-19.The home minister met senior doctors in the conference room of the hospital who briefed him about the number of patients treated at the facility, deaths there and the admissions process.The hospital also boasts of the largest dialysis centre in north India, having provided 1,140 dialysis sessions during the Covid-19 pandemic. There have been 122 deliveries in Covid-19-positive mothers at the hospital – 56 C-sections and 66 normal deliveries. This is the highest number of deliveries in Covid-19 patients by a hospital in the city so far, according to Dr Kumar.After the meeting with the medical director and other senior staff of the hospital, the minister also thanked all the nurses at the facility. He visited the hospital’s emergency department, which is being used to triage Covid-19 patients.With regard to the union home minister’s surprise visit at Lok Nayak hospital, a Delhi government spokesperson said: “The union minister interacted with doctors and medical staff and motivated them. He scrutinised the infrastructure and medical facilities in the hospital. For the last 10 days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been taking stock of all arrangements at Lok Nayak hospital. He has been monitoring all the grievances and issues and ensuring that they are resolved immediately. Today’s successful visit of the union minister was an endorsement of the better facilities at Lok Nayak hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-covid-19-patients-at-lok-nayak-from-outside-delhi-medical-director-tells-amit-shah/story-Dl9GTFNBtwdTDfQI0wntSP.html
16-06-2020||India||Nearly 6 million migrants ferried in Shramik Specials : Rly board chairman||The average fare on Shramik Special trains meant for migrant workers and their families was Rs 600, railway board chairman VK Yadav said Monday adding that the national carrier ferried nearly 6 million migrants indicating it has generated a revenue of around Rs 360 crore from this.Indian Railways has run 4450 of these special trains for migrant workers. The Indian railways recovered only 15% of the total cost of operating the Shramik trains, Yadav said at a virtual press conference. “The fare was charged as per the normal sleeper fare of a mail express train,” he said.A spokesperson for the railway ministry clarified that the national carrier spent around Rs 3,400 per person on operating the trains.“Only a few migrants are left now as most have reached their home. We will continue to coordinate with state governments to send the remaining migrants back. We asked state governments to send us their demand of remaining trains on June 3 and we received a demand for 171 Shramik Special trains from various states…We ended up running 222 Shramik Special trains till June 14. After the Supreme Court’s order we have again sought details from the state governments to meet the additional demand,” Yadav said.As of now, a total 63 more Shramik Special Trains have been demanded by various states. Kerala, Andhara Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Gujarat and Jammu & Kashmir have sought the trains to ferry remaining migrants, according to the railway ministry.Speaking on the deployment of so-called Covid coaches , Yadav said the Covid isolation coaches are meant to be used when the health infrastructure of a state gets exhausted due to the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients will be kept in separate Covid Coaches wherever they are allocated as per the guidelines issued by the health ministry, he addedThe Railways, has so far received a demand for coaches from Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and the Delhi government. The rest of the deployment will be done as and when states demand them, he added.The isolation coaches will be under the complete care of the chief medical officer of the respective state government. The Railway Board chairman said it is more suitable to use non-AC coaches for isolation purposes of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients. For cooling, wherever required the Railways will provide roof insulation in the coaches, he added.For the national capital Delhi, at least 50 coaches with around 800 beds have already been stationed at Shakur Basti railway station. “We have earmarked 500 coaches for Delhi and we are jointly working with the Delhi government to finalise locations. A joint team is working on it. The main objective is that the Indian goverment and the state government should work as a team and see that we succeed in fighting the pandemic,”said Yadav.Around 180 coaches are scheduled to be placed at Anand Vihar railway station and some other stations on Tuesday and five pairs of trains running to and from the station will be diverted to Old Delhi railway station, the Northern railways spokesperson said.So far, no isolation coaches are in use in Delhi, officials said.The demand for the special coaches has come nearly two months after they were prepared. A total of 5,231 coaches were modified to be used as Covid Care Centres.In May, the government drafted a plan to deploy 5,231 railway coaches as isolation wards across 215 stations in 15 states considering the possibility of an increase in cases of Covid-19.The railway board wrote to the various railway zones in May seeking to take back 60% of the Covid-19 coaches to be utilised as Shramik trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-6-million-migrants-ferried-in-shramik-spls-rly-board-chairman/story-rKmwNquYDTGsFtwCFRDhPI.html
16-06-2020||India||China, Pakistan have more nuclear weapons than India: Study||China and Pakistan possess more nuclear weapons than India, according to a new yearbook released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) on Monday.The think tank’s Yearbook 2020 pegs the number of nuclear warheads in the Chinese arsenal at 320, while the nuclear forces of Pakistan and India are estimated to have 160 and 150 weapons, respectively. The figures have been updated till January 2020.“One must keep in mind that nuclear weapons are not war-fighting weapons but only constitute a deterrence factor. Our no first use (NFU) policy suitably caters to the threat. While India keeps a sharp eye on this, it is imperative that our conventional capability accretion continues unhindered,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.India and its neighbours were ranked in the same order by SIPRI last year too when China possessed 290 nuclear warheads, Pakistan 150-160 and India, 130-140 warheads at the start of 2019.The findings come at a time when India and China are caught in a border confrontation along the contested line of actual control in eastern Ladakh. Also, there is a noticeable military buildup on both sides of the border --- stretching from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.China is carrying out “significant modernisation” of its nuclear arsenal and developing a “so-called nuclear triad for the first time” made up of new land and sea-based missiles and nuclear-capable fighter jets, SIPRI said in a statement announcing the launch of the yearbook.“India and Pakistan are slowly increasing the size and diversity of their nuclear forces,” it said.The yearbook, which “assesses the current state of armaments, disarmament and international security”, found while there has been an overall decrease in the number of nuclear warheads in 2019, all nuclear weapon-possessing countries continue to modernise their nuclear arsenals.With 6,375 and 5,800 warheads, Russia and the United States together possess more than 90% of global nuclear weapons.The nine nuclear-armed countries --- the US, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, China, India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea --- together account for an estimated 13,400 nuclear weapons as of January 2020.“This marked a decrease from the 13,865 nuclear weapons that SIPRI estimated these states possessed at the beginning of 2019. Around 3,720 of the nuclear weapons are currently deployed with operational forces and nearly 1,800 of these are kept in a state of high operational alert,” the SIPRI statement said.It also highlighted low levels of transparency in reporting on nuclear weapon capabilities.“China now publicly displays its nuclear forces more frequently than in the past but releases little information about force numbers or future development plans,” the statement said.“The governments of India and Pakistan make statements about some of their missile tests but provide no information about the status or size of their arsenals,” it added.India was the third-biggest military spender in the world last year after the US and China, according to a SIPRI report released in April. It was the first time that two Asian countries featured among the top three military spenders.New Delhi’s defence spending grew by 6.8% to reach $71.1 billion in 2019, said the report on Trends in World in World Military Expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pak-have-more-nukes-than-india-study/story-oVIxnfrTIRIfMiKiabykkL.html
16-06-2020||India||Pakistan detains Indian mission officials||Pakistani authorities on Monday detained two junior staff members of the Indian mission in Islamabad and held them for almost 12 hours, releasing them after the Pakistani charge d’affaires in New Delhi was summoned to the foreign ministry for lodging a strong protest.The two non-diplomatic staff members, who were in an official car, were initially reported missing at 8 am Pakistan time while out on official duty, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. They were handed over to two other officials of the high commission at the Secretariat police station, located a short distance from the diplomatic enclave, about 12 hours later.The people said the two staff members had signs of injuries and would undergo a medical examination. The incident was widely seen in New Delhi as retaliation for the Indian government’s decision to expel two officials of the Pakistan high commission who were apprehended on charges of spying on May 31.Almost seven hours after the two staff members were reported missing, reports in the Pakistani media claimed they had been arrested after their car allegedly hit a pedestrian near the diplomatic enclave. The Express Tribune newspaper’s website reported the two men allegedly tried to flee and the car was stopped by a large group of bystanders who handed them over to police.A first information report (FIR) by Islamabad Police, accessed by HT, said the two men were charged under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure related to rash driving, injuring a person through rash driving and possession of fake currency. The FIR further claimed fake Pakistani currency with a face value of Rs 10,000 was found in the car.These allegations were dismissed by the people cited above, who described them as false and baseless.Following the media reports, Pakistan’s charge d’affaires Syed Haider Shah was summoned to the external affairs ministry and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation on the arrest of the two staff members. Shah was told there should be “no interrogation or harassment” of the Indians and that the responsibility for the safety and security of the personnel “lay squarely with the Pakistani authorities”, one of the people cited above said.“The Pakistan side was asked to return the two officials along with the official car to the high commission immediately,” the person added.There was no word from Pakistan’s Foreign Office regarding the incident.On May 31, India expelled two officials of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi after they were detained by security agencies while trying to obtain classified materials on Indian security installations. Both men were declared “persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission” and asked to India within 24 hours.Pakistan had condemned the Indian government’s action and said the officials were detained on “false and unsubstantiated charges”.Subsequently, India had also complained about the harassment of its diplomats in Islamabad. These developments have come at a time when ties between India and Pakistan are at an all-time low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-detains-indian-mission-officials/story-NRVQgqqPD7aKCx3hfU92rN.html
16-06-2020||India||Cyber attack: At least nine rights activists targeted||At least nine human rights activists were targeted last year with attempting computer hacking, researchers at Canada-based Citizen Lab and Amnesty International said in a report on Monday, detailing an operation that used email-delivered links that would infect the target’s computer with commercially available spyware.Among the targets were lawyers representing the activists arrested over the Bhima Koregaon case and some of who were subject to attacks through the Pegasus spyware that was delivered through WhatsApp.“Between January and October 2019, each of the targets were sent spearphishing emails containing malicious links that, if opened, would have installed NetWire, a commercially available spyware,” they said in the blog post.The targets were identified as lawyers Nihalsingh B Rathod, Isha Khandelwal, Degree Prasad Chauhan, Kolkata-based microbiologists Partho Sarathi Ray and Delhi-based academic PK Vijayan.“This new investigation confirms that there is a pattern of targeted attacks against Human Rights Defenders in India, and more specifically against those advocating for the release of the Bhima Koregaon 11 (the arrested activists),” said Amnesty International’s Etienne Maynier, one of the researchers who worked on the investigation.“The Indian government has a responsibility of addressing this issue and protecting the privacy and free speech of human rights defenders. We are thus calling on the Indian authorities to conduct an independent and transparent investigation on this unlawful surveillance,” he added.Spearphishing is a sophisticated cyber attack compared that is tailored to gain the target’s trust by, say, impersonating a known contact. Screenshots shared by the researchers showed the suspect mail senders impersonated as activists the targets may have known and court officials purportedly sending summons. The mails were accompanied with a link to what appeared to be a PDF file.According to the technical details published by the researchers, opening the PDF files would launch code that would install NetWire on a target’s Windows computer and also open an actual PDF file to minimize chances of suspicion.In September, 2018, Citizen Lab disclosed an illegal surveillance operation with targets in 45 countries using Israel-based NSO Group’s Pegasus malware. The malware would be installed onto target’s phones using flaws in WhatsApp’s code, a software exploit that is now the subject of a lawsuit filed by the Facebook-owned company. In October, 2019, Citizen Lab reached out to a number of the victims, including some named above.In a legal filing in April, NSO suggested some of its clients were nation-states when it hit back at WhatsApp and Facebook, saying they were seen as “safe spaces for terrorists and other criminals” who – without NSO’s services – could operate “without fear of detection by law enforcement”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-attack-at-least-nine-rights-activists-targeted/story-Z33DVof3JDmsIYFyMKW4oI.html
16-06-2020||India||Man plans death for insurance money||Five days after a 37-year-old trader’s body was found hanging from a tree with his hands tied behind his back in outer Delhi’s Baprola Vihar, police on Monday said he had planned his murder to ensure his family got insurance money.Three men, including one previously involved in a rape case, have been arrested while a minor boy has been apprehended for allegedly killing Gaurav Bansal, who ran a grocery store in east Delhi’s Karkardooma, deputy commissioner of police A Koan said.“Bansal had hired the minor boy for getting himself killed. The boy roped in his friend, Manoj Kumar Yadav, who in turn roped in Suraj and Sumit Kumar to execute the job. Bansal had paid money to the apprehended persons for getting himself murdered. They have revealed that Bansal had told them that his family will get the insurance money if they killed him,” said Koan. Koan said Bansal had met the boy on social media.Bansal’s family expressed shock over the police’s claim.“The police have not told us anything about this. It is difficult for us to believe that my brother-in-law got himself killed by a juvenile he had met on social media. Two days ago, the police had told us that they had caught four suspects but did not tell us about this planned murder story. We will contact the concerned police officers regarding this murder theory,” said Bansal’s brother-in-law, Amit Kohli.When asked how much money Bansal paid the alleged killers and how much insurance money his family might have got, Koan said, “We have certain information about it but we cannot disclose it now as the probe is still in progress.”On June 9, Bansal went missing from his grocery store. His family lodged a missing complaint at the Anand Vihar police station the same night after he did not return home and his cellphone was found switched off. On June 10, around 8.30 am, Bansal was found hanging near a lake in Baprola Vihar, police said.“We registered a murder case since Bansal’s hands were tied behind his back. During the probe, we caught the first suspect, Suraj, on specific information. Suraj confessed to killing Bansal and revealed that he along with Manoj and Sumit were roped in by a minor boy, who was in contact with Bansal,” said Koan.He said the accused including the juvenile have been apprehended. “The accused persons committed this act of murder by hanging Bansal near the drain. They revealed that they had received money for this act from Bansal,” he added.Police said that Sumit Kumar, 26, was previously arrested in a rape case and he earns his livelihood by stitching bags. Yadav, 21, is a vegetable vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-plans-death-for-insurance-money/story-ZL3AY9PRAB8ZXFCT5N1rQM.html
16-06-2020||India||Bicycle sales ride on safety and health concerns||One day earlier this month, Mukesh Sharma, a freelance graphic designer got into a bus headed for Connaught Place. It was the first time in two months he was getting into a bus. The bus wasn’t crowded, and everyone in it was wearing masks but Sharma was still uncomfortable. And afraid. What if one of the passengers was an asymptomatic carrier of the coronavirus disease. He got down at the next stop. “And that evening, I went out and bought a cycle,” said Sharma.He isn’t the only one.With Delhi’s gyms remaining closed and people avoiding public transport (even cabs) from fear of Covid-19, cycle sales are soaring in a city that used to swear by cars. Some of the buyers haven’t cycled since their school days but that hasn’t stopped them from wholeheartedly taking to what is perhaps the most social-distanced mode of transport -- and also one of the most efficient ways of exercising and getting around.A constant rush of customers has prompted Gaurav Wadhwa, who runs one of the city’s oldest cycle shops in South Delhi’s Yusuf Sarai Market, to open for business at 7 am. His sales have gone up three times. “Earlier, I used to sell 25 cycles a day and now I sell 75,” said Wadhwa. He added that many customers are also bringing in their old bicycles to be repaired.Mayak Malhotra, another prominent cycle dealer in Paschim Vihar, echoed Wadhwa. He added that people are buying not-so-cheap mid-range hybrid bikes, not just for fitness but also to commute.“My sales have gone up five times in the past couple of weeks. A lot of people are buying cycles because they want to avoid public transport. I sold a cycle to a person who wished to switch to a cycle to commute from his home in Paschim Vihar to office in Rohini [15 km away]. A lot of these young people would earlier take the Metro or cabs.”In some ways, the cycle is the vehicle of the lockdown. There are countless tales of stranded migrant workers cycling hundreds of kilometres back home in the absence of public transport. It’s everyone’s favourite way of getting fit. And for those who can’t afford a car or a motorcycle, it is a great way to get around a city that still doesn’t see as much traffic as it used to.Dhruv Karan Mehta, who recently formed a cycling group, said the pandemic has helped many like him rediscover the joys of cycling. “I had a cycle which remained unused for a decade, and during the [Covid-19] lockdown, I started using it to get around my neighbourhood to buy essentials. It was such a great experience cycling on empty roads and I shared my cycling stories on social media,” said Mehta, a Defence Colony resident. “Some of those who followed my posts expressed interest in buying cycles and forming a cycling group. About eight of us recently bought new cycles and I now use only my cycle for short commutes.”Anant Rishi, a businessman in Sarvodya Enclave, recently bought two cycles–one for himself and another for his wife . “Now even my wife and father have become avid bikers. My gym is closed but I cycle 60 km every alternate morning,” said Rishi.As many as 30.6% of Delhi households owned a bicycle, and about 11% of the working population cycled to work, according to the 2011 census.Many believe the sudden interest in cycling can help make Delhi a more bike-friendly city. “The government should use this growing enthusiasm for cycles during the pandemic to prioritise development of cycling infrastructure in the city, something it has been talking about for many years now,” said Rajendra Ravi, founder, Institute For Democracy And Sustainability, a non-government organisation, which advocates for the rights of cyclists.Earlier this month, the Centre sent an advisory to states and Union territories, asking them to come up with short, medium and long- term plans to promote cycling and walking, among other interventions, for safe urban transit systems post-Covid-19. The advisory said cities across the world were ramping up their cycling systems in response to the coronavirus crisis.Authorities in New York, for example, have added 64 km of new non-motorized transport (NMT) lanes. Bogota in Colombia added 76 km. Milan converted 35 km of streets into cycling lanes. In Auckland (New Zealand) on-street car parking was removed to build 17 km of temporary bike lanes.The short-term strategy outlined in the Centre’s advisory includes creating temporary pedestrian areas, footpaths, and cycle lanes through removable barricades, tape, cones, road markings/painting, and mobile signs on identified corridors/areas. It seeks to encourage closure of one or more lanes to promote walking and cycling at a specific time or on a specific day.Experts believe that such “tactical urbanism”, which uses short term, low-cost, and scalable interventions, is a good way to catalyse long-term change and integrate cycling into urban transport systems.Prof Avilash Roul, the principal scientist at Indo-German Center for Sustainability, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, said cycling can be an effective alternative to public transport in the post-Covid world. Citing Albert Einstein who once wrote “life is like riding a bicycle, to keep your balance, you must keep moving,” Roul said cities too will have to perform a balancing act for a long time to come.“Cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai, with very high infection rates, must immediately create pop-up cycle lanes and work to develop a plan for creating cycling infrastructure. While many cities, including Delhi, set up PBS [Public Bike Sharing] systems, they failed to simultaneously create cycling infrastructure,” added Roul.“The city governments must use this growing passion for cycling, and work with local communities to redesign roads and give a fair share to cyclists. ”Safety is paramount, experts say.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, cited the Census 2011 data and said nearly 48% of the daily trips in Delhi are within 5km range. “Across the world, cities have created pop-up bike lanes using bollards or markings on roads. People will switch to cycling or walking if we provide safe infrastructure to them. Cycling is a good option for people who have to travel short distances. It will also take the load off the public transport systems [that] will run on half or one-third capacity due to social distancing norms.”Sharma is enjoying his cycling. “It takes me about 40 minutes to reach CP,” he said.“ While it is dangerous to cycle in Delhi, at least I feel safe from the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bicycle-sales-ride-on-safety-and-health-concerns/story-dUiw166nuablAfpx2qNBsO.html
16-06-2020||India||Delhi to scale up Covid testing, collect at least 11k samples a day||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked Delhi to start rapid antigen detection test along with the usual RT-PCR tests, and the Delhi government on Monday directed the district magistrates (DMs) of each of the city’s 11 districts and chief district medical officers (CDMOs) to send at least 1,000 samples every day. Both are measures aimed at massively scaling up testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), doubling it in two days and tripling it in the next six days as was promised by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday. Shah’s comments came after his meeting with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday; hours after his comments, the Delhi government issued an order, asking all testing laboratories “to scale up lab testing immediately” and release results not later than 48 hours since collection of the samples.According to the Delhi government’s recent submission in the Delhi high court, the combined daily testing capacity of 40 labs, 17 public and 23 private, is 8,600 per day.However, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava’s communication dated June 14 to the government states that these labs have a capacity to test 18,000 samples per day, which indicates that the Capital’s labs are being underutilised. The government is targeting 18,000 tests a day by June 20,. This will further increase the Capital’s current testing rate of 14,390 tests per million.In containment zones and hospitals, the Delhi government will be devising a plan to start using the antigen tests. Rapid antigen detection tests are quicker (maximum 30 minutes compared to 2-5 hours for RT-PCR tests) but are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid and do not have to undertake an RT-PCR test. But, those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation.“The plan to start testing at every polling booth in containment zones will essentially be through these tests. The rapid antigen detection test is nothing but an elimination method. It will help us narrow down on a smaller size of people who actually need the RT-PCR test ” said an official from the state health department who asked not to be named.The government has also directed its hospitals and Covid Testing Centres to increase the number of samples collected and has created linkages for each district with four laboratories for processing the samples. A total of 27 testing labs, both government and private, have been linked with Delhi’s 11 districts. Sunday’s order made it clear that labs can test as many samples as they want provided the results are released within a maximum of 48 hours. It also asked “all labs (both in private and public sector) to work on their full potential and also further ramp up their testing capacity on priority to meet the increased demand of processing”.“We have a capacity to accept about 100 government samples, but we have been asked to take in about 300. How can we do that. We do not have the machines or the staff. I had to ask my staff to stay back to ensure that all the samples are process; but this can be done only for one or two days,” said the owner of one of the private labs in the city. The reports of all Covid-19 test samples have to be given within 48 hours as per the mandate of the Delhi High Court.Covid-19 testing in Delhi fell to 4,900 a day on average during the last one week owing to some of the laboratories being shut down for not following ICMR guidelines. The week before 5,590 samples were being tested each day, as per Delhi government data.“The central government is extending to us the facilities of the testing labs that are under its jurisdiction. Delhi has been the only state to conduct maximum tests across the country, and it will continue to do so in the future with the support of the central government,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a video address on Monday.This comes just a day after the government resumed sending its samples to be tested at the centre-run National Centre for Disease Control. The government had stopped sending samples to the laboratory as several of the test reports were pending.“Large number of samples were reported pending at NCDC labs. To allow optimum time to the labs to clear the backlog, it was decided that no samples will be sent to the said labs till the pending samples are processed and reported. With no Delhi government samples pending with the said labs, it has been decided to allow submission of samples by various districts, Delhi government, and municipal hospitals with immediate effect,” the Sunday order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-scale-up-covid-testing-collect-at-least-11k-samples-a-day/story-flWoe8CuNa2PpcVLsPnd5H.html
16-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu reimposes lockdown in Chennai, 3 other districts||Three days after the state government told the Madras High Court that there would be no lockdown and threatened criminal action against people spreading such rumours, Tamil Nadu on Monday announced a lockdown from June 19 to 30 in its worst affected districts, after an expert panel warned the government that the state has hit its peak, but may hit another if strict measures aren’t followed immediately.On Monday, a panel of 19 medical experts advising the Tamil Nadu government on the coronavirus pandemic met Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, senior ministers and bureaucrats at the secretariat for the fifth time since the lockdown began in March. Chief Scientist at the World Health Organisation (WHO) Soumya Swaminathan also joined the hour-long meeting over video conference. The panel, which comprises Chennai-based National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur and Dr V Ramasubramanian, and infectious diseases expert at Chennai’s Apollo Hospitals among others, told the government that the spread of the infection in Tamil Nadu is at its peak now and the number of cases will gradually come down.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, panel members said that they warned that Tamil Nadu could have a second wave, as it has been observed in China, where at least 43 new cases of local transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were recorded in Beijing last week, after a gap of at least two months if the spread of the infection was not arrested through strict measures.“In the past three weeks, there has been an increase in the positivity rate of the infection in these four districts and in the last two weeks, there is a slight increase in deaths too,” Kuganantham told Hindustan Times. “To avoid an alarming situation we had to go ahead with this strategy. We need the support of the community to fight an epidemic or a pandemic. Else we have to press regulations.” The panel has asked the government to increase testing and manpower and intensify containment and quarantine measures. Following the meeting, Palaniswami held a cabinet meeting later in the day and announced another lockdown for Chennai and the three adjoining districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. Till June 15, these four district accounted for 83.69% of the state’s total caseload. Chennai alone accounts for 71.49% of all cases in the state.Yet some experts believe that lockdown is not the only strategy that the government should follow. “A lockdown only slows down the epidemic,” said Dr Jacob John, retired professor and former director of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “When HIV/AIDS broke out we didn’t ban sex, we made sex safe. Similarly in this context social contact should be safe and protected and not totally prohibited. The government should make people participants by focusing on social and behavioral change. The virus spread is inevitable and the next wave will start in rural areas which will not be protected because Chennai is under lockdown.”In the new lockdown, flights and trains services will continue, but autos, taxis and rental cabs can only ply for essential services and medical emergencies in the four districts. Restaurants will now go back to serving takeaway food. Grocery shops and petrol pumps will be open only from 6am to 2pm. Taking a leaf out of Karnataka that in May had implemented total lockdown on Sundays, Tamil Nadu too will not have any relaxations on the two Sundays that fall within this 12-day lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-reimposes-lockdown-in-chennai-3-other-districts/story-UP4oJyy3gNRpFbPrzg8TDI.html
16-06-2020||India||Centre wants states to focus on keeping Covid-19 fatality rates low||The Narendra Modi government wants states that are seeing a large number of Covid-19 cases not to lose sight of the main objective in the rush of numbers -- keeping the death rate, or the case fatality rate low. Top government officials familiar with the thinking said that while aggressive testing, door-to-door surveys to track Covid cases, and efforts to strengthen infrastructure will continue, there will be a renewed focus on keeping the death rate low. A detailed action plan for this purpose has already been chalked out, they added, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi may even raise the issue in his meeting with chief ministers on Tuesday and Wednesday.Even as India’s average death rate has remained low at 2.9 -- the global average is 5.4% -- the concern, the officials said, is that over 80% of the total deaths in the country are from just five states: Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. “We have also noted with concern that 65 districts of India have more than 5% fatality rate. And the largest chunk, 19, of those districts are in Madhya Pradesh, followed by 11 in Gujarat and 10 each in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh,” said one of the officials who asked not to be identified. In Madhya Pradesh, Mandla, Sehore, Umaria and Chhindwara are among the districts; in UP, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Meerut and Agra; and in Maharashtra, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Dhule, and Aurangabad.  Gujarat’s Porbandar, Anand, and Ahmedabad, Punjab’s Kapurthala, and Haryana’s Jind are also among districts with a CFR of at least 5%.The official added that the CFR issue was discussed at length at the meeting called by the PM on Saturday. The meeting was attended by home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, and key bureaucrats who are members of the empowered groups tackling the Covid crisis. The meeting also discussed the spike in cases and deaths in Delhi and laid the ground for the meeting with the CMs.“The broad idea is that states should be encouraged to not suppress numbers; they will be told that the prime focus should remain on reducing the death toll. India’s death toll is already less than half of that some advanced western countries,” said a second official who asked not to be named. The emphasis on lowering death rates is in keeping with the government’s new strategy of not so much flattening the curve (of infections), but living with the virus. According to the officials, the Centre wants to focus on “fatality mitigation” and “end-to-end case management” to reduce the CFR and is aware that the number of positive cases is rising sharply (and will continue to), largely because of the return of millions of migrant workers to their homes in the hinterland, and the resumption of economic activities.HT reported on June 10 that states that have received the majority of migrants are seeing a spike in cases. The Centre’s suggested fatality reduction efforts include: active surveillance of the e vulnerable population such as senior citizens or people with comorbidities; improved “speed to care” which involves faster ambulance services; and less triage time in the hospitals.“We are asking states to do an assessment of how many people called for ambulances, how many were rejected and what time it took for the patient to reach hospital in an ambulance,” said another official, “and also ensure that when a patient reaches the hospital he or she should not spend more than 45 minutes in triage.”Triage is essentially a decision taken by health care workers on the order or priority of treatment and is commonly used in India to indicate wait times.The Centre is also asking states to ensure preference in hospitalization for co-morbid or elderly patients, timely referrals on escalation of symptoms, improving clinical practices, and providing on-call specialist care. Under the end-to-end case management, the Centre is stressing on the importance of providing all solutions starting from surveillance to ambulance service to treatment, even referrals.They have also pointed out that it is critical to “smoothen transition points” which includes test confirmation to hospitalization to ambulance coordination and its uptime.Last week, Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru had said, “I think mortality per million population is a much better metric to judge how Covid-19 has affected us. The case fatality rate can change depending on the denominator of the number of people who are tested and turn out to be positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-wants-states-to-focus-on-keeping-fatality-rates-low/story-uWdQ5fM3ThjWehE5owxMTM.html
16-06-2020||India||Nepal must create a ‘positive atmosphere’ for talks: Officials||The onus is on the KP Sharma Oli government in Nepal to create a “positive and conducive atmosphere” for talks with India to resolve the border row over the Kalapani-Lipulekh region, people familiar with developments said on Monday.The Indian side has repeatedly conveyed its readiness to discuss the issue, with the latest offer for talks between foreign secretaries of the two sides being made around the time the Nepal government tabled a constitutional amendment in Parliament on May 31 to give legal backing to the country’s new map, they said on condition of anonymity.The Indian side didn’t receive any response to these overtures and it is now up to the Oli government to create the positive environment needed for talks, the people said.“As recently as when the [constitutional amendment] bill was being tabled in [Nepal’s] Parliament and before that, India offered a phone call and a video-conference between the foreign secretaries and visits of the foreign secretaries. However, the Nepalese side didn’t respond to the offer and went ahead with passing the bill,” one of the people cited above said.“The onus is now on them to create a positive and conducive atmosphere for talks,” the person added.The people said Nepal’s unilateral action of issuing a new map that includes Indian territory has created a difficult situation and “pre-judged the outcome of any talks”. It also wasn’t clear why Oli or his government hadn’t told the Nepalese people or Parliament about the Indian offers for talks, they said.Nepalese officials have said they made three offers for talks to India between last November and May but got no response.The border row erupted last month after India opened an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the border with the Tibet Autonomous Region to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar.Nepal lodged a strong protest and the government issued a new map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory. A constitutional amendment to give legal backing to the map was passed by the lower house of Nepal’s Parliament last week and is set to be taken up by the upper house this week.The people said almost 98% of the 1,750-km land and riverine border between India and Nepal has been delineated and differences remain only in the Kalapani sector in Uttarakhand and Susta sector in Bihar. Nepal’s “shifting” claims are contrary to the Treaty of Sugauli signed in 1815 by Nepal and the British, a ruling by the British governor-general in 1817, and Nepal’s boundary treaty with China of 1961 and protocols signed by these two countries in 1963 and 1979, they added.“Their new map is not based on facts and evidence. The Nepalese government decided to form an expert team to find and collect evidence to establish its ownership in Kalapani up to Limpiyadhura and in Susta area after publishing the map and passing the bill in the lower house,” the person cited above said.Describing Nepal’s new map as a “tool for political gains”, the person added: “The Nepalese government’s unilateral act of updating the map and the hasty effort to amend the constitution in Parliament reflect the intention of Prime Minister Oli and his government to politicise the boundary issue.“These actions do not reflect any seriousness on their part to resolve the issue through dialogue, and these actions are myopic and self-serving to further a limited political agenda.”Despite the border row, India remains committed to cooperating with Nepal on key humanitarian and connectivity projects, including rail links, and on the Covid-19 crisis, the people said. So far, India has provided medicines and equipment worth more than Rs 4.5 crore to Nepal to fight the coronavirus pandemic, they said.The people also dismissed Oli’s repeated comments that Covid-19 was being spread in Nepal by people coming from India, describing them as “false and distorted”. Only a small portion of the 8 million Nepalese citizens living in India had returned home, they said. They noted that even as the constitutional amendment regarding the map was being discussed in Parliament, there were protests in Kathmandu over the Oli government’s handling of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-must-create-a-positive-atmosphere-for-talks-officials/story-R7l4pA0c4tv7jcv4lIUbRK.html
16-06-2020||India||Will solve misunderstandings through dialogue, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday there was no question of the breaking down of historical, social, and spiritual ties that bind New Delhi and Kathmandu, even as relations between India and Nepal have taken a hit after a new Nepalese map laid claim to territory that belongs to India. Singh rejected Nepal’s territorial claims and reiterated India’s stand that the Lipulekh-Dharchula road falls in India. He expressed willingness to sort out the “misunderstanding” through dialogue. “If there are some misconceptions over the road between Lipulekh and Dharchula, then we will sit together and solve those issues through dialogue. And I can say this with full confidence that no Indian has any hatred towards Nepal as the relation is so deep,” Singh said during a virtual rally focused on Uttarakhand. In May, the defence minister inaugurated the road in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district and prompted a strong reaction from Nepal. Kathmandu has maintained that the road passes through its territory. Nepal’s parliament on Saturday voted unanimously to amend its constitution to redraw the country’s political map, which lays claims over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India termed the decision “untenable” and in violation of current understanding to hold talks on outstanding border issues. Singh referred to the war cry “Jai Maha Kali, Ayo Re Gorkhali [hail goddess Mahakali, the Gorkhas are here]” of the Indian Army’s Gorkha regiments, which also draw soldiers from Nepal, and said Maha Kali’s devotees are all over India, emphasising that the ties between India and Nepal can’t break.He referred to the valour and courage that Gorkha soldiers have displayed for the country. “India-Nepal ties are not ordinary. We have a relation... which cannot be broken by any power of the world,” said Singh, referring to strong people-to-people connect between the two countries. “We do not have just geographical, historical, or social relations with Nepal but also spiritual ones. Who can forget Baba Pashupatinath? How can he be separated from Baba Amarnath, Somnath, and Kashi Vishwanath?” he asked.One person was killed and two wounded on Friday when Nepal’s Armed Police Force fired upon a group of Indian villagers near Bihar’s Sitamarhi for allegedly entering Nepal in violation of the lockdown there.At the event, Singh also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “PM Modi took the difficult challenge of fighting the pandemic and so far has taken many bold and crucial decisions to contain it. Those efforts have not only been lauded by the other countries but also by WHO [the World Health Organization],” he said. He said the government has strengthened the health infrastructure within a short time. “...we are now not only producing PPE [personal protection equipment] kits for our health workers but are exporting them. We are sure that together we will soon win this fight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-will-solve-misunderstandings-through-dialogue/story-CCO49DdqeASjt7g6pceTXO.html
16-06-2020||India||Supreme Court raps dealers for flouting BS-IV sale rules||Last minute sales of BS-IV vehicles across the country till March 31, the deadline fixed by the Supreme Court for phasing out these vehicles have come under the judicial scanner. On Monday, the top court was riled to note that while its earlier order (dated March 27) permitted registration of 1.09 lakh BS-IV vehicles sold till March 31, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) produced a list of 2.25 lakh vehicles awaiting registration.Spotting this surge, the bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer said: “There is clear cut violation of our order….Annexure A and B (filed by FADA) indicate that more than 2.25 lakh vehicles were awaiting registration as on March 31, 2020 whereas it exceeds the figure more than 1 lakh (1.05 lakh two­-wheelers, 2250 cars and 2000 commercial vehicles) that we specified in the order (of March 27).”Fixing the next hearing on June 19, the bench sought details of the vehicles sold up to March 31, the date of sale along with category of vehicle sold, and also the details of sales made after lifting of the lockdown on May 3. The Court in its March 27 order, as an exception, allowed automobile dealers to sell 10% of the BS-IV idle stock lying with them throughout the country except in Delhi-NCR.This order was passed keeping in mind the health of citizens; in a bid to curb air pollution the Court ordered phasing out of BS-IV vehicles and the rollout of BS-VI fuel-based engines from April 2020.The Court also directed the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to provide details of BS-IV vehicles sold as on March 31, 2020 that were specified on the Government’s E-vahan portal. The Court ordered the Centre to collect information on the sale of BS-IV vehicles after the lockdown ended from all regional transport offices (RTOs) throughout the country. FADA submitted to the Court that the mismatch in sale figures came about as non-members of the association did not supply details of sales at the time when the Court passed the order on March 27. But the bench said that its order was binding on members and non-members alike. In fact, on March 27, the bench was informed that the unsold BS-IV inventory comprised of 7 lakh two-­wheelers, 15,000 passenger cars and 12,000 commercial vehicles.“It appears that the order (of March 27) is being misused for the reasons best known to the respondents (FADA) and they have not filed affidavit in compliance of the order passed by this Court,” said the bench, adding, “Registration of vehicles which were to be sold out of 10 per cent cannot be made without the permission of this Court and without giving particulars as ordered by this Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-dealers-for-flouting-bs-iv-sale-rules/story-BjZEmBDodUk9s7rRI59kwK.html
16-06-2020||India||Assam orders study as tremors continue||The Assam government on Monday asked a group of scientists to study tremors being felt at Baghjan in Tinsukia district, where a gas well caught fire on June 9, and submit a report for it to take appropriate steps to deal with them. The mild temblors have triggered panic in the region, where residents said some houses have also developed cracks.The Oil India Limited (OIL), which operates the well, has also asked CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NESIT) to study the induced seismicity in the area because of the blowout, or uncontrolled release of gas when pressure systems fail, that began from the well in late May. Induced seismicity refers to tremors and earthquakes, mostly of low magnitude, which are caused by human activity including oil and gas operations.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal promised the study during a visit to the site along with Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday. He met the scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) and CSIR-NEIST and commissioned them the study. Residents of Baghjan and nearby Natun Rongagora village have reported repeated tremors since June 9 when the well caught fire a fortnight after gas and oil condensate began leaking from it following the blowout. “We started experiencing tremors from Wednesday [last], a day after the well caught fire. ...walls of several houses developed cracks,” said Hiren Senapati, a Natun Rongagora resident.“The tremors have been felt intermittently. Nearly 80% of our villagers are staying in relief camps, the rest who were in their homes are scared to live there because of the tremors...”Nearly 2,000 families, which were evacuated because of the blowout beyond a radius of 1.5 km from the well, were later shifted even further and housed in 12 relief camps because of the fire.Gauhati University’s geology professor Bhagawat Pran Duarah said since gas and condensate is flowing uncontrollably because of the blowout, such tremors can happen due to sudden release of pressure. “But usually they are not that severe and do not cause any large scale damage.”CSIR-NEIST director G Narahari Sastry some tremors may have been felt in the area close to the well. “From a scientific point of view, we are very keen to look at what are these tremors and analyse their impact,” he said. In a statement on Monday, OIL said five broadband seismographs, which are used to detect and record earthquakes, will be deployed by CSIR-NESIT at five sites for data to be recorded for 7-10 days. “Locations have been identified and preliminary civil work for deployment of the instruments is in progress.” The fire continued to rage at the well amid fears of damage to the eco-sensitive area. OIL last week said it could take about four weeks to control the fire. The state government on Thursday ordered a probe into the inferno as protests by angry residents over alleged inaction hit crude oil production in the state.The fire left two firefighters dead while authorities were trying to control the blowout. The well is located a kilometre from the Dibru Saikhowa National Park. The eco-sensitive Maguri Motapung wetland is just a few hundred metres away from the inferno site. The blowout has polluted the Lohit river and adjoining wetland and toxic pollutants may have killed fish, insects, as well as pose risk to endangered Gangetic dolphins in the region, a preliminary Wildlife Institute of India survey report said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-orders-study-as-tremors-continue/story-3oe4Qf69mtLDfndV5brr3N.html
16-06-2020||India||Travel for faith: NCR residents cross border to fulfil long pending meeting with almighty||Unlock 1.0 has allowed reopening of places of worship in Delhi. But, the same continue to remain closed in some parts of NCR. This, however, hasn’t been able to deter the determination of those who had been long away from their revered place of worship. As a result, quite a few residents of Gurugram and even Noida have been crossing the border to visit their religious place in Delhi. In fact, some residents of NCR had been eagerly looking forward to visit their favourite holy sites, during the lockdown. “I was wanting to visit the Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place for a long time. Just before the lockdown happened, I had vowed to visit this temple while praying for my grandmother’s recovery after her recent knee surgery. After months, when I finally got a chance to fulfil my promise, how could crossing the border stop me,” asks Nagarjuna Pratap Singh, a resident of Gurugram’s DLF Phase 2, adding, “The feeling of visiting a temple after months was surreal, and the journey across the two states was worth it!”Some Gurugram residents, who had been waiting eagerly to visit their place of worship during the holy month of Ramzan, have also travelled inter-state, braving the pandemic. “We couldn’t visit the mosque amid the lockdown; even on Eid we stayed indoors to follow the rules of social distancing. Therefore, we were hoping that mosques would open in Gurugram just like they have opened in Delhi. However, that didn’t happen. That’s when I decided to travel to Old Delhi’s Fatehpuri mosque. Even though the long travel was a peril, and constant anxiety about the pandemic stressed me, the happiness of finally getting to be in the mosque and pray released all my stress,” says Suhail Ahmed, who visited the mosque carrying a hand sanitiser and wore mask and gloves.For many residents, the lockdown was a period wherein they engaged virtually with the almighty. However, for some that didn’t work out to their satisfaction. “I was hoping and waiting that in the first phase of Unlock, at least our neighbourhood temples and gurdwaras will open. But that didn’t happen in my city,” says Geeta Sharma, a resident of Sector 21, Noida. She adds that she spent the lockdown singing bhajans while staying connected digitally with her friends. “But somehow that didn’t make up for the feeling of attending a real aarti. That’s why I have been insisting on going to Delhi to visit the Kalkaji Temple,” says Sharma adding, “I look forward to the temples opening up in my city so that I don’t have to travel so far.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/travel-for-faith-ncr-residents-cross-border-to-fulfil-long-pending-meeting-with-almighty/story-5FzP127awUwBYV0WpIfOMM.html
16-06-2020||India||‘Poor pay for gifts crony capitalists get’: Rahul Gandhi slams Centre on fuel price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has hit out at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, which were hiked for the ninth straight day on Monday.“Middle class, poor pay for gifts crony capitalists get,” he wrote on Twitter. Middle class and the poor pay for the gifts the crony capitalists get. #शर्म_करो_लुटेरी_सरकार pic.twitter.com/q69cqlF83QOil companies raised petrol price by 48 paise per litre and diesel by 23 paise per litre on Monday morning. In nine hikes since June 7, cumulatively petrol prices have gone up by Rs 5 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.87 a litre, according to PTI. In Delhi, petrol will now cost Rs 76.26 per litre and diesel Rs 74.26 a litre after the hike.Rates have been increased across the country and vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.In the tweet, Rahul Gandhi also used a graph to show that fuel prices were low in May 2014 when the Congress-led UPA was in power despite high crude cost globally, but the NDA government raised the excise duty on petrol by 258.47 per cent and on diesel by 819.94 per cent as on June 15, 2020.Earlier on Sunday, the Congress leader posted another tweet as he continued his attack on the Modi government, this time over the government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. He used the famous scientist Albert Einstein’s quote to criticise the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.“This lock down proves that: “The only thing more dangerous than ignorance is arrogance.” Albert Einstein,” Gandhi said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-pay-for-gifts-crony-capitalists-get-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-on-fuel-price-hike/story-gZMZ3Nr3n8u5PeDqzekGrK.html
16-06-2020||India||Week after fire at Assam gas well, tremors continue; govt orders study||Assam government on Monday asked a group of scientists to conduct a study on the tremors being felt at Baghjan in Tinsukia district, where a natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) caught fire on June 9, two weeks after it started releasing gas and oil condensate following a blow-out.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal met scientists of Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) and CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST) and asked them to conduct the study on emergency basis and submit a report so that the government can take appropriate steps.During a visit to the site along with union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday, Sonowal had promised that a study would be done to probe the reasons for the tremors.Since June 9 when the well caught fire, residents of Baghjan and Natun Rongagora villages which are close to the site, have been complaining of repeated tremors. Some houses have also developed cracks due to the tremors.“We started experiencing tremors from Wednesday, a day after the well caught fire. That night the tremors lasted for nearly 10-12 hours and walls of several houses got cracked,” said Hiren Senapati, president of eco-development committee of Natun Rongagora.“The tremors have been happening intermittently now. Nearly 80% of our villagers are staying in relief camps, the rest who were in their homes are scared to live there because of the tremors, which could be around 5 on the Richter scale,” he added.Authorities at OIL have also asked CSIR-NESIT to carry out a study of the induced seismicity (tremors and quakes caused by human activity including oil and gas operations) in Baghjan and neighbouring areas because of the blow out.“Five broadband seismographs will be deployed by CSIR-NESIT at five sites for data to be recorded for 7-10 days. Locations have been identified and preliminary civil work for deployment of the instruments is in progress,” said a release issued by OIL on Monday.“It is possible that some tremors had happened in the area close to the well, which witnessed a blow out and subsequently caught fire. From a scientific point of view, we are very keen to look at what are these tremors and analyse its impact,” said G Narahari Sastry, director, NEIST. Meanwhile, work continued at the well site to control the fire and plug the blow out. OIL had earlier said that the process could take about 4 weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/week-after-fire-at-assam-gas-well-tremors-continue-to-jolt-nearby-areas/story-g52YQX0NkgZzGXid6UpenM.html
16-06-2020||India||National lockdown extended till May 3. Why April 20 is still a crucial date||In his address to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the national lockdown till May 3 but held out hope that the lockdown norms, to be enforced strictly for the next one week, could be relaxed for localities that do not have a single case from April 20.For the next one week, PM Modi said, the government will meticulously track the enforcement of lockdown and spread of the disease right down to the police station level. He asked people to step up too, describing the next one week as an agni pariksha, or trial by fire.“Localities that pass this agni pariksha and do not allow the disease to spread, can get permission for some essential activities,” PM Modi said in his televised address that announced extension of the national lockdown. This was his third in a month.“But remember that this permission will be conditional. If lockdown rules are violated and coronavirus spreads, all permissions will be cancelled. So you should not be negligent nor let others be negligent, PM Modi said.The prime minister said this relaxation was being proposed to enable the poor to earn their daily livelihood.Watch: PM Modi extends lockdown till 3 May; promises calibrated withdrawal from 20 April The last time he addressed the nation was on 24 March when he announced the national lockdown to stop the coronavirus disease from spreading. By then, India had reported 536 cases and 10 deaths; Delhi had reported 30.As PM Modi stood in front of the country again on Monday, he wore a home-made mask that he removed moments before speaking.Coronavirus has, despite the lockdown spread rapidly, infecting over 10,000 people and killing 339. Delhi has reported over 1,500 cases.An analysis by the health ministry says the lockdown has already saved thousands of people from being infected. PM Modi also spoke about the crucial role the lockdown had played to slow down the spread of the disease. But he acknowledged it had come at a price.“I know that many of you faced problems. Some had trouble finding food, some others had difficulties to go from one place to another,” he told the millions watching him on television and the Internet.“I respectfully bow to the people of India for their sacrifice” he said. But these sacrifices had helped save lives and placed India in a much better position than many other countries fighting coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-relaxation-from-20-april-for-areas-that-pass-agni-pariksha-pm-modi/story-69SmIN2Zt2eO5VR3vSrEAI.html
16-06-2020||Editorials||Economic data will help policy||The Indian economy is set to contract this year. Economic policy must have two clear objectives. It must do all it can to ensure growth revival. And until that happens, the State must ensure that the poor are able to maintain at least basic standards of living. Achieving these goals requires detailed information about the economy. What were household incomes before the coronavirus pandemic? Were they enough to meet consumption needs? Were rich households more debt-ridden than their poor counterparts? Which parts of the country are likely to suffer from interruption of remittances due to reverse migration? Unfortunately, there is very little recent, let alone real-time, data to answer these questions. The latest available consumption expenditure survey dates back to 2011-12. Data on assets and liabilities of households is from 2013. Even though the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) does quarterly employment- unemployment surveys, we only have data up to June 2019. Even the otherwise available high frequency indicators such as inflation and index of industrial production are being released with significant gaps and caveats now. With no credible official data about the economy, policymakers will be groping in the dark. This will also prevent an informed public debate. To be sure, there are some alternative data sources by private sector players. But they cannot be substitutes for official statistics due to two reasons. These databases are quite expensive. This significantly limits their access. They have not received as much academic scrutiny as their official counterparts, and, therefore, cannot be taken at face value.The government needs to realise that ensuring publication of quality economic data is as important as monitoring health indicators during the pandemic. There are ways to do this. For example, the Reserve Bank of India could work with banks and payment companies to provide a geographical map of remittance flows before the pandemic. Phone companies should be asked to share information on SIM card movement patterns to give an estimate of reverse migration. Making Goods and Services Tax input credit chains public could give an insight into value chain linkages and potential interruptions due to the lockdown. But, to begin with, the government should release the National Sample Survey Office’s 2017-18 Consumption Expenditure Survey, which it had hastily scrapped last year. This is literally a click away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/economic-data-will-help-policy/story-xmEhs96W1MQ8pqGASmWifO.html
16-06-2020||Editorials||India needs better mental health care systems||Bollywood Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide in Mumbai on Sunday. His tragic death has trigged a much-needed conversation on mental health in India. According to the World Health Organization, over 90 million Indians, or 7.5% of the population, suffer from mental health issues. A study published in The Lancet in December 2019, titled The burden of mental disorders across the states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990–2017, also highlights the scale of the challenge. Mental health issues are among the leading causes of non-fatal disease burden in India; one of every seven Indian was affected by mental health issues in 2017; the proportional contribution of mental health to the total disease burden has almost doubled since 1990; and suicide was the leading cause of deaths among young people — aged 15 to 39 — in 2016. India spends little on mental health care. In financial year (FY) 2019, the budget allocated to the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) was brought down to ₹40 crore from ₹50 crore in FY18. Budget 2020 has not increased the allocation for NMHP. When it comes to mental health care personnel, India has 9,000 psychiatrists, or one doctor for every 100,000 people, when WHO norms say there should be three for every 100,000 people. While these structural and financial lacunae need to be addressed, it is important for society to not stigmatise the victims, and provide a community support structure so that they don’t battle such problems alone. As the reportage on Rajput’s death showed, the media, especially television, needs to be responsible, considerate and humane about the way it covers deaths due to mental health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-needs-better-mental-health-care-systems/story-dGHUkK4O33ITp7aPxPaSaI.html
