17-06-2020||News||After Galwan, what next for India-China ties?||In a brief statement condoling the death of 20 Indian Army personnel, including a colonel in clashes with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi emphasised that this loss of precious lives will not go in vain and that India’s traditional posture of restraint should not be mistaken for a lack of national resolve apropos territorial integrity and sovereignty. He further added that “differences should not be allowed to become disputes”, but that is where the India-China relationship is now poised and it could go further south given the prevailing mood of anger and anguish in the country.While there are unconfirmed reports about the number of PLA troops killed, it merits recall that China does not release any official numbers about casualties sustained in battles and wars, much less in skirmishes of this nature. For instance, the Chinese casualties in the October 1962 border war with India were discretely shared in the internal military history documents of PLA only in the mid 1990s. It is important to note that there will be a marked difference between the transparent approach of a robust democracy such as India and the cloistered approach of an authoritarian regime such as China.Various reasons are being advanced as to why PLA acted in the barbaric manner that it did (attacking Indian troops with lethal batons embedded with nails and spikes – if some reports are true). The reasons for the eastern Ladakh incursion and consolidation by PLA will have to be addressed at a later date, perhaps in the manner that the Kargil Review Committee was convened and necessary policy inadequacies will have to be redressed. But the focus at the moment should not be on the “why”, but on “what next”, for the Wuhan-Mamallapuram bonhomie will now tempered with a dose of reality.India will have to carefully think through its options and remain resolute. The loss of a colonel is a big setback for any army and the Indian Army will respond in a manner that it deems appropriate. The 1967 battles of Nathu La and Cho La when India lost 100 lives but erased the humiliation of October 1962 will be part of the collective memory of PLA.But the options will go beyond the military domain, and it will actually be determined by the objectives that Delhi sets for itself — both for the immediate and the long-term. On the face of it, getting China to pull its troops back to the status quo position that prevailed in eastern Ladakh will be the immediate priority and objective but, desirable as it is, realising that normative goal will throw up its challenges. China is currently in a more advantageous position tactically both in the Galwan Valley and other areas it has occupied and fortified. This places India in a less-than-favourable position as far as the current negotiations are concerned. China has honed the art of moving forward assertively in territorial disputes and then ostensibly stepping backward in “good faith”, but finally ensuring that its own territorial creep becomes a de facto reality. This was noted in the Doklam experience. And there should be no illusions about China’s inherent orientation towards territory and strategic geography. India, alas, has not shown such resolve or acumen about strategic geography or learning from military history.While democracies thrive on objective dissent and debate, they must also exude national unity and consensus during times of crisis. The current challenge with China calls for closing of ranks among the political parties. It is encouraging to note that an all-party meeting will be convened on Friday where PM Modi is expected to brief party leaders about the Galwan setback and the options that lie ahead for India in relation to China.The history of the last 60 years indicates that China has been able to exploit the political and ideological divisions within India to its benefit in shaping the narrative of the troubled bilateral relationship. This is part of the “Three Warfares” framework that Beijing has invested in as part of its comprehensive military modernisation. China will remain part of the economic and technological eco-system of the 21st century and India’s choices cannot be binary. Whether the post pandemic word morphs into sullen bi-polarity or a more flexible cluster of democracies remains moot. This will determine India’s posture.For PM Modi, the Galwan challenge has the potential to transmute to either the trauma of Jawaharlal Nehru and 1962 or the triumph of Margaret Thatcher and Falklands of 1982. The next few months will be critical for India and Asia. C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy Studies, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/after-galwan-what-next-for-india-china-ties/story-PAUEmhTprdeNo9kFV1IfWO.html
17-06-2020||News||Unveiling reforms in India’s coal sector||India is stepping on the gas today to lay a strong foundation for energy security in the country, while providing large-scale employment and opportunities for investment in the coal sector. In line with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s vision to build Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), India is marking a fundamental shift to unleash the coal sector as commercial mine auctioning kickstarts. We are re-orienting our approach from focusing on revenue maximisation to making maximum coal available in the market. The story of coal in India has been long and eventful. At one end, this ”Black diamond” has powered the aspirations of a growing nation, yet on the other, demand has far outpaced supply. In a way, India’s coal journey reflects both the rise of the economy and also the mismanagement of previous regimes. When the PM took office in 2014, the challenge in the coal sector was huge. Coal blocks for captive use allotted by the earlier regime had been struck down by the Supreme Court (SC) as illegal.The Modi government’s response was a series of calibrated steps. To begin with, a transparent mechanism was set in place through a legislation, the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015, to return the blocks to industry, via auctions. Similarly, in 2014, two-thirds of the major power plants had critical coal stocks of less than seven days. Today, India is the second largest producer of coal with its record production at 729 million tonnes (MT) in 2019-20. Now, coal stocks at thermal power plants have risen to its highest-ever level, and is enough for 30 days.The nationalisation of the coal sector in 1973 meant that domestic coal could be mined only by public sector companies. We have the world’s largest coal miner in Coal India Limited (CIL), which has registered an unprecedented increase in production of 140 MT in the last six years. It will continue to play a major role in ensuring energy security. While State-owned coal companies improved production, safety and prioritised employee welfare, the country’s coal demand continues to grow at a very faster rate. It is a stark reality that the CAGR of coal import from 2009-10 to 2013-14 was 23%. With these interventions, the rate was reduced to 2% in Modi-I (2014-15 to 2018-19). Even so, we imported 251 MT coal in 2019-20 worth ~1,58,865 crore, despite having the fifth largest reserves in the world.Therefore, it is clear that the private sector has to be brought in to fulfil the needs of the nation. The policy of allowing private coal mining to captive users has been in existence for long. However, it has failed to enthuse the private sector. The Modi government has now approved norms for open auction of mines to the private sector without any restrictions.This is an epoch-making development for several reasons. One, global coal mining firms, which were so far forbidden from mining coal in India, can now invest and introduce their best practices. Second, Indian industry can invest in a commodity business where domestic supply falls short of the demand, opening up an opportunity to substitute 135 MT coal imports.The knock-on effect on sectors that use coal, such as steel, power and aluminium, will be significant. With the unlocking of the sector now, companies using coal will be free to focus on their core business while procuring coal from professional miners. Mines will no longer be allotted on the basis of a ‘match’ with the needs of the single captive user. Rather, it will be auctioned based on economic efficiency. On the process side, the coal ministry has simplified the process of the mining plan approval process from 90 days to 30 days. Several bottlenecks have been removed or amended over the last five months. For instance, the law earlier excluded companies without mining operations in India from participating in the auctions. This bar has been done away with, paving the way for local and foreign mining majors and non-mining ones, too, to participate in the domestic coal sector. Second, the government has introduced a more equitable system of sharing revenues, moving away from fixed rates to an ad-valorem system. So when the prices go up, the miner shares more with the government and if they decrease, he shares less. This is equitable for both the parties. The coal sector reforms are not just about investments and improving coal production. It has the innate potential to usher in immense job opportunities and provide a boost to the government’s Make in India programme, since coal mining operations require large machines and manpower. Besides, it will lead to the induction of new technology and competition in the sector. Consequently, the economies of coal-bearing states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha will also grow since all the revenue from these auctions will accrue exclusively to them.Reforms in the coal sector are an ongoing policy evolution. The recent move to untether the sector marks a paradigm shift in the way business in the coal sector will be conducted. While doing this, we have ensured the growth and prosperity of CIL. It has been given a target of producing one billion tonnes of coal by FY 2023-24. For this necessary capital, coal blocks and an expeditious approval giving mechanism have already been put in place. The government will also ensure that the welfare of coal miners in private mining is at par with the status of workers in CIL. Such bold moves have the potential to disrupt entrenched interests and will upset many. But the government has no doubt as we press ahead, these reforms will increase self-reliance, remove operational efficiencies and usher in an era of greater prosperity.Pralhad Joshi is the Union minister of coal, mines & parliamentary affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/unveiling-reforms-in-india-s-coal-sector/story-oHp3KQ5mQPGoUdQ7DbvakN.html
17-06-2020||News||Decoding China’s planned aggression||The deaths and injuries to Indian and Chinese military personnel in violent clashes on the night of June 15 has escalated the intensity of the border confrontation, with the statements of China’s foreign minister and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Western Theatre Command (WTC) upping the ante. It is curious how these violent, large-scale clashes occurred when Indian military personnel went to the site with prior agreement. The statement issued by PLA WTC on June 16 expands China’s territorial claims and asserts that China has for a “long time had sovereignty” over the Galwan Valley. This is the second time since the current confrontation began that China has extended its claims over the “entire Galwan Valley”. The statement asserts also that Indian forces repeatedly crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and warned India to “strictly restrain its front-line troops, immediately stop all provocative actions and return to the correct track of dialogue and resolve differences”. China’s foreign minister separately accused India of “crossing the LAC” and “provocatively attacking” Chinese personnel. Beijing quickly sought to gain the propaganda high ground and portray itself as a “reasonable power” by claiming it has not disclosed the number of PLA casualties “as it doesn’t want people of the two countries to compare the casualty number so as to avoid stoking public mood”. Hu Jixin, editor-in-chief of the official Global Times, warned the Indian side, “Don’t be arrogant and misread Chinese restraint as being weak. China doesn’t want to have a clash with India, but we don’t fear it.” Later, unconfirmed reports put the numbers as close to 45 Chinese killed and injured. China’s social media is abuzz with netizens asking for the number of Chinese casualties. This will put pressure on China’s leadership. These violent clashes and loss of lives have raised the stakes for the leadership of both countries and will make negotiations for disengagement more difficult. It is important to remember that since the beginning of May, China has created an arc of sustained military pressure along India’s northern borders stretching over 1,000 kilometres from Daulet Beg Oldi in Ladakh to Naku La in north Sikkim. China’s action blends military, civil and diplomatic instruments. Confrontations between Indian and Chinese troops, or Chinese military activity, have been reported from a number of places including Daulet Beg Oldi, Gogra, Hot Springs, Galwan Valley, Chushul, Pangong, Demchok, Shiquanhe, Rudok and Naku La in north Sikkim. Such a military build-up takes planning and preparation. At least three military sub-districts (MSDs), namely Hetien, Ngari and Shigatse, subordinate to the Xinjiang and Tibet Military Regions, are involved in this. Both Military Regions come under PLA WTC, which exercises operational jurisdiction over the Chinese side of the entire 4,057 km border with India. Related civilian activity by the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) and Rudok County administrations pointing to long-term interest in the Pangong Lake has been noticed. On April 21, Dorjee Tsedup, deputy chairman of the TAR People’s Government and head of Pangong Lake Governance travelled to Ngari (Ali)’s Rutok County to inspect the lake and its environment. Hinting at long-term plans for Pangong Lake, Dorjee Tsedup emphasised that law enforcement and protection of the lake “is important for long-term work”. Days later, Rutok County’s judicial bureau and the Ngari regional customs and commerce bureau officials conducted propaganda campaigns to explain the alignment of China’s border in the border villages of Deru and Jaggang also known as Chagkang village, not far from Demchok in Ladakh. In late May, the Ngari municipal public security bureau revealed that all public security personnel in Ngari received “intensive real combat training”.It is worth noting here that General Li Zuocheng, chief of the joint staff department of the Central Military Commission and the military commanders of the South Xinjiang Military District and the Tibet Military Region have long years of experience in the area. They would have been involved in planning this force build-up and formulating its objectives. After the 73-day face-off at Doklam in 2017, the number of ground and air exercises held by PLA in the high altitude Tibetan Plateau has increased with regular references to India. The commander of the Western Theatre Command and former commander of the Shigatse MSD would also have memories of the disengagement at Doklam. China is, meanwhile, creating additional points of potential pressure. It seems to have instigated Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Oli to raise a contentious, emotional claim on a border dispute with India. A report indicates that since May 8, PLA is constructing, or upgrading, a military training base on the Tibet-Bhutan border opposite Drowa village in Lhodrak County, Shannan, TAR. The recent tweet by the spokesman of the Chinese Embassy in Islamabad suggesting that the standoff in Ladakh may be linked to the revocation of Article 370 is another indicator. He deleted the tweet later.Viewed in this backdrop, the activity at multiple points along India’s borders is different from earlier intrusions. It suggests a larger objective with the Chinese testing India’s military preparedness, political will and resolve. In view of the domestic and international pressures on Xi Jinping, he will be reluctant to withdraw forces without showing substantive gains, which points to protracted negotiations. Jayadeva Ranade is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India and is currently president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-china-s-planned-aggression/story-nDFtE8Du5V3rZd0CQdVF9M.html
17-06-2020||News||Social media is killing democracy||Last week, Uddhav Thackeray was forced to deny reports that Mumbai would be re-imposing a lockdown on June 15. The reports had made such an impact that all over the city, people were stocking up on goods and wondering whether they had made a mistake by resuming work too soon. In Delhi, where reports of a similar June 15 lockdown had also surfaced — though they had not been as widely circulated as they were in Mumbai — the health minister, and subsequently the chief minister, had to issue a similar denial. Here’s the thing about these reports. They had not come from a single credible source. Nor had they been attributed to anyone in a position to either make that decision or to know the truth. They had not been carried in newspapers or on TV channels.Instead, they had come from Facebook and WhatsApp forwards. And on Facebook and WhatsApp, you don’t need to quote anyone or provide any sources. People just tend to believe what they read on their phones. And even if they don’t fully believe, it still nags away at them inside their heads. The WhatsApp news phenomenon is not new. WhatsApp has regularly been used by political parties and partisan groups to circulate photo-shopped pictures and false news. Riots have broken out as a consequence of WhatsApp forwards and people have been killed on the basis of fake news. But over the last few months, there has been an important escalation in the ability of social media — not just WhatsApp but Facebook too — to set the agenda. In the United States (US), Facebook posts have been used to stoke emotions and circulate bogus information in the aftermath of the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer. Fortunately, this has led to a national outcry against Facebook in the US and a systematic debunking of the lies by TV channels and newspapers. In India, alas, we don’t have the checks and balances that they have in the US. There was a time when TV news was interested in what was happening in India. It tried to tell the truth. Its stock in trade was facts, not emotions. Over the last few years, however, TV has lost interest in news. This is particularly true of many regional news channels, though most commentators only focus on the national Hindi and English channels.TV is a commercial medium so it makes sense to cut costs and increase revenues. Covering news costs money; so, many channels have settled for a low-cost formula of studio debates. The only major costs are the anchor’s remuneration and the studio expenses. In the old days, channels paid for camerapersons who went and shot debates with guests outside the studio. But now, with Zoom and Skype, the cost of getting the guests on air is virtually zero. In the 1970s, the media pundit, Marshall Mcluhan, wrote that while radio was a “hot” medium which could inflame sentiment (as Adolf Hitler and Winston Churchill did when their speeches were broadcast on radio), TV was a “cold” medium better suited to reasoned analysis. We know now that he was completely wrong. Today TV is the “hottest” medium of all, used mainly to arouse emotions and create outrage or fear. It functions best when there is conflict in the studio and so it chases emotive issues rather than the real news.Not only does this keep costs down, it also raises revenues. The truth is that viewers like this sort of thing. It engages and entertains them and it doesn’t matter if the content has all the credibility of a WhatsApp forward — or even less.In such an environment, the one medium that still felt committed to provide real news was the newspaper. All over the world, newspapers are in trouble but the big ones have managed to survive, their commitment to the news intact. I had always imagined that something like that would happen in India. But Covid-19 may have changed all that. Though all research suggests that the virus does not survive for very long on paper (and there is research that suggests that it doesn’t survive at all on newspapers), the great Indian middle class has taken it into its head that newspapers can be a major source of infection. In some states, governments have banned the circulation of newspapers. In other places, housing societies and residents welfare associations have banned them. Often, there is no need for any kind of ban. There are enough WhatsApp forwards suggesting that delivery boys are Covid-19 positive and that they might even pass on the virus deliberately. I know otherwise intelligent middle class people who believe this classist nonsense and have opted out of having papers delivered home.This has led to a situation where much of India gets no newspapers at all and gets no news from TV (because apart from a couple of channels, nobody cares about the news) either. The primary sources of information become social media platforms. Yes there are news websites but few of them have the impact that social media does. In essence, therefore, we risk becoming a society that never finds out what’s really happening, that never knows what the news is, and is at the mercy of anybody who wants to plant fake news or lies on social media. There can be no democracy without truth. And there can be no truth without facts. And yet that’s the situation India now finds itself in.I hope things will change once the pandemic passes. But by then it may already be too late. We will have become a society that is blind to reality and at the mercy of anyone who knows to manipulate social media.It is the surest way to smother democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/social-media-is-killing-democracy/story-EjstYXtg6vrYNa2foLKoaL.html
17-06-2020||News||China’s PLA is nibbling at the border in name of peace and tranquility||The Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar, Colonel Santosh Babu, and his fellow men lost their lives in a medieval-era clash, complete with stones and nail-studded clubs, with Chinese Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) at Galwan on Monday evening, but their blood has triggered a turning point in India-China relations.Despite being outnumbered by PLA troops with reinforcement reserves coming from behind, Col Santosh and his men struck back at the adversary, killing or critically injuring 43-50 PLA troopers. Unlike in the past, the Colonel had confronted his Chinese counterparts and asked them to follow the agreed June 6 disengagement rules.The aggressive Chinese PLA had left him with no options. The Indian side had pulled back as part of de-escalation but the Chinese PLA was staying put at the stand-off site on Patrolling point 14.While most Indians are worried about the escalation in eastern Ladakh, the skirmish has shattered the “peace and tranquility” myth perpetuated by Chinese rulers since the 1950s. The Galwan face-off has clearly revealed that the “peace and tranquility” doctrine is just a Chinese PLA ruse to force their cartographic expansion agenda in Ladakh sector to strengthen the logistics route of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. The military nibbling by the PLA towards the Chinese claim line in eastern Ladakh, particularly in the Daulet Beg Oldi sector, is part of this strategic plan. Already, there are reports that Xi Jinping’s PLA is supplying at least four armed drones to Pakistan to protect the CPEC route and should be seen in action against the restive population of Balochistan.The past 70 years of contemporary history teaches us that Beijing, while mouthing restraint, will ostensibly offer speeding up of boundary resolution by the two Special Representatives with a promise to handle the bilateral trade deficit in a focused fashion. This means that Beijing will keep the nearly $ 100 billion bilateral trade insulated from the border skirmishes, a tactic used by the Chinese leaders in the past to resuscitate relations. So basically China wants border and bilateral trade on its terms by trying to impose its military might against India. Even at the cost of losing his life, Col Santosh challenged this might by refusing to allow change in the ground situation in Galwan.That also means that India should not let the execution of the border infrastructure upgradation plan slow down. Certainly not in the Galwan Valley where one part of the Chinese effort has been to stop India’s border road project.In the coming days, we will see the PLA’s psychology operations playing out in full strength. That could include TikTok videos of bodies of Indian soldiers lying in the Galwan river and that of soldiers, injured or held captive. This could be accompanied by images of PLA troops, artillery guns, surface-to-air missile batteries. There may also be videos of armed drones to create doubts in indian military minds over retaliation to the violent face-off.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the military brass assess the situation, the Galwan face-off is a slap in the face of the Wuhan and Chennai understandings with Chinese paramount leader Xi Jinping. The answer to the skirmish does not lie in mere economic retaliation but standing and facing the PLA on the ground to have them honour the June 6 military resolutions. And till that time, any rapprochement with Beijing should be ruled out.While a section within the Indian government advises diplomatic resolution of the June 15 face-off, the only answer to the PLA’s belligerence is standing up to them and holding the territory. The PLA must learn to respect the Indian army. This is the path Colonel Santosh Babu has shown us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-s-pla-is-nibbling-at-the-border-in-name-of-peace-and-tranquility/story-l1HFFCJD0n8miQ5LdJW8lK.html
17-06-2020||City||18-year-old heading to Pune raped by trailer driver in Mumbai||An 18-year-old woman, who was on her way to meet her husband in Pune, was raped in Uran, early on Wednesday, by a trailer truck driver. Although she was abandoned in a remote area after being raped, the woman managed to note down the license plate number of the trailer truck and report the crime. The driver, Vikas Singh, tried to evade Panvel police, but after a chase that lasted almost an hour, Singh was arrested on Wednesday morning. The 18-year-old had come to Mumbai on Sunday, from Mahuvadi village in Uttar Pradesh by a Shramik Special train. Her husband is a labourer and lives in Pune. The couple were married seven months ago. “The woman could not meet her husband for over four months due to the lockdown so they planned to meet in Pune and settle there. She reached Mumbai on Sunday and stayed with a relative who suggested she travel to Kalyan and then to Panvel by bus, from where she was told any vehicle would give her a lift to Pune,” said an officer from Panvel police station.On Tuesday afternoon, the woman reached Kalyan by a local train and took a bus to Panvel. At around 12.30am on Wednesday, she reached Kalamboli junction and around 1.15am, Singh, 35, offered her a lift in the trailer truck he was driving. However, instead of taking her to Pune, he parked the vehicle at a T-point in Uran and despite the 18-year-old’s attempts to fight him off by biting him, Singh raped her. Afterwards, Singh abandoned her and left with the trailer truck. “The place was remote, but the woman showed presence of mind and noted the trailer’s number on her mobile. She also dialled 100, informed the officer on duty of her predicament and gave her location at around 2.30am,” said the police officer. A police team, including a woman officer, reached the spot soon after and took the woman to a hospital. The woman told the crime branch team the details of the crime and the license plate number that she’d noted down. Police inspector Sunil Tarmale said, “Around 3.30 am, we got the number of the trailer and decided to look for it in Western Railway’s warehouse area where trailers are parked for the night.” The police found Singh in his trailer truck, but he tried to evade arrest. “When we asked him to come down, he started the trailer and escaped. We followed him for over 45 minutes. At Palaspe Phata, he took an under-construction bridge by mistake and had to stop mid-way. He left the vehicle and tried to run, but we caught him,” said Tarmale. A case against Singh has registered under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-heading-to-pune-raped-by-trailer-driver-in-mumbai/story-0VTwzx4lDqv4d3zcj1JkXK.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Coastal road reclamation may harm coral patch at Haji Ali’||Marine experts have raised an alarm about the ongoing reclamation activity along the south Mumbai coastline for the coastal road project. Less than 400 metres from the work site near Haji Ali dargah is a 10-metre patch of false pillow corals. Corals are a schedule I species under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972 and could suffer damage if they aren’t translocated from the area.On Wednesday, reclamation work using an excavator machine was being carried out at one end of the path leading to Haji Ali dargah. Co-founder of Coastal Conservation Foundation, Shaunak Modi said the corals are located to the left of this path while work is being done on the right side. “This is the largest patch of reef-building false pillow corals (Pseudosiderastrea tayamai) we have found along the Mumbai shoreline. The only other location where we have found these corals is in Cuffe Parade, but that is a very small patch,” said Modi.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said all coral patches fell outside proposed reclamation zones. “We are aware of the presence of coral patches at two locations in Haji Ali. Both these areas are beyond our proposed reclamation zones and will not be touched,” said Vijay Nighot, chief engineer, BMC’s coastal road project.Last year, the Bombay high court (HC) had appointed a committee and directed BMC to obtain permissions under the WPA, before commencing work on the coastal road project, owing to the presence of corals. “The committee recently submitted a proposal to our divisional forest office (mangrove cell),” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). “It is yet to be cleared by my office, the chief wildlife warden, and then the state. Thus, until such time that the proposal is cleared, any reclamation of corals is a violation under WPA.”The current 9.9-km phase of the coastal road project, proposed at Rs 12,969 crore, will connect Marine Drive to the southern end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. HT had reported last year that eight species of corals are under threat from the proposed construction, according to environment group Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coastal-road-reclamation-may-harm-coral-patch-at-haji-ali/story-pRumnYaQ6iED9RBxZap7xL.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Need more anti-viral drugs and ventilators in Maha, CM tells PM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while on Wednesday thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the resumption of local train services for frontline workers in Mumbai, demanded more ventilators and drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab for the effective treatment of Covid-19 patients.Thackeray, who participated in the sixth video conference on the Covid-19 pandemic with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, requested the latter for these drugs at reasonable prices. He said that the state has an adequate stock of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks, but it needs more ventilators, especially for rural areas.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We have demanded supply of remdesivir and tocilizumab by the Centre at reasonable prices. We have been administering these drugs to some patients on compassionate grounds with permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We have requested that the Centre make them available for all patients at reasonable prices. We have also demanded for the supply of 500 ventilators for Mumbai and other parts of the state. Maharashtra has adequate number of other beds, but we lag in ICU beds with ventilators.”Thackeray apprised the PM with the steps taken by the state government in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and also told him how Maharashtra has struck a balance between the lockdown norms and rolling out economic activities. The Maharashtra CM also said that its “chase the virus” policy has helped in containing the spread in many hotspots, including Dharavi in Mumbai. He also said that Maharashtra has set up facilities with a cumulative strength of 3 lakh beds to treat Covid-19 patients and has robust infrastructure of 282 dedicated Covid hospitals, 434 dedicated Covid health centres and 1631 dedicated Covid centres.PM Modi said during the VC that the reports about the re-imposition of the lockdown were rumours and the government would speak only about unlocking (the lockdown). PM said though crowding and violation of the lockdown was a serious problem, the country has successfully fought against the pandemic. He said the high recovery rate was the result of the collective efforts.The CM told Modi that 60,000 industrial units in the state have gone operational with 15 lakh workers reporting back to the work. He said that 5.15 lakh workers are working under the employment guarantee scheme on a daily-wages basis. “Maharashtra government has decided to promote students from non-professional courses on the basis of their grades in the previous terms as conducting exams in the near future was not possible for us. Centre should take a cautious and uniform decision related to the exams of professional and non-professional courses,” Thackeray said in the conference. He also has demanded for the Centre’s intervention in crop loans by nationalised banks. He has sought an extension of three months to Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-more-anti-viral-drugs-and-ventilators-in-maha-cm-tells-pm/story-jDGBghZQbRkYhOCEzOJVBI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||CBI books BJP leader, others for cheating BoI of ₹57.26 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj and directors of his company for allegedly cheating Bank of India to the tune of ₹57.26 crore. CBI has also booked unknown public servants and bank officials, and is conducting an inquiry against them.Cases have been registered against two Mumbai-based firms — Avyaan Overseas Private Limited (now known as M/s Bagla Overseas Private Limited), Mumbai and its managing director Mohit Kamboj and directors Jitendra Gulshan Kapoor, Siddhant Bagla, Irtesh Mishra, and another firm named KBJ Hotels Goa Private Limited.According to a CBI official, between 2013 and 2018, Avyaan Overseas Pvt Ltd (now known as M/s Bagla Overseas Pvt Ltd) and its managing director Mohit Kamboj along with unknown public servants with the intention to cheat entered the Bank of India Mid Corporate Branch, Fort in the mater of FB Purchase/Foreign Bills Negotiation Limit and Export Packaging Credit Limit. The company allegedly got sanctioned and released the said facilities to the tune of ₹60 crore (approx.).After availing the said limits, the accused company diverted the funds and prepared forged and fabricated documents in support of the claim owing to which the bank suffered loss to the tune of ₹57.26 crore, stated a CBI press release.CBI conducted searches at five places in Mumbai including residential and official premises of the accused including private companies. During the search , CBI recovered certain incriminating documents including property, loan, various bank account details and locker keys, said a CBI official.A letter addressed to M/s Bagla Overseas Pvt Ltd by deputy general manager of Bank of India PK Sinha dated March 16, 2019 stated, “We refer to our earlier letter June 25, 2018 advising you accepting your proposal for compromise in the above loan account for ₹30 crore as one-time settlement of due. This is to certify that your credit facility with us now been settled by compromise and we confirm hereby that we have received the full compromise amount of ₹30 crore. We also certify that there are no dues from you to us in respect of the above account.”Mohit Kamboj, who changed his name and is now known as Mohit Bhartiya, said, “Compromise in the above loan account has been done in 2018 by paying ₹30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I have also received no dues certificate from Bank of India in March 2019. I don’t know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint after two-and-a-half years of clearing all dues. They have made the mistake. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with CBI probe as I have full trust in them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cbi-books-bjp-leader-others-for-cheating-boi-of-57-26-crore/story-hsRuFzKg0UOgYK4VKcRyFO.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 100 days after first Covid case, Maha tally reaches 1,16,752; toll 5,651||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count reached 1,16,752 after it recorded 3,307 cases on Wednesday. Of them, 51,921 are active cases, according to the state health department. The state on Wednesday reported 114 deaths, taking the toll to 5,651. Of them, 77 are in Mumbai, 21 in Pune, seven in Jalgaon, two each in Malegaon, Latur and Nandurbar and one each in Mira Bhayandar, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Yavatmal.Mumbai, the worst-hit city across the country, recorded 1,359 cases as its case count reached 61,587. Of them, 26,997 are active cases. The city toll stands at 3,244. On May 22, Mumbai reported its highest one-day increase in cases — 1,751.Wednesday was the eighth day fresh cases breached the 3,000 mark in the state. The state has reported over 2,000 cases daily for more than a month. The highest single-day spike was 3,607 reported on June 11.From the first case on March 9 to 1,16,752 on June 17 — the past 101 days saw Maharashtra fight a tough battle against Covid-19, as it has been the worst-hit state in the country. NO PEAK YET?Data shows the state is getting more than 2,000 cases daily since May 17, when the number of fresh cases breached the 2,000-mark for the first time. Soon, another grim milestone of 3,000 cases a day was crossed — May 24 (3,041 cases), June 7 (3,007), June 10 (3,254), June 11 (3,607), June 12 (3,493), June 13 (3,427) and June 14 (3,390). In the past 31 days (from May 17), the state has recorded 86,216 cases, an average of 2,694 cases a day.By the end of May, the state has successfully brought down the case fatality rate to 3.26% from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13. But it has started rising again. On Tuesday, it jumped to 4.8% from 3.7% (on Monday) as 1,409 deaths were added to its toll. This includes reconciliation of 1,328 past fatalities and 81 deaths reported in the previous 24 hours.The highest single-day toll was recorded on June 15 (178 deaths). The state health department, however, clarified that 29 of the total deaths were recorded in the past two days, while the rest were past fatalities.Since May 17, the state has also recorded 4,516 deaths till Wednesday. It also includes reconciliation of past 1,328 fatalities declared by the health department on Tuesday. On an average, it comes to 141 deaths a day.State health minister Rajesh Tope recently predicted the decline is likely to start from the end of this month, but also stressed he was going by the trend in other countries. Officials, however, while they have got mathematical predictions, models of other countries and expert opinions, it is tough to tell when the situation will be brought under control.CAUSE FOR CONCERNAmong the prime concerns is the rising case fatality rate (CFR), which touched 4.84% on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the country’s death toll went up to 11,903. The state’s toll stood at 5,651, which means 47.47% of the total deaths in the country were registered in Maharashtra alone. “The number of cases will continue to rise over the next 15-20 days as the peak has started. The decline is likely to start from the end of June. I’m saying this going by what is happening in other countries. The situation in the state will stabilise soon,” Tope had said on June 14.“We don’t know the time-frame by which we will be in a position to say the situation is under control. We also don’t know by when the actual decline will start. In fact, no country can tell that. What we do have is mathematical predictions, models of other countries and expert opinions. So far, all mathematical predictions have failed. We are closely monitoring development of other countries,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital, Mumbai, said, “Dedicated hospitals for Covid treatment have the highest fatalities because they have the most critical patients with different co-morbidities. We saw patients with existing co-morbidities got uncontrolled diabetes because of stress during lockdown period, although they were taking medicines regularly. Probably, this is one of the reasons behind the rise in fatality rate.”State health department is also having no plans to start using dexamethasone, a cheap and widely used steroid, that has become the first drug to be able to save the lives of Covid-19 patients, according to trial results in UK. Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department said they are already using Methylprednisolone since last three months. “Methylprednisolone is also an steroid and is giving good result, while Dexamethasone is not yet incorporated in the Centre’s protocol. Also, we have consulted AIIMS doctors and they have informed that it is unlikely to have an effect different from Methylprednisolone,” Dr Vyas saidTrial results announced by the University of Oxford on Tuesday showed dexamethasone, which is used to reduce inflammation in other diseases such as arthritis, reduced death rates by around a third among Covid-19 patients on ventilators and by a fifth for those on oxygen.The constant improvement in the recovery rate has brought big relief for the state. On Wednesday, it reached 50.68%, from 31.05% on May 27.It has also completed 7 lakh tests so far. The health department declared to have conducted 7,00,954 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 5,84,202 people tested negative, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-100-days-after-first-covid-case-maha-tally-reaches-1-16-752-toll-5-651/story-lan8Smuor35b3ihapu8uIK.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Illegal wildlife trade racket busted; 19 held||A major crackdown by the Maharashtra forest department led to the arrest of 19 people involved in illegal wildlife trade spread across the districts of Nashik, Thane, Pune, and Ahmednagar.The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) said this was the largest crackdown witnessed in the state over the past 10 years. Wildlife articles included two red sand boas (Eryx johnii), protected under schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, and one Indian soft-shell turtle, protected under schedule I of WPA.Between June 1 and 11, the forest department arrested two police officers, Vishwas Chavankhe, an assistant police inspector from Rabale police station in Navi Mumbai, Thane district, and Deepak Dhabekar, a constable from Chatushringi police station in Pune. An information technology (IT) entrepreneur from Pune and a real estate agent also from Belapur were also arrested for playing the role of middlemen, said forest officials.Around 20 forest officials, mainly from the Nashik (East) forest department, carried out the operation starting from Yeola, a town in Nashik, on June 1, where local Somnath Pawar was arrested while trying to sell a live red sand boa. The remaining wildlife articles were seized on June 7 when a trap was laid for one of the accused Nikhil Gaikwad in Ahmednagar district and the soft-shell turtle was recovered. Six others were arrested on June 11 in Sinnar, Nashik, while trying to sell the second red sand boa. Two four-wheelers and one bike were seized from the accused during the operation.“Rather than just stopping at the first seizure and arrest, we investigated the entire route of persons involved in this racket, right from the source to middlemen and finally the end seller. The entire operation, followed by court proceedings, took around two weeks,” said Tushar Chavan, deputy conservator of forest (Nashik East). “We began by tapping the source in Nashik district where the first person was arrested. After getting forest custody, a step-by-step process helped us identify other culprits within the district,” he said.The forest department sought assistance from WCCB and the Maharashtra cyber cell. “After making the first six to seven arrests, we tracked down the middlemen using call record data, geo-location of the persons, and continuous interrogation of the arrested accused,” said Chavan adding, “The middlemen across major cities were the ones calling the shots for the trade, and they were the most difficult to track down. Remaining persons were either carriers or sellers. They were easily nabbed by setting up traps where forest officials acted as interested buyers or dummy traders near railways stations, bus stands, and markets.”All 19 people were granted magistrate custody till June 22 by a district court in Nashik. “We have not assigned any value for the wildlife articles seized because it is unethical to do so, and further enhances their trade. Any reports suggesting any value are false,” said Chavan.The list of accused and suspected persons in the investigation was submitted to WCCB.M Maranko, regional deputy director WCCB (West), said, “A string of these many arrests followed by detailed detection by the forest department has not been witnessed over the past decade. In most cases, we observe that the basic seizure and arrests are made, and the case ends. But the state forest department was able to uncover all loopholes in this one.”Maranko added that WCCB will now be taking over the matter to check whether the arrested accused were part of a pan-India nexus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/illegal-wildlife-trade-racket-busted-19-held/story-nwScdGG4YmLsjQ0L0cB2DO.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||MU looks to reopen campuses||Even with little clarity on final-year examinations, University of Mumbai (MU) has started working towards partly reopening its campuses soon. Through links sent across to all their employees, MU is currently gathering data on the residence of those who work at Fort and Kalina campuses to find out what kind of transportation the university will have to arrange to bring them to start work. Employees, however, are worried about getting back to work on a campus which has recently been used as a quarantine facility by the government.“We received a Google form this week, where the university has asked about the status of our health and that of our family’s, as well as residential details. We believe they are trying to arrange for buses and other forms of transport for us to and from work,” said a varsity employee on condition of anonymity. In March this year, as the state and city were grappling with increasing Covid-19 cases, MU had offered to turn a hostel and the IT Park in their Kalina campus as a quarantine facility. Most employees are worried about sanitisation of the area before calling people to join work.An official from MU, however, confirmed that no one will be allowed back to the campus for work before ensuring that the campus is sanitised and ready for use. “As of now we are only collecting data to find out how transportation will work, to pick up and drop our employees back at their doorstep. Only once we clear these points will we start daily functioning of the university,” said an official.In the past few months, MU has also started working on virtual education and not only did most affiliated colleges finish their syllabus by conducting virtual classes, but MU also managed to conduct viva for engineering students online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-looks-to-reopen-campuses/story-85pbnNWbIlyWUweTRWzTMO.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Won’t take action against staff over reconciliation of toll, says BMC chief||No action – a show-cause notice or a first information report (FIR) – will be taken against Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, hospitals, and doctors over discrepancies in the Covid-19 toll figures, which led to reconciliation, civic chief IS Chahal said on Wednesday. A total of 862 deaths were added to Mumbai’s toll on Tuesday, after reconciling the numbers, which Chahal said will be a recurring process over the next one month.“Of the 862 deaths added to Mumbai’s cumulative Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday after reconciling the figures, 750 were reported to the civic body after June 10. How can I blame my officers? They did not lie. Action will not be taken against hospitals and deans either because the hospitals will collapse. I will not take action against BMC officials,” said Chahal.On Tuesday, the state added 1,328 deaths to the toll, of which 862 are from Mumbai. The numbers took the city’s toll to 3,167 on Tuesday and pushed up the fatality rate to 5.2% from 3.79%. The city’s case count was 61,587 and toll 3,244 on Wednesday.Maharashtra’s leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded action against those responsible, alleging a cover-up. After the figures were released on Tuesday, he tweeted: “It is my sincere request to the state government that please don’t ignore this entire episode of criminal negligence in the name of reconciliation of numbers.” “These figures were suppressed for last 3 months. We demand strict action against all those who are responsible for this,” he wrote.However, Chahal denied any lapses in the process. He said, “It is a statistical lapse. The inward entry for 750 of the 862 deaths at BMC level is after June 10.”Chahal also said on June 8, BMC told all hospitals to report deaths within 48 hours, following Government of India’s rules. A BMC circular dated June 8 was sent to all municipal and private hospitals, making it mandatory to send all information of deaths within 48 hours to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s epidemiology cell, which uploads it to the Government of India’s portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-take-action-against-staff-over-reconciliation-of-toll-says-bmc-chief/story-x4FT3d0olkfdXzgWiVlbuJ.html
17-06-2020||City||To create jobs, Greater Noida begins land acquisition for industrial use||To create jobs and encourage entrepreneurs, the Greater Noida authority has again started acquiring land from farmers. It has started acquisition process online so that farmers and the authority staff are able to keep themselves safe from the Covid-19 infection. The process to buy land is being done online via portal- www.investgnida.in, officials said.“We have decided to buy the land directly from farmers so that we can acquire, develop and allot it to entrepreneurs, who want to set up units, invest and generate employment in the region. Generating employment and boosting economy are crucial to revive the economy,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.On November 29, 2019, the authority had decided to buy 1,500 acres as a direct purchase from farmers who are willing to sell their land for industrial projects and other schemes. However, the authority could not carry out the buying even after it was approved during its 116th board meeting for various technical reasons. “We are buying the land through mutual consent. The farmers who want to give their land can do so by visiting our portal. Apart from selling their land, they can also get all the work related to the land acquisition done via this portal,” Deep Chand, additional CEO, Greater Noida authority, said.Farmers also can get their issues related to residential plots, court disputes, hiked land compensation and leaseback resolved via this portal. “We start an electronic file of a farmer and process the cases,” Chand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-create-jobs-greater-noida-begins-land-acquisition-for-industrial-use/story-cTQauzMo3ubumAsqJeTnuI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC wants to give Remdesivir to 1K patients a month||To bring down the city’s Covid-19 fatality rate of 5.2%, which has seen a steady rise in the past two weeks, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wants to administer Remdesivir, a drug used to treat Ebola, to at least 1,000 patients a month.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said he would make the request at the video conference between state governments and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, before the meet. At the conference, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requested the prime minister to expedite permissions to use three drugs to treat Covid-19 positive patients, including Remdesivir. “Let me give it to 1,000 patients a month. Remdesivir has proved very effective and its use will help Mumbai considerably bring down its fatality rate. I also want it to be easily available at cheap rates, to be administered to poor patients, who cannot easily afford it. Today, it is not available. In fact I am mentioning let the drug be available at every chemist. Let common man have access to it. This is one way of saving lives. Currently, the drug costs ₹1,60,000 per patient.” The increase in Mumbai’s fatality rate over the past two weeks has been a cause for concern for BMC. The rate stood at 3.2% on June 1, and rose to 3.7% by June 15. However, after the state government reconciled death figures on Tuesday, adding 862 deaths to Mumbai’s cumulative toll, the mortality has gone up to 5.2%.Remdesivir has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to be used for Covid-19 patients on compassionate grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-wants-to-give-remdesivir-to-1k-patients-a-month/story-VwgJk3x7Gor5oGOL4pJ8KL.html
17-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Covid-positive body stuck in limbo for 24 hrs as electric furnace develops snag||Ghaziabad: It took 24 hours for the cremation of a 58-year-old man’s body at an electric furnace at the Hindon cremation ground, as the facility developed a technical snag on Tuesday. The furnace could be repaired only on Wednesday afternoon, officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) said. Officials of the GMC, which operates the crematorium, said that the body was partially burnt when the furnace developed snag. It took around 24 hours for the snag to be repaired, after which the cremation process was completed on Wednesday, they said, adding that a body takes about one hour to one-and-a-half hours to be burnt to ashes.The family of the man from Indirapuram, who died of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, said the body was taken to the Hindon cremation ground Tuesday morning.“The body was placed inside an electric furnace around 11.30am on Tuesday and we were asked to come in the evening to collect the ashes. When we went there in the evening, the caretakers told us that there had been a malfunction and the body was still inside. We were shocked,” the victim’s son said.“We approached corporation and district officials to get it repaired, and waited for almost an entire day on Wednesday when the rest of the last rites was completed after repairs,” the son said.GMC officials said that the crematorium has only one chamber instead of a general practice of two chambers.“The furnace developed a technical snag when the cremation was being taken up. About 10-15% of the process of the last rites were pending when the malfunction took place. When the issue came to our knowledge, we got it repaired and made it operational by 3pm on Wednesday. There was hardly anything we could do about it as the crematorium has only one chamber,”said Manoj Prabhat, GMC’s executive engineer.“There was a technical snag related to a drain pipe about 10 days ago, and cremation of bodies had got hampered back then also. The electric crematorium has to run with continuous power supply and we have to shut it down for about two days in order to cool it down so that repairs can be taken up. So, we are now trying to improve technology and run it on CNG supply instead of electricity,” Prabhat said.Senior MCG officials said that the crematorium, which was handed over to them by the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), became operational in May.“We are now trying to expand the facility at the crematorium and it will be done with the corporation’s funds. The GDA has said that they don’t have funds. So, we will get it upgraded from our own funds,” said Dinesh Chandra, municipal commissioner, Ghaziabad.Santosh Kumar Rai, secretary of GDA, said that the crematorium was constructed by an agency and handed over to the corporation for operations. “The incident is unfortunate. At the time of handover to MCG, no one pointed out any shortcoming. Had the corporation pointed out, we would have got it upgraded then,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-covid-positive-body-stuck-in-limbo-for-24-hrs-as-electric-furnace-develops-snag/story-hZSZ3HkfBMHZhRbYDoVKCO.html
17-06-2020||City||Seven Covid-19 death cases take Ghaziabad’s toll to 32||Ghaziabad on Wednesday suffered a spike in deaths as seven more cases were added to the district’s fatality figures, which now totalled 32. Thirty-five fresh Covid-19 cases too were recorded on the day, taking the case tally to 718. “Wednesday was the day when highest numbers of death cases were added to our tally. Five of the deaths were in a Meerut hospital, while two died in Ghaziabad. Of the dead, three were women. Those who died were in the age group 45 to 75 years,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer.Of the 32 deaths, 17 died in Meerut, 12 in Ghaziabad, two in Delhi and one in Noida.In June alone, there has been addition of 413 Covid-19 positive cases while the figure stood at 305 till May 31.The 35 fresh cases on Wednesday include four each from Vaishali and Dasna, three from Indirapuram and one from Khoda besides others localities in Ghaziabad district.Meanwhile in Gautam Budh Nagar, total cases read 1097 with the addition of 59 on Wednesday. The total death count stood at 14. One death was added on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the district stood at 507 and another set of 576 patients were discharged from different hospitals.Officials said the dead person was a 57-year-old woman from sector-22. She was admitted to the Meerut Medical College and had complications like hypertension and diabetes. The cause of death was attributed to pneumonia with acute respiratory stress syndrome.Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Gautam Budh Nagar district reviewed the situation on Wednesday and stressed on measures to decrease the death rate. Booshan asked officials to ensure that proper Covid-19 beds were available in hospitals, besides cleanliness and food for patients.“The officer directed increased surveillance and contact tracing. He said that patients must be treated as per protocol and should be shifted to respective category hospital as required for his/her medical condition. The nodal officer also directed that patients whose reports are found positive should be isolated at the earliest,” said district spokesperson.Since the Gautam Budh Nagar district is one of the eleven sensitive districts in UP in terms of rising Covid-19 cases, the UP government has sent Dr Jiledar Rawat, a neonatal surgeon at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, and assigned task to accelerate and monitor efforts by the health department in breaking the chain of infection as well as combating the Coronavirus spread in Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-covid-19-death-cases-take-ghaziabad-s-toll-to-32/story-1m5Mi48QIOhGo5kBtC0TQO.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Very sorry state of affairs: HC on Covid-19 tests in Maharashtra prisons||A division bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday expressed displeasure over the lack of Covid-19 testing of prisoners in Maharashtra.The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice KK Tated accepted the argument advanced on behalf the public interest litigation (PIL) petitioner, Mumbai chapter of the People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) – the largest and the oldest human rights organisation in India – that the number of tests on inmates of correctional homes across Maharashtra was abysmally low. The court noted that the state needed to adopt corrective measures.“The report of the ADG (prisons) reveals a very sorry state of affairs,” said the bench, commenting on a report submitted by the additional director general (ADG) of police (prisons) revealing statistical information about the prevalence of Covid-19 in prisons across Maharashtra and steps taken to contain the spread of the contagion in jails.ADG Sunil Ramanand in his report to the HC had submitted that prion authorities had conducted 17,695 screenings of inmates and jail staff since the Covid-19 outbreak. After the screenings, swab tests were conducted for 1,681 inmates and staff, of which 269 inmates and 73 jail staff tested positive for the Covid-19 virus.The judges were annoyed to note that at least four under-trial prisoners died in prisons and swab samples collected after their death revealed that the deceased were suffering from Covid-19.PUCL had moved HC, complaining that there was a complete lack of transparency as regards the condition of prisoners and preparation of prisons to deal with a calamity like Covid-19, which has resulted in panic and concern amongst the community, family members of prisoners, and their lawyers. The petitioner sought orders to provide information regarding the health and Covid-19 status of inmates to their family members and advocates on record.It also sought directions to ensure that inmates have ample access to face masks, hand sanitiser, soap, and cleaning supplies at no cost. Maintaining that prisoners should enjoy the same standards of healthcare that are available to the outside community, the petitioner body prayed for a report from prison authorities detailing measures taken for prevention and control of the spread of Covid-19 in prisons.Noting that the ADG (prison) also stated that there was no sufficient space to quarantine prisoners who have tested positive for Covid-19, the court has now asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to appear in the matter. It has also requested state authorities to ask district collectors concerned to identify suitable space for quarantining prisoners.The bench has also called for details such as the capacity of prisons to house under-trial prisoners, actual number of such prisoners lodged in jails across Maharashtra, number of inmates who have crossed the age of 60 years, etc.The PIL will come up for further hearing on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/very-sorry-state-of-affairs-hc-on-covid-19-tests-in-maharashtra-prisons/story-7ovxQVf5TFkNv2P58m2GUJ.html
17-06-2020||City||For pregnant women, an arduous journey to get Covid test done||Raj Kumar, a resident of Arthala near Mohan Nagar, had to take his eight-month pregnant wife in a cab to the sampling centre at IMS College, Dasna, despite Sanjay Nagar hospital being closer.The reason: Ghaziabad district’s only major sampling centre has been relocated to Dasna, which is on the city’s outskirts, spelling trouble for all pregnant women who have to get their sampling for Covid-19 done mandatorily. The sampling centre till about a fortnight ago was operating out of Sanjay Nagar hospital. It was shifted out to Dasna after the Sanjay Nagar health hub was declared an L2 category dedicated Covid hospital last month.“We had so far been consulting a private doctor in Sahibabad for her treatment. The doctor advised us to get a Covid-19 test done, so we came to the sampling centre at Dasna. It is very hard to travel in scorching heat and not at all possible if you do not hire a cab. It is about 16km away from my house. A number of pregnant women, I am told, can be spotted standing in queue for hours daily to get their sampling done, before delivery,” Kumar said.“Although my wife has no symptoms but the doctor told us that a Covid test is mandatory before she delivers. We came here on Wednesday noon and waited for over an hour to get her sampling done. We found that about 15 other women were in queue with us. It is very difficult for women to come here in peak summer and get their tests done after a long wait,” he added.Bijender Kumar, a native of Chappraula in nearby Gautam Budh Nagar, also came with his wife on a bike but the couple had to return soon.“My wife initially stood in the queue, but when her turn came she was denied sampling. The staff at the sampling centre said that we are from Gautam Budh Nagar and we should get our sampling done there itself and not in Ghaziabad. We were surprised but had no option and returned home. My wife had symptoms of fever and cough,” he added.However, when asked, not many knew that a sample testing facility for pregnant women had been started at Women’ Hospital which is in the same complex at MMG District Hospital.“We started testing on May 21 and it was initially for one hour. Thereafter from June 2 , we initiated another round of sampling, which is now done from 8am to 7pm. . In all we have taken up 172 samples of pregnant women till date and four of them have tested positive so far,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of women’s hospital.“We are not denying sampling to any pregnant women who come to us even from neighbouring districts, like Gautam Budh Nagar. In all we are carrying out 10-12 deliveries daily with all precautions assuming that every patient may be Covid-19 positive. Since March 22, we have done 780 deliveries and another 215 C-sections.We generally advise pregnant women in advanced stages of pregnancy to get their Covid-19 tests done in order to avoid any complications during deliveries,” she added.The chief medical superintendent on Wednesday also said that she had opted to go in home isolation after she got exposed to at least three women at the hospital who tested positive on June 16.The hospital complex is also being sanitized.The district health department officials on the other hand confirmed that they have one sampling centre at Dasna and another 12 mobile vans, which take up sampling in different areas.“It is possible that pregnant women do not have the required information that sampling can also be done at women’s hospital, which is in Ghaziabad city. So, they need not come to the sampling centre at Dasna,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer.In another move, the district malaria officer also de-sealed four highrises in Kaushambi about two days after they were sealed. The members of Kaushambi Apartments’ RWA (KARWA) said that the health department officials asked them to submit records of all patients.“Initially they came to seal four towers on Monday. They de-sealed them on Wednesday . There have been two deaths and several positive casest. When we asked, they asked us to bring the record of patients otherwise they will not take up sealing in future. We told them that we do not have access to patient records and they must get it themselves even if the patients are in Delhi,” said VK Mittal, president of KARWA.According to UP government’s latest directions, the residential towers are to be sealed for 14 days instead of 21 days directed earlier.“The RWA gave us verbal information and did not provide us records. In case anyone objects to sealing then we might have got caught in legal issues. Since families of patients had tested negative and some families were not present in Kaushambi, we decided to de-seal the towers on Wednesday,” Mishra said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-pregnant-women-an-arduous-journey-to-get-covid-test-done/story-dxrVqhNWnFfR01xfCp9eDJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Jobs for sons of soil: MMRDA ad seeks 16K labourers||Following chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s call to provide employment to ‘locals’ at Metro and other infrastructure sites, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has released a requirement list of 16,726 workers at its sites. This includes a requirement of 7,459 unskilled labourers, 2,678 carpenters, 423 welders, 274 masons, 3,725 fitters and 2,167 electricians across sites. Those who do not have the required qualification will also be given free training for a month, MMRDA stated. Thackeray had asked MMRDA to provide employment to the “bhoomiputras” after a large number of migrant workers left the city in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In an advertisement released on June 15, MMRDA stated that those interested should get in touch with the respective contractors, whose number have been published on the website. A senior official from MMRDA, who did not wish to be named, said, “This is to explore and provide employment to people even from the interiors of the state. We will train them with the required skill sets.”The works include eight Metro lines, a sea-link and several under-construction flyovers in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Two of the Metro lines, which were supposed to be operational from December 2020, are now likely to be functional only by March-April 2021. MMRDA hands over phase-2 of Covid hospital at BKCMMRDA on Wednesday handed over phase-2 of the Covid-19 hospital constructed in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray virtually inaugurated the phase-2 of the hospital in BKC as well as a Covid hospital in Thane. Phase-2 has 970 beds and was constructed in 17 days. Phase-1, built at a cost of ₹19 crore, was handed over to BMC in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jobs-for-sons-of-soil-mmrda-ad-seeks-16k-labourers/story-N2HWK3FpHlIQIOKNeAvbcN.html
17-06-2020||City||FIR against man for spreading Covid-19 in Jawhar during his wedding||On the orders of Dr Kailas Shinde, Palghar district collector, the Jawhar police have registered a first information report (FIR) against a recently married man, a lab technician at a local hospital, for organising a wedding event without maintaining social distancing and violating lockdown orders. The man tested positive just four days after his marriage, though his wife has tested negative.The accused, a resident of Sakhri village in Mokhada taluka, got married on June 11, and on the eve of the wedding, on 10 June, he had arranged a prenuptial party, which more than 70 people had attended. The man had not taken permission from the police patil (village head) or the tehsildar of Jawhar and did not maintain social distance the next day at the wedding, which was attended by 80 persons.Hence, an FIR was registered against the accused under section 188 (disobedience) and 269 (spread of infection) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005. No arrest has been made yet as the accused is being treated for Covid-19.“Due to the man’s infection and lack of social distancing during his wedding celebrations, the villages of Kelghar (where the wedding took place), Pipurna, Dongachi Mait, Navapada, Gorwadi, Jambhulvihir, and Sakhri have been declared as containment zones and around 144 people who had come in contact with the couple are in quarantine,” said a government official.Meanwhile, in Palghar district, 2,164 positive cases and 71 deaths have been reported to date, said an official from the district information office, Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-man-for-spreading-covid-19-in-jawhar-during-his-wedding/story-r4papb0WeJyM4VdgRcm1GJ.html
17-06-2020||City||Keep ‘safe’ distance: An autorickshaw that sanitises passengers||A mechanic and an autorickshaw driver have designed five rickshaws that have everything you need for a safe commute during the pandemic. Each vehicle has a separated compartment for driver and commuter, hand sanitisers, sanitiser sprays and accepts only digital payment.Gafoor Shaikh, 32, runs a garage in Kalyan. With his childhood friend, autorickshaw driver Janardhan Vishe, 38, he redesigned the interior of the autorickshaw so that it has all the precautions needed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With the lockdown in place, Vishe couldn’t ply his autorickshaw. “He could not work and he was worried. I gave him an idea to make the auto safer and use it for emergency services,” said Shaikh.Shaikh and Vishe’s redesigned autorickshaws are fitted with hand sanitisers as well as an automatic sanitiser spray which sanitises passengers once they’re inside. “We also regularly sanitise the auto before a passenger boards or leaves. If more such autos are introduced it will be beneficial for both auto drivers and passengers,” Vishe said.To prevent physical contact between the driver and the commuter, Shaikh and Vishe have added a plastic partition between the driver’s compartment and the commuter’s seat as well as a digital payment system. “We have displayed our mobile numbers and also the QR code for e-payment. We won’t accept cash,” said Vishe.Vishe started using his redesigned autorickshaw for emergency services in May. Since then, Shaikh and Vishe have given four more autorickshaws this makeover and they are being used for emergency services.Deputy regional transport officer, Sanjay Sasane said, “As per the state government’s directions, only those autos that are plying for emergencies shall be allowed on streets. Some auto drivers have transformed their autos into safer ones, which is appreciable as it helps send a clear message of the precautions to be followed.”Residents also welcomed Shaikh and Vishe’s redesign. “With ambulance services not up to the mark in the city, there should be more autorickshaws allowed for medical emergencies. The authority can take forward such ideas and allow more autos on the streets for the convenience of both passengers and auto drivers,” said Rambaug resident Amit Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/keep-safe-distance-an-autorickshaw-that-sanitises-passengers/story-b2OdMoG2mHTIjWbHNmJv2L.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Cancer survivor moves HC as Customs dept withholds imported feeding tubes||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday issued notice to the Customs commissioner of Mumbai after a cancer survivor filed a petition complaining that his feeding tubes imported from the USA have been withheld by customs authorities.The Mumbai resident in his petition stated that in December 2016 he was diagnosed with oral cancer and due to remedial surgical operations his intake of food is only possible through feeding tubes. He added that the feeding tubes are not available in India and need to be imported from the USA as there is no alternative available.Given the situation, he said, he imports necessary feeding tubes from the USA and maintains a stock. He said since his stock was depleted, he imported four boxes of the feeding tubes labelled ‘Osmolite Nutrio N-Food for Tube Feeding Patient’ from the USA through a courier, but the assistant commissioner of customs, Air Cargo Complex at Sahar in Andheri, has withheld the packets “on grounds which are unclear to the petitioner”.The man moved the high court on Tuesday for urgent relief contending that he had a limited stock available with him which will last only a few days.Acting on his plea, the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice NR Borkar has issued notice to the customs authorities asking them to remain present in court either personally or through their lawyer and explain “the difficulty in releasing the packets containing feeding tubes.”The court has posted the petition for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cancer-survivor-moves-hc-as-customs-dept-withholds-imported-feeding-tubes/story-L5XHZmx0iVzRHAVzONM8NK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana sees 13 deaths, 560 fresh infections||Thirteen people suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lost their lives in Haryana on Wednesday even as the infection spread among 560 people of 17 districts in the past 24 hours. Until Wednesday, the virus claimed lives of 130 people — Gurugram (51), Faridabad (43) and Sonepat (9) — in Haryana and infected 8,832 people. Of the 13 fatalities, five each were reported from worst-hit Gurugram and Faridabad districts, while two were registered in Sonepat and one in Karnal. On Tuesday, 18 patients had succumbed to the disease, while the toll was 12 on Monday. According to the health bulletin, Faridabad logged the maximum (228) fresh cases of Covid-19 followed by Gurugram (180) and Sonepat (37) on Wednesday as Haryana continued with the trend of sharpest single-day surge in new infections. Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri, Rohtak, Mahendergarh and Nuh districts didn’t record any fresh case on Wednesday, the bulletin stated. Other districts where new infections were detected include Jhajjar (9), Ambala (4), Palwal (16), Panipat (4), Panchkula (2), Jind (6), Karnal (16), Yamunanagar (15), Sirsa (2), Fatehabad (4), Bhiwani (5), Hisar (19), Rewari (8) and Kurukshetra (5). While there are 4,750 active cases in the state, 204 patients got discharged on Wednesday, taking the tally of those recovered to 3,952. The health bulletin stated that 51 patients, including 14 on ventilators, were critical. Besides the death of a 67-year-old man in Karnal, the third fatality due to the virus, the district also witnessed the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases in a day with as 19 new infections. Karnal has so far witnessed 181 cases, 121 of which are active. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said seven infected people had come from Delhi and eight returned from Gurugram, while one had a travel history to J&K. Five persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhajjar, three in Jind, 20 in Bhiwani and 17 in Rohtak, local administrations confirmed. ‘COVID KAVACH ELISA’Health minister Anil Vij said a serosurvey will be conducted in all districts of the state for a test named ‘Covid Kavach Elisa’. Serosurvey is a collection and testing of serum specimens from a sample of a defined population over a specified period of time to estimate the prevalence of antibodies against a given specific infectious pathogen as an indicator of immunity. Haryana is among the selected states for conducting this type of investigation, Vij said, pointing out that this test would identify the antibodies being produced in the body to combat the infection. He said in the initial phase, this survey will be conducted in NCR, hotspots and high-risk areas. Among them, priority will be given to screening of doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, police and other frontline workers of NCR districts. Haryana Medical Services Corporation MD Dr Saket Kumar said the entire cost of testing will be borne by the government. “The test kit has been developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune and is completely indigenous. It has been used in 83 hotspot districts of the country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-haryana-sees-13-deaths-560-fresh-infections/story-V0wKzewdLuIQQawINe2u9K.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Constable dies of Covid, 67 others test positive||A constable from the Mumbai Police died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night, taking the death toll of the city police force to 30. In the last 48 hours, 67 city police personnel have tested positive, bringing the total count of infected policemen to 2,247.According to police, 58-year-old head constable Udhay Shinde posted with Nirmal Nagar police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. This is the second Covid casualty in a week from the police station, which has witnessed a total case count of 19 among its personnel. Of them, 17 were discharged after testing negative in subsequent tests.Shinde was assigned to court duty and was deployed at Bandra metropolitan magistrate court. Since April, he was on special leave since he fell into the Covid high-risk category due to his age. On June 6, his health condition started deteriorating and he was admitted to BYL Nair Hospital. On June 7 he tested positive for the coronavirus.“Two days ago, his health condition was stable, but on Tuesday he was not able to breathe properly and succumbed by evening. He lived with his wife and two children in Worli,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity.A senior police inspector, in charge of a police station in zone 3 in central region also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The senior officer was in charge of enforcing strict lockdown and maintaining law and order in one of the biggest Covid hotspots in city during the early days of the pandemic.He is also known for his investigative skills and cracking some sensational cases in the police department. The officer has been admitted to Hinduja Hospital after suffering from serious breathing issues, said an officer from his police station. To date, 30 Mumbai Police personnel have died while 16 more succumbed to the infection in other districts of the state.Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) said that at present, 758 police personnel are undergoing treatment at various Covid care centres (CCC) and hospitals in the city, while 1,489 have recovered. Around 25% of the recovered personnel have resumed duty.Ambulance topples at Worli SeafaceAn ambulance carrying a Covid-19 patient, heading to a south Mumbai hospital toppled after it met with an accident at Worli Seaface on Wednesday evening. The ambulance was dashed by a police vehicle carrying SRPF jawans while passing a traffic signal junction. “No one was injured in the incident. The patient was later taken to BYL Nair Hospital,” said an officer from Worli police station.50 transgender persons assault cops in DharaviAround 50 transgender persons gathered outside the Dharavi police station and created a ruckus on Tuesday night. Some of them undressed and got into a scuffle with the police. They also assaulted and misbehaved with a woman police sub-inspector and two constables. Dharavi police have registered a case against 15 transgender individuals and detained six of them. Their Covid test reports are now awaited before police proceed further.“On Tuesday five to six transgenders visited Dharavi police station around 8pm. One of them told the officer on duty that a friend of theirs had fallen in love with a woman and requested the police bring the man to the station and beat him. The officer refused to do so and said that the issue should be resolved peacefully,” said an officer from Dharavi police station.“The angry transgender then called others and after sometime around 50 transgenders gathered at the police station and started abusing a woman police officer and other personnel. They became aggressive and started manhandling the officers. A knife has also been recovered from one of the accused,” said senior inspector Ramesh Nangare of Dharavi police station.Police have registered a case against the group under numerous sections of the Indian Penal Code, said Nangare.(With inputs from Manish Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-dies-of-covid-67-others-test-positive/story-hPlhrcBqwEwMmoeKUGJJHP.html
17-06-2020||City||10 KDMT buses to ply to Kalyan, Dombivli stations||Essential services and frontline workers who are travelling out of the city by local train may now travel from their area to Kalyan and Dombivli railway stations and back by Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) buses from Thursday.KDMT will run 10 buses for such commuters in its vicinity. Five of the 10 buses will be stationed at Kalyan railway station and the rest five at Dombivli.“Earlier, 24 buses were plying within the city for essential services workers such as medical staffs and others. Now, these 10 buses will ferry those who want to connect to the railway stations to travel to their workplaces by local trains. The buses will cover most prominent routes in the city, “said Maruti Khodke, general manager, KDMT. These buses will ply at a gap of 40 minutes. “We will only allow those who are travelling for essential services. Their identity cards will be checked before entering the bus,” added Khodke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-kdmt-buses-to-ply-to-kalyan-dombivli-stations/story-JQjNSXdN0OvmYaY5twAYDL.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||GTB Hospital told to shift thalassemia unit in relief to patients needing transfusion||The Delhi government has directed Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, a designated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) facility, to shift its thalassemia and pediatric hematology oncology units to the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI).The June 16 order comes after organisations working for the welfare of thalassemia patients-- who suffer from a blood disorder characterised by low red blood cell count--- had raised the inconvenience faced by patients ever since the 1,500-bed GTB hospital was designated as a Covid facility on May 30.There are close to 300 patients registered with the thalassemia unit at the hospital and require blood transfusion every month. Since GTB Hospital was designated to treat only Covid-19 patients, the patients were asked to go approach other hospitals for transfusion.“We had a tough time, as we had to first look for a hospital which would do the transfusion and then go to GTB Hospital to collect blood. I had to go to a private hospital to get the transfusion done. I hope things will streamline now,” said Soman Madan (32) who has been undergoing blood transfusion treatment at GTB Hospital since 1999.On June 15, HT had highlighted the problems faced by the patients after GTB Hospital and Lok Nayak Hospitals were declared Covid-19 facilities.In the order, the two units have been asked to shift along with the staff.A doctor at DSCI said, “We have not received the order as yet. Once we get it, we will start the process to make arrangements for it. It will take a few days to put the system in place.” JS Arora, general secretary of the National Thalassemia Welfare Society, said, “It is a good move by the government and would benefit a lot of patients. We hope the units are made operational at the earliest.”Of the 13 government hospitals offering thalassemia care in the Capital, three—Lok Nayak, GTB and Hindu Rao (on June 14)—were declared as designated Covid-19 hospitals. Shobha Tuli, secretary of Thalassemics India, said, “We welcome this decision by the government. We also want similar measures to be taken at Hindu Rao and Lok Nayak, which are designated Covid facilities. Patients there are also having a tough time getting the treatment.”A senior Delhi government official said that no decision on Hindu Rao and Lok Nayak hospitals has been taken so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gtb-hospital-told-to-shift-thalassemia-unit-in-relief-to-patients-needing-transfusion/story-lzKvNiWLPz8BwM5qW9uDUJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Social distancing in trains, buses a challenge||With the increase in passengers travelling by local trains, social distancing inside the compartments appeared to be going for a toss on Wednesday. According to railways, approximately 75,000 passengers travelled on Central and Western Railway on Wednesday. Western Railway (WR) saw 40,000 commuters and Central Railway (CR) 35,000. Despite the railways permitting 700 passengers in one local train with approximately 58 in one compartment, instances of crowding, standing near the footboard were reported on Wednesday. Instances of flouting social-distancing norms inside Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses were also noticed. BEST, which began operation on June 8, ferried 5.9 lakh passengers in 2,657 buses on Wednesday. Passengers took to social media to complain about violation of social distancing norms inside train compartments. “@CMOMaharashtra Sir see the condition. Images received on WhatsApp. Current local train Mumbai Dadar to Kalyan Government employees. So just think if private company employee start traveling What will be the situation (sic),” tweeted @rudra7679.CR responded by urging passengers to maintain social distancing norms. “We appeal to passengers travelling inside local trains to maintain social distancing inside local train compartments,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR. Senior railway officials stated crowding inside local trains would reduce if the state government staggers office timings and introduces e-pass for essential employees.“Introduction of staggering office timings was already asked by railways in order to maintain social distancing. It has not yet been implemented, that is why queues outside railway stations and passengers standing inside local train compartments are being noticed. E-passes will also help streamline passengers, it should be introduced soon,” said a senior CR official.CR conducts training for motormenCentral Railway conducted online training of 247 of its motormen during the lockdown. The training, conducted over 21 days, had three online modules created by motormen training institute in Kurla. The modules also included practical training for three motormen in one batch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-distancing-in-trains-buses-a-challenge/story-pWWX5N29eK3WVaFt9M5iiK.html
17-06-2020||City||Rise in Covid-19 cases due to mass screening, says NMMC chief||After a drop in new cases in the past two days, Navi Mumbai again witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday with 128 new cases. The city now has 4,189 total cases. Five deaths were also reported on Wednesday, taking toll to 129. 102 patients were also discharged.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) commissioner Annasaheb Misal claimed the increase is due to the mass screening camps held across the city to identify positive cases, and said there is no need to panic. Misal said, “The rise in the cases is due to the relaxation of lockdown norms and also the mass screening camps held by NMMC. So far, 30,276 people have been screened. There is no need to panic as these camps are helping to curb the spread of the disease by identifying the patients early.”He further added, “Those with mild symptoms or asymptomatic people do not go for tests, which could lead to such people passing on the virus to others. We have identified many of them through our camps that we are holding especially in slum areas, lower income group areas and densely populated areas.”Assuring that the civic body is geared up to battle Covid, he said, “We have arranged 7,000 beds in the city for Covid positive patients. Hence, there is no question of non-availability of beds. Medicines and other consumables, too, are in adequate supply. We are also recruiting additional medical manpower through walk-in-interviews.”“The new 1,200-bed Covid care centre plus Covid health centre at Vashi Exhibition Centre is equipped with 500 beds with oxygen facility. There are also ventilators, dialysis and x-ray facility for Covid patients. A 25 to 30-bed ICU facility is being set up and we are expecting 20 ventilators from the state government,” Misal said.On the issue of testing, the civic chief said, “With the help of CSR, we are getting 19,000 tests for free. A testing lab is also being set up at Vashi NMMC Hospital while we have already got a machine from the government which is helping us test 25 people each day. There are adequate facilities for non-Covid patients too at our Nerul, Airoli, and Turbhe hospitals which are being upgraded with medicine and surgical departments.”An official from NMMC said, “Of the 128 new cases, 27 are from Kopar Khairne, 22 from Turbhe and 17 are from Vashi. Of the new positive patients, 15 are children with the youngest being a 2-year-old girl in Juhugaon and another 2-year-old boy from Vashigaon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rise-in-covid-19-cases-due-to-mass-screening-says-nmmc-chief/story-hKyt2yI4REdttlVlYr0jVI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Tope: Won’t allow pvt hospitals to admit asymptomatic patients||After deciding to reserve 80% of beds at private hospitals in Mumbai for Covid patients, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday said that they will not allow these hospitals to admit asymptomatic patients as it will be unfair to patients in serious need of oxygen support.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they will appoint a designated officer for each private hospital and all admissions will be routed through them.“We have found that private hospitals are giving admissions to asymptomatic Covid positive patients. This is a sort of injustice to severe patients as they will need oxygen and ventilator support. We have decided to appoint a designated officer for every private hospital,” Tope said.To deal with the shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients, the state government on May 22 decided to reserve 80% of the beds at all private hospitals in the city for those infected with the coronavirus.The health minister also informed that they have introduced a new slab of ₹2,500 for Covid testing. “It will be applicable for those who choose to go to a private laboratory for testing and pick up their own reports,” he said.The state had recently capped the Covid testing price at private laboratories to ₹2,200 and ₹2,800. The laboratories can charge up to ₹2,800 in case the services like swab collection and delivery reports are given at home. Labs can charge ₹2,200 if swab collection and delivery reports at done from hospitals.Tope also asked Mumbaiites to dial 1916 or ward control room to get free ambulance services. “We have decided to keep five to 10 ambulances in every ward of the city. People can take benefit from the service free. Do not go for private ambulances as we have made available 500 ambulances for the city. Very soon, an addition of 150 more ambulances will be made to the current strength,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tope-won-t-allow-pvt-hospitals-to-admit-asymptomatic-patients/story-xRa7MdbA0V2B8iYrgZbnpL.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||North body doctors defer mass resignations, to get two months’ salaries by June 24||The resident doctors of North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital have deferred their decision to tender mass resignations over the late payment of salaries till June 24. The decision came after the north corporation, on the court’s intervention, agreed to pay two months’ salaries on June 19 and June 24. The doctors of both hospitals had said they had not been getting salaries for the last three and four months, respectively. “We have decided to wait till June 24 as north corporation leaders have assured us of disbursing two months’ salaries on June 19 and June 24. If they fail to give us our salaries within the new time frame, we will tender mass resignations as planned before. We are fighting the coronavirus disease pandemic, yet not being paid regularly,” Sunil Kumar, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, said.Doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital had said on June 10 that they were not paid their salaries since March 2020, making them unable to pay their house rent, bear travel expenses and buy essential commodities. They had threatened to resign from June 16 if their salaries were not paid. Kasturba Gandhi Hospital is a 450-bedded maternity and child speciality hospital near Jama Masjid.Similarly, on June 11, resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital had threatened mass resignations from June 18 over unpaid salaries for the last four months . They have also decided to defer their decision till June 25.Abhimanyu Sardana, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, Hindu Rao Hospital, said, “After the high court’s direction, the North DMC has said they will pay our two months’ salaries on June 19 and June 24.” He said apart from releasing salaries, the corporation should ensure that delays do not take place in future. Hindu Rao Hospital doctors have not been paid salaries since February 2020. There are around 250 resident doctors at the hospital, north corporation’s largest with 980 beds. It has now been converted into a Covid facility.According to civic officials, the north corporation employs around 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors, and 1,500 nursing officers across its four hospitals. Avtar Singh, mayor, north corporation, said, “Court directions will be followed. We are making arrangements to release salaries. We have demanded ₹1,500 crore from the Delhi government, which we are yet to get.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-body-doctors-defer-mass-resignations-to-get-two-months-salaries-by-june-24/story-4PJvecVf8thMMfkrMH4TeJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Medical exams may be held in August: MUHS||Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Wednesday announced that medical examinations are likely to be held in August and that students would have the option of choosing an examination centre closer to their homes instead of their college. The decision by MUHS will be applicable to around 24,000 medical and dental students in the state. The news has, however, not gone down well with students, most of whom are currently volunteering at different hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.In a statement released on Wednesday, MUHS said summer 2020 examination is proposed to be held in August this year. “For the written and practical exams, if students want to change their examination centre to a college of their choice that is nearest to their current location, this will be made available,” said the statement. “However, the principal/dean of the college where the student is studying should get documents from such students to certify the hometown/location of the parents where the student has requested to appear for the exam,” it added.According to the MUHS circular, students will have to compete the application process by June 24.This decision comes less than a week after students approached MUHS seeking cancellation of the exams. They also sought an extension of the ₹5-lakh Covid insurance to students expected to appear for their exams from colleges that are currently treating Covid-19 patients. The university has taken up this matter with the state government.“Most of us are currently working on field or in hospitals with Covid-19 relief work and are witnessing the situation first hand. If we have to give examinations from these same hospitals and colleges, the state should cover our insurances as we don’t want to put ours or the lives of our families in danger,” said a student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/medical-exams-may-be-held-in-august-muhs/story-DZj4b0sADwZj3bmeFZhvCM.html
17-06-2020||City||Five Covid-19 deaths, 180 new cases||Gurugram: Five Covid-19 deaths were reported in Gurugram on Wednesday, taking the total to 51. The district also reported 180 new positive cases on Wednesday, pushing the count of infected persons to 3,862. The deaths include a 79-year-old woman, a 27-year-old man and others in age group of 45-55 years, according to health officials. Gurugram’s death count on May 31 was just three, which means 48 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the last 17 days.“Except one male patient, others succumbed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus due to co-morbidity. One patient was brought dead and later tested Covid-19 positive,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said. Of the total count of 3,862 positive persons, 1,861 are active cases while 1,950 have been discharged. In the last five days, the test positivity rate has fluctuated between 49% and 69%. District health department officials said they were trying to increase the sampling. The government lab, along with private hospitals, collected more than 600 samples on Wednesday.According to the health bulletin, of the total active cases, 1,288 are under home isolation as they are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. More than 367 Covid-19 patients have been hospitalised, 107 are in the intensive care unit (ICU) and 67 are on ventilator support system for breathing. To tackle the rapid surge in cases, the district administration allocated 1,428 beds for confirmed cases with symptoms, 190 beds in ICU for serious patients and 92 beds with ventilator facilities in 35 hospitals in the city.Compared to other districts in Haryana, Gurugram has the highest number of cases and fatalities due to Covid-19. Out of the total 8,832 cases in the state, 3,862 are in Gurugram alone. In terms of fatality , the state has recorded 130 deaths, out of which 51 are from Gurugram, 43 from Faridabad and nine from Sonepat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-covid-19-deaths-180-new-cases/story-oT77NIcA08rokuTKn8dhWK.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Still being forced by schools to pay hiked fees, allege parents||Even as the state education department has issued a series of regulations to ensure that parents get flexibility in paying schools fees, several schools in the city are still not playing by the rules, said parents. The Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) wrote to the department on behalf of several parents on Wednesday urging officials to act against schools which are not complying with government norms. “Several schools are forcing parents to pay hiked fees while many others are asking them to physically come and pick up stationery and other material from the school which is compulsory. In a crisis situation like this, schools are blackmailing parents. Despite complaints, no action is taken against them,” said Chetan Pednekar, vice-president, MNVS. “Many schools are also violating the standard operating procedures set by the department and are conducting classes for hours together,” he added. A senior official from the education department said, “We are taking action against such schools. Parents need not worry.” When asked about the nature of action taken, the official refused to comment on the issue.Another set of parents from a school chain in Goregaon wrote to the education department on Tuesday demanding action against a school which had hiked its fee by 8%-10%. Parents said that despite their complaints to nodal officers appointed by the department, no action has been taken against the school. “The school told us now that parents who do not pay their complete fees would not get education kits for their children. We just hope the government acts soon,” said a parent on the condition of anonymity. According to a government resolution released in the first week of May, schools cannot hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/still-being-forced-by-schools-to-pay-hiked-fees-allege-parents/story-xITYmWRbO2cW5AXQdNQqCM.html
17-06-2020||City||Man jumps to death, day after wife returns home after beating Covid-19||Gurugram: A 45-year-old man allegedly jumped to death from the fourth floor of his apartment in a condominium in Sector 37-D on early Wednesday morning, a day after his wife was discharged from hospital after undergoing treatment for Covid-19, said the police.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the deceased’s wife had tested positive on June 9 and was admitted to a private hospital. She was discharged after a week on Tuesday and had returned home, he said. “Around 3.40am, the man went out of his bedroom and allegedly jumped from the bedroom window,” Sangwan said, adding that the police did not recover any suicide note and are investigating the matter.According to the police, doctors had advised the family to remain under home quarantine, and as per the protocol the man’s swabs had been collected and results were awaited. Sangwan said that his first sample had tested negative for the virus, but he was still in panic. “His sample was collected again on Tuesday. He had not discussed any issues or problems with his family, apart from the coronavirus pandemic. As per preliminary investigation, he ended his own life fearing that he might have got infected,” he said.The police official said that the wife told the investigating officer that her husband was restless all night. “Later she was informed by the security supervisor that he had fallen from the window,” said Sangwan. The post mortem of the deceased will be conducted once his relatives will reach the city, said the police.There have been at least five cases in the city in which people have allegedly ended their own lives after being tested positive for Covid-19 or a family member getting infected, the police said.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that if any patient or their family members have any sort of anxiety, they should meet senior clinical psychologists. “The recovery rate in coronavirus cases is indicative of the fact that more than half of positive cases have recovered from the disease,” he said. Of 3,682 Covid-19 cases in Gurugram till June 16, 1,915 patients have been discharged after being cured, health department data shows.To help people overcome any anxiety related to the coronavirus disease, the district mental health team has started counselling Covid-19 patients, their family members and at least two of their neighbouring households in urban clusters.Dr Vinay Saini, a psychiatrist in the district health team, said that the government has launched a helpline 1075 for people dealing with anxiety or depression. “This disease is curable and people should reach out to doctors, family members and friends if they are feeling low. Such people should avoid spending time on social media platforms during this phase as there are a lot of rumours and fake news in circulation,” he said, adding that the helpline is open from 9am to 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-jumps-to-death-day-after-wife-returns-home-after-beating-covid-19/story-kFjOZtZuvHWR7mlZ1xB2AK.html
17-06-2020||City||Over 90% govt school students connected to classes remotely: Education dept survey||Gurugram: Around 90% of government school students in Gurugram district now have remote access to online lessons through various mediums, according to a survey carried out by the department of education. This is a significant improvement from a month ago when the survey was initiated, when only around 60% were aware of or were taking part in distant learning initiatives via WhatsApp or televised programmes, department officials said.The survey was started in May to familiarise students with remote learning processes during the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and monitor their progress, especially those students who did not have access to technology. As part of the ongoing-survey different education officers, from school principals to block-level officers, reached out to families on a daily basis to find out if students are facing any hurdles in remote learning.Officials handling the survey said that easing of lockdown restrictions had played a role in bridging the gap between students and remote lessons. With the easing of restrictions, students who did not have smartphones were able to reach out to friends and family for sharing of resources, said officials.“When we started over a month ago, only around 60% of students were aware of remote lessons that were taking place. Our recent assessment has shown that around 90% of the students surveyed daily are aware of remote lessons and are connected with distant learning in some way or another,” said Ravinder Alawadhi, deputy director, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and the survey in-charge.SCERT officials are conducting the survey on behalf of the education department. Alawadhi said teachers were connected to students, be it via WhatsApp or phone calls, due to which a regular learning momentum was being maintained. “Students who don’t have smartphones or television sets receive daily calls from teachers and are kept in the loop about homework. Even if they are taking lessons through television broadcasts, teachers call and inform them about the homework that needs to be done,” he said.He added that the easing of lockdown restrictions had enabled students to step out and reach out to classmates and relatives from whom they could share notes and status of the day’s class work. “If children don’t have smartphones at home, they are able to go out and obtain resources from neighbours. Earlier, with the lockdown in place, this was not possible as people were confined within their homes,” said Alawadhi, adding that the survey would continue for now. District education officer Indu Boken couldn’t be reached for a comment.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, Urban Estate, said that the school was in touch with a good number of students with teachers apprising them about daily lesson updates. “Most students are getting lessons through WhatsApp. For those who don’t have smartphones, we are advising that they tune in via television. On a daily basis, we call a fixed number of students and share the homework for the day with them,” said Sharma.Lalit Kumar, a painter, whose daughters study in a government school, said that accessing lessons was a challenge for families like his in the absence of a phone and television set. Kumar’s daughters, however, borrow smartphones from relatives to catch up on lessons occasionally. “Lessons are not taking place as before. There is disruption. Officials have asked my daughters to watch lessons on TV but we don’t have one. My daughters try to exchange notes with friends, whenever there’s a chance,” said Kumar.While the department estimates that more children are gradually being covered through remote lessons, volunteers who are working on the ground with students of government schools said that challenges remained due to the digital divide.Viren Jain, a class 11 student of a private school carrying out a volunteer-driven programme as part of which government schoolchildren are taught over the phone, said that remote learning was challenging for many students. “Online classes have been very limited. Some of the active teachers have been doing it. But there are students who are in need of additional support, due to lack of resources. Many of them have gone back to their native places and are no longer taking any classes due to the absence of internet and smartphones,” said Jain.He added that many children being taught under this initiative had dropped out due to accessibility issues. “With their families moving, some students dropped out. For others, finding the right time for teaching is a challenge. Most of these children come from families where there is only one phone at home, which needs to be shared with others,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-90-govt-school-students-connected-to-classes-remotely-education-dept-survey/story-sr4aUQX6Am3ZBJ9yiiyadJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Railway employees above 55 asked to avoid field duties, take precautionary measures in Ludhiana||After a 51-year-old senior railway official of the northern railway division died of coronavirus at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here on Tuesday afternoon, the railway station authorities here have asked employees above 55 to avoid field duties and asked them to take all precautionary measures to save themselves while on duty at the station.The authorities said staffers have already been provided with masks, sanitisers and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits as per the requirement of duty.A visit to the railway station at 2pm revealed that two employees have been deputed for thermal screening near the reservation booking counter and any passenger, with higher temperature, is not allowed to board the train.Police have also been deployed at the foot overbridge so that the passengers, de-boarding trains at platforms 2 to 5 can be screened by officials of the health department before they move out of the station from the Civil Lines side. The authorities have also restricted the use of lifts and escalators at the station.As many as nine pairs of trains are halting at the station daily.Station director Tarun Kumar confirmed, “All the employees above 55 have been asked to avoid field duties and take all precautionary measures against coronavirus while on duty at the station. We will receive more PPE kits soon and these will be given to the ticket checking staff.”Divisional railway manager (DRM), Ferozepur division, Rakesh Aggarwal, was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-railway-employees-above-55-asked-to-avoid-field-duties-take-precautionary-measures-in-ludhiana/story-dFVXhcJevL0NohwxXvGs9N.html
17-06-2020||City||Autos pack passengers, flout social distancing rules||Gurugram: Autorickshaw drivers are seen flouting social distancing norms and ferrying passengers more than the permissible limit, risking the potential spread of coronavirus disease as cases spike in the city. In quite a few areas, CNG autorickshaws can be seen ferrying up to four passengers, violating the guidelines and posing a health hazard. Compounding the problem are the overcrowded diesel autorickshaws, a preferred mode of transport, which accommodate as many as 10 passengers on a sharing basis.Last month, the Haryana government had issued guidelines, capping the number of passengers allowed to travel in autorickshaws in the state. According to the guidelines, excluding the driver, autorickshaws can carry two passengers. All drivers and passengers must cover their faces with a mask or cloth and regularly use hand sanitisers. At Rajiv Chowk on Tuesday morning, a group of six factory workers got into a shared autorickshaw to Manesar, each negotiating a fare of Rs 20 for the ride. The driver, Jai Prakash Sahu, a native of Rajasthan, said, “For the initial few days, I was limiting the number of passengers for each trip due to the fear of infection. But I cannot afford to do so anymore. I have to pay Rs 400 rent daily for the auto, plus the expense for fuel. If I follow the norms, I would not earn enough to cover the cost.”Shravan Kumar, a passenger, said, “I know crowding in a shared auto is a concern. But I shall have to pay Rs 100 for a commute to Manesar in a CNG auto. It is not economical for me to do so every day. To protect myself, I wear a mask and hope for the best.”Since the lockdown was eased on May 17, the autorickshaws have slowly returned to the roads. According to an estimate by the Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan, before the outbreak of the coronavirus disease, anywhere between 25,000 and 30,000 autos were plying in the district on a daily basis and at least one-third of those drivers returned to their native states during the lockdown. Apart from the drivers affiliated with private cab aggregators, many of whom have installed plastic sheets as a precaution, the independent autorickshaws are operating with scant regard for social distancing norms and guidelines. Lalit Kumar, an auto driver in Kanhai village, said, “The business has gone down substantially. When the police are not around, I do not refuse any trips even if I have to accommodate a passenger on the front seat. I am earning Rs 300 a day after all the expenses, so I cannot limit passengers. If a family of three approaches for a trip, I will not say only two of you can board.”Police officials said they were issuing challans and booking people under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of traffic (DCP), east, “Several challans have been issued and autorickshaws have been impounded for violating social distancing norms. Traffic police officials have been directed to take strict action in such cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/autos-pack-passengers-flout-social-distancing-rules/story-y0fE2NPeOXfMvy8LFPBRvM.html
17-06-2020||City||Gurugram: HSVP to resume auctions for residential plots from next month||Gurugram: In a welcome move, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) is likely to restart the auction of residential plots from the middle of next month. The HSVP Gurugram has asked the three estate officers – two in the city and one in Rewari – to share details of plots in estate office 1 and 2 and Rewari, which are without any encumbrance and can be handed over to buyers. A committee has also been formulated by the authority, to be headed by Jitender Yadav, the HSVP Gurugram administrator, which shall scrutinise these plots and approve for auction. It is expected that around 120 plots would be put for auction initially.The authority stopped the online auction of residential plots two years ago due to legal issues and now plans to restart the process so that land available for sale can be monetised. Officials said the authority would also give an opportunity to home buyers to get plots in HSVP sectors across the city. “I have asked the estate officers to initially submit a list of 40 plots each from their zones, which are clear of all encumbrances, so that the auction can be carried out. This will enable the authority to monetise its land which is presently not yielding any revenue, and also give an option to homebuyers to buy plots in a fair manner,” said Yadav. Once the list of plots is submitted, a committee comprising HSVP officials, and DTP, Gurugram headed by the administrator, will verify the details of these plots and do onsite verification of the locations to ensure that legal titles are clear and properties are ready to be handed over to buyers. “We don’t want a situation where a buyer has paid the money but the plot in question is undergoing some legal issue and the handover gets stuck,” said Yadav.Further, the administrator has asked officials to prepare a detailed list of all the residential plots owned by HSVP in three estates so that these can be physically verified and put on subsequent online auctions in coming months.The authority has faced an acute financial crisis in the past two years on account of large cash outflows, which were paid as enhancements to land owners. It has also taken large loans from banks to pay this money and is trying to monetise its land assets and manage the cash crunch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hsvp-to-resume-auctions-for-residential-plots-from-next-month/story-2sopJv1H7gCrYQ7NVWqBIP.html
17-06-2020||City||Gurugram: To improve contact tracing, HSVP to deploy staff at high-risk health centres||Gurugram: To ensure that data and information collection through contact tracing becomes more effective and in real time, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday decided it will deploy one employee of the authority at those public health centres (PHCs) where the number of coronavirus (Covid0-19) cases is high. A team of HSVP officials also visited four PHCs and interacted with health department staff to gather more information on the nuances of the process and fine tune the system, the authority said.“We have decided that an employee of the HSVP engaged in contact tracing would remain present at the PHCs where the number of cases has been high to improve coordination, boost assistance and collect real time data. Our team went to a number of health centres and interacted with medical officers and health employees to know what problems they face and if there is need for more support from our side,” said Jitender Yadav, HSVP, adding that their focus is on checking the spread of Covid in high risk zones and that this is possible by improving contact tracing.The team visited PHCs located in Sukhrali, Patel Nagar, Rajiv Nagar and Wazirabad and held detailed discussions on improving the process of documentation, sharing information and coordination to ensure minimum defects in contact tracing, and reaching out to the last contact, said officials. The HSVP, in collaboration with health department officials, has been engaged in contact tracing of Covid-19 patients and is supporting the rapid response teams as well as PHCs in urban areas since the past two weeks.The authority is coordinating with 36 public health centres in urban areas of the city in this regard. “The team asked about the details in contact forms and checked about positive patients with medical officers and found that PHCs at Wazirabad and Sukhrali are doing good work. We need to work more in Sukhrali and Patel Nagar and try to standardise the practice in all PHCs in urban areas,” said Yadav. HSVP has been given the task of contact tracing, supporting RRTs and getting high risk patients tested by the district administration after a reshuffle was carried out two weeks earlier. Last week, the health department had said that seven clusters in the city have been identified as hotspots as half of the cases have been reported from there. These include Firoz Gandhi colony, Wazirabad, Lakshman Vihar, Chanderlok, Dundahera, Chakkarpur and Gandhi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-to-improve-contact-tracing-hsvp-to-deploy-staff-at-high-risk-heath-centres/story-qaAuKatOWHgyK7fTOs1CsJ.html
17-06-2020||City||MCG launches massive drive to fine people without masks in public places||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram on Wednesday launched a massive drive to penalise people for not wearing masks in public places in the city.The civic body has issued an order to its officials of the sanitation and enforcement wing in this regard. The order stated that officials need to collect Rs 500 fine on the spot from the violator and hand over him/her a face mask and sensitise him/her about its importance. The order also stated that if the violator does not pay the requisite fine, then action can be taken against the person under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant.As per MCG joint commissioner Gaurav Antil, from May 6 to June 16, 308 challans issued by the civic body has led to a collection of Rs 1.54 lakh.“We are fining people who are not wearing face mask in public places to ensure they get into the habit of wearing it amid the coronavirus outbreak. We have also launched a two-day drive starting Wednesday to fine people on a large scale,” said Antil.Antil said that the MCG will tabulate figures of Wednesday’s fines on Thursday morning.The announcement of MCG’s special drive comes two days after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar issued directions to Gurugram authorities during a meeting on Monday to take stringent measures for ensuring use of masks amid the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. On June 1, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram was 903, which has risen to 3,682 till June 16, with 46 fatalities. Although the district administration made wearing of masks mandatory on April 10, it was not until May 6, when a direction issued to all municipal corporations across the state by the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB), that the MCG started fining violators.The order by ULB stated that municipal corporations can fine a person Rs 500 if he or she doesn’t wear a mask under Section 381 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. The order further stated that action under Section 188 of IPC, which invites a penalty of Rs 200 and/or imprisonment of up to one month, could also be initiated if the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-launches-massive-drive-to-fine-people-without-masks-in-public-places/story-6ENA0EeAg5HHEmr81vezPN.html
17-06-2020||City||Two-year-old boy found dead in Sector 12||Gurugram: A two-year-old boy was found dead outside a liquor store in Sector 12 on Wednesday morning, the police said, adding that the toddler was yet to be identified. The police have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of code of criminal procedure in the case. According to the police, the child’s semi-clad body was discovered by a sweets seller around 8.30am when he was taking a stroll in the area. The police said the seller reported the incident to the control room and a team from Sector 14 police station rushed to the area. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Prima facie, it appears that the boy died due to an ailment. There are no external injury marks on his body. We cannot rule out the possibility of sexual assault. But the cause of death would be known only after the post-mortem.”The police said they were interviewing people in the nearby slum area in Sector 12 to identify the boy and his family. His body has been kept in the mortuary for identification as per the protocol, said the police official, adding that other police stations have been informed to check for any missing report of a child filed in the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-year-old-boy-found-dead-in-sector-12/story-4dAlJQynsMCCnSUQIHeVFO.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||FIRs in northeast Delhi riots ‘sensitive’, can’t be put online: Delhi Police to HC||The Delhi police have told the Delhi Delhi High Court that it has taken a “conscious decision to declare the first information reports (FIRs) related to the riots in North-East Delhi as sensitive” and not upload them on its website. Police told the court that this was done to “preserve the communal harmony” because if these FIRs were put online it would disclose the names of the complainant, witnesses and accused persons.The submissions were given by the police in reply to a bunch of petitions filed by CPM leader Brinda Karat in March, seeking copies of the FIRs related to the riots should be uploaded on the website of the Delhi police. On Wednesday, the Delhi High Court heard Karat’s plea but did not pass any order and adjourned the matter for hearing on July 15.All FIRs except those in crimes against women and others categorised as sensitive are uploaded on the police’s website. The pleas had also sought directions that copies of FIR, remand application, orders of remand, grounds of arrest and charge sheets to be supplied through e-mail/ whatsapp/ post to the families and counsel of accused persons.It had also sought that a status report on the investigation and asked police to disclose the names and numbers of persons detained and arrested by the probe agency in relation to the violence. Replying to the pleas, the city police, through a status report, submitted before the court that, “A conscious decision has been taken to declare the FIRs connected to riots as sensitive. This has been done to primarily preserve the communal harmony as putting these in public domain would disclose the names of the complainant, witnesses and accused persons.”Opposing the demand to disclose the name and numbers of persons detained and arrested, police said that Karat is not an accused, complainant or even a witnesses in any of the 751 cases registered in connection to the riots that broke out in North-East Delhi in February. The riots had claimed over 50 lives and left more than 400 people injured.“Disclosing the names of the person arrested/detained during the period of investigation would prejudice the rights of the accused. The petitioner (Karat) has no locus standi in the criminal matter. Hence, the list of persons detained or arrested by Delhi police since March 24 is being provided in a sealed cover for the perusal of the court,” the police status report said.The petition has also urged the court to direct that “all complaints alleging acts, offences and atrocities by members of the police, Rapid Action Force or state functionaries in relation to the widespread attacks in northeast Delhi be investigated by an independent investigating agency/team”.The Delhi police’s special cell had named at least seven persons including Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Gufisha Fatima, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Tahir Hussain in its charge sheet for conspiracy leading to the riots. The students groups, activists and their counsels have denied the charges and accused police of launching a witch hunt against students and anti-CAA protesters. Police have said that some anti CAA protesters had planned the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/firs-in-n-e-delhi-riots-sensitive-can-t-be-put-online-delhi-police-tell-hc/story-rrS0J8Z59w7EJyq4et7pBK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fee regulatory body: Centre can modify Punjab laws adopted in Chandigarh, HC informed||The central government on Wednesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it was competent to make any modifications in a Punjab law being adopted by Chandigarh.The response was submitted in a plea filed by a private schools’ association challenging UT’s order asking schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. The Independent Schools’ Association has also challenged constitution of the Fee Regulatory Authority, under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, that was adopted by UT in 2018. The association has argued that the body has been constituted in violation of the parent law.On Wednesday, the Centre’s counsel told the court , “Section 87 of Punjab Re-Organisation Act, 1966, empowers the central government to extend enactments to Chandigarh with such restrictions or modifications as it thinks fit by notification in the official gazette.” The Centre argued that even otherwise, the notification will reveal that the modifications have been carried to incorporate transparency and maintain non-commercialisation of the unaided educational institutions. The additions are merely clarificatory, the court was told.The UT administration has already told the court that disclosure of income and expenditure of schools on their websites doesn’t amount to invasion of their privacy and will not be violation of any rights guaranteed under the Constitution. The administration has termed these schools “public entities”, as they have been established on government land, and argued that they are bound to follow directions issued by the administration from time to time with regards to fee regulation.The litigation started as UT sought schools’ income and expenditure details, as parents complained of schools resorting to profiteering even during the Covid-19 lockdown. The details were to be examined by the fee regulatory body, constituted under the law in question. Schools have challenged the body’s constitution as well as provisions, which make it obligatory for them to upload their income details. The matter stands adjourned for June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fee-regulatory-body-centre-can-modify-punjab-laws-adopted-in-chandigarh-hc-informed/story-EVtFYihrhcaiI1eW1oWWQM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||School leaving certificate: Pvt schools seek rollback of Haryana govt’s order||Private schools’ associations in Haryana have asked the state government to withdraw its latest order pertaining to the school leaving certificate. National Independent School Alliance (NISA) president Kulbhushan Sharma during a press conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday said, “The state government is unfair on private schools by issuing baseless and illegal orders, due to which the existence of private schools is in danger,” he said, demanding that their staff must be accommodated in the state-run schools if the government was mulling closing private schools.He also sought a relief package for the parents who were unable to pay fees. The government must deposit Rs 3,000 in the accounts of such parents, Sharma said.The Haryana government had on Monday said that the school leaving certificate was no longer mandatory to take admission in the government schools, which evoked a sharp response from private schools.“The latest orders of the government have created a crisis which will ruin the future of students as well as endanger the livelihood of the teachers and staff of private schools. The government, instead of providing any relief, has been continuously imposing arbitrary rules,” Sharma rued.He said the chief minister and education minister must clear their stand on the situation. “If the government is against private schools, it should bring an ordinance to close these schools. There are 6 lakh teachers and non-teaching staffers working in such schools. The government should accommodate them, otherwise the private school operators will launch an agitation,” he added.“A demand to withdraw the order has also been made to CM Manohar Lal Khattar and the matter has also been put in the high court,” the NISA chief said.Integrated Private School Welfare Society, another private schools’ body based out of Ambala, has also sought the rollback of the order. Its president Sourabh Kapoor said, “In such a situation, instead of helping private schools, the government is conspiring and pushing them to the verge of closure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-leaving-certificate-pvt-schools-seek-rollback-of-haryana-govt-s-order/story-nXf9AeKup3c2rPOclKi9YM.html
17-06-2020||City||Two thieves posing as migrants held for robbing man’s wallet, withdrawing at least ₹25k cash||New Delhi: A 26-year-old man helped track down two thieves who allegedly stole his wallet and withdrew cash from ATMs in Delhi by posing as people who needed to return to Bihar but had no money for fare, the police said on Wednesday.The victim responded quickly when the suspects used his debit card to make purchases from a shop in Rohini.According to Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini), the victim used the SMS he received after the transaction to call the shopkeeper and ensure the suspects did not leave the shop.“In the meantime, we sought the help of the local police in Rohini to nab the suspects,” said the DCP.The victim, Manish Kumar, works for a private firm in Noida and lives in Jahangirpuri. On Tuesday evening, he was waiting for a bus at Kashmere Gate bus terminal when a teenager approached him and sought help to get to his village near Patna in Bihar.Kumar helped him with water and ₹100 cash and asked him to catch a train rather than look for a bus. “But amidst the conversation, the minor’s accomplice managed to steal Kumar’s wallet containing ₹4,500 cash and his debit card. The wallet also had his PIN,” the DCP said.When Manish couldn’t chase the suspects because of a traffic jam, he called the police. “Minutes after the theft, the suspects first withdrew ₹20,000 from one ATM and then ₹5,000 from another ATM. When Kumar received SMS’ of the withdrawals, we quickly sent our police teams to both the booths, but they had escaped by then,” said the DCP.But Kumar was lucky the third time the suspects used his card to transact — this time they allegedly purchased 10 pants from a shop in Rohini.“The arrested adult is 22-year-old Jalaluddin, a resident of Bawana,” said the DCP, adding that his antecedents are being verified. The minor was also apprehended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-thieves-posing-as-migrants-held-for-robbing-man-s-wallet-withdrawing-at-least-25k-cash/story-FHymbuYv6vZ4HqZGC6ZUgK.html
17-06-2020||City||Burglary at Ashok Vihar church, second incident in less than two months||New Delhi: Burglars broke into St. Jude Thaddeus Church in north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar near Gulabi Bagh, ransacked the religious structure, and decamped with valuables worth around R3 lakh in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, police said. This is the second burglary in the same church in less than two months. The church authorities have alleged police inaction and the police’s failure to nab the suspects in the first case, which they claimed led to the second incident. “Separate first information reports (FIRs) have been registered in connection with the two burglary incidents. But, the police have not been able to nab the thieves,” said Father Noby Kalachira, the chief priest of St. Jude Thaddeus Church. The first burglary took place in the intervening night of April 18 and 19, when the lockdown was imposed across the country to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The church was locked because religious activities and gatherings were banned in religious establishments as per the government’s lockdown guidelines. According to Father Kalachira, the thieves entered the church after breaking the exhaust fan installed at the ventilator. They ransacked the church and took away all valuables, which could pass through the ventilator space. “The stolen items included 12 microphones, amplifiers with speakers, a monitor displaying the CCTV footage and a vacuum cleaner. The office of the church was also ransacked and the offering box was also broken,” the church authorities said in a statement, adding, that a case was registered but neither the suspects were caught nor the stolen items were recovered. During the inspection of the church, Father Kalachira said, the police brought to their notice that the four CCTV cameras installed in the church were not functioning between 7pm and 7am. “We got the issued rectified the same day. However, it made no difference to the thieves as a second burglary took place in the intervening night of June 14 and 15,” he said. This time, Father Kalachira said, the thieves took a more daring step and entered the church through a window after cutting its iron grill. They again ransacked the church and decamped with many valuable items, including gold and silver Cross and things used for Holy Mass such as chalices, patens, ciboriums and kappas, said Father Kalachira. “The thieves also took away the digital recorder in which the footage of the CCTV cameras was stored. The new monitor, which was installed after the first one was stolen, is also gone,” he added. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said that separate cases were registered in the two burglary incidents. “Teams have been formed to identify and nab the thieves. Our probe is on,” she said.Investigators suspect that somebody living in the neighbourhood could be involved in the two burglaries. “The burglars knew that the issues with the CCTVs were rectified after the first burglary and the cameras were functioning properly. This is why they took away the digital video recorder,” said an investigator, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglary-at-ashok-vihar-church-second-incident-in-less-than-two-months/story-hhIyj7lqISeF89SmvFtf5I.html
17-06-2020||City||Hoshiarpur police arrest two men for Mohali carjacking||Two days after a 35-year-old man’s was robbed at gunpoint by two men near Siswan village of Mullanpur in Mohali district, the Hoshiarpur police arrested the accused on Wednesday. “The suspects, whose identities are not known yet, have confessed to the crime. We will seek their production warrants soon,” said Harmanpreet Singh, SHO, Mullanpur. The complainant, Ashok Kumar of Madawala village, was on his way back home in a Maruti Suzuki Brezza when the accused had waylaid him and demanded his car keys at gunpoint. Ashok had handed over the keys, following which the robbers sped away. According to Kumar, the car also had Rs 30,000 in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoshiarpur-police-arrest-two-men-for-mohali-carjacking/story-NgYqj0ERuSJI4GBKfh7ioO.html
17-06-2020||City||Three arrested for firing at RPI leader’s farmhouse in Delhi||New Delhi: Seventeen days after an unidentified man shot at a 50-year-old security guard deployed at the farmhouse of a leader of the Republican Party of India (RPI) in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar, the police on Wednesday said they have arrested three men including the husband of a local politician and were probing the “conspiracy” behind the incident.The arrested persons have been identified as Varun Kumar, husband of a local politician, Nadeem Siddiqui, and Vijay alias Lala. The man who shot at the guard, however, is still at large and senior police officers said that raids were on to nab him, senior police officers privy to the case said.On May 31, the guard, Hari Nath, was present at the main gate of the farmhouse of the Republican Party of India’s leader, Mohammad Shakeel Saifi, when a man arrived and asked about Saifi’s whereabouts. When the guard asked the suspect to contact his employer on his mobile phone, the suspect fired two rounds at him. Nath suffered bullet injuries on his legs and the attacker fled. A case was registered and the investigation was taken up by the Nihal Vihar police.Another police officer, who is aware of the developments in the case, said that after the firing incident police security cover was provided to Saifi, who had been seeking for it for the past few months.Multiple calls and text messages sent to Safi on his two cellphone numbers by HT got no response.Saifi—the national president of the minority cell of RPI— was at his farmhouse with his family when the firing took place around 9 am. RPI is led by Ramdas Athawale, the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment.During the probe, the officer said, the investigating team identified and nabbed the three men, who were in touch with the attacker. “The motorcycle used by the attacker in the crime was provided to him by Siddiqui. The CCTV cameras were also tampered with before the crime and it all led us to probe a conspiracy angle,” said the officer.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan refused to share details regarding the arrests and developments in the case by saying, “We are yet to complete the probe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-firing-at-rpi-leader-s-farmhouse-in-delhi/story-L0hbD4R6fUgU38J6d6Py9J.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One death, DMCH doc among 101 more test positive in Punjab||A 62-year-old woman died while at least 101 more persons tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the total number of those infected by the disease in the state to 3,497. In the Amritsar district, besides the death of the 62-year-old at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), 12 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported. Of these, 10 cases are that of community transmission, health officials said. “The woman patient, a local resident, was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and was earlier treated for tuberculosis (TB). Among the infected people is a vigilance bureau assistant sub-inspector (ASI),” civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.Four more were found infected in the neighbouring Gurdaspur district. Also, six persons were tested positive in Pathankot. Deputy commissioner GS Khaira said, “The district now has 67 active cases.”41 FRESH CASES IN LUDHIANA In the Ludhiana district, a resident doctor posted in the emergency ward of the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was among 41 persons who tested positive of Covid-19. Twenty seven cases are from containment zones of Chhawani Mohalla, Habib Ganj and Islam Ganj areas of the city. The Model Town locality was turned into a containment zone after eight cases surfaced there. A 42-year-old tuberculosis patient from Ranjit Nagar, who was tested positive on Monday, was still on the run. 31 FOUND INFECTED IN JALANDHAR As many as 31 persons, including five minors, were found infected with the coronavirus in the Jalandhar district on Wednesday. With this, Jalandhar became the third district after Amritsar and Ludhiana to cross the 400 mark. Officials said eight patients returned from Dubai, two contracted the virus from unknown source while 21 are close contacts of those found infected earlier. Also, four more persons tested positive in the Hoshiarpur district. 50 COPS QUARANTINED IN BATHINDA DISTRICTIn the Bathinda district, nearly 50 police personnel were put in home quarantine after four of their colleagues, including two women, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Another person who came from Haryana’s Faridabad was also tested positive in the district. The patient was in home quarantine.Also, five railway officials posted in Ferozepur were tested positive on Wednesday. Additional deputy commissioner Ravinder Singh the five were the primary contacts of a senior railway official who died of cardiac arrest at a Ludhiana hospital on Tuesday. He was tested positive for the coronavirus three days earlier. Another resident was also tested positive.3 CASES EACH IN MANSA, MOGA Three members of a family, including a couple, were tested positive in the Mansa district. The three recently came from Delhi and were in home quarantine, additional deputy commissioner Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu said. Also, three persons, including two women and a labourer who returned from Bihar, tested positive in the Moga district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-dmch-doc-among-101-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-sL6z4sgHzPmSZLZ4mPl96O.html
17-06-2020||Noida||Woman alleges rape in moving bus, one man nabbed||A 25-year-old woman travelling with her two children from UP’s Pratapgarh has alleged that she was raped by the driver of a private bus while on her way to Gautam Budh Nagar. A case has been registered at Sector 20 police station based on teh woman’s complaint and one suspect arrested, police said.The incident took place in the wee hours of Wednesday. The woman’s husband works in Noida and she was on her way from their hometown in Pratapgarh with her two minor children to see him.In her complaint she has alleged that they started late at night and she was awake till they reached Lucknow around midnight, after which she fell asleep. “She is not very clear about the time at which the incident occurred but according to the facts being stated by her, the private overnight sleeper bus was on the Lucknow-Mathura stretch when the incident took place. She said that it was still dark outside when the incident took place,” said deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Vrinda Shukla.According to police officers, the bus driver was the primary suspect and raped the woman after a backup driver took over the wheels. One more person is involved in the incident. There were 22 other passengers in the bus at the time.“After a while, the woman called her husband and relayed the incident. She had raised an alarm and informed the police as well. Scared, the suspects abandoned the bus and fled from the spot. One of them was nabbed and taken into custody,” said Shukla.Local police got to know about the incident around 6 am when the woman was found near a private hospital in the Atta area. The bus was seized from the spot and it’s owner traced to Delhi’s Anand Vihar.The DCP said that teams have been formed to trace and arrest the absconding suspects. The owner as well as all other passengers are being questioned and their statements recorded. The medical examination of the woman is being done by a medical board.The suspects have been booked under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/woman-alleges-rape-in-moving-bus-one-man-nabbed/story-t6JcFAPLIOnYpVHyzewycL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sonali Phogat held for assaulting govt official, bailed out||TikTok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat was on Wednesday arrested and later granted bail by a court in Hisar 12 days after she thrashed market committee secretary Sultan Singh with a slipper in full public view during a visit to Balsamand grain market.Hisar superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said they have filed chargesheet against six persons, including the BJP leader, Ashish, Amit, Ravi, Subhash Chand and Sudhir under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (hurting public servant to deter him from duty), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the June 5 assault on the complaint of Sultan Singh.As per the order passed by Hisar additional chief judicial magistrate Shifa, Phogat and Sudhir were released after furnishing bonds, while the others were sent to judicial custody. The next hearing in the case will be on July 1.The 40-year-old BJP leader was caught on camera slapping and thrashing Sultan Singh. The video clip was widely shared on social media. In her complaint to the police, she said the official made indecent remarks against her.Sultan Singh lodged a counter-complaint against Phogat, denying that he had passed any indecent remark. Rather, he accused her of beating him up on the pretext that he had opposed her during last year’s assembly elections, which she had lost to Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi from Adampur in Hisar district. Bishnoi is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal. KHAP CALLS OFF JUNE 22 AGITATIONOne of Haryana’s prominent khaps, Binain Khap, has called off its June 22 strike, its spokesperson Raghubir Nain said.The khap had given the Manohar Lal-led BJP government a week’s ultimatum to arrest Phogat else it would launch a stir.Meanwhile, former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar slammed the government after Phogat was released on bail. “The government directed the police to arrest Sonali Phogat under Khap’s tremendous pressure and a later court released her on bail. Her arrest was a political drama and this type of decision lowers the morale of government employees,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sonali-phogat-held-for-assaulting-govt-official-bailed-out/story-5mocaeWLwWWo7WdfODayLN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong slams SAD for stoic silence over anti-farmer ordinances||Lashing out at Shiromani Akali Dal for not standing up against the ‘anti-farmer’ decisions taken by the BJP-led central government, senior Congress ministers on Wednesday said Akalis were equally responsible in ‘throttling the federal structure’.Issuing a joint statement, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Sukhbinder Singh Sukh Sarkaria and Balbir Singh Sidhu said the three recent ordinances issued by the Centre were against the farmers, which would badly hit the agrarian state of Punjab. They said that by supporting these ordinances, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal has proved that “they pawned their ideology before the BJP for saving the chair of Harsimrat Kaur Badal in the Union cabinet”.Terming the current Akali leadership as “indecisive, coward and inefficient”, the ministers demanded that Sukhbir Badal should tender an apology before Punjabis for his stand in favour of anti-farmer ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-slams-sad-for-stoic-silence-over-anti-farmer-ordinances/story-dZ7BBFfdGdhFpao3bn2tDP.html
17-06-2020||City||New Patripool bridge may open by August end||The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has said that the new Patripool bridge on Kalyan- Shilphata stretch will be open by August-end.The work of the most awaited new two-lane Patripool bridge came to a halt since March 23 after the lockdown to fight Covid-19 pandemic was imposed. However, the work was resumed by April 2 with minimum workers at the site after the MSRDC decided to utilise the lockdown period to complete the work.“The work of the pillar of the bridge is over. We have also finished the work required to launch the 76-meter-long girder of the bridge. In the coming 10 days, the girders will arrive in the city and in next month we will launch it,” said an MSRDC officer.The MSRDC has plans to open the bridge for commuters by August end. “Once the girders are launched the bridge will be opened for commuters by August end,” added the officer.The 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled by the MSRDC and Central Railway (CR) in November 2018 after it was declared unsafe. The traffic was diverted on the parallel bridge, causing major traffic snarls on the Kalyan- Shilphata stretch during peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-patripool-bridge-may-open-by-august-end/story-LHgQntWsP5azwvw8WznyiO.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mohindra orders inquiry into use of Tarn Taran trust funds for works at Anil Joshi’s village||Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on Wednesday initiated an inquiry into diversion of ₹ 82.2 lakh from Tarn Taran improvement trust for development works in the then local bodies minister Anil Joshi’s ancestral village, Sanghe, during the previous Akali-BJP regime in 2015. Mohindra said the funds were diverted at the behest of Joshi in violation of the provisions of Punjab Town Improvement Trust Act -922, according to which money meant for urban development can’t be spent in rural area. “Those found in the wrong on duty will face action,” he said. Joshi said: “Sanghe is my ancestral village and I spent funds where I was born, and grew up. It was my discretion as a minister and moral duty as resident of that village. I think, I have done no wrong.”As per details available with local bodies department, ₹ 29.4 lakh were spent on the village’s ‘firni’ (perimeter road), ₹31.5 lakh on village’s nullah and ₹21.3 lakh on an inner road.“With the orders of local bodies minister (Anil Joshi) development works were carried in the past in Sanghe village. Now, the minister has again given verbal orders to complete pending works. The agenda item has also got technical approval,” reads the official order of November 20, 2015.The inquiry was initiated two days after a move to shift ₹15 crore from Amritsar Improvement Trust to cash-strapped Patiala Improvement Trust was opposed by none other than Joshi. Mohindra had proposed the transfer of funds for development of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s and his own constituency – Patiala and Patiala-II. “How can they shift the money meant for development of the holy city to CM’s bastion,” Joshi had said on Monday.“In previous government funds meant for urban development were spent on rural works. The then (local bodies) minister (Anil Joshi) has no moral right to point a finger on the functioning of my department,” said Mohindra.‘₹27 crore diverted Patiala trust between 2008-13’ Mohindra said during the Akali-BJP government (between 2008-2013), a sum of ₹ 27 crore of Patiala Improvement Trust was diverted. “₹2 crore went to improvement trust of Malerkotla and ₹25 crore to Patiala municipal corporation. This time Patiala Improvement Trust will pay interest on ₹15 crore it proposes to take from Amritsar trust which didn’t happen earlier,” said Mohindra, adding “there is law, practice and precedence of one civic body supporting the other, but not of spending on works in rural parts”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohindra-orders-inquiry-into-use-of-tarn-taran-trust-funds-for-works-at-anil-joshi-s-village/story-VV5SCzE5tpXxv1cqX2HymJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Utilities to begin actual meter-reading||Power distribution agencies like the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) and the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking have started physical meter-reading in the city and state. The activity was suspended owing to the lockdown since March 2020. Consumers may expect bill on a higher-side as bills for the last few months were being computed on an average of preceding three months i.e. December, January & February, which are winter months. The actual consumption will be charged now on. Industry officials said that power consumption is usually high during the months of April and May and owing to lockdown, people would have also utilised more power. Meter-readings in containment zones will still be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/utilities-to-begin-actual-meter-reading/story-9S18MykATPDdSnALQ20VKP.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Four arrested for beating a man to death||The Mankhurd police and Deonar police have jointly arrested four people in connection with the alleged murder of a 20-year-old man. The accused told the cops that they had brutally assaulted the man to death on suspicion of him being a thief.According to the police, Shera Rahmat Ali Shaikh, was a resident of Mandala slum in Mankhurd.He was killed on June 7 in Mohite Patil Nagar area of ​​Mankhurd. He was passing by the B ward area of ​​Patil Nagar. He was beaten to death after some locals mistakenly identified him as a thief.“The accused, in order to destroy the evidence in their vehicle, took his body to another place and dumped it between two cars parked in a parking lot near a public toilet in Dr Zakir Hussain nagar,” said Balasaheb Ghavate, inspector in-charge of the Deonar police station.Since the area where body was found falls under the jurisdiction of Deonar police station they first registered an accidental death report on June 7 and after the post mortem report suggested a murder, a case under IPC section 302 and 201 was lodged and cops launched a manhunt for the accused.“We found a CCTV footage in which accused were captured while hiding the body. The brother of the deceased identified the deceased. During further probe our men recently arrested one of the accused and after it was revealed that the offence took place in the jurisdiction of Mankhurd police station the case and the accused were handed over to them,” said Ghavate.Later Mankhurd police too arrested three accused. All four were remanded in police custody till Monday by a local court. The search for their other accomplices is on, said an Inspector from Mankhurd police station. The vehicle used in the crime has also been seized.Another police officer from Deonar police station said the deceased person had a criminal case of house breaking on his name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-arrested-for-beating-a-man-to-death/story-dkGutU9WlrAUMerTFY307L.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Monorail bids for 10 rakes scrapped again||In another setback for the efficient operation of Mumbai Monorail, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has scrapped the bids for manufacturing 10 additional monorail trains, for the second time in six months. This means the frequency of services for the Mahalaxmi-Chembur Monorail corridor, will not be increased anytime soon. The bidding process for acquiring rakes is on since March 2019. In March 2020, HT had reported that companies like BYD Co Ltd, CRRC Corporation Ltd and Switzerland-based ABB attended a pre-bid meeting for the rakes in MMRDA. The first tender was scrapped in January 2020 when MMRDA stated that the bidders were asking for too many changes. While senior officials from Mumbai Monorail did not state the reasons for the termination on Wendesday, MMRDA has confirmed that the tender has been terminated, in a notification released on June 16, stating that no further communication will be made on the tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monorail-bids-for-10-rakes-scrapped-again/story-1aFLPrLhBhBqYMmvcPW4PJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||After negligible rain for second day, IMD downgrades rain alert for MMR for rest of week||The weather bureau’s heavy rain warnings for the city over the week turned out to be a miss. The city and suburbs recorded negligible rain during the day and only moderate overnight showers from Morning to Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, but as days went by the warnings were downgraded. On Wednesday afternoon, IMD revised it’s prediction to only light to moderate showers for the rest of the week. “Weather models had indicated the possibility of heavy rain but owing to unfavourable wind pattern over the Mumbai region, the intensity of monsoon currents weakened,” said an IMD official. “However, the currents were much stronger over south Konkan districts that recorded heavy to very heavy rain.”Between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm Wednesday, 0.5 mm was recorded in Mumbai suburbs while 0.4 mm was recorded in south Mumbai. Between 8.30 Tuesday and 8.30 am Wednesday, the suburbs recorded 0.8 mm while 14.4 mm was recorded in south Mumbai.Independent meteorologists said there hadn’t been any proper meteorological conditions for triggering widespread heavy to very heavy rainfall in Mumbai. “The wind pattern on 16 and 17 June was influenced by a low-pressure circulation over the Arabian Sea, which triggered a lot of rainfall in Konkan, but kept clouds away from Mumbai. This is common during monsoon. However, official alerts and other weather forecasts for 16-17 June were influenced by model predictions, which are often inaccurate whenever a low-pressure circulation happens to come near Mumbai,” said Akshay Deoras, PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-negligible-rain-for-second-day-imd-downgrades-rain-alert-for-mmr-for-rest-of-week/story-FaNDMnHwRPKN5E1glR8JZK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 outbreak, students in Chandigarh completing summer internships online||Amid surging cases of Covid-19, students in Chandigarh have been given the option to do their summer internships online this year, in adherence to University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines.In its guidelines issued on May 4, UGC had directed universities and colleges to allow students to take up ‘online internships or activities. They had also directed them to extend starting date and reduce the internship period.Many students of Panjab University’s University Business School (UBS) and University Institute of Engineering (UIET), who had to do complete their summer training this year, have started work from home. Students from some branches of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) are also doing their summer internships online.Tejinder Pal Singh, coordinator for summer internship programmes at UBS, said around 130 students of MBA second semester were scheduled to do their summer internships this year. “In previous years, we focused on the physical presence of students during their internships. But due to present circumstances, more than 50% of our students are completing their training online,” Singh said.Sarbjeet Singh, training and placement officer of UIET, said students of fourth and sixth semester were given three options, including online internships, and many have already started. JD Sharma from PEC’s placement cell said, “Many students of circuital branches are already doing online internships. In other branches like civil engineering, the response is low as their work is mostly filing-based.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-19-outbreak-students-in-chandigarh-completing-summer-internships-online/story-TuA7gH18NWFk5KcO3o0nKN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||100 isolation coaches sent to Delhi by Ambala railway division||The Ambala railway division has sent nearly 100 isolation coaches to Delhi, amid surging cases of Covid-19 in the Capital, leading to shortage of beds in hospitals. Sharing details, divisional railway manager of Ambala division, GM Singh said, “We have sent nearly 100 such coaches in the last the few days on the demand of Delhi authorities. These coaches were sent from the Jagadhari workshop. We have nearly 100 more coaches scattered at Ambala and Jagadhari, and more are getting ready at some stations over the division. More such coaches will be sent to Delhi if they demand.”The coaches are expected to be stationed at Anand Vihar Terminal in East Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. They have been lying unused since April and modified to be used in case of emergency. They are equipped with facilities to be used as a medical ward.In these coaches, the middle berth of each ward has been removed and the lower portion of the compartment is plugged with plyboards. Four available toilets have been converted into two bathrooms with hand shower, buckets and mugs in each.Each ward has been provided bottle holders, electric points for medical instruments and air curtains. There is a provision of 415 volts of external power supply as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/100-isolation-coaches-sent-to-delhi-by-ambala-railway-division/story-z0PjTNLRGTWbzYXhPRkxQM.html
17-06-2020||City||Bodies of woman, two kids along with injured boy found on rail tracks in Ambala||Unidentified bodies of a woman in her 40s and two children — a girl, aged around 8, and a boy, aged around 3 — along with an unconscious boy of around four years of age were found on the railway tracks near the Ambala Cantonment railway station late on Tuesday night.Government Railway Police (GRP) said that no mobile phone or document was recovered from the spot.“We got information about the bodies from the railway authorities around 1am. A boy, who was alive but injured, was taken to PGIMER, Chandigarh,” said superintendent of police, GRP, Smiti Chaudhary, adding that they are awaiting for him to gain consciousness to help identify the victims.“As per preliminary probe, the deaths are being treated as suicide, but thorough investigation is being done. Autopsies are yet to be performed,” said the GRP station incharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-woman-two-kids-along-with-injured-boy-found-on-rail-tracks-in-ambala/story-sTo0opkriBfdf5jgTBm4DI.html
17-06-2020||City||PMC reports 12 deaths, 460 fresh Covid-19 cases||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 12 deaths and 460 progressive positive cases on Wednesday taking the progressive positive count of Covid-19 cases in the city to 10,643 while the death toll went up to 481. The city also saw 117 people discharged after being declared as cured taking the count of such people to 6,713. Out of the 3,449 active cases in the city, 232 are critical patients.The 12 deaths include four deaths from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, three from Sassoon Hospital and one each from Sahyadri hospital, District hospital Aundh, Poona hospital, Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic. Two deaths of residents from rural Pune were also reported on Wednesday which includes an 81-year old female from Dhule and a 50-year old male from Lonavala. Most of the deceased suffered from comorbidities. The PMC issued a list of 16 private hospitals in the city where around 1,768 beds are regulated so far according to the state government’s May 21 government resolution which calls to cap the price. The order issued by the PMC commissioner states that about 50 per cent of these beds must be reserved for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-reports-12-deaths-460-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-598SqQ1FZvV5M4YQokk5zH.html
17-06-2020||City||25 more test positive in Himachal, Covid-19 count climbs to 585||Twenty-five more people tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the state’s Covid-19 count to 585.Eight cases were reported from Kangra, seven from Hamirpur, three from Chamba, two Solan and one from Sirmaur. Four cases were reported from Una late on Tuesday.SSB JAWAN, WOMAN DOC TEST POSITIVE IN KANGRAKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a 44-year-old Sashastra Seema Bal personnel deployed at the Union home ministry in Delhi was among the new positive cases. He came to Himachal on June 13 and was under institutional quarantine in Dehra.He developed fever and was shifted to Dharamshala zonal hospital on June 15. His test result turned out positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, said Prajapati.Besides him, three of a family including a 34-year-old woman and her two daughters, aged 7 and 3, were among the patients. They had returned from Gurugram on June 12 and were in institutional quarantine. The above four patients have been shifted to the Covid hospital in Dharamshala.Another family of two including a 55-year-old man and his 46-year-old wife, who had come from Delhi on June 9, also tested positive. Moreover, a 23-year-old Delhi-returned youth was found infected. A 30-year-old woman doctor who was deployed at a quarantine centre has Covid-19.Seven cases were reported in Hamirpur district. Four are from Barsar sub-division and two from Bhoranj. Details of one patient are awaited. The four patients have been shifted to a Covid-care centre in Dadh.Three cases have been reported in Chamba. These include a 27-year-old man from Thanoli village, a 22-year-old youth of the same village and a 30-year-old from Chowari.So far, Himachal has recorded 585 cases, of which 368 have recovered while six people, three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.198 ACTIVE CASESThere are 198 active cases in the state as seven patients recovered on Wednesday. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 155 cases followed by Hamirpur with 141 cases. Una has recorded a total of 77 cases, Solan has 61 cases, Chamba 42, Bilaspur 29, Sirmaur 28, Mandi 23, Shimla 21, Kullu four and Kinnaur three cases.HIGHER RECOVERY RATEThe hill state’s recovery rate has gone up significantly in the past week. Currently, it stands at 63.44% compared to the 55.79% at the national level. Last week, the recovery rate was 57%. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases of the state was 22.3 days which is almost equal to the national rate of 22.8 days. Himachal is conducting 7,546 tests per million compared to 3,913 tests being conducted at national level. The fatality rate was low at 1.4% while nationally it is 2.44%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-more-test-positive-in-himachal-covid-19-count-climbs-to-585/story-M5dXHjIKqMTUhpEUlr4oUI.html
17-06-2020||City||Change in colour of Lonar lake: Agharkar Research Institute to submit report in 7 to 8 days||PUNE The city-based Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) which is working to assess the change in colour of 113-hectare Lonar lake in Buldhana, said it will take seven to eight days to submit the report to the divisional bench.The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur, will also be submitting a report on the same.Prashant K Dhakephalkar, director, Agharkar Research Institute, said, “Our team of experts have collected the samples of the pink water at Lonar lake. At present we are investigating the sample, it will take another seven to eight days for us to submit the report.”The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday passed a slew of directives to protect and preserve the 113-hectare Lonar Crater lake in Buldhana, after it turned pink, owing to a rise in the PH (acidity) and salinity levels of lake water.During a special sitting on Monday, the HC directed four senior lawyers, including senior advocate CS Kaptan (counsel for petitioner Anand Parchure), state pollution control board’s standing counsel Ravi Sanyal and amicus curiae Ashutosh Dharmadhikari, to visit the crater and submit a status report.“According to some experts, the change in the colour of the water is due to pollution and bacteria in the lake. We have approached Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur, who have collected samples of the water and submit a report soon, said NN Khairnar, deputy conservator of forests, Lonar wildlife sanctuary, Akola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/change-in-colour-of-lonar-lake-agharkar-research-institute-to-submit-report-in-7-to-8-days/story-HwiM7QxIUa5xwvLXDqnQ4O.html
17-06-2020||City||Man arrested for illegal money lending and wrongful restraint||Pune: A man was arrested on Tuesday by Pune police for wrongful restraint of a 25-year-old and booked under a state law which restricts money lending without a license.The arrested man was identified as Varad Rajesh Mhetre, 25, a resident of Guruwar peth in Sasane nagar, Pune.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Rajat Rajesh Fulfagar, 25, a resident of Rasta peth in Pune. Fulfagar owns a business of providing dry-fruits and spices in the city.Fulfagar was a friend of a man who is the second accused in the case and is yet to be arrested.According to his complaint, the two had wrongfully restrained him in a flat in Ambegaon between April 20 and April 21. On May 17, the two allegedly went back to his house and tried to intimidate him into giving them money even though the complainant had returned the borrowed money.“Mhetre was arrested and remanded to judicial custody after which he was bailed out as all sections are bailable. The second accused has switched off his phone and is not at his house,” said police sub-inspector (PSI) Vivek Padvi of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.Mhetre was a friend of the man who had mediated the borrowing process between Mhetre and the complainant.“Between December and May, the complainant had borrowed some money from one of the arrested men. That was the cause of tension between them,” said PSI Padvi.The condition on which Mhetre lent the money was that it be returned with 10 per cent interest. Whether he has the license to demand such interest rate or lend money at all is under investigation.The complainant has produced bank details of 10 bank transactions between January and February that show the return of Rs 3, 26,999 for the amount of Rs 2, 50,000, according to his complaint.According to the complaint, the second accused and Fulfagar are friends for 6-7 years. Fulfagar had borrowed money from his accused friend on three occasions - Rs 25,000 the first time, Rs 20,000 the second time, and Rs 2, 50,000 the third time, all in December 2019, according to the complainant.“The complainant was good friends with the man who is currently at large. He had introduced the complainant to Mhetre. They had met 2-3 times before all this happened. The complainant had approached Mhetre through the second accused,” said PSI Padvi.A case under Sections 342 (wrong restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 39, and 45 of Maharashtra Money-Lending (Regulation) Act, 2014 was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-illegal-money-lending-and-wrongful-restraint/story-7A5QK8csUT55tjWhcYQYFO.html
17-06-2020||City||Design engineer booked for stalking colleague||A design engineer at a private company was booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for stalking a female colleague outside her house and on her phone.On June 15, the man landed up at the woman’s house, grabbed her hand and threatened her if she refuses to reciprocate his advances, according to the complainant.The stalking began in March 2019, according to a complaint lodged by the 29-year-old woman.Through the WhatsApp group meant for the co-ordination of travel arrangements made by the company, the man obtained the complainant’s phone number, according to her complaint.The man allegedly messaged her and proposed marriage to which she has responded saying she was not interested and would rather be friends with him.The woman told the police that he gradually started keeping tabs on her movement and following her. On November 4, 2019, the man landed at the woman’s house and threatened to commit suicide if she refused to talk to him. A non-cognizable offence was registered against the accused at the Nigdi police station.The company sacked him after the incident, however, he continued following the woman on a motorbike. He followed her from the point where she usually got down from the office vehicle in January. On June 8, the man allegedly grabbed the woman and punched her in the back.A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354(d) (stalking), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/design-engineer-booked-for-stalking-colleague/story-pZ0Xnsw9QhbXSFTyFNv2mI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana school agrees to issue school leaving certificate to student after parent approaches education dept||The Sanmati Vimal Jain Senior Secondary School, Jagraon, agreed to issue a school leaving certificate (SLC) to a student on Wednesday after the mother of the student approached the district education department and submitted a complaint in this regard.The school, allegedly, first refused to issue the certificate stating that her parents should first clear the pending dues.However, mother of the student, Rajwinder Kaur, told the school that her daughter never attended online classes as she had enrolled her in a government high school, Dholon, in Class 7, before the lockdown was announced in March.“I had informed the school authorities that I had admitted my daughter in the government school, as I had no money to pay her school fee as my husband died last year,” Kaur said.“After lockdown was imposed and schools remained closed, I was not able to visit the school to get the certificate, but when I visited the school on Wednesday, the principal asked me to first clear the pending dues of Rs 1,420,” she added.Later, the student’s mother approached the office of the district education department and submitted a complaint against the school and requested the authorities concerned to direct the school head to issue the certificate.Deputy DEO, secondary, Charanjit Singh, confirmed, “We have received a complaint from the parent of the child and will inquire into the matter.” School principal Shashi Jain, however, said, “The parent had not given any application to get the school leaving certificate till date. She visited the school only on Wednesday to get the certificate. But I was not in a position to issue the certificate before verifying from the class teacher whether the child attended online classes or not.”“However, later I confirmed from the class in-charge that the child had not attended online classes from April to June. So, we decided to issue the certificate and it will given to her parent on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-school-agrees-to-issue-school-leaving-certificate-to-student-after-parent-approaches-education-dept/story-VVvfFkeztF90vjKcYwEFvK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Road renamed after martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha inaugurated by Punjab minister in Ludhiana||Punjab PWD and school education minister, Vijay Inder Singla, on Wednesday inaugurated the Ludhiana-Pakhowal Road, that has been renamed Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Marg. The 38-km road starts from Bhai Wala Chowk in Ludhiana city and ends at Raikot town. Singla was accompanied by senior Congress leaders including Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu and Gill MLA Kuldip Singh Vaid.Speaking to mediapersons on the occasion, Singla said the road passes through Sarabha village, which is the ancestral village of martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha. He said it was a long pending demand of residents of the area to rename the road after him.He said that a notification in this regard was issued by the Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government.While replying to a query related to renaming the upcoming international airport at Halwara Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport, Singla said the Punjab government is considering the demand and will request the CM to take up the issue with the Union government. He also paid floral tribute at the statue of Kartar Singh Sarabha in the main chowk of the village and visited the memorial constructed in the village and the ancestral house of the martyr.The minister said roads in and around the Dakha constituency have been repaired at a cost of Rs 58 crore. He added that development works related to repair of roads worth Rs 34 crore have been completed, works worth Rs 12 crore are underway while works worth around Rs 12 crore will be started shortly. Singla said the Punjab government has advertised for 4,500 posts of teachers for government schools, while 4,500 more posts would be advertised for shortly. He added that the matter related to charging fees by private schools during and after the Covid lockdown is in the Punjab and Haryana high court and a decision on the matter is likely to be taken by Thursday. He assured that the Punjab government is committed to safeguard the rights of parents and private schools, but would not let the schools charge parents unnecessarily.Later, the cabinet minister inaugurated the Raikot-Jagraon Road, that has been repaired at a cost of around Rs 14 crore. He added that the 2.7 km road from Akhara village bridge to Jagraon city has been widened from 7 metres to 10 metres. On this occasion, he also announced that the Akhara bridge would be repaired and widened at a cost of Rs 5.5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-renamed-after-martyr-kartar-singh-sarabha-inaugurated-by-punjab-minister-in-ludhiana/story-1JBLFVsMPcZ6rJIO9M8quM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pistol used in firing outside liquor shop in Chandigarh recovered during raid at house in Sector 48||Chandigarh Police on Wednesday claimed to have recovered an automatic pistol used in the firing outside a liquor shop in Sector 9 on June 2. Three live cartridges and a magazine were also recovered during a raid at a house in Sector 48 on Tuesday, said police.The raid was conducted on the basis of disclosures made by Vainkat Garg, 22, a close aide of gangster Lawrence Bidhnoi, who was arrested from Naraingarh in Ambala on June 11 for harbouring and providing logistical support to the two shooters.Two men, identified as Rinku, alias Topi, of Pehwa and Davinder Chawla of Hisar, had rained bullets at a liquor shop on the evening of June 2, leaving four men injured. The two are on the run. Investigations had led police to Garg.On Tuesday, police raided the house of Sumit Kumar Bhatia, 35, also a member of the Bishnoi gang, who was allegedly handed over the pistol by the shooters, said a senior police official, not wishing to be named. While Bhatia managed to flee in an Audi, the pistol and ammunition were recovered from his garage. The Audi was also later recovered from his farm house situated on Patiala Road in Zirakpur, said police.Bhatia is named as an accused in an Arms Act case registered at the Sector 31 police station in 2014.Meanwhile, police have also recovered Garg’s two mobile phones. “These mobile handsets are likely to have evidence or clues about crimes committed in Chandigarh,” said deputy superintendent of police (central) Krishan Kumar. Earlier, police had recovered a Honda Amaze and Maruti Alto used by the shooters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pistol-used-in-firing-outside-liquor-shop-in-chandigarh-recovered-during-raid-at-house-in-sector-48/story-aQnGkse6Mds7lpxLOPihDJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Labourer denied aid under PMAY four years after he applied for it||The plight of a common man can be judged from the fact that a labourer, who had applied for assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) four years ago, has now received a reply from the municipal corporation (MC) that the area, Ashiyana Colony on the Jassiyan road, where his plot is situated, falls outside the MC limits.The family members held a protest outside the MC headquarters (Zone A office) on Wednesday, accusing the MC officials of harassing them and depriving them of the benefits under the scheme. The labourer claimed to have spent Rs 1 lakh on the construction of the house, as a condition to get the assistance under the yojana.A migrant labourer, Lal Jha, 40, a resident of Jassiyan road, works in a hosiery unit and had purchased a 27-yard plot expecting that the government would provide financial help for constructing the house.Father of four, including three daughters, Jha rued, “We live in a rented accommodation, and I have already spent around Rs 1 lakh on the construction of his house by mortgaging the land. But, the MC officials are now claiming that the property fall outside MC limits.”Jha said, “I applied for assistance under the scheme in 2016 and the MC officials had been harassing me since then. In January, the MC served a notice stating that we would not get any benefit if we fail to commence construction. I took a Rs 1lakh private loan by mortgaging my land for commencing construction and I am paying interest on the same.”“But, on June 9, officials informed us the land is situated outside the MC limits and we cannot avail benefit under the scheme. Earlier, I was told that I would get 1.5 lakh in three installments and we had always been making rounds of MC offices for getting the benefit under the scheme.”MC superintending engineer Tirath Bansal said, “I cannot comment on the issue before looking into the record. But, if the matter raised by the couple is genuine, then I will seek a report from the staff in this regard and the case would be taken up on priority.” Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said, “The MC officials have surely failed to perform their duty in this case leading to harassment to the couple. If the land is situated outside MC limits, then why no verification was carried out when the couple had applied in 2016.”“Moreover, if the area is situated outside MC limits, then why and how a notice was served to the couple for commencing construction in January? I will take up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar, following which action would be taken against the guilty staff members,” Malhotra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-labourer-denied-aid-under-pmay-four-years-after-he-applied-for-it/story-Tor4BUMlUygASxj1FzaKEI.html
17-06-2020||Lucknow||Yogi suggests uniform policy for NCR, sealing UP-Delhi border||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday suggested a uniform policy for the National Capital Region (NCR) to effectively check the spread of the Covid-19 disease there. He also favoured sealing Uttar Pradesh’s borders with Delhi to regulate the movement of traffic.Yogi Adityanath made these suggestions at a video conference that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with chief ministers on Wednesday. It was the second day of Modi’s sixth round of consultations with chief ministers on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.Besides Uttar Pradesh, the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Bihar were among those who participated in the meeting on the second day.Adityanath suggested that directives should be issued for hospitalisation of asymptomatic persons instead of sending them to home quarantine.Not admitting asymptomatic persons to hospital may lead to spread of the coronavirus disease when such persons moved from one place to another, he said. A senior officer confirmed that chief minister made the suggestion about a uniform policy for NCR. “UP’s borders with Delhi (should) be sealed and movement of traffic regulated. Asymptomatic persons (should) be treated in Covid hospitals and not sent for home quarantine,” the chief minister said at the meeting, according to the officer.The chief minister, who spoke for nearly 15 minutes at the video conference with the prime minister, said there was regular movement of people from both sides in the border districts. That was why a uniform policy was needed, he added.Reviewing the Unlock-1 situation earlier in the day, the chief minister asked chief secretary RK Tiwari and principal secretary, medical, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad to take stock of the medical infrastructure and arrangements made in districts of Meerut division (NCR) to fight Covid-19.Yogi gave data to make his point about welfare measures initiated by the state government and status of testing, Covid-19 infections, recovery and death of patients.He said 16,159 samples were tested on Tuesday alone. In all 4,82,596 tests have been conducted so far in the state. He said a loan of Rs 2002 crore was given to 56,000 people leading to creation of 2 lakh jobs. He also said 36.40 lakh metric tonne food grains were distributed five times to 14.6 lakh people free of charge.The chief minister also gave data about disbursement of pension under schemes for widows, senior citizens and disabled persons.Yogi Adityanath said the state government had set up a commission to explore job opportunities for workers/labourers and provide them social security and insurance etc. The commission headed by chief minister held its first meeting on Tuesday. A committee headed by minister for finance Suresh Khanna has been formed to make recommendations for providing social and economic security to the workers/labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-suggests-sealing-up-delhi-border-to-check-covid-spread/story-2EUbSN687Qdehtbw5TCdrL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s panchayati raj institutions bag 13 national awards for good performance||The panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) of Punjab have brought laurels to the state by bagging 13 national awards for good performance. The awards, including the Deendayal Upadhyay Panchayat Shastikaran Award, Nana Ji Deshmukh award, gram panchayat development plan (GPDP) award and child-friendly gram panchayat award, for the year 2018-19 were announced by the Union ministry of panchayati raj. Disclosing this, financial commissioner of the rural development department, Seema Jain said that nine gram panchayats, two block panchayats and one zila parishad of Punjab have been selected for the awards. These include Muktsar zila parishad, which will receive an award of Rs 50 lakh, and block samitis of Machhiwara (Ludhiana) and Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar), which will receive Rs 25 lakh each.Apart from this, the gram panchayats of Ranshih Kalan (Moga), Bara village (Rupnagar), Bhadalwad village (Sangrur), Dhakora Kalan village (SAS Nagar), Rurewal village (Ludhiana), Seechewal village (Jalandhar) and Tehna village (Faridkot) will be given Rs 5 to 10 lakh each.Ransih Kalan village of Nihal Singh Wala block of Moga district has been awarded the coveted Nana Ji Deshmukh National Gaurav Award.The village will be given Rs 10 lakh prize money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-panchayati-raj-institutions-bag-13-national-awards-for-good-performance/story-NsmG9j24lxuSJUhNcW3YDI.html
17-06-2020||City||J&K reports 108 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 5,406||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 108 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 5,406, officials said.Four more people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 67. A 70-year-old patient from Khanpora locality in Baramulla district died at SMHS hospital in the evening. Another patient, a 65-year-old man from Shopian district also died at the SKIMS hospital in Srinagar. “Late evening, two more people, including a 70-year-old man from Budgam who was suffering from pneumonia and a 65-year-old woman from Srinagar who had bilateral pneumonia succumbed to the infection,” an official said.Of the new cases, 27 are from Jammu division and 81 from Kashmir.Also, 133 more patients have recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. The number of cured in J&K has now reached 2,900.Officials said the highest number of cases at 27 were reported in Shopian district while 17 fresh cases each are from Srinagar and Udhampur districts. Srinagar has the highest number of 337 active cases followed by Baramulla at 298. According to an official statement, 13 were found infected at SKIMS Bemina after 565 samples were tested. “22 more COVID-19 patients, including a12-day-old baby, have been discharged,” an official at the hospital said.At the SKIMS laboratory, out of 2,144 samples 58 were found positive. So far, 2,82,268 samples have been tested in 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Conduct aggressive awareness campaigns in districts: L-G to officialsLieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Wednesday chaired a meeting to discuss the containment strategy for COVID-19 in the UT. The meeting was convened on the sidelines of interaction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers and heads of the states/UTs to discuss situation emerging post Unlock 1.0. Murmu stressed on conducting aggressive awareness campaign in the districts, especially those with more number of cases, led by deputy commissioners, SSPs, health officers.He also called for increasing the testing for the disease and advised officials to use the data from the ‘Swasthya Nidhi’ app for mapping and identifying those vulnerable to Covid-19. He said people should be encouraged to download the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-108-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-5-406/story-wzn0KA2ql7E3xU5OCdFHSO.html
17-06-2020||City||Need of the hour to register workers: Delhi HC to welfare board||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has said “it is the need of the hour” to complete the registration of construction workers, “on war footing”, so that they can be provided relief, in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The court also directed the Delhi government to ensure that sufficient number of desks or windows are provided, where workers could go and get their forms for registration or renewal of registration filled up and uploaded.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar expressed displeasure with the Delhi government’s Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board over the “cumbersome” registration form, lack of assistance from the authority in filling up application forms and no specific timeline for processing the same.It also declined the Board’s contention that it does not have the money or other means needed to provide assistance to fill up and upload the applications, saying it was “their job to facilitate the same, particularly when they have devised such a cumbersome form which is not even bilingual”.“We, therefore, direct that the Board should ensure that sufficient number of desks or windows are provided, where workers could go and get their forms for registration or renewal of registration filled up and uploaded,” the bench said. It also said that help can be taken from the Delhi State Legal Services Authority’s (DSLSA) for the purpose.The directions were issued in a plea by social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia seeking registration of all construction workers in Delhi under the BOCWW Act so that they can be eligible for the monthly ₹5,000 relief the government has been giving to labourers under the ambit of the scheme.Aledia in his plea, filed through advocate Shiven Varma, has contended that only a small section out of the over 10 lakh workers in the city are registered under the laws regulating their welfare and service conditions and thus, a huge chunk of the labourers are not getting benefits actually meant for them.The bench also termed as “completely unacceptable” the Board’s stand that it cannot say with certainty the application forms would be examined.“If this state of affairs is allowed to prevail, the construction workers who are genuinely entitled to register or renew their registration would have to wait endlessly.“..whereas need of the hour is to complete the process at the earliest on a war footing so that succour could be provided to the construction workers in the wake of the pandemic,” the bench said in its order of Tuesday which was made available on Wednesday.The court said the Board should ensure it does not unduly delay the entire exercise of registration or renewal of registration, considering the “grave urgency” at present to register and renew the registrations.It said the renewal process should be simplified. It asked the Board to file an affidavit highlighting the steps taken in compliance with the court’s directions. The matter will now be heard on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-of-the-hour-to-register-workers-delhi-hc-to-welfare-board/story-i6SmCOU4e14AWonWEWeIQP.html
17-06-2020||City||Delhi HC dismisses plea seeking waiver of rent during lockdown period||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has dismissed a plea seeking directions to waive rent payable by tenants during the Covid-19 lockdown period stating that the powers for waiving rent vests first with the landlords, who are contractually entitled. The court said that it will be “extremely slow in interfering with the contractual terms which have been entered into by the parties to the contract”.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also imposed a cost of Rs 10,000 on the petitioner stating that the plea seeking a waiver of rent is “thoroughly misconceived and baseless”. The court also said that the petition was a “Publicity Interest Litigation” and not a Public Interest Litigation (PIL).“If such type of general argument is accepted by this Court, that rent should be waived for all the tenants of Delhi who are poor for the month of April or/and May or/and June, it will lead to injustice,” the bench said onTuesday, the order of which was uploaded on Wednesday.The court’s direction came while deciding a plea by a practising lawyer Gaurav Jain seeking to waive rent for the lockdown period for the tenants in the city.On March 29, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had appealed to landlords not to force tenants for one-two months for rent and accept payments in instalments if the tenant is short on money. Later on April 22, an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority had called for “strict compliance” of directions that landlords will not demand rent from migrant workers and students for one month. “It required for the respective district magistrates to spread awareness about this directive and, in case of non-compliance, take legal action,” the order said.However, the order is not valid in the present scenario as it was only for a month from the date of issuance and no further orders with respect to waiving of rent have been passed by the Delhi government after April.On Tuesday, the bench said that it cannot do charity at the cost of others. It said that the plea proceeds on the presumption that tenants alone are suffering from financial hardship, or from the economic consequences of the pandemic and consequent lockdown.“However, it ought to be kept in mind that even the landlords can be financially dependent on the rent, that is when the rented premises is given by a widow or by a retired person having no other means of income and when they are solely dependent on the rent, for their livelihood,” it said.The bench also said that there are several instances where rented premises are occupied by tenants who are running shops, malls and doing other commercial activities. It said that without going through the specific facts of each and every case, no dispute in relation to the payment of rent and eviction thereof can be decided by the court between tenants and landlord.“There cannot be lumpsum/general submission and that too in a Public Interest Litigation, that rent should be waived and there can be no eviction on the ground of non-payment of the rent for tenants who are poor. Hence, this writ petition is devoid of any merits as a public interest,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-waiver-of-rent-during-lockdown-period/story-cv8tQZHy84PLGs9o8OZ24I.html
17-06-2020||City||DDA finishing work on Narela flats which could become extended Covid care centre||New Delhi: The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is working at breakneck speed to complete the work on 2,000 flats located in Narela which are likely to be used as a facility for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to meet the increase in demand for beds.DDA’s new vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “Facilities available with us will be given for creating the infrastructure for Covid-19 pandemic. We have already given 2,000 flats for Covid-19 care. Work on another 2,000 flats is going on so that these can be given to the government as and when the need arises.”In March-end, the DDA had earmarked 4,600 flats in Narela as Covid Care Centre. Over 1,000 flats were used by the Delhi government to create a quarantine facility.According to a senior DDA official aware of the development, “The flats are ready but we just have to finish the plumbing and other finishing work. We are hopeful of completing the work by month-end. We have already handed over 2,000 flats to the government for the management of the pandemic.”Jain, who took charge recently, said his priority will be to complete all the ongoing projects in a time-bound manner.He is also looking at computerisation of all the citizen-centric processes, an initiative taken by the previous V-C Tarun Kapoor. “The focus will be on the computerisation of various processes to ensure transparency in our functioning and provide the facility to people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-finishing-work-on-narela-flats-which-could-become-extended-covid-care-centre/story-4BsIACGxh9lr63ynQsv6sN.html
17-06-2020||City||Woman, 2 kids including infant son charred to death in Mandi fire||A nine-month-old boy, four-year-old girl and their mother were charred to death in a fire that engulfed their house in Mandi’s Sarkaghat on Wednesday afternoon.The deceased have been identified as Kavita (24), her daughter Apeksha and infant son Daksh.Police said the mishap took place on Wednesday in Sarkaghat’s Chotta Samahal village around 2pm in a two-storeyed house when the three were asleep. The top floor was completely gutted.The blaze was noticed by some neighbours who informed the police and the fire department, following which fire tenders reached the spot to douse the flames.Mandi superintendent of police (SP) Gurdev Chand Sharma confirmed the report and said that they were conducting an investigation in the case. However, the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.The SP said the victims’ remains have been sent for further investigation.The deceased woman’s husband Manoj Kumar said he had gone to the ration depot to purchase monthly food supplies when the mishap took place. “As ration was being distributed, most of the villagers had gone to the depot, therefore the fire could not be put out on time,” he said.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over the death of the woman and her two children.The CM prayed for peace to the departed souls and strength to the bereaved family members, said an official spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-2-kids-including-infant-son-charred-to-death-in-mandi-fire/story-s5V9w4NgXUpswWQ0kWsQ9L.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 3,307 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 1,16,752||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 3,307 new Covid-19 cases and 114 deaths, taking the case count to 1,16,752 and fatalities to 5,651, a Health official said.With discharge of 1,315 patients in the day, the number of the recovered cases mounted to 59,166, he said.The number of active cases in hospital stands at 51,921, the official added.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,16,752, new cases 3,307, deaths 5,651, discharged 59,166, active cases 51,921, people tested so far 7,00,954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-3-307-covid-19-cases-taking-its-tally-to-1-16-752/story-LFVBgWnFh4e8J5cN0PtzmK.html
17-06-2020||City||Send back stranded workers at Azadpur mandi to home states: Delhi HC||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Delhi government to work with the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to make arrangements for sending 686 migrant labourers, stranded at Azadpur Mandi here since the Covid-19 lockdown, to their native places.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the Delhi government to ensure the workers are informed in advance about the mode of transport arranged for them as also the date and time of departure.The court was hearing a plea by the Potato and Onion Merchant Association, through its president, seeking directions to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at the market are provided two meals a day, until the situation normalises.The plea, filed through advocates Sumit Rana and Amit Jain, said the stranded workers be relocated to a makeshift shelter home within or around the Azadpur Mandi.On Tuesday, the Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal submitted a survey of workers at the Azadpur market, indicating that 686 wanted to return to their native places.Following this, the court said a travel schedule needs to be prepared and communicated to the workers so that all of them do not land up together at the inter-state bus terminals or railway stations. It directed the Delhi government to work in collaboration with the Delhi State Legal Services Authority for this purpose.The courg directed the Delhi government to set up a help desk in the evenings, after 6.00 pm, at the Azadpur Mandi so that shelter and ready meals can be offered to those returning there late in the evening and usually spend the nights in the open.It asked the counsel for the government to file an affidavit indicating compliance of its directions and listed the matter for further hearing on June 24.On the last date, the court had directed the government to find out the exact number of workers stranded at the Mandi. The Delhi government carried out a survey and filed a report, stating that 882 labourers were registered at their help desk set up at the marketplace.The report stated that out of the 882 workers, 849 gave their permanent residential address as outside Delhi and remaining did not disclose it.The survey also found that around 143 labourers were staying within the marketplace, either in sheds or shops of local traders and the rest in nearby rented accommodation.The report stated that 436 labourers brought food from home and the remaining 446 were getting ready meals from a nearby hunger relief centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/send-back-stranded-workers-at-azadpur-mandi-to-home-states-delhi-hc/story-aKupzQ85mEYtkG32I71iHK.html
17-06-2020||City||Govt suspends Aarogya Setu portal for e-pharmacies||New Delhi: The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that it has suspended a website which was linked to the mobile application Aarogya Setu and was promoting sale of medicines through e-pharmacies. It said that currently there is no provision for online sale of medicines under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940. However, keeping the public interest in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it allowed the sale with certain conditions to be fulfilled by the license holder.In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, told the court it has realised that the retail sale of drugs to the doorstep of consumers is essential to meet the emergency arising due to the pandemic.The MH&FW told the court that it amended an earlier notification it had issued on the sale of online medicines and allowed the sale of online medicines to the license holders with conditions laid down under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940 as well as those by the ministry.The affidavit was submitted to the court while hearing a plea by South Chemists and Distributors who had sought direction to the Centre to de-link a website, which is promoting sale of medicines through e-pharmacies, from Aarogya Setu mobile application.On Tuesday, the Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Maninder Kaur Acharya told the court that the website has been de-linked from the Aarogya Setu application. She also said that if at all the website is to be re-launched, the authorities shall keep in mind the issues raised by the petitioners in the plea.Following such submissions, Justice Navin Chawla disposed of the petition filed by South Chemists and Distributors Association.The order, passed on Tuesday, was made available on the court’s website on Wednesday.The plea had said that the Aarogya Mitr website is linked to the official mobile application Aarogya Setu in a “highly illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory manner” as the website promotes and acts as a marketing tool for e-pharmacies only. It had also contended that there is absolutely no basis for a government owned platform being used for promoting private commercial ventures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-suspends-aarogya-setu-portal-for-e-pharmacies/story-TgXMZTBjLn4BvMC773oMrK.html
17-06-2020||City||Two youths with travel history test positive in Panchkula||Two youths with travel history tested positive for Covid-19 in Barwala on Wednesday, taking Panchkula district’s total count of cases to 55. One of the patients, aged 18, is a resident of Dev Colony and returned from Delhi on June 14. The other, aged 24, works in a factory in Rewari and had arrived here on June 13 to visit his family at Jalauli village in Barwala. Both patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula. Their family members have been home quarantined and are being tested for Covid-19.The district has 27 active cases, as 28 people have recovered so far, said deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youths-with-travel-history-test-positive-in-panchkula/story-u2dohL8fPLxZ4H17DIazsN.html
17-06-2020||City||Students protest GNDU’s decision to conduct exams amid Covid-19||The students of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, and their parents protested outside campus on Wednesday against the varsity’s decision to conduct examination from July 1, amid hike in Covid-19 cases in city.The protesters demand that the university should cancel the exams and promote the students as per their previous years’ average score.“At present, there is rapid spike in Covid-19 cases and community transmission in city. If the university administration makes even slightest mistakes in ensuring preventive measures many lives will be at risk. Also, many GNDU students are residents of other states and are unable to visit Amritsar amid restrictions, said students.“Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that he will take decision on conducting exams after June 30 but it will be too late because as per the GNDU datesheet, exams are to begin from July1,” the protesting students said.“We were not allowed to enter the university when we wanted to meet the V-C and submit a memorandum. This shows the hypocrisy of the V-C who is ready to conduct exams by risking students’ lives but is not ready to meet them. We handed over the memorandum to Amritsar DC,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-protest-gndu-s-decision-to-conduct-exams-amid-covid-19/story-vSV0iVkKoZpI0HmI0OyYgI.html
17-06-2020||City||Malaysians who attended Markaz event seek a designated court for trial against them||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the stand of the Centre, the Delhi government and the city police on a plea seeking a designated court for speedy trial in the case against 121 Malaysians chargesheeted for attending a congregation in March at Markaz in Nizamuddin in alleged violation of visa norms and the government’s lockdown guidelines imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Anup J Bhambhani asked the Delhi government and Delhi Police, represented by standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, to file a status report on the petition filed on behalf of 125 Malaysians. Till now, the police have filed charge sheets against 121 of the 125 Malaysian nationals.The court’s order came during the hearing of a plea by Fahrul Naim Bin Mohd Noor, a Malaysian, in which he said that they are in the custody of the High Commission of Malaysia in the national capital and sought a direction to establish one designated court to adjudicate upon the charge sheet in an expeditious manner.The plea, filed by advocate S Hari Haran, said the charge sheets were filed in the competent court. On Wednesday, a city court posted the charge sheets for cognizance for a further date since it was not an urgent matter.“The Malaysian nationals are stranded in the country away from the kith and kin for almost three months. The High Commission of Malaysia is spending substantial money on maintaining these stranded citizens which could be diverted for other constructive purposes including fighting the pandemic. The subordinate court is likely to take a substantial time to start trying cases in regular courses,” the plea said.The court impleaded ministries of home and external affairs, as parties in the petition and asked them to respond as well and listed the matter for further hearing on July 1.Till date, 47 charge sheets have been filed against 915 foreigners, belonging to 34 different countries, in the case.According to the charge sheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and regulations under Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure.They have also been charged with offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malaysians-who-attended-markaz-event-seek-a-designated-court-for-trial-against-them/story-fSJEQKOaMFtcUfuWIpm7LP.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Monsoon likely to reach Delhi by June 22-23, says IMD||In some good news for Delhiites, the India Meteorological Department on Wednesday said the monsoon is likely to reach the national capital three to four days earlier than the usual date of June 27. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and the neighbourhood will move towards southwest Uttar Pradesh by June 19 and June 20.“It will help in further advancement of the monsoon in west Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Uttarakhand, northeast Rajasthan and eastern Haryana between June 22 and June 24,” he said.This means that the wind system will reach the national capital by June 22-23, which is three to four days earlier.  The IMD has predicted normal rainfall (103 per cent) for northwest India this year.Srivastava said dry weather will prevail in Delhi on June 18 and June 19.On Wednesday, most places in the city recorded the mercury above the 40 degrees Celsius-mark.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 41 degrees Celsius, which was two notches above normal.The weather stations at Pusa and Palam recorded the maximum temperature at 42.8 degrees Celsius and 42.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.  Humidity levels oscillated between 43 and 77 per cent.  The MeT department has predicted a partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds (upto 30 kilometers per hour) on Thursday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 41 and 29 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/monsoon-likely-to-reach-delhi-by-june-22-23-says-imd/story-3bZFFc1YAqeqOUFA3rGQUI.html
17-06-2020||City||Galwan Valley face-off: ‘Attack on Bihar Regiment commanding officer triggered clashes’||The Chinese troops had attacked commanding officer of the Bihar regiment Colonel Santosh Babu after they were asked to withdraw from camps occupied along the Galwan River, leading to a bloody scuffle, said a top Northern Command official, on condition of anonymity.Twenty Indian soldiers, including commanding officer Colonel Santosh Babu were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley where soldiers of the two countries have been locked in a tense stand-off for 40 days.An official of the Indian Army’s Northern Command gave an account of what unfolded on the fateful night.“Following the June 6 corps commander level meeting, both sides had arrived at an agreement that the Chinese troops will withdraw from some cluster of camps occupied along the Galwan River moving eastwards,” he said. “These are temporary tents built by the Chinese and serve as logistic bases for living and supporting presence of their troops in the area,” he added.“On June 15 between 4pm and 5pm, keeping the sensitivity of the situation in mind, commanding officer of 16 Bihar Regiment Colonel Santosh Babu led the team to meet his Chinese counterpart. He asked him to comply with decisions taken during June 6 meetings,” the official said.“When asked to clear the area, the Chinese troops displayed an aggressive behaviour and assaulted our men in larger number,” he added.The official said the Chinese also resorted to stone pelting in which Colonel Santosh Babu was grievously injured. “The group of Indian soldiers, who accompanied the commanding officer, tried to evacuate him while the rest remained engaged with the Chinese troops. He was brought back to the base camp where he later succumbed to the injuries,” the official said.“Some more troops from our side rushed to assist their colleagues who were already engaged with the Chinese. Accordingly, more Chinese troops were also brought in and clashes continued for some time,” he said, adding that the scuffle continued till few hours in the night.The Chinese troops had also used iron rods and clubs in the attack, he said.“The Chinese troops resorted to pushing and stone pelting. Due to limited space and steep gradients of mountains, some soldiers slipped and fell into the gorge and Galwan River. While some were hurt in clashes, the remaining were hurt by rocks as they slipped and some suffered hypothermia due to falling into Galwan waters at freezing temperatures. Search operations were undertaken to retrieve those who had fallen into or along the river. They were rushed to medical facilities established in the area, where some of them were declared brought dead,” the official said.“Had the Chinese troops removed tents, which was agreed on at the corps commander level meet, the violent clashes would not have taken place. Chinese betrayed the agreement and then attacked the commanding officer which triggered the clashes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/galwan-valley-face-off-attack-on-bihar-regiment-commanding-officer-triggered-clashes/story-Ok4K33xxtKDt6R9g3E886J.html
17-06-2020||City||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tests coronavirus positive||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain tested coronavirus positive on Wednesday, a day after his first came out negative. Earlier in the day, his party colleague Atishi said she had tested positive for coronavirus.The minister was admitted to the state-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) in the city on Monday night after he developed a fever and his oxygen level dropped.In a tweet on Tuesday, the minister - who attended a meeting on Sunday with Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, home minister Amit Shah - said, “Due to high-grade fever and a sudden drop of my oxygen levels last night I have been admitted to RGSSH. Will keep everyone updated.” Last week, Arvind Kejriwal had gone into self-isolation at his home after he had a bout of fever and complained of sore throat. Kejriwal had tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-tests-coronavirus-positive/story-K2mCqPBChx87KTaOLo80mN.html
17-06-2020||City||J&K bags three coveted national panchayat awards||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has been conferred with three prestigious Deen Dayal Upadhyay Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP) awards for its outstanding contribution to the socio-economic development of the gram panchayats across the Union territory.The awards conferred by the panchayati raj ministry were given to three villages in districts Rajouri and Pulwama.Rathal and Badakana in Rajouri and Meej in Pulwama were adjudged the best performing panchayats in recognition of their work in improving the delivery of services to the public including sanitation, natural resource management, maintaining record, construction of PMAY(G) houses, data management, implementation of agriculture-related schemes, electricity coverage etc.The J&K administration was earlier awarded three national awards – Nanaji Deshmukhh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar, Gram Panchayat Development Plan Award, Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award – by the Union ministry appreciating the good work done at different levels in the UT.Hailing the efforts of the department and sarpanches of these panchayats, secretary rural development and panchayati raj department Sheetal Nanda said, “These panchayats have adopted best practices in all the parameters, including providing piped water to the residents, maintaining record, giving scholarships to eligible students, providing employment to poor and marginalised residents etc. She urged the other panchayats of the UT to emulate their best practices for the welfare of the general masses.She congratulated sarpanches Sobia Shaheen of Badakana, Abdul Rehman of Rathal and Naseer Ahmad Khanday of Meej. Nanda also hailed the efforts of the concerned district panchayat officers Abdul Khabir and Mir Nasrool Hilal Jerri for their tireless dedication in achieving this feat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-bags-three-coveted-national-panchayat-awards/story-QFaRIyhKxenuwz0vywyfwN.html
17-06-2020||City||Naib subedar Mandeep Singh’s family in Patiala village remains inconsolable||A pall of gloom descended on Seel village in Patiala as the news of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh’s death, in a clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, reached them on Wednesday afternoon.The 39-year-old firearms instructor with Army’s 3-Medium artillery unit had told his family that his unit was moving to Bathinda next month. His two children, Mehakpreet Kaur, 17, and son Jobanpreet Singh, 11, were excited that their father was finally going to be posted closer home. His wife, Gurdeep Kaur, 37, and mother Shakuntala Devi, 70 too could not wait for him to be back. Five days ago, he had called them, saying that he won’t be able to contact them for the coming few days as his unit was marching towards the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On Wednesday afternoon around 3, they found out that he was no more. He was the sole breadwinner of the family.His cousin, Captain Nirmal Singh (retd), said, “Around 10am, I received a call from the army authorities that Mandeep had received multiple injuries in the attack. Later, they told me that he had attained martyrdom.” His wife and children remained inconsolable. “We have lost everything. We never thought such a day would come,” said his mother, tightly clinging to his photograph. Youngest of four children, Mandeep had joined the Army in December 1997. Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, who reached the village along with senior superintendent of police Mandeep Singh Sidhu, said, “We are coordinating with army authorities for the last rites of the martyr. The mortal remains are expected to reach by Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-subedar-mandeep-singh-s-family-in-patiala-village-remains-inconsolable/story-nRslU63XWnhw0VpvipJHBJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab forms committee to bring qualitative improvement in school education||To expedite qualitative reforms in education sector, the Punjab government on Wednesday, constituted a core committee headed by the director, state council of education research and training (SCERT), Punjab. An official spokesperson said that following the instructions of school education department secretary Krishan Kumar, the committee has been set up to bring qualitative changes in education of upper primary classes under the ‘Parho Punjab, Paraho Punjab’ project.The committee will have assistant director training, Shalinder Singh and state coordinator for Parho Punjab, Paraho Punjab’ Davinder Boha and others as its members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-forms-committee-to-bring-qualitative-improvement-in-school-education/story-VEaBM1ymjr4VFKZXLTp8wI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||8 DRI officers under home quarantine after smuggling accused tests positive for Covid||Eight officials including a deputy director of directorate revenue intelligence (DRI) have been placed under home quarantine and will undergo Covid-19 test after an accused arrested in the ₹5.2 crore red sanders smuggling racket tested positive on Tuesday.Rajesh Pandey, additional director-general of DRI (Mumbai zonal unit) said, “One of the accused tested positive. Since the accused were in our custody, eight DRI officials at Nhava Sheva office have been quarantined.”On June 13, a 39-year-old old accused along with his associate was arrested by the Mumbai zone officials of DRI on specific information for smuggling red sanders. “The exporter had declared the cargo as 29 metric tonnes of fresh Indian onion. But, on examination of the container 13-metric tonnes of red sanders worth around ₹5.2 crore was found,” said Pandey.DRI official also found 17-metric tonnes of onion in the cargo along with the red sanders logs. The onions were kept in order to avoid detection of red sanders by the customs and to prevent any disturbance in the stacking, said the DRI officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-dri-officers-under-home-quarantine-after-smuggling-accused-tests-positive-for-covid/story-ITbrprfqRldZre107XNiwN.html
17-06-2020||City||CM inaugurates Thane’s first 1,024-bed Covid facility online||The first full-fledged 1,024-bed Covid hospital in Thane was inaugurated online by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. The hospital, which the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has called an extension of its civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa, was set up in 24 days in the ten-storeyed Global Impact Hub building in Saket. Spread over 1.5 lakh square feet space, there are 500 central oxygen beds, 76 ICU beds, 14 dialysis beds and enough space to include 300 more beds if needed.The hospital was set-up by TMC and Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (MCHI) and City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco).Thackeray through a video-conference, said, “Despite being a temporary facility, it looks equivalent to a full-fledged facility. The corporation and various other organisations have helped to build this hospital.”He was also given a tour of the hospital during this video call. He expressed that Covid-19 outbreak has changed our lives and has taught us to face trouble bravely.The Global Impact Hub was originally constructed to provide office space for startups. Vijay Singhal, the TMC commissioner, said “We shall provide television sets, yoga facility as well for entertainment. We have received help from many people to be able to build this facility, and I express my gratitude to each one of them as we have not used any additional funds from the corporation for the same,” said.Eknath Shinde, guardian minister of Thane district monitored the hospital work. “This facility has been set up with an aim that no one should be deprived of a bed and should gain access to quality treatment. We are making arrangements for enough manpower as well; we will need staff and doctors to manage the facilities like this that are being developed in Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar and other places as well,” said Shinde. Similar facilities are being set up at Kausa and Wagle Estate as well. Cabinet housing minister Jitendra Awhad has announced that a new 1,000-bed hospital will be set up at Wagale Estate in Thane. Moreover, the TMC is also in the process of building a third 1,000 bed hospital in Kausa set up by Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. It will cater to patients from Diva, Mumbra, Kausa and Kalwa areas. Thane city has more than 5,400 Covid-19 positive cases and over 165 deaths.200-bed Covid hospital in UlhasnagarUlhasnagar Municipal Corporation has also set up a 200-bed facility which will be inaugurated soon. It has 25 ventilator beds. Moreover, the facility has provision to include 100 more beds at a commercial complex within Shanti Nagar in Ulhasnagar. “We are making provisions for enough beds and have included it as a backup space to add more beds here. The facility is ready and we shall inaugurate and allow admission of patients within a day or two,” said Yuvraj Bhadane, public relation officer, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. Currently, Ulhasnagar has 362 active cases and 28 deaths, 425 patients have recovered so far. Till now, a total of 815 positive cases have been reported in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-024-bed-covid-facility-inaugurated-in-kalwa/story-8hFL5zshhs2cSxSt7Ju0MK.html
17-06-2020||City||11 employees of Mira Road hospital test positive for Covid||Eleven healthcare workers of the Bharat Ratna Indira Gandhi Maternity Hospital, Mira Road, have tested positive for Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment at another civic hospital in Bhayander. The report of two other workers is awaited.The Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Hospital has been converted to a Covid facility and the maternity ward at the hospital is closed.Meanwhile, Chandrakant Dange, commissioner, Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) has issued a notification to fill all vacant posts of healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, radiologists, technicians and pharmacists, on a three-month contract basis. As of now, there are 819 vacant posts of which 492 posts are for nurses, while six are for senior doctors. “We will pay the doctors ₹2 lakh per month, while 87 doctors with MBBS degrees will be paid ₹80,000 per month. The Ayurvedic, Unani and homoeopathy doctors will be paid ₹55,000 per month, as per contract,” said Dange.“Nurses with nursing degrees will be hired at ₹40,000 per month, while with SSC or HSC will be paid ₹25,000 per month. We have invited applications in this regard. The deadline for the same is 20 June,” said Dange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-employees-of-mira-road-hospital-test-positive-for-covid/story-6OMBcbQDdaCvJivqEWp5iI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Mahua flower collectors poison tigress, her cubs near Tadoba, 3 arrested||After the carcasses of three tigers were found in a span of five days (June 10-14) in the buffer area of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur, the forest department on Wednesday arrested three people that confessed to poisoning the big cats.On Tuesday evening, forest officials had detained three villagers from Kondegaon, Moharli in the buffer of TATR - Suryabhan Thackeray, 60, Shravan Madabi, 47, and Narendra Dadmal, 49 - for questioning. “All three confessed to the crime during overnight questioning and were arrested on Wednesday afternoon. They will be produced before a local court for their quantum of punishment on Thursday,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). According to the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, an offence involving a species listed in Schedule-I (Tiger) attracts imprisonment of three years, which may be extended to seven years depending on the severity of the crime committed. There is also a mandatory fine of at least ₹10,000.Based on their confession, they intended to kill the tigers by poisoning a wild boar, said Kakodkar. “The villagers are Mahua flower (Madhuca longifolia) collectors. After fermenting and distilling the flowers to make country liquor, the dried remains were left near the village, where the accused added poison to kill a wild boar for their own consumption. However, after spotting that there were tigers in the area for a few days, they laid poison on the remainder of the boar’s carcass,” said Kakodkar.“According to the villagers’ confession, while the tigers died after eating the boar, the langurs may have been poisoned after they consumed some of the remaining dried mahua flowers,” said Kakodkar. “The carcasses have been sent for forensic analysis, and the results will confirm confessions made by the accused.”On June 10, the forest department found the carcass of an adult tigress near Kondegaon talao, Moharli range in compartment number 956. The area is non-forest land in the buffer of TATR, but in close proximity to the adjoining core zone. On June 14, the carcass of two sub-adult tigers, the tigress’ cubs, were found 300 m away from the one recovered on June 10. The department had said since all three tigers did not have injury marks and all body parts were intact, infighting or poaching was ruled out while they suspected death by poisoning. The carcasses of two langurs were also found in the area on June 14. The post-mortem of the adult tigress had shown that she had consumed a wild boar shortly before her death.Meanwhile, the forest department suspects there could be a third cub of the tigress, which may have also died. “We were informed that the mother had three cubs. We have not been able to find the third cub’s body yet but search operations are underway across the buffer area at the moment,” Kakodkar said.There have been seven tiger deaths in Maharashtra this year, of which six have been reported from Chandrapur, in and around TATR. As opposed, 22 people have been killed in tiger attacks this year across the state, 18 deaths involving mahua, tendu or other forest produce collectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahua-flower-collectors-poison-tigress-her-cubs-near-tadoba-3-arrested/story-M95KoyunmXMV2kw2CQ1HkK.html
17-06-2020||City||PMC general body meets after lockdown, adjourns as opposition questions Covid expenditure||PUNE: After two months, more than 100 elected members attended the general body meeting of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday, wearing mask and following Covid-19 preventive measures. Their presence was more to avoid membership disqualification. However, the general body was quickly adjourned when the opposition parties, including the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) started questioning the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the administration on how it spent Rs 125 crore while tackling the Covid-19 situation.Despite the opposition parties’ demand, leader of House Dheeraj Ghate proposed to adjourn the meeting till July amidst resistance from the Congress and the NCP members.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol intervened at the house discussion and said, “Almost all the elected members and officers are working on the field. More than 150 people are in the hall and the central air conditioning is on. Everyone is aware about the Covid-19 precautions. We just called the meeting to avoid the technical and legal problems for elected members. I would like to appeal to all that if anything goes wrong (Covid-19 precautions), all will need to pay the price.”The mayor agreed that elected members would get proper information and instructed the municipal administration to give written information to members from regional ward offices.Post lockdown restrictions, the civic administration had postponed general body meetings leaving authorities in a fix as any further delay could have resulted in 98 corporators losing membership. To avoid disqualification of members, PMC called the general body meeting on Wednesday. All the 162 corporators marked their attendance at the register before leaving the PMC building.As per the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act (1949), if an elected member remains absent for three consecutive general body meetings without any information, he or she is liable to be disqualified from membership. To avoid this technical issue, corporators attended the meeting and signed on the attendance register.The mayor said, “The purpose of calling the meeting was to avoid the disqualification issue. After running the general body meeting for half an hour, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) adjourned it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-general-body-meets-after-lockdown-adjourns-as-opposition-questions-covid-expenditure/story-e4oV2pBZyiiuZxGllNa4AI.html
17-06-2020||City||Two armed men rob ₹4.8 lakh from PNB’s all-women branch in Mohali||Two armed men fled with ₹4.8 lakh in a broad daylight robbery at the Punjab National Bank’s all-women branch in Phase 3A, Mohali, on Wednesday. It took the duo just three minutes to orchestrate the crime as they entered the bank during the lunch break at 1:42pm and left by 1:45pm. There was no security guard deputed outside the branch, situated on a secluded stretch near Hotel Cama. Five women employees were present in the bank, when the accused, wearing face masks and gloves, reached there. While one pointed a gun and knife at the cashier and asked her to hand over the money, the other threatened remaining employees to keep standing at their positions and not raise the alarm. After filling the money in a suitcase, they left the premises and fled in a white Hyundai i20. No one was held hostage or injured during the heist, said superintendent of police (city) Harvinder Singh Virk, who rushed to the spot.“The two men seem to be in their 30s. They were holding an air pistol and knife. Mask of one of them fell when they were leaving the spot. We are trying to identify them through CCTV footage,” he said.A case has been registered under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code besides the Arms Act at the Mataur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-armed-men-rob-4-8-lakh-from-pnb-s-all-women-branch-in-mohali/story-GurWKV2wpheFYoZgXQj4gI.html
17-06-2020||Kolkata||Covid patients with mild symptoms to be treated in ‘safe home centres’ in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms will be treated in 104 ‘safe home centres’ set up across West Bengal, while hospitals will only treat patients in serious conditions, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday.“Patients with serious conditions will be treated in hospitals, while those with mild symptoms will be treated in ‘safe home centres’. Doctors will visit these centres twice a day and patients can avail home food. This way we can save hospital beds for extreme cases,” said Banerjee, adding that she can also offer her own house to be transformed into a safe home centre if need arises. She also said that both private and government hospitals will now have to upload data on number of beds available every hour on public domain so that citizens can approach the right hospital while admitting a patient.The decision was taken as reports of hospitals refusing to admit patients and demanding higher charges were pouring in since the pandemic started. The chief secretary is expected to hold a meeting with top brass of private hospitals on Thursday. The government has also decided to give special incentive to frontline workers such as police, doctors, municipal staff and others, working covid-affected areas. “They would be getting incentive at par with government employees working if difficult areas,” the chief minister said.To build up on the pool of doctors, the state government has also decided to rope in final year medical students, interns and post graduate trainees to join the covid war. At present around 8,000 doctors and 5,000 nurses are already working in the field.Banerjee said that the positivity rate of Bengal has shot up from 2.7% in May to around 3.4%. The migrant labourers started returning in May. This is however still lower than the national positivity rate of 5.8%, she added.“I would request people not to hide if they show any symptoms. Those who tried to hide it are in danger now,” Banerjee said while citing examples of one of her party’s leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-patients-with-mild-symptoms-to-be-treated-in-safe-home-centres-in-bengal-mamata-banerjee/story-tkYNLQ43WYo45wbAYZuMQM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Married woman, lover consume poison in Ferozepur||A married woman and her lover allegedly consumed poison in Makhu, a rural town in Ferozepur, on Wednesday. The woman passed away while her lover is critical.The deceased, Pooja, 30, of Zira had married one Daler Singh of Fatehgarh Panjtur in Tarn Taran district eight years ago and the couple has a two-and-a-half year old boy. A few days ago, Pooja and her son arrived at her parents’ house in Zira. On Wednesday morning, she eloped with a local Manpreet, 31, who is allegedly her lover, taking her son along. The couple was found unconscious along the bank of Harike. Passersby were alerted by the baby’s screams. While Pooja was dead, Manpreet was shifted to the local civil hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Ferozepur SSP Bhupinder Singh said no foul play was suspected and inquest proceedings were initiated under Section 174 of The Code Of Criminal Procedure.The child was handed over to his father and further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/married-woman-lover-consume-poison-in-ferozepur/story-Pf5XTtVnqaVgN1VsTmizhL.html
17-06-2020||City||LAC stand-off will go on unless Tibet issue is resolved, says exiled govt||Reacting to the latest face-off between India and China in Ladakh in which at least 21 Indian soldiers were killed, Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) president Lobsang Sangay said anytime something like this happens, it is of deep concern for us.“We have been saying this for sixty years that since the Indo-Tibet border has transformed into Indo-China border all these tensions have come up,” said Sangay.“What has happened in Tibetan is now happening on the Indian border,” he added.The head of the exiled government said unless both sides resort to non-violence and the dialogue of perpetual peace might be a problem.Sangay also asked the Indian government to take heed of the critical lessons from China’s occupation of Tibet in 1959 and Tibetans’ decades-long experience with the Chinese regime.Till the Tibet issue is resolved, this will go on, he said.Meanwhile, CTA information secretary Tsewang Gyalpo Arya said what happened at the border was quite unfortunate. “We would want that this problem should be resolved amicably through proper diplomatic discussion,” said Arya.The CTA condemns the violence perpetrated by China towards the Indian jawans, said Arya.However, he said, it was important to understand why these things were happening. “Xi Jinping’s leadership is being questioned nationally and internationally after the Covid-19 outbreak. So, he is deliberately creating these problems to divert attention from his failures,” said the Tibetan official.He said China first occupied Tibet and now was eying the Indian Territory. “It’s time that India asked China to vacate the Tibetan territory and go behind the great wall,” he said.“Many Indian leaders had said Tibet should be liberated otherwise China would come at our borders. That’s exactly what is now happening,” he said.Tibetan writer and independence activist Tenzin Tsundue said there may be several reasons behind the Chinese move.In May, India devised a new policy to stop Chinese investment in India, said Tsundue. Secondly, India banded with Australia-EU led UN resolution against China for probe into Covid-19. After Namaste Trump India received plugging-gap missiles from the US, boosting the military arms, he said.“China is in a shambles. The country that depends on 70% of its income from production and export is suddenly caught in a pandemic. It has lost businesses, jobs, its exports are stuck and the country is getting isolated diplomatically, triggering a sense of insecurity and fear of internal turmoil. All these failures have resulted in Jinping’s leadership being questioned. Now, foreign companies are leaving China and setting up base in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lac-stand-off-will-go-on-unless-tibet-issue-is-resolved-says-exiled-govt/story-svWkAdkXkpgOe9R5kKOtrL.html
17-06-2020||City||Fire at garment factory in Ludhiana’s Sundar Nagar||A major tragedy was averted as a fire broke out in a multi-storey jacket factory in Sundar Nagar on Wednesday morning. As the fire started at 7.15am, alert workers ran out to safety, escaping harm. It took three fire tenders around 2 hours to douse the flames. Sub fire-officer (SFO) Atish Rai said, “The fire seems to have been caused by a short-circuit. No one was injured.” “Only four workers were inside the factory as they started work at 7am. Suddenly, we heard an explosion and the power supply went off. Soon after, we saw smoke rising from the building’s second floor and raised the alarm. Though the workers came out safely through the backdoor, goods and machinery worth lakhs was gutted,” said Mohammad Feroze, one of the workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-garment-factory-in-ludhiana-s-sundar-nagar/story-V02dvoSWOAJHxxLy3NJOHN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sepoy Gurbinder’s village in Punjab’s Sunam awaits his return as weather delays flight from Ladakh||Sangrur: Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, 22, of Tolawal village near Sunam was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. Sunam sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Manjit Kaur, said, “We have got information from higher authorities that Gurbinder Singh attained martyrdom in Ladakh. His family has been informed. However, the weather in Ladakh was bad today and his body will reach Tolawal for the last rites on Thursday.”According to villagers, Gurbinder Singh was recruited in the army two years ago. He was engaged recently and looking forward to the wedding. He is survived by his parents, an elder brother and a sister.“Gurbinder had passed Class 12 and was recruited in the army. He was the younger son in the family and had visited the village around 10 months ago. The news of his martyrdom has left us shocked. He belongs to a humble family that owns two-and-a-half acres,” said Jaswant Singh, a resident of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sepoy-gurbinder-s-village-in-punjab-s-sunam-awaits-his-return-as-weather-delays-flight-from-ladakh/story-Iz5YQLGQoweUxLj2kzqNwM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||J&K has the lowest mortality and morbidity figures: SKIMS director||With the number of Covid-19 cases surging in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), HT’s Mir Ehsan talks to Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) director AG Ahangar about the UT’s testing rate, health infrastructure, community transmission and patient care. Edited excerpts:How is the situation in J&K vis-à-vis Covid-19? Is there cause for alarm?So far, Covid-19 has claimed around 3.5 lakh lives and infected around 7.6 million people globally. The mortality rate is over 10% in some European countries. Our region has also been affected, which is alarming given the population density and non-availability of an effective curative medicine or vaccine.You recently said J&K was in community transmission mode. What precautions should be followed?As per data collected over the last month, transmission in J&K is not just on account of foreign travellers, migrants, or those with contact history. The public should strictly adhere to government directives and expert medical advises as well as guidelines issued by health-care agencies from time-to-time, including the use of protective gear, observing social distancing and hand hygiene. They should avoid social and religious gatherings.Is our health infrastructure sufficient to tackle a surge in Covid-19 cases, especially in J&K?Our infrastructure is far better than the national average, both in the public and private sector. J&K ranks first in testing, contact tracing, surveillance and treatment of patients. It has the lowest mortality, morbidity figures till date. The positive prevalence in J&K is 1.68%, a mortality rate of 1.62% mortality rate and 0.73% hospital admissions.We have already crossed 5,000 cases and reported around 60 deaths. Is this a big number considering our population ratio? If we look at the entire J&K population, the figures are minuscule. What matters is the doubling time, incidence of co-morbidities, extremities of age and immunocompromised patient population. Fortunately, ours society does not have the concept of old age homes, which has been the primary source of anxiety world over.Are we testing enough and what is the role of SKIMS in the testing and patient care?We have taken a lead role in testing the population for Covid-19. SKIMS has conducted around 80,000 tests so far, which is higher than any lab in the country, an overall incidence of 13.172 per million population. We are quite ahead of Delhi. We have tested around 12,000 people in three days and around 5,000 people in a single day, which speaks volumes for the robust mechanism in place. We have dedicated a separate and exclusive Covid-19 specific infectious diseases block with a capacity of 50 beds and all facilities.SKIMS is the biggest hospital in J&K. Do you think other areas were neglected or patient care suffered?SKIMS continues to run outpatient department services both on campus and through virtual clinics and telemedicine besides running efficient teaching programs. Patient care in all these spheres, both Covid and non-Covid, continues to be distinctive.How many patients with Covid-19 in SKIMS need ventilator support?Most patients recover of their own as their immunity systems fight off the infection. In some cases medical management is needed, wherein ventilator support is a cornerstone. Patients who have moderate to severe symptoms with unstable parameters need supportive management and at times high-flow oxygen, ventilator support or advanced life support in the form of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) or lung transplant. In a well-organised and developed patient care centre like SKIMS, high-flow oxygen and supportive measures can be the game changers whereas ventilator support is used only when unavoidable. We have sufficient ventilators available and will be purchasing more to tackle any eventuality.Any suggestions for bringing down Covid-19 numbers in the Valley?WHO directives and governmental standard operating procedures should be followed. One should understand that doctors and paramedics are fighting the war against the coronavirus with sensibility and strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-has-the-lowest-mortality-and-morbidity-figures-skims-director/story-jFZkzU9PRpxInIv6XKpdpJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bodies of woman, two children found on rail track near Ambala Cantt||Ambala: The bodies of a woman and two children were found on the rail track of the Ambala-Delhi section near Ambala Cantt on Wednesday, railway police officials said.Another child who was seriously injured was found lying near the bodies and was later referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, they said.Government Railway Police (GRP) station, Ambala Cantt, received a message from the railway station authorities around 2.30am on Wednesday that three bodies were lying on the track, the officials said.A GRP team rushed to the spot and found the bodies of a woman, who appeared to be around 40 years old, and two girls aged around nine and three, they said.An injured boy aged around four was also found lying there, they added.According to preliminary investigation, the GRP officials said, it seems all of them were crushed under a train.GRP sub-inspector Om Parkash said the bodies haven’t been identified yet.He said neither any mobile phone nor any identity proof was recovered from the spot. It is being investigated whether all of them belonged to the same family.Parkash said the bodies have been kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment. No one has approached the police so far to claim the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-woman-two-children-found-on-rail-track-near-ambala-cantt/story-MdTno2Bdtf35PHbMlAhtOP.html
17-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to take steps to improve telecommunication system in state||With the concept of “Work-from- Anywhere” gaining popularity, a meeting of all stakeholders will be called soon to improve the telecommunication system in Karnataka and action will be taken in this regard, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said here on Wednesday. The Chief Minister, who reviewed the Information Technology, Biotechnology and Science and Technology department’s progress, said that by improving the telecommunication network in the government and private sector, efficiency and quickness in the functioning of government offices and other places can be improved. “Necessary action will be taken in this regard,” he was quoted as saying by his office in a release.Appreciating the department and its officials for extending moral support to industries during the Covid-19 situation, Yediyurappa complemented several startups that contributed in Covid management and extended help during the lockdown. He said the government is considering establishing a medical equipment and technology sector in the state in the days to come.The Chief Minister, who also reviewed the progress of the Skill Development Entrepreneurship and Livelihood Department, asked officials to take steps to constitute an advisory committee for Industrial Training Institutes, comprising experts from the industrial sector as its members.“This will not only help improve the quality of training at ITIs, but also help in providing employment opportunities for students,” he said.Noting that 112 ITIs in the state have currently joined hands with the industries, Yediyurappa suggested that more institutes and industries come together with an aim at providing training on the subjects for which there is demand in the sector. Based on the demand from industries, training will be provided under the department’s programmes, which will also increase employment opportunities, he said.The Department, with aim at solving the unemployment problem of those who have returned to Karnataka from other states and countries due to Covid-19, was registering their details, the Chief Minister said.“So far 41,000 people have registered. There is more demand for getting employment and training in sectors like agriculture, tourism and construction,” he said.He also acknowledged the department’s work in providing work to Self Help Group members during the Covid lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-to-take-steps-to-improve-telecommunication-system-in-state/story-PgMEiQPUk9qhoJJftDCXpL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four police personnel among five test positive for Covid-19 in Bathinda||Bathinda: Four police personnel are among five people to have tested positive for coronavirus in Bathinda on Wednesday.Senior superintended of police Nanak Singh said one of the infected cops was posted at Police Lines, while the others were deployed at three police stations of the city.Samples of all four personnel, including two women, were taken during a medical camp held recently. They were posted at Sadar, Vardhman police post and the women’s police station. One of them was on field duty at a naka for the past 10 days.“Contact tracing of all four is being conducted and medical protocol will be initiated after identifying them. They have been moved to an isolation facility in the city,” he said.According to civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, a man who worked as a construction worker on the campus of the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bathinda, also tested positive.The medical superintendent of AIIMS, Dr Satish Gupta, said that the patient is a construction worker engaged by a private firm on the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-police-personnel-among-five-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bathinda/story-iMNlbXPssII4JEXRM51hjJ.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Shetti accepts NCP’s council seat offer during his meeting with Pawar at Baramati||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti, who once rattled Sharad Pawar’s politics by holding protests at Baramati, visited his house Govindbaug on Tuesday and accepted NCP’s offer of a seat in the Maharashtra Legislative Council.“I have accepted the offer for council polls,” said Shetti after his two-and-a-half-hour-long meeting with Pawar which the farmers’ leader termed “fruitful”.The meeting between Shetti and Pawar came days after NCP state unit chief Jayant Patil visited Swabhimani Paksha founder leader’s home in Shirole and offered him a seat from NCP quota. Pawar while reacting to his meeting with Shetti tweeted, “I Visited various projects of Agriculture Development Trust in Baramati with Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghtana leader Raju Shetti.”Twelve seats fell vacant from Governor’s quota earlier this month. The Maha Vikas Aghadi is contemplating on to go ahead to fill them as early as possible. “By offering a seat to Shetti in state legislative council, NCP has tried to pacify sugarcane growers from western Maharashtra, its erstwhile political base,” said Chitra Lele, Political Science professor at SNDT.For Shetti, a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur, to accept a seat from NCP quota is coming a long way even as he had already joined hands with Congress-NCP alliance just before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after breaking away from BJP-led National Democratic Alliance.During the Lok Sabha polls, NCP decided not to contest polls from Hatkanangale, from where Shetti fought against Shiv Sena’s Dhairyasheel Mane and lost. “To keep the BJP away, we joined hands with the NCP and the Congress in 2019 and it was part of that the NCP had left one seat for us then. Today I have accepted to be MVA candidate for council polls.”It was in November 2011, when Shetti held protest in Baramati for increased sugarcane prices, it rattled NCP chief Sharad Pawar. So much so that in the subsequent days Pawar used caste slur to run down the stir undertaken by Shetti.Shetti’s political journey beginning from Zilla Parishad to Parliament goes parallel to his rise in the agrarian movements. Started his career as a worker in Shetkari Sanghatana, Shetti learned every small and big thing about agitation from his guru Sharad Joshi, the economist turned farmers’ leader. In his political career, Shetti has undertaken multiple successful agitations to demand higher prices for sugarcane and milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shetti-accepts-ncp-s-council-seat-offer-during-his-meeting-with-pawar-at-baramati/story-esWxtOy3yXN61v8enFxQMI.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Anonymous social media accounts booked for spreading vulgar texts, images||A case of anonymous criminal intimidation and online stalking was registered against holders of anonymous social media accounts for spreading images of a woman from the family of six murder accused who allegedly killed a 20-year old for falling in love with a girl from their family.The photos of the girl were shared on social media on June 9 and June 13, according to a statement issued by Vinayak Dhakane, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.“Vulgar texts were spread with her images on multiple social media platforms, mainly TikTok,” said senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar who will be investigating the case.A case under Section 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 509 (word, gesture, or an act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty of a woman), 354(d) (stalking) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 67(a) of the Information Technology Act was registered at the Sangvi police station.On June 8, a case was registered against six men under Section 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(1)(R)(S); 3(2)(VA); 3(2)(V), 6 of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The deceased man was identified as Viraj Jagtap, 20, a resident of Pimple Saudagar, Pimpri-Chinchwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/anonymous-social-media-accounts-booked-for-spreading-vulgar-texts-images/story-AliXm0ShTnsIxJuSRq7QhM.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission starts virtual hearing of complaints filed online||The State (Maharashtra) Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has begun to access complaints filed online through the use of its consumerconnect.co.in website.Case hearings also take place online, wherein the gotomeeting app, available on the Playstore, is used. Consumers can now file complaints on consumerconnect, after which they are given a log-in ID. This log-in ID enables a complainant to access the hearing via the gotomeeting app.Complainants must pay an e-fee of Rs 500 to register and an e-charge for an online appellate hearing is Rs 750. Both charges as per the state government general resolution (GR). The Pune branch of the forum currently has a pendency of 2,000 cases before the bench, till date.Justice AP Bhangale, state president of the commission, in a circular dated June 10, stated, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the regular functioning of the SCDRC at present is stopped. It has been decided to start hearing of cases which are ready for hearings and arguments. However, due to Covid 19, the physical hearing before the commission is not possible.Therefore, the undersigned has decided to start virtual hearing of the cases which are ready for final hearing.” Advocate Umesh Jawalikar,president, Pune District Consumer Redressal Forum, said, “During the Covid crisis, the hearing of the cases will be done online through the online platforms. The complainant, lawyers and forum will be participating online from their homes. We are working as per the circular of the state government. The hearings can be recorded and will be in line with how the higher courts are functioning online. It is a secure system where documents once submitted at the centralised location will be assigned to areas of jurisdiction. The link generated will sent to the parties through the administrator.” Jawalikar said that the new arrangement is aimed at providing justice to consumers during the pandemic. “Our office, near the Pune railway station, is situated near a containment zone (Dhole Patil road). It is not advisable for individuals come to the court. This is the most transparent system. Also, consumer awareness is the need of the hour during this Pandemic,” he said.Consumer redressal online - how it works- Log on to consumerconnect.co.in, register, get user ID- Upload all scanned copies of documents- Uploaded data sent to state commission, which then assigns it to consumer forum of respective district, where it can be accessed online - gotomeeting app enables complainant to be present for hearings online - User ID generated on consumerconnect.co.in to be used to access hearing via app- Link will be provided by the consumer forum which will enable her/him to access hearing- Forum president, defence counsel and lawyer of the opponent party all present at hearing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/consumer-disputes-redressal-commission-starts-virtual-hearing-of-complaints-filed-online/story-RVQhEF9xKUy8DNOOUdg14J.html
17-06-2020||Pune||11% of Pune’s Covid fatalities showed no associated risk factors||Eleven per cent of the deaths related to Covid-19 in Pune district had no associated risk factor or comorbidity, according to data shared by the Pune district administration in its latest report, released on June 15. Public health experts attribute mortalities among patients without co-morbid conditions to “delayed reporting” of the infection, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. According to the death analysis report compiled by district health department, of the 485 deaths reported till June 14, 427 or 88% had associated risk factors, while 58 deaths or 11% did not have any associated risk factor. The common pre-existing ailments that can be fatal for a Covid-19 positive patient include blood pressure, kidney and liver disease, diabetes and respiratory illness. The report also states that most deaths took place at least seven days after the onset of symptoms, while 15% of deaths were reported within 48 hours of the onset of symptoms. According to Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Pune district, in most cases, people reported to hospital after severe breathlessness, which is a sign that virus has infected the lungs. “We have observed in some cases, people go to hospital complaining of breathlessness and not complaining of fever, which is one of the initial symptoms of the infection. When we question further we get to know that the person had complained of fever and took antibiotics which suppressed the symptoms, and later, it turned into respiratory discomfort,” said Dr Nandapurkar. He said that respiratory issues do not come up immediately if the person is fit and has no pre-existing ailments.“It takes about five-six days of infection for the respiratory system to be affected, which then becomes a bit challenging to treat. However, Covid-19 infection is sufficient to cause mortality as it disturbs the respiratory system and then, the blood clotting mechanism, which affects all organs,” said Dr Nandapurkar. Dr Dileep Kadam, professor of medicine at the Kashibai Navale Medical College, who also heads the Pune Covid-19 task force, believes it has to be taken on a case-to-case basis to analyse why Covid-19 positive persons without a risk factor died.“It really depends on a case-to-case basis. However, if the condition of the patient is critical during admission, then it is difficult for doctors to revive the patient’s condition,” Dr Kadam said. Total of 498 deaths in Pune district (Jun 14)427 or 88% of fatalities - associated risk factors58 or 11% of fatalities - no associated risk factorsFrom onset to fatality9 per cent or 46 deaths within 0-24 hours of onset of symptoms6 per cent or 30 deaths within 24-48 hours 49 per cent or 242 deaths in seven days of moreMost affected age groups 155 deaths - 61-70-year age group 113 deaths 51-60-year age group (As per the district health department)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-of-pune-s-covid-fatalities-showed-no-associated-risk-factors/story-PN0RFacxzxs9iRIlK924VP.html
17-06-2020||Fashion||#UnlockFashion: Ladies amp up style quotient with masks stitched to match ethnic suits||Did you ever think that you’d buy or get stitched a suit piece or kurti with a matching mask? Well, gone are the days when matching dupattas used to be the concern after purchase of a suit. The summer of 2020, amid Covid-19 pandemic, has made women lap up the idea of matching masks with ethnic wear, to stay safe yet trendy while flaunting comfortable fashion apparels all day long. “Since masks are going to be an unavoidable part of our lives for a good time to come, so why not make them fashionable?” opines Shuchi Singh, a Delhi-based author, adding, “It also generates revenue for many small businesses who are designing and producing these masks. I’ve ordered some pretty ones for myself in ikat and pochampally prints (to match with my attires).Some boutique owners have started designing such matching masks out of concern for the safety of their regular customers. Shilpi Gari, who owns a boutique Trisha Fabrics in Delhi’s Rohini, is stitching masks in line with the design and matching colour of the suits that have come to her from her clients. Gari informs, “Masks will continue to be part of our lives due to corona. Ladies ko aur kya chahiye hota hai – matching colour, matching har cheez. All these plain white and black ones have become old now. Ladies want everything in latest fashion. People were demanding ki masks bhi bana do kurte ke saath match karke; so I started making these as well. I’m not charging extra for them though. It’s free of cost, from my side, for their safety. Now that courier services have resumed, more orders are coming in as well.”Rashmi Dawar, a boutique owner in Gurugram adds, “It’s really hot right now, and cotton masks are not just comfortable but also look good. I have started designing them for my clients, and have been getting a lot of enquiries, too. I’m observing that people are going more for matching masks with suits and casual wear than with formal or semi-formal attires.” The store owners at some of the popular suit markets especially in Delhi-NCR, are also cashing in on the rising popularity and necessity of matching masks with suits. Surbhi Maggon, owner of an apparel studio in Rajouri Garden, echoes this sentiment and adds that summer isn’t complete without cottons and “now matching the masks with an ethnic dress is the way to go forward” for many fashion savvy women. Sapna Mangwani, an Agra-based boutique owner says that she’s delivering matching masks in Delhi-NCR, and adds, “We’ve got enquiries from Jaipur, and Bengaluru, too. During the lockdown itself we had thought that whenever we open we’d make masks available along with dresses and suits, in the same material. This will of course help us sustain as well. And in the coming days, we have thought of making matching cotton gloves, which are washable, so that women can wear them when they go out shopping for groceries, etc.” Author tweets @NainaaroraFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/fashion-and-trends/unlockfashion-ladies-amp-up-style-quotient-with-masks-stitched-to-match-ethnic-suits/story-H9iT1W1Xzq4GpwrRSr9eTJ.html
17-06-2020||Patna||116 endangered gharial hatchlings born in Bihar’s Gandak River||On World Crocodile Day on Wednesday, there is good news from Bihar. The birth of 116 gharials on the Gandak River, which flows into Bihar from Nepal and covers over 320km in the state, has made it an occasion for celebration.Samir Kumar Sinha, deputy director of the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), said the river has registered successful breeding of the endangered gharials for three consecutive years now.“It is indeed great news from the Gandak River to make World Crocodile Day celebration special. We were really happy to see little gharials coming out from under the sand. In March, we had carried out a survey and the number came to 260, now it will grow further,” Sinha said.“There was a time when gharials were widespread across the Indian subcontinent, but the number dropped alarmingly by 2006 to put them under the endangered list,” he added.Getting a cue from the congregation of adult male and female gharials, WTI researchers identified three sites along the river with chances of crocodile nesting this year.“One of the potential sites was downstream Ratwal bridge, where we recorded 8-10 adult females in March 2020 survey,” Subrat Kumar Behera of WTI, who led the survey team, said.“We engaged nest watchers from local communities to keep close eyes on gharial nesting. It is important because the nests often get eroded due to a sudden rise in water level and fast current after the release of water from the barrage at Valmiki Nagar in the last week of March,” Behera added.In early April, three nests with 94 eggs of the fish-eating crocodiles were located and shifted to a safe place away from the bank to protect against the erosion.Amid the coronavirus lockdown, a team of four local watchers looked after the nest till the eggs successfully hatched into 86 gharials on June 14 after 65-70 days of incubation.“The hatchlings (gharial babies) were released in the river exactly where the nests were located first. The baby hatchlings were united with the mother,” said Sinha. One nest in the same area, which remained undetected by the team, also hatched with 30 more babies. So, 116 gharial babies have been added to the Gandak River.WTI’s Sinha, who is also the member of the state board for wildlife chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, said the Gandak gharial conservation project had started in 2014 and there has been a consistent and good increase in the number of the critically endangered species in the last few years.“We had released 30 captive-born gharials from the Patna zoo into the river and started monitoring them. We soon discovered that the Gandak provided the natural breeding ground for them. Their number has been consistently on the rise,” he added.Bihar’s forest department started a project with WTI to strengthen the Gandak’s gharial population by releasing the captive-born crocodiles into the river in 2014-15, followed by protection of nests engaging locals.The state holds global importance as the Gandak hosts the second largest population of these reptiles in its current distribution range in India, Nepal and Bangladesh, said Sinha.The State Board for Wildlife, chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, has given nod to notify a 150-km stretch of the river as a Conservation Reserve. It will help not only the critically endangered gharial but also India’s aquatic animal – the Ganges River Dolphin. In a survey in 2018, 155 dolphins were recorded in the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/116-endangered-gharial-hatchlings-born-in-bihar-s-gandak-river/story-JDFrwqqWPO2KItwK1XQwqK.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||AAP MLA Atishi tests positive for Covid-19||AAP MLA and national spokesperson Atishi has tested positive for Covid-19, her party colleagues said on Wednesday. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to wish her speedy recovery. “Atishi ji has played an important role in the fight against corona. I hope that she will get healthy soon and again get involved in serving the people,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. According to sources, Atishi was tested on Tuesday for Covid-19 and her report came positive today. She is presently under home quarantine, the sources said. “Get well soon Atishi, recover soon from Corona,” AAP MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj tweeted. Atishi represents Kalkaji assembly constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-mla-atishi-marlena-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-5zhXKW2OVJTM7hlkz5p2iM.html
17-06-2020||City||Groom kills bride’s minor brother, runs SUV over three relatives||In a shocking incident, a groom killed his nine-year-old brother-in-law and ran his SUV over two women and a teenaged girl, leaving them seriously injured, after heated arguments over the food served.Groom Manoj Kumar and his friends began quarrelling with the bride’s relatives over sweets served to them at the wedding in Shamshabad area on Monday night.“They were inebriated when they started arguing. The elders intervened but they fired at my maternal uncle who escaped unhurt,” said Punit, the bride’s brother.He alleged that his younger brother Pranshu, who was serving water to Manoj and his friends, was whisked away by the accused in an SUV.“While fleeing, they ran their SUV over two women and a teenaged girl, leaving them with serious injuries. We made several calls to Manoj to return along with Pranshu, but he refused. At 3 am the next morning, he left my brother’s body in the village and fled,” Punit claimed.Pranshu’s neck had a strangulation mark and his face was disfigured.The injured -- Vimla, 50, Mithilesh, 35, and Sapna, 17 -- were taken to Lohia district hospital in Farrukhabad where the condition of Mithilesh is said to be critical.According to the FIR filed by the bride’s father Rampal Jaatav, “Manoj Kumar drove a speeding SUV over people standing on the roadside and injured three women relatives. My nine-year-old son was also killed by the groom and his friends.”Kamayganj Circle officer Rajveer Singh Gaur said: “Initial investigation suggests that men from both sides were engaged in a heated argument. The groom drove an SUV over three relatives and possibly also the boy. The victim’s body has been sent for post-mortem. The report will tell if the child was run over by a vehicle or was strangled.”The police is looking for the accused groom and his relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/groom-kills-bride-s-minor-brother-runs-suv-over-three-relatives/story-8D0Yk3toBY1LaQIDnvPaDL.html
17-06-2020||Lucknow||MP Guv put on support system, condition ‘serious but under control’: Hospital||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon has been put on a support system and his condition is “serious but under control”, hospital officials said on Wednesday. “He (Tandon) is on support system. He is not deteriorating. We all are praying he should come out. His condition is serious, but under control,” Medanta Hospital Director Rakesh Kapoor told PTI.  Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel visited the hospital and enquired about the well being of Tandon and wished him a speedy recovery, the UP Raj Bhavan said in a statement here. Tandon, 85, was admitted to the Medanta Hospital here on June 11 with breathing problems, difficulty in urination and fever. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had visited the hospital on Tuesday and enquired about the governor’s health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mp-guv-put-on-support-system-condition-serious-but-under-control-hospital/story-xrzfTxpASENhwe9FaDAL5H.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan police firing: Advocate accused of fabricating evidence sent to police custody till June 21||The court of judicial magistrate Suresh Kumar sent advocate Sohail Singh Brar, who was arrested on Tuesday, to police custody till June 21 for his alleged role in fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan police firing on Wednesday.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents arrested Brar, who was formerly a witness in the case, for allegedly helping the accused cops make fabricated bullet marks on the escort vehicle of former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma, who is an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case.The SIT had sought 10-day police custody of Brar on grounds that his weapon was used to make fabricated bullet marks on the vehicle. “The shells of bullets fired on the escort vehicle are yet to be recovered and Brar’s interrogation could lead to their recovery,” said the SIT, adding that evidence was fabricated on the directions of senior police officials and some politicians. SIT HAS CHANGED ITS THEORY: DEFENCE Defense counsel Gursahib Singh Brar said the SIT had changed its theory. “Now, they claim that Brar’s weapon was used to create marks on an escort vehicle. We challenged their argument, however, the court ordered police custody till June 21,” he said. The SIT probe found that Brar was allegedly involved in making fake bullets marks on the pilot gypsy of the ex-Moga SSP after the police firing incident at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, in which two Sikh protestors were killed. The probe found that the escort vehicle was later allegedly taken to Brar’s house, where around 18 fake bullets marks were created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/behbal-kalan-police-firing-advocate-accused-of-fabricating-evidence-sent-to-police-custody-till-june-21/story-d6ls3eCRhRHH9XfboTYwMP.html
17-06-2020||Lifestyle||Waiting for Akshay Kumar’s response: Delhi Police constable whose Teri Mitti rendition has gone viral||When you hear 21-year-old Rajat Rathore, a constable with Delhi Police, sing the song Teri Mitti from Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar’s movie Kesari (2019), it gives you goosebumps to witness the eerie similarity of his mellifluous voice with that of the original singer, B Praak. No wonder his rendition of the song recently went viral on social media, and has received more than 125k views on Instagram, 35k views on Facebook, and counting. In a telephonic interview, Rathore candid shares, “I sung this song as a tribute to all the corona warriors who have lost their lives... My mother recorded this video at home; she and I uploaded it on our social media handles and from there it got picked by millions of viewers. Since then, from the writer of the song (Manoj Muntashir) to its composer (Arko Pravo Mukherjee), everyone who is associated with the song has sent me a message and appreciated me, except Akshay Kumar. I’m waiting for Akshay Kumar’s response; his presence had made the song this beautiful, and that’s what his message will do for my video as well.”   Teri mitti Full cover On my YouTube check it out 😊🤗 Link in my bio ❤️ My tribute to all corona warriors It's not a song it's a feeling for us ❤️🇮🇳 Let's share this together 😊 mention them 👇🏻👇🏻 @bpraak @ark.pravo.mukherjee @manojmuntashir @zeemusiccompany @dharmamovies @adityadevmusic @akshaykumar Sir thnk u for this song #copthatsings #bpraak #terimitti # viralcop #brave #coronawarriors #akshaykumar #kesari #arko #dharmaproductionsA post shared by  Teri Mitti Rajat Rathor 👮🏻‍♂️ (@rajat_rathor_rj) on May 10, 2020 at 9:06am PDTRathore has made his Instagram account his performance arena, where he posts all his videos. His recent one being a tribute to actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who recently died. A resident of Delhi’s Bhajanpura, this Delhi Police personnel shares that his interest in singing and playing musical instruments was kindled when he was in Std VIII, and he kept his passion alive even after joining the police. “Music is my love, and I have been singing since childhood. In fact, I have even worked as a teacher in a music academy for some time. But things changed after my father’s demise — who was also a cop in Delhi Police — when I got offered a post after him. It has been three years now that I have been working with Delhi Police, and I’ve seen my colleagues making all sorts of sacrifices for the welfare of our people, especially in this time of coronavirus pandemic. That’s why I decided to dedicate this song to the corona warriors!” The viral video has made Rathore an overnight star in his department, and in the public eye, too. Overwhelmed with the sudden attention, he shares that no one knew about his singing talent until now, and adds, “My video has been shared more than 10 million times from various social media handles, and the response has been amazing. When I’m told that my voice is very similar to the original, I just love such a positive feedback.”Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/waiting-for-akshay-kumar-s-response-delhi-police-constable-whose-teri-mitti-rendition-has-gone-viral/story-eXFhbFNaDp9Jd0CapmNMWP.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||AIIMS conducts pilot study to assess effect of radiation therapy on Covid-19 patients||The AIIMS is conducting a pilot study to assess the effect of low dose radiation therapy in alleviating symptoms of pneumonia in coronavirus-infected patients. Dr D N Sharma, head of the Radiation Oncology department at AIIMS and the principal investigator of the research project, said two Covid-19 patients who were on oxygen support were given the therapy last Saturday and their condition has improved since then.“Both the patients, aged above 50, who are admitted at the National Cancer Institute, AIIMS, Jhajjar Centre are off the oxygen support now,” Dr Sharma said.“Radiation therapy usually is given in high doses for cancer treatment but in this case we are giving a safe low dose of radiation at 70 cGy in one sitting to the patient,” he elaborated.The entire treatment takes around 15 to 20 minutes and has no side-effects.According to Sharma, this treatment mode was used till 1940s for treating pneumonia when there were no antibiotics. Under the pilot project, eight more patients will undergo the therapy after which the data of the results will be analysed. If the therapy is found is to be effective in COVID-19 treatment in moderate to severe cases, the research project would be expanded further. “Similar studies are being conducted in the US, Spain and Italy also,” Sharma said.The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 11,903, while the number of cases climbed to 3,54,065 on Wednesday.The government on Saturday released a revised protocol for the treatment of coronavirus infection, allowing use of antiviral drug remdesivir in moderate cases and hydroxychloroquine in patients during the early course of the disease.It also recommended off-label application of tocilizumab, a drug that modifies the immune system or its functioning, and convalescent plasma for treating coronavirus-infected patients in moderate stage of the illness, besides adding loss of smell or taste to the list of Covid-19 symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-conducts-pilot-study-to-assess-effect-of-radiation-therapy-on-covid-19-patients/story-Pxw8a1VSXhk7i4K2CbVDoK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP leader Sonali Phogat, who thrashed official with slipper in Hisar, arrested. Then gets bail||TikTok star-turned-BJP leader Sonali Phogat was arrested and granted bail by a court in Hisar 12 days after she thrashed market committee secretary Sultan Singh with a slipper in full public view during a visit to Balsamand grain market.Sources in the criminal investigation department (CID) of Haryana Police confirmed that Phogat was arrested for the June 5 assault on the public servant and produced before a court that granted her bail.A case was registered against her on Sultan Singh’s complaint under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (hurting public servant to deter him from duty), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The 40-year-old BJP leader was caught on camera slapping and thrashing Sultan Singh. The video clip was widely shared on social media. In her complaint to the police, she said the official made indecent remarks against her.Sultan Singh lodged a counter-complaint against Phogat, denying that he had passed any indecent remark. Rather, he accused her of beating him up on the pretext that he had opposed her during last year’s assembly elections, which she had lost to Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi from Adampur in Hisar district. Bishnoi is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal.One of Haryana’s prominent khaps, Binain Khap, had given the Manohar Lal-led BJP government a week’s ultimatum to arrest Phogat else it would call for a strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-who-thrashed-official-with-slipper-in-hisar-arrested-bailed-out/story-MD2hH59hXuDT8tP7a1JeRO.html
17-06-2020||Lucknow||Locally made clay idols to replace Chinese Gauri-Ganesh in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is planning to make available the locally-made Gauri-Ganesh idols in the markets in place of the Chinese-made on the occasion of Diwali this year. To realise the Chief Minister’s wish, the state’s Mati Kala Board has started working.Sculptors from Gorakhpur, Lucknow-based expert Krishna Kumar Srivastava, UPID (UP Institute of Design) designers Sarika Verma and Vandana Prajapati along with culptorsfrom Gorakhpur will be creating a model.Moulds, sprays and automatic machines will be ordered and given to the people associated with sculpture designing. In addition, the expert team will also give training to those who will produce the product locally.Recently, a meeting was held in this regard under the chairmanship of Navneet Sehgal, General Manager and Principal Secretary, Micro, Small and Medium Industries (MSME), Mati Arts Board. It was decided during the meeting that to compete with the Chinese products in terms of quality and price in making the Gauri-Ganesh sculptures and designer diyas, three things are necessary -- the size (8 to 12 inches) of the idols that are most in demand, Plaster of Paris mould for these sculptures should be introduced, and machines should be used for better and more efficient production.It was also decided that sculpture expert Krishna Kumar Srivastava will model the sculptures. Its mould will be brought from Kolkata. Srivastava, an MA in Fine Arts with specialisation in sculptures said: “We can do better than China. The Chinese viewpoint is just commercial, but our work will be straight from the heart. There are reasons for this. For example, Diwali is our festival, and Gauri-Ganesh is worshiped on this day.”Amarpal, who has also done MA in Fine Arts with expertise in sculpture, says: “For the first time. any head of the state has thought so much about the artistes associated with clay work. So it is our duty to live up to the intent. Four-five models of Gauri-Ganesh idols will be ready soon.”(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/locally-made-clay-idols-to-replace-chinese-gauri-ganesh-in-up/story-ZK03jgjRURhtdmQnjxxrmN.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain tested again for Covid-19||Delhi Heath Minister Satyendra Jain, who has been admitted to a hospital here after running high-grade fever, was tested again for Covid-19 on Wednesday, a senior official said.The 55-year-old minister was brought to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) in the early hours of Tuesday and was administered a test for novel coronavirus infection that morning, for which he tested negative.“He is still running fever. The minister was tested again today after 24 hours of the first test. The results are expected by evening,” a senior official said.Doctors at the RGSSH said his condition is “stable”, but he has been again put on oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendra-jain-tested-again-for-covid-19/story-Ve5OQ4JSdRyNT9TLA6gLDN.html
17-06-2020||Lucknow||507 fresh Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in UP; tally at 14,598||Uttar Pradesh reported 18 coronavirus deaths and 507 fresh cases on Tuesday, pushing the state’s tally to 14,598, officials said.  The death toll in the state stands at 435 now, they said.Among the 18 fresh deaths, three were reported from Agra, two each from Meerut and Bulandshahr one each from Moradabad, Jaunpur, Aligarh, Gonda, Amroha, Etawah, Kannauj, Shamli, Jhansi, Mau and Hamirpur, an official report said here. In the state, 69 deaths were reported from Agra, followed by 62 in Meerut, it said.Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 8,904 people have recovered from the disease and the state has 5,259 active coronavirus cases.He said 13,966 tests were conducted in the state on Monday, adding that accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace those who have returned from other parts of the country.  “ASHA workers have tracked 16.75 lakh migrant workers and among them, 1,463 were found with coronavirus symptoms,” Prasad said.  The state government’s 1.23 lakh surveillance teams have surveyed over 93.42 lakh homes and covered 4.76 crore population, he said, adding that the Aarogya Setu application is also being used to track suspected Covid-19 patients.  “Acting on alerts generated by the application, 83,462 people were called and given advise to protect themselves from the infection,” the official added. Meanwhile, Gautambudha Nagar District Magistrate Suhas LY told PTI that there was no bar on coronavirus patients or suspects from other districts or outside the state in getting medical treatment in Noida hospitals.In the state capital, 19 PAC personnel tested positive for coronavirus within three days and at least 80 people working for the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s helpline service here also tested positive.The helpline service ‘1076’ has been outsourced to a company.While Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Satayarth Aniruddh Pankaj, who was transferred and put on waiting list, tested positive, Samajwadi Party MLA from the Shahganj seat in Jaunpur Shailendra Yadav Lalai also tested positive for the virus, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/507-fresh-covid-19-cases-18-deaths-in-up-tally-at-14-598/story-hU94UxT67zNPkwGRSZowxJ.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||503 isolation coaches in Delhi, 960 overall; Railways ramp up Covid-19 treatment infra||The Railways has deployed 503 isolation coaches in Delhi at nine different stations days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah made the announcement as part of measures to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Wednesday. The units are among the 960 converted coaches deployed in five different states in an effort to augment medical care facilities for Covid-19 patients. While Delhi’s Anand Vihar railway station has got 267 such coaches deployed at its seven platforms, there 50 each in Shakur Basti and Sarai Rohilla. The Railways has deployed 33 coaches in Delhi Cantonment, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 21 at Safdarjung station, 13 each at Tughlaqabad and Shahdara, and 26 at Patel Nagar. A total of 960 isolation coaches have been deployed so far -- 503 in Delhi, 372 in Uttar Pradesh, 60 in Telangana, 20 in Andhra Pradesh and five in Madhya Pradesh, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/503-isolation-coaches-in-delhi-960-overall-railways-ramp-up-covid-19-treatment-infra/story-J2QoX6BdxJEVUYcVM18P8H.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||26 people quarantined in Kullu as cancer patient tests positive for Covid-19 at PGIMER||Twenty-six people were quarantined in Kullu after a 54-year-cancer patient tested positive for the novel coronavirus at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh on Wednesday.The patient was taken to PGIMER on June 14 and was tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday.The patient had been undergoing treatment at PGIMER from May 20 to 29, after which he returned to Kullu and was home quarantined. During his time in Kullu, he had visited the regional hospital and Harihar Hospital, police said. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said the 26 people who had come in contact of the Covid-19 patient had been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/26-people-quarantined-in-kullu-as-cancer-patient-tests-positive-for-covid-19-at-pgimer/story-D559gozHsT2tiCr2wJ4phI.html
17-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand to share its views on Covid fight with Centre in writing: CM Hemant Soren||The Jharkhand government would share its views on the Covid-19 fight with the Centre in writing as Chief Minister Hemant Soren did not get the chance to speak during a video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers on Tuesday. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Soren said that the meeting emphasised on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic together. “Our turn did not come. So, we listened to the Prime Minister and could not put forth our side. But, the PM said that those who could not speak can share their views in writing. So, we can send him (our views) in writing, which is also a medium and that medium will be used,” Soren told reporters after he attended the video conference from the Jharkhand Mantralaya. Health Minister Banna Gupta, Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh, Principal Secretary (Health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni and Director General of Police M V Rao were present during the video conference, an official said. He hinted that the state expected financial assistance, grains for the poor and money to the poor through direct benefit transfer in view of the pandemic-induced economic hardships. Modi held a meeting with chief ministers and Lt Governors of 21 states and union territories on the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-share-its-views-on-covid-fight-with-centre-in-writing-cm-hemant-soren/story-ftOsRPKPHtt7GD5GeAniBP.html
17-06-2020||Ranchi||34 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally now 1,839||Jharkhand reported 34 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 1,839, according to the health department.There are 709 active cases in the state, said a bulletin issued by the department.A total of 1,121 people have recovered, including 121 during the day, it said.The state has recorded nine deaths so far, it added.With 218 active cases, East Singhbhum district has the highest cases, followed by Simdega (114), Koderma (85), Ramgarh (40), Gumla (35), West Singhbhum (46) and Ranchi (46), it said.The state has so far conducted 1,10,813 Covid-19 tests, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/34-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-now-1-839/story-D9tQ10dMLGU2aTFVQewAqJ.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi to get world’s biggest Covid-19 facility, the size of 22 football fields||Delhi is all set to get the world’s largest Covid-19 care facility to help in the treatment of coronavirus disease patients.The national capital recorded the highest number of deaths - 93 - in a 24-hour period (till Tuesday evening). The city now has 44,688 infections in all with 1,837 of them succumbing to the disease.To ramp up the capacity of beds in the national capital, the Delhi government has started converting South Delhi’s Radha Soami Spiritual Centre into a care facility. It will have over 200 halls and 10,000 beds.The area of the spiritual centre is as large as the over 22 football fields. There will also be a provision of accommodation for doctors at one side of the facility.“The complex will be fully ready by June 30 for the treatment of the patients. It is being constructed with tents. It will have adequate lighting and fans. Coolers will also be installed in each hall,” an official of the centre was quoted as saying by new outlets.On Sunday, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal visited the Radha Soami Satsang centre and was apprised with the technical information about the facilities.The Delhi government is seeking to further increase the number of beds available for patients by setting up makeshift hospitals in 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls. The idea is to add 15,800 beds for sick patients. Five hundred converted railway coaches will add another 8,000 beds for the city’s Covid-19 patients.Of the total beds, those in the hotels will be paid facilities with private hospitals pitching in staff and consumables. As per the government’s May 29 order, five-star hotels will be allowed to charge Rs 5,000 and three or four-star hospitals Rs 4,000 per patient per day, with the linked hospitals allowed to charge up to Rs 5,000 for medical services and consumables a day.The state government is in talks with the Delhi Medical Association to provide staff for the makeshift hospitals.After addition of more deaths to Covid-19 fatality count, the mortality rate in Delhi rose to 4.1 per cent. In comparison, the national mortality rate stands at 3.3 per cent.With the number of Covid-19 tests in the national capital increasing to 7,786 on Tuesday, the positivity rate - the number of people who tested positive among those tested – has come down to almost 24 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-world-s-biggest-covid-19-facility-the-size-of-22-football-fields/story-F2VGnfVsLGZf6Bz3aQr9WP.html
17-06-2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar indirectly ticks off oppn, expresses wish to travel out of Patna||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday indirectly ticked off his detractors who have been training guns at him over his alleged reluctance to move out of his official residence since the outbreak of Covid-19.Kumar, who would be running for his fourth consecutive term as chief minister in the assembly elections due in a few months, also said he was confident that the people will “give us another chance to serve them. I always believe in fulfilling promises. My promise for the next tenure is -- har khet ko pani (water for irrigating every farm)”.At a function organized at the CM’s secretariat here, Kumar inaugurated through video conference road construction projects worth more than Rs 500 crore catering to districts like East Champaran, Lakhisarai and Rohtas.With a ghost of a smile on his lips, Kumar displayed mock anger and turned towards Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and said, “I do not feel happy inaugurating projects from so far. From the next time, kindly make arrangements so that we can visit the place concerned and behold the projects upon completion.”  The chief minister also said, “I understand that many restrictions have been put in place because of the coronavirus pandemic. But we can find a way out, observing all the guidelines and social distancing.”  Kumar recalled that he had visited East Champaran and Lakhisarai for laying foundation of Rs 263.43-crore RCC bridge and a barrage involving an expenditure of Rs 146.25 crore, respectively. “I would have preferred to be at these places again, when the projects have been completed for dedicating these to the public. I would have similarly liked to be at Sasaram,” he said, referring to the district headquarters of Rohtas where foundation stone for a 122.39 crore bypass was laid. The chief minister’s remarks came amid repeated barbs by the opposition RJD, and aides-turned-adversaries like Prashant Kishor, that Kumar was feeling “scared” of stepping out of his house.RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav has announced that his party workers across the state will beat drums on June 24 when the 69-year-old Kumar would have “completed 100 days staying at home”.The CM added that he would also like to visit places where works were under progress and review things first hand, in a veiled rebuff to Yadav’s claim that Kumar was unaware of the ground realities and went by whatever inputs he was fed by the bureaucrats. Kumar, who heads the JD(U), also subtly berated his arch rival Lalu Prasad, the founding president of RJD -- which he ousted from power in 2005 -- and said “before we took over, connectivity through roads and bridges was so poor. There has been such a massive improvement since then”. “We also place emphasis on maintenance of roads, since only construction is not enough. I remember when I was a child, my house was situated alongside a major highway and maintenance of roads used to be given priority. Things deteriorated over the years and in the 1990s maintenance seemed to have been given up altogether,” said Kumar, referring to the period during which Prasad and his wife ruled Bihar as successive chief ministers.He also insisted that the response of the people of Bihar to the Covid-19 safety guidelines has been exemplary. Cabinet colleagues like Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav and water resources minister Sanjay Jha were among those who also addressed the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/cm-nitish-kumar-indirectly-ticks-off-oppn-expresses-wish-to-travel-out-of-patna/story-Nijbb5wDe7WoeTQOVu9ZSJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||21-year-old Ankush Thakur from Himachal’s Hamirpur among 20 soldiers killed in Indo-China faceoff in Ladakh||HAMIRPUR A pall of gloom descended on the native village of sepoy Ankush Thakur when the news of his death in a clash between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh was received on Wednesday.The 21-year-old sepoy was recruited into the Punjab Regiment in 2018 and was a resident of Karohta, a village in Bhoranj sub division. His father and grandfather had also served in the Indian Army.Thakur has a younger brother who is studying in Class 6.Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash between India and China on Monday night in the Galwan Valley. As soon as information about his martyrdom was given over phone by the Army Headquarters to Karohta panch Vinod Kumar, people started raising anti-China slogans.They later went to his house to express condolences to the family.Thakur’s body will be given a state funeral, an official spokesman said here.QUIT STUDIES TO JOIN ARMYThakur was always passionate about joining the army. He had enrolled in a BSc course in college, but quit studies to join the army in 2018.His uncle Sunil Kumar said Thakur was home around 10 months ago on a vacation before joining his first posting at Siachen. “His unit had recently returned to the base and he was planning to come home,” he said. The family was also planning a function to celebrate his return and retirement of his father together. However, his unit was immediately deployed in the Ladakh sector.PROUD OF MY SON, SAYS FATHERMeanwhile, the fallen soldier’s father Anil Kumar, who recently retired from Defense Services Corps (DSC), said he is proud of his son. “He has attained martyrdom serving the nation and we are proud of him. However, there is also a grief that he was too young to go. What happened will leave a void in our lives forever,” he said.When asked what kind of response he wants against the Chinese aggression, Kumar said the decision is to be taken by the government.Meanwhile, the slain soldier’s mother was inconsolable and unable to talk.CREMATION ON THURSDAYThe deceased sepoy’s body is being brought to his native village via Chandigarh. Bhoranj SDM Amit Sharma said the body is expected to reach on Thursday. The cremation will take place at the village crematorium with full state honours, said Sharma.CHIEF MINISTER MOURNSMeanwhile, chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over the sepoy’s martyrdom. The CM prayed peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family to bear such irreparable loss. He said Ankush Thakur has laid down his life to save the frontiers and his martyrdom would always be remembered by the people.Former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal also condoled the jawan’s demise and blamed the Chinese authorities.He said the entire nation was behind the Indian forces and ready to face any challenge from the foreign powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-year-old-ankush-thakur-from-himachal-s-hamirpur-among-20-soldiers-killed-in-indo-china-faceoff-in-ladakh/story-qSQ6z4ysPD5bAFTq9WTjxO.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||35-year-old man found murdered in Amritsar||A 35-year-old man was found dead in a plot on 88-Feet Road here on Wednesday. Police said the victim, Ravi Kumar of Majitha Road, a waiter, was murdered elsewhere and his body was disposed of at the plot.The incident came to light around 7am. There were some injury marks on the body,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP-North) Sarabjit Singh. The victim’s younger brother Rahul Kumar said his brother had gone somewhere on Tuesday night with one Manjit Singh and Sona, but didn’t return. “On Wednesday morning, the police informed us of my brother’s murder. We believe that Manjit and Sona killed my brother and left his body on the plot,” he said. “We have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadar police station against unidentified persons,” the ACP said. The victim is survived by his mother, brother, wife and three children—a daughter and two sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/35-year-old-man-found-murdered-in-amritsar/story-NoEC5ye1jT3NwTFs2p1AqI.html
17-06-2020||City||Ancient temple submerged in river Mahanadi, resurfaces in Odisha’s Nayagarh||An ancient temple in Odisha’s Nayagarh, that was submerged in Mahanadi river has resurfaced. The temple is believed to be around 450 to 500 years old had submerged during a flood in 1933.The archaeological survey team of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) recently claimed that they discovered an ancient submerged temple in the Mahanadi upstream from Cuttack.“The temple had submerged a long time back but around 11 years ago, the temple started emerging again. Now the temple is visible a little bit above the water level. A research team is also working on it,” said a villager. The temple was successfully located after repeated attempts by Anil Kumar Dhir and his Project Assistant Deepak Kumar Nayak of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH).The top of the submerged temple was discovered mid-river near Baideswar in the Padmavati village near Nayagarh. The 55 to 60 feet submerged temple dates back to the late 15th or early 16th century, considering the construction style of the Mastaka and material used for the construction.According to INTACH Chief Anil Kumar Dhir, the 55 to 60 feet long temple which belongs to Lord Gopinath, a form of Lord Vishnu dates back to the late 15th or early 16th century.“This temple has a very old history. This temple is around 450 to 500 years old. Lord’s idol from this temple was taken to another temple. We are working on a project--documenting the Mahanadi valley so we were in search of this temple. Around a week ago we were informed that the upper surface of the temple is visible,” said Dhir.“It is in a good state of preservation. The temple should be re-established the temple as we have technology with us. This is not the first submerged temple that has been recovered by us,” he added. The region where the temple has been found used to be regarded as ‘Satapatana’. Padmabati village was part of Satapatana which is a combination of seven villages. The temple was dedicated to Lord Gopinath Dev.With the river changing its course due to flooding 150 years ago, its flow changed and the entire village was submerged by the river in 1933 during a flood.Anil Kumar Dhir said, there are around 65 temples in the area that are underwater but only ‘mastaka’ of Gopinath Deba temple was visible for some years as it was the tallest.Deepak Nayak, who with the help of a local heritage enthusiast Rabindra Rana located the temple, was aware of its existence as the submerged top portion used to be visible in summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ancient-temple-submerged-in-river-mahanadi-resurfaces-in-odisha-s-nayagarh/story-Jo9e1oooKptfOOVaqMuoCP.html
17-06-2020||Patna||Covid-19 death toll in Bihar reaches 39; total number of cases rises to 6,810||The Covid-19 death toll in Bihar reached 39 after a 55-year-old man succumbed to the viral infection, even as the state’s tally climbed to 6,810 with 148 fresh cases, an official said here on Tuesday. At a press conference, state Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the latest casualty has been reported from Katihar district and the man had recently returned from Delhi. Among the fatalities reported earlier in the state, Begusarai, Khagaria and Vaishali districts have accounted for three deaths each, while Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Saran, Sitamarhi and Siwan have reported two deaths each. Districts which have reported one casualty each, besides Katihar, are Araria, Auranabad, Bhagalpur, Jamui, Madhepur, Madhubani, Munger, Nalanda, Nawada, East Champaran, Rohtas, Samastipur and Sheohar. All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases and those with the highest tallies are Bhagalpur (336), Patna (334), Begusarai (318), Madhubani (304) and Khagaria (296). Only five districts – Araria, Arwal, Jamui, Lakhisarai and Sheohar – still have double-digit tallies. The state health secretary asserted that besides a low mortality rate, Bihar also has a good recovery rate and a total of 4,571 people have been discharged from hospitals so far after recovering from the disease. More than 5,000 of the state’s Covid-19 cases have been reported in the past one month and the spike has been attributed to heavy influx of migrants who began coming back to Bihar from across the country since the beginning of May when the Centre agreed to run “Shramik Specials” upon the request of respective state governments. The number of migrants who have returned after May 3 and tested positive for coronavirus is 4,589, the health secretary said. The number of samples tested till date was 1.30 lakh and efforts were on to increase the testing capacity which at present stood at just over 3,500 per day, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-death-toll-in-bihar-reaches-39-total-number-of-cases-rises-to-6-810/story-B2Kwp8VScp59bkOsSD1hxJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports five new Covid-19 cases; PGIMER quarantines 32 staffers||Five women tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday, taking the Union Territory’s Covid-19 count to 370. As many 58 of these cases are active. Three women, aged 26, 30 and 54, have tested positive in Sector 25. They are family contacts of a 35-year-old employee of the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company, who was one of the eight people to test positive for the infection on Tuesday.Two other women, aged 25 and 48, are from Ram Darbar. They, too, are family contacts of a positive case.Meanwhile, three residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and one of Daria were discharged on Wednesday and moved to a quarantine facility. As many as 306 people have recovered while six have succumbed so far.PGIMER STAFFERS QUARANTINEDAs many as 32 “high-risk” healthcare workers, including 17 doctors, at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh have been quarantined after they were exposed to a Covid-19 positive patient.In all, 71 staffers were contact traced after a 42-year-old woman from Punjab’s Kapurthala, who was admitted in a critical condition upon furnishing a negative Covid-19 test report on June 12, tested positive on June 15.All high-risk contacts are quarantined for 14 days from the last day of exposure and they will be tested between the seventh and tenth day of quarantine, stated an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-new-covid-19-cases-pgimer-quarantines-32-staffers/story-BhaxIVSVazHsPssHVcXZhK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seven people test positive in Punjab’s Mohali, district’s Covid-19 count climbs to 191||Seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Wednesday, taking the district’s total count to 191. All cases have been reported from Dera Bassi subdivison, which accounts for 52% of the infections in the district.A 35-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son from Dappar are among the fresh cases. They contracted the virus from the woman’s husband who had tested positive after returning from Delhi on June 8.Other five patients are a 24-year-old man from Zirakpur, and three women, aged 30, 36, and 53, and a man, aged 30, from Dera Bassi town. They, too, are contacts of a positive patient, who had travelled from Delhi recently.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and are responding well to the treatment.Meanwhile, five persons were discharged from hospital on Wednesday. So far, 191 people have tested positive in the district, of which 132 people have been cured and three have succumbed. There are 56 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-people-test-positive-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-186/story-R5iX7jt7IVFhyhoHm4swjK.html
17-06-2020||Kolkata||Dhankhar compared Bengal to Satyajit Ray’s satire on dictatorship, triggers outrage||Nine months of acrimony between West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government reached a new high on Tuesday. It subjected the Raj Bhawan to scrutiny hours after its incumbent compared the state to the dictatorship depicted by film director Satyajit Ray in his landmark 1980 movie Hirak Rajar Deshe (Land of the Diamond King).Ray portrayed a king who was obsessed with his diamond mines and subjected farmers, labourers and students to slavery and clinical brainwashing before being ousted by mass revolution. Produced by the then Left Front government, the film is considered a satire on Emergency and the Congress regime in the ’70s.Dhankhar, a former Janata Dal Lok Sabha MP from Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu and Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs, has been in the eye of the storm for his social media comments ever since becoming a governor for the first time in July last year.“Time to heed message in Satyajit Ray masterpiece-Hirak Rajar Deshe- one of the best satires against state oppression film industry has ever produced. Hirak Rajar Deshe reminds all -every time an evil king attempts to exploit the farmers, the labourers and the rest of the very people who make the kingdom a kingdom of diamonds, the common man will rise in rebellion. Time for all @MamataOfficial to heed and be accountable,” Dhankhar tweeted on Tuesday morning.Though the tweet and the trolls that it triggered did not surprise anyone, politicians and the intelligentsia questioned the constitutional limits of Raj Bhawan. Even those who did not entirely disagree with the spirit of Dhankhar’s imagery found in it a reflection of the turf war between TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Prof Amal Kumar Mukhopadhyay, a political commentator and former principal of Presidency College, questioned Dhankhar’s role as a critic.“I am rather surprised. The governor is the Constitutional head of the state and he should not have made this kind of a comment,” Mukhopadhyay said.“West Bengal is in a bad shape and the government has totally failed to combat the situation. There are agitations in many places. The government cannot escape its responsibility. We think that it is a kind of Hirak Rajar Deshe but the governor should not have made such a comment,” he added.The Congress, which has lost substantial ground in West Bengal to the TMC, saw the tussle between the state and Raj Bhawan as a superficial one even as it described it as a “police state.”“Dhankhar’s statements are politically tilted but all we see is TMC making counter statements. If the TMC seriously feels that the governor is not playing his Constitutional role why hasn’t it met the President of India yet?” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha and Berhampore MP, asked.“When the Congress opposed actions by the governors in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra it met the President. If the Bengal governor’s chair is being abused such a meeting is mandatory,” Chowdhury said.Economist Indraneel Dasgupta of the Indian Statistical Institute minced no words while describing Dhankhar’s statements as “too directly political.”“A governor should not be doing this. If he is unhappy with any action of the state, he can always ask for a report or seek greater consultation with Raj Bhawan. As a private citizen, I may agree or disagree with another citizen’s political posturing but a governor cannot take a politically partisan stance,” said Dasgupta.“There is no rule of law in India and Bengal is no different. But what we are witnessing is akin to a representative of the king narrating the story of the queen,” quipped CPI(M) politburo member Md Salim.The BJP’s state leadership feels that Dhankhar has done no wrong so far and all his actions are aimed at ensuring the welfare of the people.“Nobody can blame Raj Bhawan of raising issues that are not related to well being of citizens. History shows that even dictatorial forces can come to power through a democratic process. This was noted by the makers of our constitution. Hence, they kept the provisions of Section 355 and 356 (central rule),” Jay Prakash Majumdar, the BJP’s state vice-president, said.Reacting to the TMC’s allegation that the governor speaks the language of the BJP, Majumdar said, “Has the governor said anything so far that the Congress and the Left parties have not? Those who criticise him should get the substance of his statements.”Suvashis Maitra, columnist and political observer, pointed out the political nature of Dhankhar’s comments.“The governor’s statements, right from the time he took over, have been politically sensitive and the relationship between Raj Bhawan and the government is getting worse every day. Opposition parties may find this amusing but it is the constitutional system that is being ridiculed. This is not good for citizens,” Maitra said.No TMC leader was willing to comment on records on Tuesday’s tweet by Dhankhar. “The Raj Bhawan, as we said earlier, is an extended office of the BJP,” a senior cabinet minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/oppn-intelligentsia-question-raj-bhawan-s-role-as-dhankhar-compares-bengal-to-satyajit-ray-s-satire-on-dictatorship/story-TiCHyG7J8mBFl8oxT7C49M.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal steps up vigil along China border in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts||After 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a stand-off with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, the Indo Tibetan Border Police has stepped up vigil along the international border in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts of Himachal Pradesh.The ITBP, a frontier force, were on alert after air incursions by Chinese helicopters were reported twice in Lahaul and Spiti district’s Sumdoh sector on April 11 and 20 and then in the first week of May.The ITBP, which mans the international border, conducted fresh recces in the area to assess the movement of Chinese troops across the border. In a recent report sent to the Union home ministry, the ITBP said: “By and large the situation is peaceful but there is a lot of movement of civilian vehicles.”The ITBP deputy commandant visited the border post at Lepcha to conduct fresh surveillance after the faceoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh. The army along with other intelligence agencies also took stock of the situation.“There is no suspicious activity along the border here so far,” a police official said, requesting anonymity.STATE INTEL UNITS ON ALERTThe Himachal Pradesh Police has issued an advisory to district police chiefs of the border districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti, asking them to take precautionary measures to ensure security of the local population and also to collect intelligence that would enable them to draw the plan of action.“All state intelligence units have been alerted,” said superintendent of police, criminal investigation department (CID), Khushal Chand Sharma, who is also the police spokesman.Himachal Pradesh shares a 260-km porous border with China. Of the total border length, 140 km is in the tribal Kinnaur district, while 80km of the border falls in Lahaul and Spiti district.SENSITIVE BORDER POSTSFive battalions of the ITBP guard the border. In all, there are 20 ITBP posts along the Himachal border. The sensitive ones include Kaurik, the last village situated beyond Sumdoh. Besides ITBP posts are situated in Lakuma, Morrang, Morni, Dogri, Rishi Dogri, Domti and Niltah La.The international border is jointly patrolled by the ITBP and the Indian military. Chinese army has been constantly strengthening its infrastructure along the border in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts even as this frontier was peaceful during the 1962 aggression.There are high passes along the Chinese border that forbids the troops from both sides to intrude into each other’s territory.The main passes between China and India in Himachal Pradesh include the Khimokul Pass and Simthong Pass, located ahead of the Trungla Valley, which crosses into China-occupied Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-steps-up-vigil-along-china-border-in-kinnaur-and-lahaul-and-spiti-districts/story-awNdgFhaNF2I6fCslh7TqL.html
17-06-2020||Indore||Indore’s Covid-19 tally rises to 4,134 but officials say chain of transmission broken||The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 11,083 on Wednesday with 134 more people testing positive for the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours.Indore, a Covid-19 hotspot in the state, has been a leading contributor to the tally. It recorded 44 new cases in the said period which took the overall number in the district to 4,134.But health officials say the city has broken the transmission chain of coronavirus.“People of Indore have followed guidelines of Covid-19 lockdown, so the chain of transmission has broken. It is a good thing and people should continue to practice social distancing and also take other precautionary measures,” Mahendra Sharma, Chief Medical and Health Officer, told news agency ANI.He said Indore has so far recorded a good discharge rate and contact tracing is the priority to contain the further spread of Covid-19 in the district.The death toll in the district stands at 182.“Indore has recorded the maximum Covid-19 cases as compare to other cities in the state because we identify contact tracing as much as we can. We hospitalised them and put them into isolation, that is why the percentage of Covid-19 cases has increased,” Sharma said.State capital Bhopal, meanwhile, saw 48 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 2,283. Seventy three people have died due to the disease in Bhopal.The Covid-19 death toll in the state stands at 476, the state health department said.While cases have been reported from all 52 districts of the state, 31 districts haven’t reported new infection since Monday evening, news agency PTI quoted health officials as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/indore-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-4-134-but-officials-say-chain-of-transmission-broken/story-njvIBn9ZJXoximb4AMZDkI.html
17-06-2020||Noida||Fire breaks out at auto parts godown in Greater Noida, fire fighting ops underway||A fire broke out at godown of an auto parts company in Greater Noida early Wednesday, reported news agency ANI. Fire tenders have been rushed to the spot and fire fighting operations are underway. No casualties have been reported.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fire-breaks-out-at-auto-parts-godown-in-greater-noida-fire-fighting-ops-underway/story-1MAovaoHR9okcc0ChyhGWK.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 93 deaths in 24 hrs; 344 more added to toll after review||The Capital added 437 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin on Tuesday, of these, 93 took place over 24 hours pertaining to the report. Most of the other 344 fatalities that were added to the toll, were deaths that took place over all of June, with a few deaths from earlier.So far, 1,837 people in Delhi have died of the infection.The mortality rate in the city rose to 4.1%. In comparison, the national mortality rate stands at 3.3%.The sudden increase in the number of deaths has had the chief minister’s office raise a query with the Directorate General of Health Services to find out the cause for the same. A three-member death audit committee reviews the case sheets, investigations, and death summary before declaring a death as Covid-19 death.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the increase in the number of deaths was a result of the death review committee’s efforts over the last four days to go through all previous mails and add the deaths.“Some of the deaths were missed out as a result of clerical and technological errors – such as attachments not opening, some e-mail getting missed among the bulk, or the wifi not working,” said the official.Delhi also recorded 1,859 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 44,688. With the number of Covid-19 tests in the Capital increasing to 7,786 on Tuesday, the positivity rate – the number of people who tested positive among those tested – has come down to almost 24%. The Delhi government has directed its deputy commissioners, directorate of health services, and the chief district medical officers to collect more than 10,000 samples as part of the government’s efforts to ramp up Covid-19 testing in the city. HT had reported this on Tuesday.On Tuesday, the Delhi government also directed the medical directors of all Covid-19 hospitals to issue a certificate on discharge from the hospitals. According to order by Vikram Dev Dutt, principal secretary health, the discharge certificate has to say, “This is to certify that I have examined …… He/She has recovered from Covid and does not pose a risk to the community. He/She is asymptomatic at the time of discharge.”This is on the lines of ‘immunity passports’ for people who have recovered to return to work, which the World Health Organization has previously warned against as there is no evidence to suggest that people who have recovered are protected from a second infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-93-deaths-in-24-hrs-344-more-added-to-toll-after-review/story-rnICWok2vxY1F5pZxtm3KN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Construction of old-age home begins in Panchkula||The construction of an old age started in Sector 27, Panchkula, on Tuesday, in the presence of Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta.Being constructed at a cost of Rs 1.16 crore, the seven-storey building is scheduled to be completed in two years. “Coming up on a land of 0.8 acre, the old age home will have all facilities needed by senior citizens,” Gupta said.The building will have car parking in the basement while medical examination room, dining area, kitchen and waiting room would be on the ground floor. The first floor will accommodate rooms and gyms to help the senior citizens putting up in this old age home to exercise regularly. “We will ensure that the old age home has all recreational activities for senior citizens staying here to help fight their loneliness,” Gupta added.The building will house 90 rooms that can accommodate about 160 senior citizens of which 10 rooms will be for couples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/construction-of-old-age-home-begins-in-panchkula/story-pYP7dt20Hpcc7Pzx943bbM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-monsoons likely to hit Chandigarh next week||Pre-monsoon showers in the city are just a week away as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with the monsoon also set to keep its date with the city and likely to arrive around two days before the expected date of June 30.As per IMD Delhi, the monsoon had advanced into more parts of Madhya Pradesh and eastern Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, though it was expected to happen around June 20. Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul said, “Monsoon is approaching faster than normal due to prevalent pressure systems. It seems likely that monsoon will arrive in the region, including Chandigarh, Haryana and western parts of Punjab, around two days before June 30.”About pre-monsoons, Paul said, “They usually start around three days before onset of monsoon. But this year, they are likely to start even sooner. We can expect pre-monsoon showers around five days before monsoon’s arrival. Their intensity is likely to be higher than last year owing to the confluence of western disturbances and low-level easterly winds with the monsoon winds.”According to IMD, monsoon rains are expected to be at 107% of the normal 845.7mm estimate, expected between June 1 and September 30, which are considered monsoon months. Mercury continues to riseMeanwhile, the city is currently facing a dry spell, with the maximum temperature reaching the 40 degrees Celsius mark again. Paul said the maximum temperature can rise as high as 42 degrees in the coming days. “A western disturbance is likely to affect the region from Saturday onwards, so light rain can be expected, but it won’t be considered pre-monsoon showers,” he added.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature went up to 40.4 degrees from 40 degrees on Monday, which was two notches above normal. The minimum temperature also rose from 29.6 degrees on Monday to 30 degrees on Tuesday, which was the first time this year that it touched the 30 degree mark. This was five degrees above normal. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperatures will remain around 42 degrees and 29 degrees, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pre-monsoons-likely-to-hit-chandigarh-next-week/story-B8rxigVutuHhMuwkKXQlZJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pending salaries: Contractual employees hold protest at Panjab University||Contractual employees held a protest at Panjab University on Tuesday over non-payment of dues since February.The contractual employees include those working for PU’s construction office, including plumbers and carpenters. They protested outside the university’s administration block and then outside vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office.“We have taken up the issue with authorities many times but we have not been paid yet. We have submitted a representation seeking bills to be passed for the release of dues,” one of the contractual employees said.“Salaries of about 55 workers have been held back since February, many of whom have been working since last 15 years. Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, they are living under financial strain,” the representation which they have submitted to the registrar states. PU executive engineer RK Rai said, “The issue is being looked after and it will be resolved. We are discussing with the contractors and their salaries will be released.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pending-salaries-contractual-employees-hold-protest-at-panjab-university/story-Va59nCGYGhqCy2drEK8b5J.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Audit body asks Chandigarh education dept to explain advance increments paid to 114 teachers against UGC norms||The director-general of audit has sought clarifications from the Chandigarh education department regarding payment of advance increments to 114 teachers in city colleges, including principal of Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 11, Rama Arora.Raising red flags, the audit party has prepared an ‘advance para’ regarding “irregular and inadmissible grant of advance increments in violation of University Grants Commission (UGC) norms” and has asked the department to furnish a reply within three weeks.It is pertinent to mention that two days after receiving the letter on May 27, director of higher education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, formed a committee to furnish the reply which interestingly, Arora is a member of.The audit department noted that Arora was granted three non-compounding advance increments based on her PhD degree in Physics. However, her concerning work was in mathematics in contravention to UGC regulations.The audit para further said that “Records indicated that she attended the course at Punjabi University, Patiala, from 4pm to 6pm and was simultaneously present in PGGC, Sector 11.”Further, no documentary evidence regarding process of admission, registration, course work and external evaluation was found on records regarding Arora’s PhD, the audit para cites.The records further indicate that similar discrepancies were also found in cases of 114 other assistant professors. In fact, show-cause notices were also issued to all of them asking why their PhD increment should not be withdrawn as they do not fulfill any conditions laid down in UGC regulations of 2010. The matter is also pending with ministry of human resource development and UGC for over a year.The audit department noted that “The financial implications at this stage cannot be ascertained as the payment is incremental and being paid till date.” However, it is estimated that the overall loss to the exchequer could be around Rs 40 crore.The audit party has asked the education department to justify the objections raised and quantify the amount paid to Arora and the other assistant professors.Arun Kumar Gupta, education secretary said he “needs to check” whereas director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “The report of the committee and reply to show cause notices will be submitted to the audit party.”Rama Arora refused to entertain any queries. However, on her involvement as a committee member, when she is named in audit para, Brar replied, “She is engaged as a principal of PGGC 11 not as a professor. She would rescue from signing the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/audit-body-asks-chandigarh-education-dept-to-explain-advance-increments-paid-to-114-teachers-against-ugc-norms/story-nfLNUlGF0apABOEAVshwVI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to start next semester online from July 27||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to start conducting online classes for the next semester from July 27. The decision was taken in a meeting of its senate on Tuesday.In the next semester, Saturdays will be working days, and three classes of one hour each will be held per day.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We have decided to go online for the next semester without further delay. Pending exams will be conducted in December if the situation allows.”A committee to decide the online platform that will be used has also been formed.For now, PEC has decided that examinations for the next semester will be held physically on November 4, if the situation allows, following which pending exams will be held in December after a three-week gap. “These three weeks will be given to students to revise the previous semester’s syllabus. We are expecting the situation to improve by November and only then will examinations be held physically,” Sanghi said.In May, PEC had decided to assess outgoing students based on performances till March. But, exams of first, second and third year students are still pending. In the next virtual semester, students will be given an option to choose one subject less. The departments will decide which subject will be exempted. Students will take the subject they have left out later during their course.It has also been decided that all intermediate assignments will be taken online during the upcoming semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-to-start-next-semester-online-from-july-27/story-xiEGAoVBPPEOBfmW7f6cEM.html
17-06-2020||City||Filing of fresh cases begins in Mohali district courts||After a three-month hiatus, filing of fresh cases has finally started in the district courts here. Disclosing this here on Tuesday, president of the Mohali District Bar Association Manpreet Singh Chahal said, “Now, all kinds of new cases can be filed in the court but, for the time being, the hearing will be held only on urgent cases. One advocate cannot represent more than two cases in a court and hearing on newly filed non-urgent matters will be adjourned for the time being till next dates.” He said, “At a meeting held with district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai, it was decided that, at present, in view the coronavirus, minimum attendance of the public should be ensured. Therefore, no hearings shall be held on non-urgent matters, except anticipatory bail pleas and stay matters.” He added, “In case all the parties concerned agree, then normal cases may be heard with the permission of the court.Since the implementation of lockdown in March, the work in the courts has almost come to a standstill and no case has been filed other than cases of anticipatory bail and stay. No hearing is being held in the pending cases as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/filing-of-fresh-cases-begins-in-mohali-district-courts/story-zPEDY6Qk0RsNo0qYn3ltWP.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Out-of-work mobile repair mechanic turns thief in Chandigarh||Out of work due to lockdown, a mobile phone mechanic was arrested with 33 mobile phones worth Rs 9 lakh, stolen from a shop in Sector 37 here on the intervening night of May 27 and May 28.The accused, Mani Rattan, 27, of Bhaskar Colony, Sector-25, who has no previous criminal record, is learnt to have told the police that he, along with his accomplices, committed the theft to meet daily expenses as they had no work owing to lockdown.Having studied up to Class 12, Rattan is a mobile repair mechanic, who works from his house.He told the police that he, along with his three accomplices, had broken into the shop by breaking the shutter lock of the kiryana store behind the shop. They had then broken the partition to gain entry into the shop, he said.Rattan was arrested at a naka near the UIT Gate, Sector-25, during the checking of vehicles on a tip- off. During the checking, the police recovered one stolen mobile phone from his possession.On May 28, Anil Dhingra of Sector-21, had lodged a complaint with the police that thieves had stolen 55 mobile phones from his shop in Sector-37.Rattan was produced before a district court, Sector-43, here and remanded to 3-day police custody. Efforts are on to arrest his accomplices, identified as Islam, Rohin and another||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/out-of-work-mobile-repair-mechanic-turns-thief-in-chandigarh/story-JkDkac1Un7lAU9htblPxXL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Disclosure of income doesn’t invade privacy of schools: Chandigarh admn to HC||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that disclosure of income and expenditure of schools on their websites doesn’t amount to invasion of their privacy and would not be violation of any rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India.The administration has termed these schools ‘public entities’ as they have been established on government land and has argued that they are bound to follow directions issued by the administration from time to time with regard to fee regulation.The response was submitted in a plea filed by private schools’ association challenging the order asking schools to upload balance sheets on their websites. The Independent Schools’ Association has also challenged constitution of Fee Regulatory Authority constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act that was adopted by UT in 2018.The Chandigarh administration has reasoned that the law was adopted with some amendments with an intent to advance transparency and accountability which are the essential features of the mechanism to be provided for fee regulation. Moreover, the law was enacted following high court’s direction to regulate fee and save parents from whimsical decisions of private schools in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the administration told the court. UT has argued that schools were asked to upload balance sheets in consonance with provisions of the law and upon complaints of profiteering and some parents seeking waiver of fee in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Many of them did not upload balance sheets and did not respond to the show cause notice served to them for failing to comply with the order, the administration said. But, they chose to challenge it here, UT has told court demanding that petition be dismissed and they be asked to approach competent authority in UT with their grievance, if any. The matter will be taken up on Wednesday again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disclosure-of-income-doesn-t-invade-privacy-of-schools-chandigarh-admn-to-hc/story-pw7vLpHBZAqWKNH295jGKN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||27-year-old held with 10g heroin in Chandigarh||A 27-year-old resident of Sector 35 was arrested with 10 gram heroin, the police said on Tuesday. Ankit Kapoor was arrested behind the Sector-35D market on Monday and the drugs were found in his possession. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against him.TWO HELD FOR GAMBLINGTwo persons were held for gambling, the police said on Tuesday. Accused Vikas and Ankit both residents of Sector 49 were caught gambling at EWS Colony on the backside of Gurdwara Dasmesh Darbar on Monday. An amount of Rs 690 was found on them. A case was registered, and the accused were later bailed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-year-old-held-with-10g-heroin-in-chandigarh/story-G0QPyfmjy91bt1dO9p6D4M.html
17-06-2020||City||Five of six new cases in Panchkula from other cities||Six persons, including the wife of a health worker, were found Covid-19 positive in Panchkula on Tuesday.The 45-year-old woman’s husband and two sons work as Group-D staff in the civil hospital at Sector 6. She had recently attended a cremation at Rajpura. With her testing positive, the total number of cases reported from Panchkula is now 53.The others found infected are four people from Delhi and a Lucknow man, who was visiting Kandi village near Sector 20, Panchkula. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 53 people had tested positive in the district so far, while 28 of these cases had been discharged, leaving 25 active cases. Chief medical officer (CMO) Jasjeet Kaur said all patients were admitted in the isolation ward of the civil hospital. CONTAINMENT ZONESMeanwhile, the deputy commissioner on Tuesday declared Gugamedi near Tangra Kaliram village in Kalka as a containment zone, while the areas nearby have been declared as buffer zone. As per the orders of DC, House Numbers 206 to 208, 220 to 222 and the alongside street in Housing Board Colony, Kalka, is a containment zone. CMO Jasjeet Kaur has been directed to constitute teams to ensure door-to-door screening with special focus on people with flu symptoms. Besides, the DC has directed the civic body to ensure sanitisation of the area and clearing of solid waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-six-new-cases-in-panchkula-from-other-cities/story-P5kmZOYM2fL3wPwh50ESXL.html
17-06-2020||City||Three with travel history among four new cases in Mohali||Four patients, including three with recent travel history, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, making the district tally 184.The patients include a 22-year-old man from Sector 127, Kharar. He had recently returned from Ahmedabad.A 44-year-old man, who had travelled to Delhi, was also found positive. The Phase 10 resident and was admitted to a private hospital in Sector 71 with renal transplant complications.A Sante Majra resident, aged 43, who had returned from Gurugram, and a 70-year-old man from Baltana, Zirakpur, are the other two patients. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said out of the 34 cases reported in the district in the past three days, most had travel history or were contacts of those who had travelled.Among them nine had returned from Delhi (4), Mumbai (1) and Uttar Pradesh (4), while 18 positive cases were their family members or close contacts. He said they were working to trace the source of infection of the other seven patients.Of the 184 case reported so far, 54 are active, 127 cured and three have died.Two patients discharged Two patients, including a 31-year-old man and a 57-year-old woman, were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. Both are residents of Rishi Apartments in Sector 78, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-with-travel-history-among-four-new-cases-in-mohali/story-ZAduTor0ADj47B6zc8eoBL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Roadside parking not allowed in Ludhiana’s Feroze Gandhi market||In a relief to residents visiting Feroze Gandhi market, the municipal corporation (MC) has disallowed parking on road sides in the latest contract awarded to the parking contractor. Now, cars and two-wheelers can be parked only in demarcated parking lots in the market.Raising a hue and cry over traffic jams in the market, the market association had complained against fee being charged by the contractor for cars parked on roadsides for long periods of time. As per MC officials, traffic police have also been asked not to allow roadside parking.MC secretary Neeraj Jain said,”The contractor had sought permission for road side parking, but it has not been allowed.” Last week, the finance and contracts committee (F and CC) of the MC had approved resolutions to allot two parking lots – Feroze Gandhi Market and Sarabha Nagar Block – I.An e-auction for the lots was held in March. Highest bids of Rs 1.1 crore and Rs 4.5 lakh for the Feroze Gandhi Market and Block-I market lots were received respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roadside-parking-not-allowed-in-ludhiana-s-feroze-gandhi-market/story-HNWZRQzH7uYMM5DiMLG6NM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Diesel price hits all-time high; Ludhiana petrol pump owners, transporters cry foul||harsinran.batra@htlive.com Raising a hue and cry over the increase in the value- added tax (VAT) on fuel, announced by the state government on Monday, petrol pump owners rued that the price of diesel has increased by around Rs 7 per litre during the last week and its price on Tuesday -- Rs 69.54 per litre -- hit an all-time high in the past seven decades. Ruing that the price of petrol increased by Rs 1.03 per litre and that of diesel by Rs 1.47 on Tuesday, members of the Ludhiana Petrol Pump Dealers Association are contemplating to launch an agitation against the government. Prices of petrol and diesel on Tuesday were Rs 78.40 and Rs 69.54 per litre respectively. President of the Ludhiana Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Ranjit Singh Gandhi, said, “The government did not even provide relief when crude oil prices were at an all-time low during lockdown. It is a two-fold blow to petrol pump owners as the demand is already low due to lockdown and, with this increase in the price, the neighbouring states with low rates, will attract more customers. Both Union and state governments are not paying heed to the problem being faced a common man, but the government is interested in only collecting taxes.”Gandhi said petrol pump owners are contemplating to launch an agitation in the coming days in association with industry and transport sectors.“At a time when the government should provide essentials to residents at low rates, the government has increased the prices of fuel, which would result in inflation due to rise in the transportation cost,” said Gandhi. Chairman of the association Ashok Sachdeva said, “The sector has already been hit hard due to lockdown since March and the announcement of weekend lockdown now has added to their woes, as sales have gone down to around 10-15% on weekends. The government needs to review its policy as a common man needs a relief at this time of crisis.”‘DOUBLE WHAMMY’ FOR TRANSPORTERSReeling under losses due to low demand, transporters rued that the government has added to their woes by increasing the price of diesel by Rs 10 per litre during the lockdown period.President of the Ludhiana Goods Transport Association Didar Singh said, “The demand is low as the factories are not being run at full capacity and we are also facing shortage of labour. It is a double whammy for the transporters as we had to reduce the transportation charges/fare due to low demand and competition in the market, but the input cost is increasing every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diesel-price-hits-all-time-high-ludhiana-petrol-pump-owners-transporters-cry-foul/story-xGQVrhZy1r4W2nVEPJfYSI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||18 pockets in Bapu Dham Colony lose buffer zone tag||Barring few blocks of houses in the buffer zone, the UT administration lifted perimeter control from all 18 pockets of Bapu Dham Colony on Tuesday.The latest to lose the buffer zone tag are pocket numbers 4, 5, 7, 13, 14, 16 and 20. However, some houses here will still remain under perimeter control restrictions.While buffer zone curbs were removed from pockets 1, 6, 10, 11 and 12 on June 8, as they did not have any active Covid-19 case, pockets 2, 3, 9, 17, 18 and 19 were cleared on June 2.The administration’s decision comes at a time when residents of the colony have been up in arms over placing even areas with no active case under strict restrictions.Of the total 20 pockets in the colony, now only pocket number 15 remains as a containment zone. The only other containment zone, pocket number 8, was cleared of restrictions on June 8.On Monday, the area affected committee, comprising the MC commissioner, deputy commissioner, health department officials and a WHO representative, had decided that there was no need to continue the restrictions.GUV, UT OFFICIALS ATTEND PM’S TELECONFERENCEPunjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore and other senior UT officials, including UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida and home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, attended a teleconference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers. The meeting was called to discuss the strategies to tackle the health crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Chandigarh’s recovery rate is highest in the country. A major area of concern for the city is the recent spike in Covid-19 cases outside the containment zone, largely due to the positive cases being reported from among the people coming from outside,” said an official, who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-pockets-in-bapu-dham-colony-lose-buffer-zone-tag/story-PPZ5wO0LyIqjFaorrKw3XI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Juvenile among two held for snatching mobile in Chandigarh||Two persons including a juvenile were apprehended for snatching a mobile phone of a Sector-27 resident here on Tuesday.One of the accused was identified as Sunny, 18, of Sector 28.On June 15, Anjali Sharma in her complaint told the police that she was on an evening walk when near the Sector-20 mosque, two persons came on an Activa scooter and snatched her mobile phone. She noted down the number of the Activa.Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested Sunny from Palika Bazar in Sector 19 and seized the two-wheeler. On Sunny’s disclosure, the juvenile was also held and the snatched mobile phone was found in his possession.Sunny will be produced before the court on Wednesday while the juvenile was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board on Tuesday.A case under sections 356 (using force to commit theft) ,379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/juvenile-among-two-held-for-snatching-mobile-in-chandigarh/story-4dCCXcQj3BMvqcAaWlsrBI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||1,048 bottles of spurious sanitiser confiscated in Ludhiana||At a time when people are living under the fear of Covid-19 and forced to buy facemasks and sanitisers, some unscrupulous elements are using the challenging time as an opportunity to con people by selling spurious sanitisers.A team, led by Zonal Licensing Authority (Drugs) Kulwinder Singh, seized 1,048 bottles of spurious sanitiser being sold in the market on Tuesday. While the accused, identified as Lavish Kumar Grover, managed to escape, the team managed to seize the consignment of spurious sanitiser and the Ford Endeavour SUV, in which the accused had come to deliver the consignment.It is learnt that Grover, who is already facing charges of selling spurious health supplements, was selling the sanitiser by claiming to be an agent of the company concerned.ZLA Kulwinder Singh said the seizure was made following a trap laid by the owner of the firm on whose brand name the accused was selling the spurious hand sanitiser.“On the basis of a complaint received from the proprietor of the firm, M/s Ron and Baker, Ambala, Haryana, regarding the sale of spurious product, Medshield hand sanitiser of his company, a team comprising drug control officers (DCOs) Rupinder Kaur and Rooppreet Kaur, conducted a raid on a site opposite the Malhi Farm, Haibowal Kalan, and seized 1,048 bottles of spurious hand sanitiser,” said Kulwinder Singh.Kulwinder Singh added proprietor of the firm, Ron Baker, Sunil Dutt, had received complaints that one Lavish Kumar was selling spurious hand sanitisers of Dutt’s company and, by doing so, he was spoiling the image of his company.Sunil Dutt pursued the matter and posed himself as a decoy customer and, on his demand, Lavish Grover came on SUV for delivery of spurious sanitiser opposite the Malhi Farm.As Lavish parked his SUV, Sunil Dutt parked his vehicle behind that of Lavish, so that he could not flee in the vehicle when caught.In the meantime, the team raided the site and, on seeing the team, Lavish Grover fled leaving behind the sanitiser bottles and his SUV. Two types of drug sanitisers (total 32 bottles) were taken for test and analysis. Besides a total of 1,016 x 120 ml units of spurious sanitiser were recovered.Kulwinder Singh, said, “The recovered product is imitation of the original product, Medshield. Its label bears the name of company, M/s Ron and Baker, but actually it is not the product of the firm as per the statement and complaint of proprietor of Ron and Baker, Sunil Dutt.”Lavish Kumar and his accomplice Rahul were booked under Section 17-B of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940 and the matter was referred to police for registration of an FIR under section 17-B read with Section 36 AC of the said Act, said Kulwinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-048-bottles-of-spurious-sanitiser-confiscated-in-ludhiana/story-9a9cL453xWI8R93LOSpKVO.html
17-06-2020||City||Punjab State Women Commission seeks investigation report on assault on Ludhiana woman||In a case of assault where a woman was dragged in the streets of Gidri village of Doraha, the Punjab State Women Commission has ordered the police to take action and produce the investigating report in 10 days.The woman had approached the commission on June 2, a month after the incident, alleging that the police were favouring the accused and had lodged the FIR under bailable sections.The 36-year-old woman, who is a widow, said that despite producing a video recording of the incident, the police had remained unmoved.In her complaint, the woman stated that she had lost her husband four years ago. On May 2, when she was dusting outside her home, accused Avtar Singh, his two sons Ajmer Singh and Amandeep Singh, Ajmer’s wife Baljinder Kaur and Amandeep’s wife Aman turned up there.She alleged that the accused had thrashed her and dragged her to their home, where the accused tied her. She also alleged that the accused had torn her clothes and also attempted to rape her. Meanwhile, some onlookers had recorded the incident.The victim said she had complained to DIG Ludhiana on May 27 for adding sections of attempt to rape and kidnapping in the FIR, but to no avail. Union Human Rights Organisation president Satnam Singh Dhaliwal and general secretary Komal Sharma who are helping the victim alleged that the police are hand in gloves with the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-state-women-commission-seeks-investigation-report-on-assault-on-ludhiana-woman/story-gpkr6MPLqw25LoTwnWCkWL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt employee among eight new cases in Chandigarh, tally climbs to 365||A 35-year-old employee of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), Sector 35, was among the eight new Covid-19 cases confirmed in the city on Tuesday. The total number of cases now stands at 365.According to health officials, the staffer last attended office on June 4, prompting them to test his 18 workplace contacts and four family contacts. The source of infection is not known. His 10 community contacts are asymptomatic at the moment.Out of the other seven cases, two have been reported from Sector 41, three from Khuda Ali Sher and one each from Bapu Dham Colony and Ram Darbar.The Sector 41 patients - two females, aged 22 and 54, from the same family, are contacts of a positive patient who had recently returned from Delhi.The Khuda Ali Sher patients are two males, aged seven and two, and a 55-year-old woman. Officials said they were family contacts of a couple, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh and were found positive earlier.At Bapu Dham Colony, a 12-year-old boy, who is the family contact of another positive patient, was also confirmed infected.The man tested positive in Ram Darbar is 58 years old. He is a workplace contact of four positive patients, who are employees of a private factory in Dera Bassi. Authorities have traced his 23 community contacts, while two family contacts are asymptomatic. Meanwhile, an 80-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony was discharged from PGIMER and shifted to the Post Discharge Quarantine Facility at Sood Dharamshala.With this, 302 of the total 365 patients have recovered so far, leaving 57 active cases. A total of six people have succumbed to the virus. The city’s recovery rate stands at 82.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-employee-among-eight-new-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-climbs-to-365/story-3X5s2dYAzltqj4Yh4RMp5L.html
17-06-2020||City||Congress workers protest against BJP in Ludhiana||The general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), Krishan Kumar Bawa, on Tuesday organised a demonstration against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Bharat Nagar Chowk.Bawa said that the BJP only cared about Adanis and Ambanis. “They don’t know about the problems faced by common people and farmers.” He further added that BJP was the government that sold airports, railway stations and even the Red Fort to fulfil their financial needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-workers-protest-against-bjp-in-ludhiana/story-kF5xHse9MZKd8va6NX0eIN.html
17-06-2020||City||Man collapses on footpath in Navi Mumbai, dies||An unidentified man in his mid-fifties died after collapsing on the footpath in front of a bank near Nerul railway station on Tuesday afternoon.Some locals called the police, following which he was rushed to a civic hospital in Vashi, where he was declared dead. The police are awaiting his post-mortem report to establish the cause of death.The man was wearing a grey T-shirt and beige trousers, said the police. No identification documents were found from him. “We are trying to trace his relatives. So far, it is unclear if he suffered from any disease. It will only be clear after the autopsy report,” said Rajendra Chavan, senior inspector at Nerul police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-collapses-on-footpath-in-navi-mumbai-dies/story-l8GddF8C3NMQsNaPZPUkdI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Robbery in Ludhiana’s Heera Nagar: Police find no women in CCTVs as described by victim||A day after an alleged robbery of Rs 8 lakh and gold jewellery in a house in Heera Nagar on the Noorwala road on Monday, the police scanned all CCTV cameras in and around the colony, but did not find any women captured in the CCTVs as described by victim Rashneet Kaur, which made the police suspect the statement of the victim.Rashneet Kaur, who was admitted to a hospital after she had fallen unconscious, has recovered and she has been discharged from the hospital.The police have scanned at least 10 CCTVs installed at different locations in the colony and the Noorwala road.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at the Basti Jodhewal police station, said the police have, however, registered a case against unidentified women under sections 455 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint). and 380 (theft in the dwelling house, etc) of the IPC following a complaint by Gurdev Singh, father-in-law of the victim, as the victim was not in a condition of recording her statement.After gathering consciousness, the woman had told the police that, when she was alone at home, two women, posing as general surveyors, had rung the doorbell. After she opened the gate, the women demanded water to drink and she allowed them to come to the verandah.She said she offered them water and they asked some general questions about the family.“In the meantime, the women overpowered me and assaulted me with a blunt weapon. After I lost consciousness, the women robbed Rs 8 lakh and 300gm gold jewellery from the almirah,” Rashneet added.The SHO added the police are investigating the case from all angles and would solve the case very soon.No colony resident has also confirmed that they had seen two women conducting a door-to-door survey in the colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/robbery-in-ludhiana-s-heera-nagar-police-find-no-women-in-cctvs-as-described-by-victim/story-PzrDzdSCbPWHbOrKmUSfVK.html
17-06-2020||City||Five-year-old boy burnt alive in Kharar village fire||A five-year-old boy was burnt alive after a massive fire broke out in the slums at Teur village in Punjab’s Kharar town on Tuesday.As many as 43 families were left roofless as their shanties were destroyed in the fire that broke out around 3.30pm. All their household articles were ravaged.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced Rs 2 lakh as ex-gratia relief for the family of the deceased, apart from ordering the district administration to assess the losses of the families and provide them relief.“A boy named Aditya, aged five, sustained 100% burns and died. A woman also sustained burn injuries. The civil and police officials immediately reached the spot, and two fire tenders were deployed to douse the flames,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Kharar fire station officer Mohan Lal Verma said though the fire broke out at 3.30pm, they received an alert at 4.15pm, and by the time, the fire brigade reached the spot, everything was gutted. He said the reason behind the fire was yet to be ascertained, but could have been caused by a gas stove in one of the shanties.Verma said most of the occupants of the shanties were away at work and only three to four women were present there. As the fire broke out, the women rushed out to safety, but the five-year-old boy ran back inside and was burnt alive. The injured woman was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital, he said.“I have lost everything in the fire, including all my household articles. Most of the families staying here work in farmers’ fields. We don’t know what to do now,” said Hamraj Kumar, a migrant.Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain, who reached the spot, said the boy was cremated and all families were temporarily shifted to a local government school where they were being provided food.Five-year-old boy burnt alive in Kharar village fire||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-year-old-boy-burnt-alive-in-kharar-village-fire/story-BAr4yEmMTxfDTDgL4nrBUK.html
17-06-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 11 accused are Covid positive||Eleven people accused in the Palghar lynching case, who have been lodged at Wada police station, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday evening.“The samples of six other accused in the case had also been collected on June 11. But their results came negative. All the 11 accused are now admitted to the Covid Care Hospital at Posheri in Wada, but we will be shifting them to the prisoners’ isolation ward of the Rural Hospital, Palghar, as the Wada centre is reserved for those in the essential services staff who contract the virus,” said Dr Vanere.More than 150 villagers arrested for lynching two sadhus and their driver on April 16 in Gadchinchale have been lodged at Wada, Dahanu, Kasa, Vikramgadh, Talasari and other police stations to avoid overcrowding. Last month, one of the accused lodged at the Dahanu jail had also tested positive, taking the total number of Covid-positive accused in the case to 12. Meanwhile, the total Covid-19 cases in Palghar district have now surged to 2,018. The death toll stands at 68 deaths, with the most number of death (60) having been reported from areas under the Vasai-Virar corporation, followed by Vasai Rural (five) and Palghar taluka (three), an official from the Palghar district information office(DIO) Palghar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-11-accused-are-covid-positive/story-VmB8OqsCXuRuasDuizXc4O.html
17-06-2020||City||Vendor run over by train in Thane while crossing tracks||A 34-year-old fish vendor died after he was run over by a train while crossing the railway tracks between Kalwa and Thane stations on Tuesday at 9.15am. The police have filed an accidental death report in the case. According to the government railway police (GRP), Kalwa resident Rizwan Abdul Shaikh was going to Mumbra for work. Smita Dahke, senior police officer, Thane GRP, said, “The accident happened near Parsik Tunnel, when the man was crossing the railway tracks. The motor man of the train informed authorities at Thane railway station about the incident, following which his body was taken for post-mortem and his family was also informed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vendor-run-over-by-train-in-thane-while-crossing-tracks/story-d8OsFQjxdGXKD7WjVHR5zM.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra power distribution company resumes meter reading||The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), which has more than 2.5 crore consumers in the state, has started sending its staffers for meter readings. This could prove beneficial to scores of consumers who have received bills based on average meter readings in the past two months, owing to the lockdown. An official said that with actual readings, the past readings will also be adjusted, and the slab benefits (if any) for previous months will be passed on to the consumer in the next bill. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), MSEDCL supplies power to parts of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Vasai-Virar regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-power-distribution-company-resumes-meter-reading/story-X14WfaFqlufs5eJWwCrxQJ.html
17-06-2020||City||65-year-old dies, 25 including cop test Covid +ve in Ludhiana; total count 417||A 65-year-old man died while 25 others, including a cop, tested positive on Tuesday as Ludhiana continued to witness a spike in Covid cases.The deceased identified as Ratti Ram, a resident of Basti Jodhewal, was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) this morning and died later during the day.Sub-inspector (SI) Jatinder Singh, 52, posted at Shimlapuri police station also tested positive. He has been suffering from high fever ever since he returned from Delhi.According to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, 26 positive cases have been reported in the district, out of which 21 are from Ludhiana and one each from Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Kapurthala, Faridkot and Bihar.He said the 21 positive cases from Ludhiana are from containment zones of Chhawani Mohalla, Habibganj, and other areas including Kohara, Bindra Colony, Division No 3, Kakowal Road, Doraha, Basti Jodhewal, Meharban Colony, Punjab Mata Nagar, Daba Lohara and Manuke.Sharma said to date, a total of 19,418 samples have been taken, of which reports of 17,518 samples have been received. Of these, 16,967 samples returned negative and reports of 19,002 samples are pending. The DC said the total number of patients from Ludhiana are 417, while 134 patients are from other districts/states.As many as 13 people from Ludhiana and nine from other districts and states have lost their lives so far. The DC said another 51-year-old person from Delhi who was posted as senior divisional mechanical engineer in Railway division, Ferozepur, passed away at CMCH on Tuesday. He was suffering from blood pressure, asthma, pneumonia and fever.Sharma said that 227 patients of Ludhiana had been discharged from hospitals after being treated. To date, 10,608 persons have been quarantined; and at present, the number of these persons is 3,425. On Tuesday, 311 persons were sent to home-quarantine.Meanwhile, 854 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-dies-25-including-cop-test-covid-ve-in-ludhiana-total-count-417/story-0DYFqnLUItAjyerML3J9CP.html
17-06-2020||City||Need clarity on face-off with China: Shiv Sena MP||Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha parliamentarian Priyanka Chaturvedi demanded clarity from the Centre over the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh that has claimed lives of 20 Indian soldiers. She said the elected Opposition should be taken into confidence. Chaturvedi, who is the deputy leader in the party, took to Twitter and advised the Centre to not “feed propaganda” to the media while giving out information. “Dear GOI, You have the best interest in mind but we need clarity. The nation stands with you in solidarity but they deserve to know it isn’t a good idea even strategically to not take the elected opposition in confidence Lastly, do not feed propaganda to the media. Just facts,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-clarity-on-face-off-with-china-shiv-sena-mp/story-Jwh8saxUi1CeaTCRwGlx5K.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor meets CM’s wife, offers condolences on her father’s demise||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday met Rashmi Thackeray, the wife of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and conveyed his condolences on the demise of her father Madhavrao Patankar, who died early on Monday morning after prolonged illness at a suburban hospital. Koshyari visited Patankar’s home, which is located at Kalanagar in Bandra (East), near Thackeray’s residence Matoshree.The development comes amid reports of an ongoing tussle between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Governor on a series of issues.On June 2, the Governor took strong objections over the CM’s decision to scrap the final-year exams for universities this year owing to the coronavirus outbreak. Koshyari said the CM’s announcement on the exams was “unprecedented’ and made “without any profound thinking” on legal repercussions. He also asserted that he is the chancellor of all the universities and the final authority, as far as the affairs of the universities is concerned and so the decision over exams will be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act.Prior to the issue of university exams, MVA government criticised the Governor for the delay in nominating Uddhav Thackeray as a Member of Legislative Council (MLC), despite a request by the state cabinet to avoid constitutional crisis in Maharashtra. Koshyari also did not appointed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders Shivajirao Garje and Aditi Nalawade as members of the state legislative Council despite the two being recommended by CM in December last year. NCP is a part of the MVA alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-meets-cm-s-wife-offers-condolences-on-her-father-s-demise/story-92pxiEcI6dbyHujaAhji5J.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 22 Shastri Market traders protest over laying of paver blocks on road||Traders of the Shastri Market in Sector 22 organised a protest in front of their market on Tuesday to stop municipal corporation (MC) workers from laying down paver blocks on the road in front of the market.President of the Shastri Market Association Jaswinder Nagpal said, “Paver blocks aren’t needed here as the road is too narrow and, while the work is going on, vehicles won’t be able to ply here. We have a congested market, if an ambulance or fire tender is needed, it won’t be able to take a turn.”A heavy police was deployed on the spot to avoid any untoward incident.Local Congress president Pardeep Kumar Chhabra also reached the spot.After negotiations with protesters, an understanding was reached that half of the area will be left as per the shopkeepers’ demand. Later, the protest was called off after paver blocks were installed on the curve to the satisfaction of shopkeepers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-22-shastri-market-traders-protest-over-laying-of-paver-blocks-on-road/story-dW5LTz5qBw63CHNVPa2TnM.html
17-06-2020||City||Sister of fugitive gangster Chhota Shakeel dies near Mumbai||Fugitive gangster Chhota Shakeel’s sister Hamida Sayyed, 50, died at a private hospital in Mumbra late on Monday night. Doctors informed that Sayyed was suffering from a chronic heart condition. “Sayyed died due to a chronic heart condition on Monday night. She was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mumbra. As per her reports, she died owing to the heart ailment but her Covid-19 result is not out yet,” Madhukar Kad, senior inspector of Mumbra police station said. Sayyed, a resident of Amrut Nagar in Mumbra is survived by her husband Farooq and three children.On May 20, Fahmida Sheikh, Shakeel’s another sister died in Mira Road after suffering a cardiac arrest.Chhota Shakeel is considered to be a close aide of India’s most wanted fugitive Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sister-of-fugitive-gangster-chhota-shakeel-dies-in-mumbai/story-zBLoFN4c0UnVmZzVVGTnEP.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga led to damages worth ₹15 lakh in Maharashtra’s Phansad sanctuary||Cyclone Nisarga has been responsible for ₹15 lakh worth damages to the Phansad Wildlife Sanctuary located across Murud and Roha talukas of Raigad district. According to the Maharashtra forest department, on June 3 the severe cyclone damaged several rest houses after trees fell on them while rooftops of huts and entire tents, used as tourist accommodations, were blown away.The 69.79-sq km sanctuary, located in the Western Ghats, will remain shut for tourists due to restoration work, till the end of July. With the onset of the southwest monsoon and heavy rain over the south Konkan district, restoration is currently on hold. Forest officers said June and July were busy months with high tourist footfall for trekking and birding, which is likely to affect tourism revenue for the year.“Phansad witnessed maximum tree fall cases among any other protected area along Konkan due to the cyclone. The office headquarters building witnessed minor damages, with portions of the roof blown away, but no impact on the foundation. However, branches and barks of large trees have fallen on adjacent rest houses and huts. Tin roofs of major structures were damaged due to gusty winds,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife west), Maharashtra forest department, who visited the sanctuary on Monday. In comparison, the 12.11-sqkm Karnala Bird Sanctuary in Panvel did not sustain any major damages and minimal tree fall was reported there, said Limaye.Though 20 forest staff were present at the sanctuary on June 3 when the cyclone made landfall, no injuries or fatalities were reported. “We have no reports yet of animals sustaining injuries either but owing to hundreds of tree fall incidents mostly for mango, ficus, ain, teak, etc, bird nests have been affected the most since this was their nesting season,” Limaye said, adding, “However, damages within a fraction of the sanctuary have been assessed so far, since most roads are blocked due to fallen trees. We will get more information in the coming days after restoration.”Similar to the rest of the district, there has been no electricity at the sanctuary since June 3. “We have been informed that power will be restored within the next eight to 10 days,” he said.Meanwhile, residents of nearby Supe village have been assisting the forest staff in mending damages to affected structures. “We have issued clear instructions for forest officers not to venture out during heavy rains due to the presence of predatory leeches that are in abundance during monsoon,” Limaye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cyclone-nisarga-led-to-damages-worth-15-lakh-in-maharashtra-s-phansad-sanctuary/story-6SW98JeTUcLAaVlqayL7VN.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Weather bureau issues warning, brace for heavy rain in Mumbai today||The city witnessed moderate showers, but negligible rainfall was recorded in the suburbs despite partly cloudy conditions on Tuesday – two days after the onset of monsoon in the city was declared.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) retained an orange alert for Tuesday in its updated district-wise forecast issued at 1pm. It issued heavy rain warning for Wednesday, but downgraded the forecast to light to moderate showers for Thursday and Friday.Between Tuesday, 8.30am and 8.30pm, the Colaba weather station recorded – representative of south Mumbai – recorded 13.8mm rainfall, while the Santacruz weather station – representative of the suburbs – recorded 0.8 mm rainfall. However, in 24 hours (between Monday 8.30am and Tuesday 8.30am), south Mumbai recorded 52.6mm rainfall, while the suburbs recorded 37.4mm rainfall, both falling under the ‘rather heavy’ category.IMD classifies 2.5mm - 7.5 mm as light rain, 7.6 mm - 35.5 mm as moderate rain, 35.6 mm - 64.4 mm as rather heavy rain, and 64.5 - 124.4 mm as heavy rain.IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra explained that associated weather systems, enhancing the monsoon current, had weakened. “The low pressure area that had developed off Bay of Bengal towards the east coast lost intensity as it moved over the central parts of the country. The orange alert is always issued to ensure the city is prepared in case of heavy rain. We expect monsoon currents to strengthen as another low pressure system is expected to develop over Bay of Bengal by June 19. Meanwhile, the monsoon current is stronger over south Konkan, and may enhance rain activity over north Konkan, including Mumbai on Wednesday,” said Mohapatra.Private weather forecasters Skymet, which had also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall for Monday and Tuesday, said the offshore trough (weather system) did not intensify and its impact remained confined to south Konkan and Goa. “We expect moderate to heavy showers (60-70mm) on Wednesday, with a further reduction in intensity on Thursday of 20-30mm,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet.Independent meteorologists said heavy rain alerts for a city like Mumbai must be issued only when there is a high confidence in model predictions. “Alerts need to specifically mention whether the expected heavy rain is going to be persistent or transient due to thunderstorms. In such a critical scenario, daily heavy rainfall alerts or forecasts can distract the local administration which is dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Deoras added that showers were expected to increase in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region on Wednesday. “Compared to Monday and Tuesday, rain intensity on Wednesday expected to be more persistent due to the proximity of a localised circulation (a weather system). Since monsoon has arrived, the usual intermittent shower pattern will be seen in Mumbai on Thursday and Friday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/weather-bureau-issues-warning-brace-for-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-today/story-nHP9O8sfWMnmnLSbIk3gKL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maize procurement: Farmers’ body warns of stir if govt fails to buy their produce||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charauni) held a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Ambala’s Saha on Tuesday and warned of a stir if government did not buy maize from farmers. Farmers also handed over a memorandum addressed to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to local SDM. Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni said the state government failed to fulfil its promise of purchasing the maize and farmers had to incur losses due to low market prices.“Many farmers of Ambala gathered and discussed how the government had promised to buy the crop and now, it is not fulfilling its promise. The MSP decided by the government for the crop is Rs 1,760 per quintal and the maximum market price is Rs 1,200, leading to heavy losses to the farmers as they are bound to sell in the market in the absence of government purchase,” he said.“The crop is grown in large areas of the district and farmers here have mostly grown this crop after the government asked them to grow maize as an alternative to rice, so the farmers here are the most affected. We have given an ultimatum to the government to buy the crop or face protests,” Charuni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maize-procurement-farmers-body-warns-of-stir-if-govt-fails-to-buy-their-produce/story-tvC3gTzVZGVsEoq3N87yQM.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman suffers miscarriage outside Jhajjar hospital, probe on||A pregnant woman suffered miscarriage outside the government hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on Tuesday after she was allegedly denied treatment. Neeraj Devi’s husband Bhupali Singh claimed that his wife was bleeding when they reached the hospital. “At the hospital, an attendant asked us to fill a form and another asked us to go to medicine counter. Instead of treating her, they wasted time and warned us of legal action if we objected. I brought my wife out of the hospital and that was when she delivered the foetus on the road,” he alleged. Principal medical officer of Bahadurgarh government hospital Dr Sanjay Dahiya said he has ordered an inquiry into the matter and strict action will be taken against the culprits.“We are investigating under what circumstances the miscarriage happened and foetus was delivered on the road. The woman is admitted to the hospital and she is stable now,” he added. The woman was eight weeks pregnant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-suffers-miscarriage-outside-jhajjar-hospital-probe-on/story-5L3EAzYvnowXJFsJ1JAY1K.html
17-06-2020||City||Rupnagar DLSA provides ₹14 lakh relief to two minor rape victims||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has awarded Rs 14 lakh as compensation to two minor rape victims. The special court of Surinderpal Kaur, additional district judge, awarded the compensation of Rs 7 lakh each under the National Legal Services Authority Victim Compensation Scheme, 2018. The amount was ordered to be disbursed in the form of fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) in the favour of the victims by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM)-cum-secretary, DLSA, Rupnagar.The compensation will be provided to the victims after attaining the age of 18.CJM Harsimranjit Singh said under the said scheme, compensation was also provided to victims of physical abuse, death of a person in a road accident by untraceable vehicle, etc.He said such victims can seek help by dialing toll-free number 1968 at any time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rupnagar-dlsa-provides-14-lakh-relief-to-two-minor-rape-victims/story-pchp8DWS38jOXSotXyswgI.html
17-06-2020||City||With new permit, industrial units can start within 48 hours in Maharashtra||Facing economic crisis due to the pandemic and ensuing lockdown, Maharashtra is all set to roll out the red carpet to attract investment. The state has planned to provide ‘Maha Parwana’, a master permission for new industrial units, within 48 hours of application, so that they won’t need any other permission and can start construction on the site immediately. The draft of the policy is likely to be cleared by the state cabinet in a week, officials said. “In a week, we will be able to start ‘Maha Parwana’ for new investors. It is a master permission that will be provided within 48 hours of the application. Every company can start construction work immediately after obtaining ‘Maha Parwana’. The master permission guarantees that all statutory permissions required to start operations will be delivered within a prescribed schedule (from three to 30 days), otherwise it will be considered a deemed approval,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. An investor requires at least 22 permissions to start operations in the state. The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) is also looking at changing its land lease policy to offer land to investors on rent to bring down their capital investments. Only companies that require environmental clearance won’t be able to start the construction activities, he clarified.This decision comes as on the heels of the Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, the global investors’ summit hosted by the state and inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. Besides, the industries department will be appointing a relationship manager on the lines of private banks to interact with investors on a regular basis. “This will help reduce the communication gap between both the sides and all their issues can be resolved in no time,” said another official.Senior IAS officer Bhushan Gagrani, who is appointed as a state coordination officer to attract new investment in Maharashtra, said they have started communicating with global CEOs, MDs and directors and so far have communicated with 400 global companies. “Overall, the global sentiment is not very encouraging due to obvious reasons, so they may take some time to respond, but as a state we have indicated that let’s get back to business,” Gagrani said. “Currently, the land lease model is only for 95 years. But the problem is many companies are not keen on upfront capital investment due to changing global conditions. So MIDC is preparing to give them land on a rental basis, as per their requirement. They are preparing packages, which will bring down the capital investment,” Gagrani said.While unveiling its road map for Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0, Thackeray said his government will ensure industries won’t face any difficulty. The state also inked 12 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) worth ₹16,300 crore during the event.The ongoing financial crisis has led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal year, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than ₹40,000 crore in March and April owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-new-permit-industrial-units-can-start-within-48-hours-in-maharashtra/story-fV66mVEkYEnsnyem1F7N1K.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Every patient in home quarantine under watch in Haryana||Infected persons under home quarantine in Haryana better stay put in their homes as their movements are being tracked round the clock to prevent them from spreading the disease.An asymptomatic infected person or those having mild symptoms are eligible for home isolation, as per the Union health ministry guidelines. However, keeping a tab on the movements of such patients and making sure they adhere to strict self-isolation at all times remains a continuous challenge.Using the mobile phone location data and satellite-based global positioning system (GPS), the Covid Quarantine Alert System (CQAS) notifies the enforcement authorities every time a Covid-19 patient under watch makes a violation. The tracking system works even if the patient has not installed Aarogya Setu app on his mobile device.Every day, the state government receives hundreds of alerts from National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) about Covid-19 patients and their primary contacts breaching the geo-fence, a virtual perimeter around a geographical location.“The alerts from NDMA are received several times a day and conveyed to the district authorities. Such patients are then approached – by cops making telephone calls as well doing physical checks – to drive home the point that they just cannot violate home isolation protocol,” said a top official.Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said the use of technology in tracking the patients and making hotspot predictions is imperative to their efforts to break the chain of transmission.National Health Mission (NHM) director Prabhjot Singh explained that the authorities record the home latitude and longitude of Covid-19 patients put under home isolation to monitor their movements.“Once a person jumps the quarantine and breaches the 300-metre radius of geo-fence, the violation gets logged using the mobile tower location data. Subsequently, the system triggers an alarm to the authorities on the basis of mobile device location of the patient,” Singh said.Officials said on being diagnosed as a confirmed or suspected coronavirus patient, every person put in home isolation has to give an undertaking that he or she will be liable to be acted upon as per the prescribed law for any non-adherence to self-isolation protocol. Such persons are required to maintain strict self-isolation at all times for the prescribed period. During this period, they are required to monitor their health and those around them, interact with the surveillance team or call centre number 1075 if their health deteriorates or any of their close family contacts develop any influenza-like illness symptoms.HISTORY TRACKER AND HOTSPOT PREDICTORThe state government is also using another web-based platform ITIHAAS to check the travel history of infected patients as well as identify potential hotspots. “The ITIHAAS system uses mobile tower locations to find out how much time an infected patient or a person having influenza-like symptoms has spent in a particular area. This helps us make projections about an upcoming hotspot. Subsequently, we initiate intensive house-to-house surveillance in that area to check the spread of infection,” the NHM chief said.BREACH GEO-FENCE, GET CAUGHTUsing the power under the Indian Telegraph Act, the NDMA tracks the mobile phones of Covid-19 patients and their primary contactsThe state government invokes Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act to gain access to a patient’s mobile phone data in the interest of public safetyThe standard operating procedure for tracking the mobile device allows data collection for Covid management only.The mobile number has to be erased from the tracking system once the requirement of location monitoring is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/every-patient-in-home-quarantine-under-watch-in-haryana/story-7eosg8eQvyflEKylx95BPJ.html
17-06-2020||City||Unions protest June 8 attack on Ludhiana agri dept employees||Activists of various associations of the district agriculture department staged a sit-in protest at the department’s office alleging police in action into the attack on agriculture development officers (ADO) Husandeep Singh and Nidhi Chaudhary on June 8.Brar, ADO, Mattewara, and Chaudhary, ADO, Khwajke, were allegedly attacked with a hoe when they had gone to Bonkar Gujjran village in Koom Kalan to stop a farmer from transplanting paddy before June 10, when it was officially allowed by the Punjab government.The accused were later identified as Sukhdev Singh and his son Gurpreet Singh. They are on the run. Narinder Singh Benipal, chief agriculture officer, who is also the convener of the Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee (ATAC), Punjab, said the interim bails of both accused had been cancelled.“If the police fail to arrest the accused, we will be compelled to gherao the office of the deputy commissioner or commissioner of police,” said Benipal.“ADO Brar suffered a fracture, while ADO Chaudhary was beaten up and dragged on the road. Their vehicle was vandalised and mobile phones were snatched,” Benipal allegged. “The employees of agriculture department have been observing statewide pen-down strike since June 12. It was also decided that from Tuesday onwards, protests will he held against the government at all district headquarters,” said Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, president, Plant Doctor Service Association, Punjab.He said the attack on these officers had not only demoralised the agricultural technocrats, but the entire staff of the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unions-protest-june-8-attack-on-ludhiana-agri-dept-employees/story-psLasXqHh5y4ikHZgLQLaI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs another biggest spike, tally crosses 8,000 mark||Eighteen patients lost their lives to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday in Haryana, increasing the death toll to 118. The virus infected 550 people of 20 districts in the past 24 hours, the health department bulletin stated.While nine patients succumbed to the disease in Gurugram, five people died in Faridabad, two in Bhiwani and one each in Sonepat and Jind. Not only the state witnessed the most number of deaths due to Covid-19 in a day on Tuesday, it also recorded the biggest single-day spike with 550 fresh cases. Until Tuesday evening, the state had 8,272 cases of Covid-19. As many as 51 patients admitted to 10 different hospitals of the state are critical. While 33 patients are on oxygen support, 18 are on ventilators. At least 16 critically ill patients are admitted to ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad. The infection continued to spread fast in Gurugram where 205 fresh cases were recorded followed by 174 from Faridabad; 32 from Sonepat; 25 from Rohtak, 21 each from Ambala and Rewari; 13 from Karnal; eight each from Jhajjar and Panipat; seven from Bhiwani; six each from Palwal, Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri; five from Hisar; four from Fatehabad; three each from Sirsa and Kurukshetra; and one each from Jind, Panchkula and Nuh.Even as the health bulletin mentioned limited or no cases from few districts, Yamunanagar administration said 11 people were found infected there. As many as 31 new cases were detected in Rewari and 17 in Ambala. At least 183 patients were discharged on Tuesday and so far, 3,748 people have recovered. Two die at PGIMSA 22-year-old woman from Bhainswal Kalan village and a man from Rai, both undergoing treatment at PGIMS, Rohtak, died due to coronavirus on Tuesday, Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said. Vij addresses doctors’ shortage Meanwhile, health minister Anil Vij said appointment letters have been issued to 642 more medical officers in the state, which will help in overcoming the shortage of doctors. He said 312 doctors were appointed in March this year while 954 medical officers have been inducted since January. He said that these medical officers included 166 specialists and 788 MBBS doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-another-biggest-spike-tally-crosses-8-000-mark/story-J9udcDHKmyQXS0kQ1k4gdP.html
17-06-2020||City||Shiv Sena-Congress tiff out in the open?||The unease between the Shiv Sena and Congress, allies in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi-ruled state government, is likely to escalate in the coming days, with Sena mouthpiece Saamana taking an aggressive stand to remind the ruling partner that their grumbling was uncalled for, as the Sena, too, has made sacrifices while stitching together the alliance.The editorial comes after state Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat last week said that party leaders would meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray with their grievances. He had said the Congress expects equal importance in decision-making in the MVA government. Before the statement, key Congress leaders held two meetings last week and deliberated upon the alleged secondary treatment.The Congress leadership feels the bureaucracy is dominating the decisions. “Many proposals, including those related to the energy or relief and rehabilitation departments held by the Congress, were moved without the knowledge of the ministers. We have taken the issue to the chief minister, but no corrective action was taken,” said a senior Congress leader. Thorat and public works minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan have been asking for an appointment with Thackeray to discuss the issue, but the latter has reportedly paid no heed.According to Congress leaders, the discontent is over three issues. The party is against the third extension for chief secretary Ajoy Mehta after his term ends on June 30 and wants the nominations to the legislative Council from the Governor’s quota to be sent at the earliest. The party is also batting for an additional seat in the Council. The discontent is also out of the feeling that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is being given too much audience by the CM.While Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday dismissed rumours of discontent within the MVA, the Saamana editorial likened the Congress to an “old squeaky charpoy”, which is groaning under the leaders’ “historical inheritance”. CM Uddhav Thackeray’s wife, Rashmi, is the editor of Saamana, while Raut is its executive editor. Saamana editorials are considered the view of the Sena leadership. “There is no discontent or discord between the allies. Such words should not be used. The decisions happen in the cabinet meetings. All three parties are given respect,” Raut said. Twelve seats to the Council are vacant and are to be nominated by the Governor on the recommendation of the state government. The editorial said the seats must be divided on the basis of the coalition partners’ strength in the legislative Assembly. The Sena has 64 members, including eight independents, while the NCP and Congress have 54 and 44, respectively. “The Sena has sacrificed the most in this power-sharing. It had to give one ministerial berth to the NCP when Pawar objected to the Congress occupying the Assembly Speaker’s post,” the editorial said. “Two additional cabinet berths were also given to the Congress, instead of the posts of minister of state… Both Thorat and Chavan have a long experience in governance. They should remember that even Pawar is experienced in administration, but there are no complaints from his party. There was a consensus that CM Thackeray’s decision would be final and Pawar, too, abides by this rule,” it said.“We have been seeking the chief minister’s appointment as we have certain issues related to public interest that need to be discussed with the CM. I am sure after hearing us out, even he will admit that the issues were serious in nature. The editorial was written on the basis of inadequate information and I am sure there will be another editorial endorsing our stand,” said Thorat.Raut defended the editorial. “This is our signature style of writing. I’ve read the interview with Ashok Chavan. If he has any concerns, he should speak to the CM. This is not a clash between the administration and government. Maharashtra is facing two major issues – Covid-19 and Cyclone Nisarga,” he told the media.The write-up also took a potshots regarding complaints about bureaucracy. “There are complaints about the workings of state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. But no matter how ‘big’ an officer is, he has to go by the decision of the chief minister as he is a public servant …,” it said.Raut said the government is not run by the secretaries, but by ministers. “It is not called Sachivalaya (secretariat), but Mantralaya now. There is no question of any resentment as the Congress is an experienced party. The CM will meet them as is the practice in the coalition government,” he said.The editorial, however, said there was no threat to the coalition government. In a sarcastic reference to the covert formation of the 80-hour government by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with support of NCP’s Ajit Pawar, it said, “Nobody should remain under this illusion that there is a threat to the government and the gates of Raj Bhavan would open early in the morning once again for someone.”Raju Shetti accepts NCP’s Council seatSwabhimani Shetakari Sanghtana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti, who once rattled Sharad Pawar’s politics by holding protests at Baramati, visited his house in Govidbaug on Tuesday and accepted NCP’s offer of a seat in the Council. “I have accepted the offer for Council polls,” said Shetti, after his two-and-half hour long meeting with Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-congress-tiffout-in-the-open/story-rH88glNdiPB0M0c1rt76EL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor trade probe: ED officer meets police, VB, excise officials||Enforcement Directorate (ED) deputy director Niranjan Sing on Tuesday visited the offices of the SSP, vigilance bureau and excise department as part of the probe into the illegal liquor trade in the state.Niranjan held closed-door meeting with SSP Mandeep Singh who shared information regarding FIRs and investigations. He also visited the vigilance bureau office, and that of excise department to collect information about the procedure of handling of extra neutral alcohol (ENA).The ED is conducting the probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and looking into at least 11 FIRs registered in various police stations in Patiala, Khanna and Ludhiana. The focus of the ED probe is on financial gains as it was alleged that an illegal distillery had earned ₹100 crore in the last five months.“I have collected some information and asked for official record, which the police will supply in next few days,” said Niranjan.On specifically asked that whether ED will register its own case, Niranjan said “The ED will examine the papers and FIRs, and further collaborate it with own information, to further proceed with the case.”On May 14, an illegal liquor bottling plant was busted in Shambu area of Ghanaur constituency in Patiala and Congress sarpanch Amrik Singh and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura, an aide of a ruling party MLA, were booked. Dipesh, who is believed to be the kingpin of the racket, was arrested.After two days, Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA), a primary raw material used for making illicit liquor, was seized from a tubewell owned by Akali leader and panchayat samiti member Darshan Singh in Pabri village of Ghanaur town. An illegal distillery busted in Khanna also under the ED lens.The opposition Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party have already demanded a CBI probe, alleging that some ruling party leaders were complicit in the illegal trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-trade-probe-ed-officer-meets-police-vb-excise-officials/story-tGBhp94l45fQ2jSpZdUMHL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 tightens its grip in Punjab as state records 7 deaths, 90 fresh cases||A retired general manager of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) was among the seven Covid-19 patients who died even as 97 fresh cases were reported from across Punjab on Tuesday. Three patients died in Amritsar, while one each in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and Sangrur.In Amritsar district, 15 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday, out of which eight are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients.A 65-year-old man died in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), Ludhiana, while 25 others, including a cop, were tested positive in the district. The deceased has been identified as Ratti Ram of Basti Jodhewal.In a biggest single-day spike in Jalandhar, 32 people, including seven cops and two-month-old girl, were tested positive of the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. A 65-year-old woman, Tripta, died of Covid-19 at a Shahkot hospital. A man from SBS Nagar also tested positive.A 62-year-old man, who was found positive for Covid-19, from Bhikhwind village in Tarn Taran district died at a private hospital on Monday night.As many as 10 positive cases of Coronavirus were reported in Patiala district on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said that those found positive are six persons from Patiala city, two from Bhadson block and one each from Nabha and Rajpura. Four cases were reported from Pathankot district.Three members of a family were tested positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka town on Tuesday.Fazilka civil surgeon CM Kataria said the youngest among those detected is 24-year-old and the other two are his elder brother aged 31 and aunt aged 53.Two fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Rupnagar district — a 72-year-old woman from Bela village and 29-year-old man from Nangal who had returned from Delhi recently.(Wit inputs from Patiala, Fazilka and Rupnagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-tightens-its-grip-in-punjab-as-state-records-7-deaths-90-fresh-cases/story-Xlg8Caqgwshas0pPXhg6RJ.html
17-06-2020||City||Thane district gets ₹35-crore fund from state to deal with Covid-19||The Maharashtra government has provided additional funds to various districts within the state to handle the pandemic well, and Thane district has received ₹35 crore as part of the fund. The fund has been divided among various municipal corporations in the district. This includes ₹5 crore for Thane Municipal Corporation and ₹10 crore each for Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation. “In order to contain the pandemic and ensure a stronger healthcare facility within the district, I had requested for additional funds from the disaster relief fund which has been granted. It will give us a stronger platform to manage the pandemic,” said Eknath Shinde, guardian minister of Thane.These funds will be used to provide better medical facilities to patients, conduct more tests and provide Kits and masks to healthcare professionals. “As there is a higher number of cases in these four municipal corporations, the funds have been divided accordingly to aid them in their fight against Coronavirus,” said an official from Thane Collectorate.“We are glad that we got these funds to be able to provide better facilities for the healthcare staff and patients. We were in need of additional funds and this has been a boon,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-district-gets-35-crore-fund-from-state-to-deal-with-covid-19/story-W8MB2udqb00cWmkLkiEPfN.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Police books Covid patient for assaulting doctor||Amboli police booked a 33-year-old Covid-19 patient for allegedly assaulting and molesting a 29-year-old doctor at a Covid care centre (CCC) located on New Link Road, Andheri.Police said the accused, a resident of Juhu, has been undergoing treatment at the CCC, where the complainant, a doctor attached with the K/East ward, was giving service.“Last night the accused told the doctor to discharge him as he was not comfortable there. When the doctor told him they can only discharge him after following due procedure, he got angry and assaulted the doctor. He also touched her inappropriately,” said a police officer.The doctor informed the police about the incident. Someshwar Kamthe, senior inspector, Amboli police station, said, “We have booked the accused and shifted him to Cooper Hospital. We are yet to ascertain the cause behind his action and are investigating the case.”“As the accused is a Covid patient we haven’t interrogated him for now. We are taking all precautions,” Kamthe added.Police have booked the accused under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-books-covid-patient-for-assaulting-doctor/story-TGuAoi1UeixsWuPUunVLkI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||PM’s meeting with CMs Set up group for coordinated Centre-state response to revive economy: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up a group, which should include a few chief ministers, to discuss and formulate a coordinated centre-state response to the devastating impact of Covid-19 on the economy and governments across the country.Amarinder made the suggestion during a video conference held by the Prime Minister with the chief ministers of several states. The CM requested that the Centre should work closely with the states to ease the distress caused by the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.Calling for urgent steps to mitigate Punjab’s financial stress, Amarinder said a detailed memorandum had already been sent to the Centre, listing out the impact of Covid-19 and also seeking fiscal and non-fiscal assistance. Even as he thanked the Prime Minister and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the release of GST payment of around ₹2,800 crore in early June, the CM said while he appreciated that the central government was also under financial stress, he had to request for release of the state’s pending share of taxes to tide over the fiscal crisis. “The crisis in Punjab is likely to be acute with a shortfall of ₹25,000-30,000 crore in revenue collection on various counts,” he said.Pointing to the centre’s decision to allow reforms-linked increase in borrowing limits under FRBM Act from 3 to 5%, the chief minister requested the PM to relook at some of the conditionalities, given the situation on the ground. The borrowing was a loan that states have to repay and not a grant by GoI, he said.‘PM TELLS STATES TO ADOPT PUNJAB’S COVID COMBAT MODEL’The state government, in a statement, said that the Prime Minister appreciated Punjab’s Covid micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance strategy and asked all other states to adopt the model. The PM intervened as Amarinder was describing the state’s model to combat Covid, it said.Amarinder said the state government was working on a multi-pronged strategy to fight the pandemic. The focus was currently on micro-containment strategy to isolate small mohallas or village wards rather than close down larger areas, he said, adding that a special app had also been launched for house-to-house surveillance to detect any possible cases and persons with co-morbidities to catch high-risk patients early.The CM also emphasised the need for more tests, requesting the PM to direct GoI institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase testing capacity. On the state’s preparedness to tackle further spread of the pandemic, he informed the meeting that 5,000 isolation beds were ready in government Level 2 and 3 facilities, in addition to 10-15,000 beds in Level 1 covid care centres for mild patients. “These Level 1 beds can be scaled to 30,000, if the need arises,” he said, adding, “For tertiary level care, the state government has also secured the participation of private hospitals”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-s-meeting-with-cms-set-up-group-for-coordinated-centre-state-response-to-revive-economy-amarinder/story-dgyVR42rGBH5HLVHe01BpN.html
17-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai sees drop in new cases for second day in a row||For the second consecutive day, Navi Mumbai saw a drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases reported in a day. On Tuesday, the city recorded 63 new cases, compared to the average of 150 cases per day last week. However, the city has crossed the 4,000-mark with a total of 4,061 cases. Three deaths were also reported on Tuesday, taking the toll to 124. Recovery rate has decreased from over 60% last week to 58%.An official from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said, “Eight children are among the 63 new cases, with the youngest being a 3-year-old boy from Sanpada. Of the total positive cases, Kopar Khairane has the highest of 13 cases. On Tuesday, 49 people have also recovered from the disease.”He added, “With most migrants having already left for their native places, the number of people who are being provided with free meals has also reduced. Around 630 needy persons are provided free meals by the three community kitchens.”In Panvel City Municipal Corporation, 21 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,037. 23 people were also discharged on Tuesday while a 64-year-old woman from sector 36 in Kamothe succumbed to the disease. Of the total positive cases, 352 are from Kamothe and 228 from Kharghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-sees-drop-in-new-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-rGgWHBm7cacZcz1h7IN6KL.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||30 customs officials face action not reporting to work during lockdown||Mumbai Departmental action has been initiated against 30 customs officials at the New Customs House (in Ballard Estate) as most of them went on leave before lockdown and did not report back until the nationwide lockdown was called off from June 1. Sources said none of these officials are locals and went back to their hometowns before public transport was stopped. All these officials have been issued memos and called for explanations on their decision to leave the work place, Mumbai. A letter dated June 12 read, “...the commissioner of customs remarked: How did these people leave station without permission? Please begin action on those who were on un-authorised leave. Also recovery from salary be done for availing dues such as travelling allowance etc. No work no pay rule be applied. Those not on leave, stop pay. Issue memo for un- authorised absence and initiated disciplinary proceedings (sic)” The letter also mentioned the names of 30 officials. HT, which has access to the list, learnt that few officials had intimated about their leave on emails, few were on sanctioned leave but could not join because of lockdown, some had informed over the phone but were not permitted to take leave, some applied for shorter leaves but extended them, while an official had gone on leave as he had lost someone in his family.However, three of the officials were listed for going on leave without permission or going on leave for few days but not resuming their duty. Principal commissioner of customs Prachi Saroop did not respond to HT. A customs official said, “The listed people had to return to their family due to the pandemic and not for leisure. It was an exceptional phase when the government kept requesting citizens to take care of their children and elderly at home. They went back for the safety of their family.” Another official said, “Most of them had informed their immediate bosses via emails or messages. Considering the extraordinary situation, disciplinary actions should not be taken in this case as the situation was uncontrolled due to the pandemic. In fact, the affected employees should now resume work and should not be marked absent. Instead they should be adjusted against their paid leaves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-customs-officials-face-action-not-reporting-to-work-during-lockdown/story-vy1i9rVkZSr3Yxzwg9HoHI.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar teen ends life after police harassment, wanted to join the Army||AMRITSAR “Papa, I did nothing... the policemen had been lying that it (condom) was mine. I don’t know how and from where it came. And you also believed... the policemen… I don’t want your... disrespect because of me… Please take care of my mother and yourself, and don’t drink,” reads the note written by an 18-year-old who died by suicide at his Amritsar home on Monday.The teenager ended his life, his family alleged, after being harassed by two assistant sub inspectors of Amritsar police, Davinder Singh and Sham Lal, who had stopped him while he was on his scooter for not wearing a helmet, and later falsely accused him of carrying a condom. They treated him as if he was a hardcore criminal and lectured his father on morality, it was alleged. “He was a student of Class 12 and had also joined the National Cadet Corps (NCC). He had been working hard to fulfil his dream to join the Army and serve the nation, but it was shattered by the policemen,” his mother said.The teenager is survived by his father,who runs a scrap shop, mother and two younger sisters. The family migrated to the city from Uttar Pradesh 20 years back.His family members said he was out on his scooter on Friday when Davinder Singh and Sham Lal stopped him for not wearing a helmet and took him to the Sun City police post under the Mohkampura police station.The father of the deceased said when he heard about the incident he went to the police post. “The two policemen had detained my son there. I gave them Rs 500 to release my son and his scooter as I was told that he was challaned for not wearing a helmet. Before getting my son released, the cops showed me a condom and told me that they had recovered it from my son’s scooter. They scolded me and my son as if he was a hardcore criminal. The next day, one of the two policemen came to my shop, taking Rs 500 extra for releasing the scooter’s registration papers.” The teenager had been depressed because of the false allegations, his father said, and had stopped eating. “On Monday, when I was at the shop and my wife and daughter had gone to the market for buying vegetables my son committed suicide by hanging,” he said.The grieving relatives protested outside Mohkampura police station on Tuesday from 11 am to 2 pm demanding registration of a case against the two ASIs. The president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s migrant wing Mahesh Verma also demanded the arrest of the policemen and said more protests would follow if the family’s demands were not met.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-City3) Harpal Singh said the ASIs had been suspended. “We have also sent a report to dismiss both from the department.” After the departmental action criminal action would also be initiated against the policemen, he added.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-teen-ends-life-after-police-harassment-wanted-to-join-the-army/story-HWpEIt6Vy1UNt0P9X6wqnK.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||HC imposes ₹5-lakh cost on petitioner seeking free Covid-19 treatment for all||The Bombay high court has imposed a cost of ₹5 lakh on an educationist who had sought directions to the state to bear the cost of treatment for all Covid patients across all hospitals in the state. The court observed that it was preposterous to seek such directions at a time when the entire nation was struggling to combat and contain the spread of the virus.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice K K Tated, while hearing a couple of public interest litigations (PIL) filed by Sagar Jondhale, an educationist and Sarika Singh, a resident of Kurla was informed that the May 21 government notification which stipulated that 80% of beds in private hospitals was insufficient to alleviate the problems of a common man as they could not afford the cost of treatment. The petitions had prayed that the government should be directed to provide free-of-cost Covid-19 treatment at all hospitals, including private institutions, across Maharashtra. Advocate Anand Jondhale for Sagar Jondhale and advocate Varsha Jagdale for Sarika Singh had argued that though the notification had requisitioned 80% of beds in private hospitals and nursing homes for treatment of Covid-19 patients in the absence of any clear orders on the charges that the hospitals could recover from patients was resulting in profiteering by the said private hospitals. The advocates submitted that the notification allowed the hospitals to charge separately for pharmacy and pathology services which were affecting the patients, hence sought the notification to be declared null and void. In light of these submissions, the petitioners sought directions to the state government to provide free-of-cost Covid-19 treatment to all citizens in all hospitals, including private institutions, except to those who are covered by insurance schemes. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni along with government pleader Poornima Kantharia, however, submitted that due to the magnitude of Covid cases, the prayers of the petitioners were unfounded as the state could not be expected to pay for their treatment. Kumbhakoni further submitted that the state was taking all measures to ensure that testing and treatment for Covid was available to everyone, hence the demand for free of cost treatment by the petitioners was misplaced and the PILs should be dismissed with costs. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that as the demands of the petitioners were frivolous and preposterous. Hence, the court dismissed the PIL filed by Jondhale and directed him to deposit ₹5 lakh with the state government as costs. The court then asked Singh whether she wanted to withdraw her PIL and posted the matter for hearing on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-imposes-5-lakh-cost-on-petitioner-seeking-free-covid-19-treatment-for-all/story-p4zpd0MDpATZxRt2bMIJgJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Regulator raps PSPCL for failing to bring down distribution losses||The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has come down heavily on the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for failing to meet the targets to reduce the transmission and distribution losses, mainly power theft. In its tariff order for the financial year 2020-21 that was announced on June 1, the regulator noted that the power corporation failed to do the needful despite its having allowed huge capital investments for the purpose.It brought on record that against the target of distribution losses of 12.5% for the financial year 2017-18, the PSPCL recorded 14.19% losses. Also, during the financial year 2018-19, the corporation recorded distribution losses of 12.94% against the target of 11.89%, it added.In response to the regulator’s queries before finalisation of tariffs, the PSPCL referring to its provisional data up to December 31, 2019, said it registered distribution losses of 11.21% which came down by 0.31% from the corresponding period last year. Terming the figures “provisional”, the PSERC asked the corporation to identify high-loss feeders and areas and take corrective measures.‘EMPLOYEES GHERAOED AND MANHANDLED’Much to the dismay of the PSERC, the corporation reported distribution losses exceeding a whopping 25% in 12 of its distribution divisions. Of the total 109 power distribution divisions in state, 10% reported losses that the PSPCL says are beyond its control. It attributed these losses to rampant power theft.As per the energy audit for the financial year 2019-20, the divisions with huge distribution losses include Amritsar (west), Amritsar (suburban), Ajnala, Tarn Taran (city), Patti, Bikhiwind, Patran, Lehragaga, Bhagta Bhai, Zira, Baghapurana and Malout.“Surprise raids to curb power were made but the employees were gheraoed and manhandled. Rural feeders in these areas report more losses,” the PSPCL said in its reply as recorded in the tariff order.The corporation said 1.25 lakh connections were checked and 11,593 cases of theft were detected in these divisions by the end of December 2019, with the losses pegged at ₹21.87 crore. During the same period, 13.81 lakh connections were checked across the state and 1.28 lakh cases of theft were detected. A sum of ₹157.54 crore was levied as penalty.“The PSPCL submitted the loss figures (of 12 divisions) without indicating the reduction in losses achieved in these divisions during the financial year 2019- 20,” said PSERC said in its tariff order and directed the corporation to share a quarterly report on the action being taken and the status of losses achieved in these divisions.OFF THE TARGETThe divisions with huge distribution losses are Amritsar (west), Amritsar (suburban), Ajnala, Tarn Taran (city), Patti, Bikhiwind, Patran, Lehragaga, Bhagta Bhai, Zira, Baghapurana and Malout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/regulator-raps-pspcl-for-failing-to-bring-down-distribution-losses/story-kfA8GyZRt1FQLePkxHMZTJ.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER doctor again courts controversy over fresh Covid projections||An additional professor at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health has once again courted controversy for making projections on Covid-19 cases in the country.The study which appeared on a website that publishes preliminary reports not certified by peer review was authored by Dr Shankar Prinja (first author) and seven others, and purportedly included two scientists of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The report claimed that the peak of Covid-19 cases in India has been delayed and may now arrive around mid-November.The manuscript also claimed that the study was funded by ICMR and acknowledged the inputs of the members of National Covid Task Force on research methods.The ICMR, however, tweeted that the manuscript had been written by an author who was not their employee and that first author had admitted the “mistake”. “It is reiterated that ICMR has not funded this study, the paper was neither peer reviewed nor published and that the scientist of ICMR has not contributed to this particular study/manuscript and has also not signed the undertaking,” the medical research body tweeted.Without naming Dr Shankar Prinja, the tweet added that when questioned, the first author had accepted the mistake and withdrawn the paper. Since there was no direct involvement of ICMR in developing the manuscript, the issue of convenient withdrawal did not arise, they said.PGI BLAMES MEDIA FOR MISINTERPRETATIONOn the other hand, PGIMER has blamed the media for misinterpretation, saying it had led to the withdrawal of the study by the authors. “Dr Prinja is a member of the National Taskforce Operations Research group, duly approved by the director of PGIMER. An exercise was carried out to understand the health system preparedness of the country in view of the Covid-19 pandemic without naming who all were involved in the study,” a response from PGIMER’s public relations office stated.It added that a pre-print non-peer reviewed version was posted on a website that states any material posted should not be reported in news media as established information to guide clinical practice or policy.“The media has misinterpreted the report. As a result, the authors have withdrawn from the website,” the response further stated.PGI DOC NOT NEW TO CONTROVERSIES This is not the first time, however, that Dr Shankar Prinja has courted controversy with his assessment and projections on Covid-19 cases.On April 10, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had claimed that 58% of the country’s population was likely to get infected with coronavirus, while quoting a PGIMER study. He had said that the infections were likely to peak by mid-September.Later, the institute had issued a press note and clarified that no such study had been carried out, to which the CM’s media advisor Raveen Thukral had said that the report cited by Captain had been authored by Dr Prinja.The institute had also served a show-cause notice to the doctor.Dr Prinja could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-doctor-again-courts-controversy-over-fresh-covid-projections/story-cRXuoMAB0TnanDKw0ZbtuJ.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||PTA executive panel can propose reduction of school fees: Minister||The executive committee of parent-teacher associations (PTAs) across schools in the state can propose a reduction in fees in the current situation if they feel so, said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, while talking to the media on Tuesday afternoon.“While the government has already released strict guidelines against hiking fees, and asked schools to allow parents to make partial payments, the decision with respect to fee reduction should be taken by individual PTAs of the schools. As per the rules, the PTA executive committee has to approve fees for every year, and if parents wish, they can get their fees reduced,” said Gaikwad.According to the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, proposals concerning fees have to be placed before the PTA executive committee for approval. The minister also said that action will be taken against schools that are still not complying with the department’s directives on not hiking fees. “We have asked our officers to take strict action against such schools,” she added. The minister said that while results of HSC (Class 12) are expected to be out by mid July, those of SSC (Class 10) will be out by July end.After several teachers from schools across the city said they were being called to work even as the standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by the department on Monday do not specifically mandate them to travel, Gaikwad said that a separate set of SOPs will be released for schools in red zones.“We are also getting several calls from teachers, especially in Mumbai, about schools asking them to report to work. We understand their concerns, and hence, to bring in more clarity, a set of guidelines specifically for schools in red zones will be issued soon,” the minister said.Officials from the education department said the guidelines are likely to be released by Wednesday. A senior official reiterated that the SOPs are binding on schools of all mediums, managements, and boards across the state.The education department has also started conducting a statewide third-party audit to understand whether online learning is reaching students and if not, the students are being given other options like phone call-based instruction from teachers, home-delivered textbooks, etc. Speaking about the concerns of private preschool educators after the government decided to ban online learning up to Class 2, Gaikwad said, “At this point not pressuring our children is more important than anything else. We hope that schools understand our compulsions in the current situation and behave in a rational and humanitarian manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pta-executive-panel-can-propose-reduction-of-school-fees-minister/story-NJtaYtTi5qkoALY7tBZj4H.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||War rooms to camps: Medical interns’ learning is on||For the past one week, 21-year-old Divya Srinivas has been spending eight hours a day in a Covid-19 war room set by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in Kandivli. She has spent the majority of her time arranging ambulances for Covid-positive patients and finding empty beds in hospitals after receiving frantic calls from strangers.“While the job can be stressful, what makes it worthwhile are the calls we get from the same people one day later, thanking us for helping them,” said Srinivas, a third-year student of Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Government Medical College in Ambajogai, near Latur. “Last week we managed to transport a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman to Nair Hospital and the next day we got a call from her husband sharing news of the birth of their son. The day’s work was worth it,” she said.Many interns have been placed in BMC war rooms where they have to contact patients and answer calls received by the helpline numbers.“Working in a call centre sounds doesn’t sound like a doctor’s job but what I’m doing is very important. We help in triaging patients after informing them that they’ve tested positive for the virus, while at the same time I’ve also been helping with counseling anxious callers about symptoms and what they need to do,” said Fagun Shah, 22, a final-year MBBS student of Nair Hospital (Topiwala National Medical College).In the last week of May, management of Andheri’s Cooper Hospital (HBT Medical College) issued a circular requesting its third and fourth-year MBBS batches to return to campus and help the hospital in the ongoing Covid-19 work. Within a day, authorities of Parel’s KEM Hospital (Seth GS Medical College) and Nair Hospital (TN Medical College) also called for their second, third, and fourth-year students to join the Covid-19 workforce.Circulars signed by senior authorities of respective hospitals highlighted probable incentives of joining the workforce, including ₹30,000 honorarium per month, and that all working days will be considered as bond service that will be deducted from actual bond service in the future.“Initially many parents were apprehensive about sending undergraduate medical students in the field during a pandemic, but we realised that the students were very eager to be of any possible help. Work experience always counts for better education over what is taught in a classroom,” said Dr Ashutosh Mhatre, father of a medical intern.“Nothing beats the feeling adolescent doctors get from the compliments they receive from patients. It’s been a week that interns have joined the workforce, some in war rooms and call centres while others have volunteered for community screening programs. While the interns all seem exhausted, everyone is enjoying being in the field and getting first-hand experience of being a doctor,” said Tanmay Jadhav, spokesperson of Association of State Medical Interns (ASMI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/war-rooms-to-camps-medical-interns-learning-is-on/story-kZRk5gVh210X9d2Ne7RXgL.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Doctors expect rise in monsoon illnesses||With the arrival of monsoon, city doctors are expecting a rise in the number of dengue, malaria and swine flu (H1N1) among other seasonal ailments. Doctors are worried about anxiety among people who display symptoms such as fever and cough, which are similar to those infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.While most hospitals are currently overwhelmed due to Covid-19, hospital administrations are bracing for the annual onslaught of monsoon illnesses. Every year, around 5,000 and 1,000 people get diagnosed with malaria and dengue on an average in the city, respectively. A majority of these cases are generally reported during the monsoon months of June to September. Last year in June, 313 cases of malaria, eight dengue and 43 swine flu cases were reported. As the healthcare machinery is overstretched, many tertiary care hospitals such as civic-run BYL Nair Hospital and the state-run St George Hospitals are likely to face a shortage of beds to treat the dengue and malaria patients.“We are treating over 400 Covid-19 patients and are trying to expand further. But considering we are also a non-Covid hospital, we have kept another group of doctors on stand-by to treat patients with dengue, malaria and swine flu,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel. Doctors are also expecting a rise in cases of fever as many seasonal illnesses have symptoms such as fever, difficulty in breathing and loss of appetite that are virtually indistinguishable from those infected with the Sars-CoV-2.“As their symptoms are similar to Covid-19, we can’t take risks. We may, therefore, require more isolation beds with protective equipment while treating such patients,” Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of major civic-run hospitals. “These patients will also need to be diagnosed earlier to determine if they need medication for mosquito-borne diseases or Covid-19,” he added.During monsoon, door-to-door screening of residents, especially in slums such as Dharavi, Govandi, may spell trouble. “During monsoon, narrow lanes in slum areas get flooded. Hence, contact-tracing might be problematic for medical volunteers,” said Kiran Dighavkar, ward officer of G/N ward. “We have carried out fumigation and cleaned out breeding grounds in Dharavi and surrounding areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doctors-expect-rise-in-monsoon-illnesses/story-Tst81NsrWDgLdQOfpSYjuM.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Plea against Aarey exclusion from ESZ of SGNP dismissed||The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the exclusion of Aarey Colony, Goregaon, from the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), while also directing the Maharashtra forest department to submit a report on the allegations of tree felling, forest fires and rising encroachments at Aarey during the lockdown, under a separate application.Both matters were heard via video conferencing by two separate SC benches.In the first case, the Apex court bench, comprising justices Arun Mishra and S Abdul Nazeer, dismissed a civil appeal by environment group Vanashakti, which had challenged the December 5, 2016 ESZ notification for SGNP by the Union environment ministry that had declared a minimum of up to 100m and a maximum of up to 4km from the boundary of SGNP as ESZ, while excluding 165 hectares of Aarey to allow construction, including the Metro-3 car shed. On January 24, the principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had disposed of the same application, stating the law had been followed, while demarcating the ESZ. Vanashakti had then challenged the order in the SC, which was heard on Tuesday.“The SC bench did not agree with merits we put forth that the ESZ notification allows construction in eco-sensitive areas around the national park, and dismissed our civil appeal,” said advocate-on-record Srishti Agnihotri, on behalf of Vanashakti, represented by senior counsel Anita Shenoy. “The bench said that Mumbai was already a congested city, and highlighted the importance of sustainable development, while dismissing the plea.”Vanashakti said they will file a review petition in the SC. “The judgment is unfair and does not take into account any of the contentions made by us. If the city is congested, it is all the more necessary to have green zones,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. “Firstly, NGT disposed of the matter without a hearing, and to make matters worse, SC feels that Mumbai does not need green zones. These are very dangerous assumptions to make.”In the second matter, another SC bench, comprising justices Arun Mishra and Krishna Murari, heard an application filed by Vanashakti, under connected pending matters on Aarey, that alleged illegal tree felling, forest fires, and rising encroachments in Aarey despite there being a lockdown and sought the protection of the area and action against wrongdoers.“The bench called for a report from the Maharashtra forest department to place on record the on-ground situation and action taken by them,” said Agnihotri. “The matter will now come up after six weeks (from Tuesday).”HT had reported on April 18 and May 11 about the surge in illegal activities in and around SGNP, including Aarey, with unidentified violators booked by the local police on directions from the Aarey chief executive officer. However, no arrests were made. Cases of forest fires went unattended as the area fell under the jurisdiction of the State Reserve Police Force and not under Aarey authorities. The Maharashtra forest department said they had already stepped up efforts by removing encroachments from within and around SGNP and Tungareshwar during lockdown. “We will apprise the SC of problems faced in and around SGNP where regular encroachment removal operations and monitoring using drones is being undertaken. Wherever difficulties have been faced, including areas in Aarey, we are waiting for assistance from the police department,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife-west).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/plea-against-aarey-exclusion-from-esz-of-sgnp-dismissed/story-2woc3NByePnTvxn47xtl5K.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||75K travel on CR, WR local trains||Approximately 75,000 people travelled on Central (CR) and Western Railway (WR) on Tuesday, registering a marginal increase in the number of commuters on the second consecutive day of local trains operating for workers in essential services. Meanwhile, confusion remains on which sectors qualify as essential. Employees of the postal service, advocates and people in the banking sector are among those who have demanded access to train services. The state government is expected to finalise the list of essential services by the end of the week.On Tuesday, WR saw 40,000 passengers and CR saw 35,000 on local trains. CR and WR had jointly seen a total of nearly 55,000 commuters on Monday, when select local train services resumed for those employed in essential services.Compared to Monday, there were longer queues of passengers outside many stations on Tuesday, including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Virar railway station. A total of 700 passengers are allowed on board each train, with approximately 58 passengers inside each compartment.“Multiple exit and entry have been restricted to avoid unauthorised travel and overcrowding. Passengers are asked to report early and form a queue for inspection of identity cards and thermal screening before being allowed in the station premises.” said a senior railway official. At most railway stations between Thane and Badlapur, there were large crowds and complaints about mismanagement on Tuesday. Long queues that flouted distancing norms were seen at Thane, Kalyan, Dombivli and Ambernath stations. Commuters complained there were no Government Railway Police (GRP) officials to manage the crowds till 10.30am.Describing the scene at Thane station at around 8am, a commuter said, “There were no markings to guide people on where to stand, so people were crowding at ticket windows. I asked people in my queue and nearby to keep distance, but the people who came later were standing close like they had been earlier.”Satish Jadhav, who works with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and commutes from Kalyan to Dadar stations, saw similar scenes. “I came to the railway station around 8.30am and there was a long queue. Around 50 to 60 people were crowding around the counter. There have to be some rules and regulations to collect tickets in a queue,” he said.Commuters say railway personnel were finally deployed at stations around 10am. Public relation officer for CR, S Sutar, said, “We deployed our own staff along with Railway and state police force officials to manage the crowd.” Smita Dhakne of GRP said there are adequate number of officers at all railway stations between Thane and Badlapur. “Our police personnel have been there at every railway station. They have been managing crowds and informing people to keep safe distance while getting into the train, on platform and ticket counters.”According to the railways, 1.25 lakh essential staff are expected to use the local trains. However, there is still lack of clarity in terms of which sectors are permitted to avail train services. The railways had earlier stated BMC, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking and Mumbai Police personnel as well as those working at Mantralaya and in government and private hospitals could travel by train. In order to board the trains, passengers have to undergo thermal screening and show identity cards. However, requests to avail train services have been coming in from employees from other sectors. At present, those working in banking, postal services and media are not allowed to use trains. Advocates, airport employees and employees of pharmaceutical companies have also demanded access to train services. Some took to social media to raise their requests.“@CMOMaharashtra @AUThackeray Sir Advocates in Mumbai should be allowed to board the local train since courts are open. They should be made to show their ID Card of association and further they can show the brief/file of the matter that is on board on that day,” tweeted @yogesh_katira.“@WesternRly .. my wife is an employee of dept. of post government of India. Today at 8.00 am she went to Vasai road railway station to attend duty but she was not allowed to travel while her colleagues frm virar were allowed to travel. Why this discrimination,” tweeted @vincent98836594The state government said the decision of which sectors qualify as essential services and whose employees may travel by train will be finalised in a week. “We have received requests from employees in the private health sector, journalists and others. Finalisation on the employees will be done within a week,” said a senior state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/75k-travel-on-cr-wr-local-trains/story-LILtS14bah2IzAcUIPlhgI.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha Covid-19 toll shoots up to 5,537||RMaharashtra on Tuesday saw the addition of 1,409 Covid-19 deaths to its toll, which includes the reconciliation of 1,328 past fatalities and 81 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 5,537, even as state authorities were expecting the virus curve to stabilise and the case fatality rate (CFR) to dip.The addition led to a spike in the CFR to 4.8%, from 3.7% on Monday, against the national rate of 3.4%. The Opposition has demanded a high-level inquiry into the “hidden figures of deaths”, terming it a conspiracy. A total of 2,701 more infections were reported in the past 24 hours in the state, taking the Covid-19 case tally to 1,13,445, including Mumbai’s tally of 60,228. Mumbai saw 935 new cases in the past 24 hours. Of the latest added deaths, 862 have been added in Mumbai alone, taking its total to 3,167. This led to controversy as the Opposition raised doubts over the sudden spurt in the death figures. Mumbai’s CFR went up to 5.2%, from 3.79%, as per figures from Monday. There was some relief amid the gloom, as Mumbai on Tuesday reported less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a day for the first time this month with 935 cases.The Opposition had on Monday alleged that Maharashtra was covering up death figures. Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, claiming that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had allegedly not registered 950 deaths as Covid-19 casualties.Fadnavis further claimed that BMC had declared 451 deaths caused by the disease as non-Covid ones. Of these 451 deaths, 356 were declared non-Covid ones, while the remaining were pending for scrutiny. He had also claimed 500-odd deaths that took place in private hospitals due to Covid-19 were not referred.The chief minister’s office, however, tweeted late on Tuesday, “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had mandated exhaustive data reconciliation last week. On June 13, the state asked all municipal commissioners and collectors to check with all local labs and hospital on the same. The state is fighting Covid with absolute honesty and it holds transparency sacred. Data reconciliation and tally will be done every few weeks so as to ensure complete transparency. Earlier, the duplication of cases was carried out in a similar fashion. Earlier today, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and health secretary Pradeep Vyas declared the reconciled figure of deaths.”” Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, Maharashtra government, said, “The figures of the deaths have risen suddenly owing to the reconciliation of figures. It is true that there was negligence to a certain extent at some level and it led to a mismatch in the figures. This has happened owing to a couple of reasons. Some private hospitals did not provide us information in time, while in some government hospitals, the records about the deaths were not kept properly. In some cases, the death certificates had the mention of Covid infection as cause of fatality, but in hospital records, the entry was missing. When we realised the lapses we, last week, asked all municipal corporations and district collectors to reconcile the data on an urgent basis.”Gagarani also admitted that the data was not being fed as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, leading to a mismatch in number of deaths.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant tweeted, “Reconciliation process had started earlier. We should welcome this stand of the state government to correct data. Fadnavisji who sensationalised this, has sources yet working for him in the govt. Today’s declaration was part of the ongoing process, which will happen every month.” He further tweeted, “This letter Principal Secretary Health to all Collectors & Commissioner of Municipal Corporations dated 11th June citing directions of CS to reconcile data of #Covid_19 deaths before 15th June at 5 pm. It clearly suggests that LOP just tried to peep into a legitimate process.” Attached to this tweet is a letter dated June 11 signed by Principal Secretary of the Heath department, Pradeep Vyas, directing all municipal commissioners and district collectors to reconcile data of number of deathsA senior BMC official said “These are mostly deaths from March and April. We have been cleaning up data for the last 15 days as in several hospitals, these had not been reported as per norms. We want to be completely transparent as nothing can be achieved by hiding figures.”The BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal sent a report to the government on Monday, revising the death figures. Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded to know what action will be taken by the state government, over these figures being hidden by the audit committee. He tweeted on Tuesday, “ICMR and World Health Organisation have clear guidelines on recording Covid-19 deaths, despite which the state government appointed a committee for the audit of the deaths. Was this committee to reduce the fatalities or to hide them? It is my sincere request to the state government that please don’t ignore this entire episode of criminal negligence in the name of reconciliation of numbers. These figures were suppressed for past three months. We demand strict action against all those who are responsible for this.” The recovery rate of the state however improved to 50.99% after the number of patients discharged from hospitals rose to 57,851.At present 5.86,686 people are under home quarantine, while 27,242 are in institutional quarantine facilities across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-covid-19-toll-shoots-up-to-5-537/story-iCeI9iHJJ27OqOh5kGBCyM.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Man sets up ration distribution system for Mankhurd locals||Although the lockdown meant the collapse of his cable business, Prakash Kumbhar didn’t let that stop him from working to help those in more desperate straits. The entrepreneur has set systems in place to organise relief work and worked with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to ensure ration is distributed to residents of Mankhurd transit camp.When his cable business stopped making money during lockdown, Kumbhar started selling vegetables to make ends meet. He also gathered volunteers and undertook a survey of Mankhurd transit camp. He developed a colour-coded system to figure out who needed immediate help. Those with no ration were in the red category; those with a week’s were in orange and those with more than a week’s ration were in green.“Among 1,200 houses, there would have been only 10 which had more than a week’s ration [soon after the lockdown],” said Kumbhar, who is also a social worker and associated with Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ (TISS) M-ward project. He contacted NGOs and institutions like TISS and Khaana Chahiye to arrange ration for families of labourers, migrant workers, auto and taxi drivers, and others in need.“I also got in touch with other community leaders in Mandala, Ekta Nagar, Sathe Nagar and asked them to undertake a similar survey. Now, every 15 days, we distribute ration to the families as per the number of members in the family,” Kumbhar said.Residents of Mankhurd transit camp have been living in poor and cramped housing conditions for years now. Kumbhar and his team also cleaned and beautified a small open space in the area where residents could spend some time in the day, he said. Amita Bhide, dean, school of habitat studies, TISS, who helped Kumbhar, praised his leadership. “We must remember here that unlike housing societies, these are informal settlements where no one has a formal role to play. Still, community members like Prakash who have a strong base in the community, have displayed remarkable leadership skills,” Bhide said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-sets-up-ration-distribution-system-for-mankhurd-locals/story-kbOk8ZFgjAHNsAcd6KZ0HK.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||AI security official set to work on Vande Bharat flights dies||A 55-year-old security official employed with Air India succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. The deceased tested positive on May 25 during his pre-medical test done before clearance to operate Vande Bharat mission flights to repatriate Indians stranded in foreign countries. He was supposed to be on flights AI 1969 and AI 1970 on the Delhi-Cairo-Delhi sector on May 29.He was admitted to BL Kapoor Hospital in New Delhi after he was found to be positive for Covid-19. Senior officials of the national carrier said he was on ventilator support for the past few days. The official breathed his last on Monday and his body was released from the hospital on Tuesday morning, following which his cremation rituals were carried out.An airline official said, “The 55-year-old official was down with fever and had applied for leave when he was posted in the cargo section. His leaves, however, were not approved by his seniors.” A comment from Air India was awaited till the time of going to press. Earlier on June 5, a 58-year-old Air India pilot, who retired in April this year, died due to suspected Covid-19 infection. On May 31, an Air India flight from Delhi to Moscow with no passenger on-board was asked to return midway after it was realised that one of the pilots of the plane had tested positive. Earlier in May, Air India’s Delhi office was sealed after one of the staff members tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ai-security-official-set-to-work-on-vande-bharat-flights-dies/story-DthYctLH4fPoE71C3AXB7K.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA completes 970-bed facility at BKC in 17 days||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has completed phase-2 of the Covid-19 hospital in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in 17 days. The facility has 970 beds, including 108 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 12 with dialysis units. The facility will be handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday at 12.30pm. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to be present at the event. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “It was a challenge to build the ICU facility but we managed to pull it off in 17 days.” Another official from MMRDA said that the work started at the end of May but the agency had to battle the cyclone and heavy rains in Mumbai, which posed a huge challenge. Both the phases together now have 2,004 beds. Phase-1 of the facility, which has 1,034 beds, was handed over to BMC at the end of May. Owing to Cyclone Nisarga that hit the state On June 3, patients from phase-1 were shifted out of the facility temporarily. Thackeray had earlier asked MMRDA to assist in setting up modular quarantine and isolation facilities to ramp up the number of beds, as part of the city’s preparedness to battle the pandemic. Mumbai alone has over 55,000 cases, the highest in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-completes-970-bed-facility-at-bkc-in-17-days/story-4DlCVRUcsU2UID2uUoqzUL.html
17-06-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees fewer than 1K cases for the first time in June||There was some relief amid the gloom, as Mumbai on Tuesday reported fewer than 1,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time this month. Also, 915 patients recovered and were discharged on Tuesday.Mumbai recorded 935 cases, crossing the 60,000 mark, with the case count at 60,228. The total number of discharged patients is 31, 040. The city also recorded 55 deaths on Tuesday and another 862 deaths were updated after reconciliation of all deaths since March. The total number of deaths in Mumbai has now gone up to 3,167. This has taken the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s already increasing fatality rate up to 5.2%, from 3.79% on Tuesday. Of the 55 deaths recorded on Tuesday, 34 patients had co-morbidities. Two of the deceased were below 40 years of age, 29 were above 60 years, and 24 were between 40 and 60 years. As part of their strategy to strengthen contact-tracing, BMC claimed to have traced 5,399 high-risk contacts in the past 24 hours. While the city’s doubling rate is now 28 days, R-North (Dahisar) ward has the lowest doubling rate of 13 days, followed by R-Central (Borivli) ward and R-South (Kandivli) at 17 days each. The total number of Covid tests done so far in Mumbai is 2,64,580. The overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai in the past seven days has been 2.9%. In a press statement issued on Tuesday, BMC has claimed to have surveyed 3.64 lakh senior citizens, of which 1,965 were found having low oxygen saturation and were treated or referred to BMC hospitals. The civic body claims to have visited more than 21,20,088 houses as part of their door-to-door survey for checking up on senior citizens and screening of people. Dharavi, one of the critical hotspots in Mumbai, showed signs of improvement, reporting only 21 cases on Tuesday, with a total of 2,089 cases reported so far. No new deaths were reported on Tuesday. As on Monday, the city had 823 active containment zones, including slums and chawls and 4,959 buildings were sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-fewer-than-1k-cases-for-the-first-time-in-june/story-Hh09El2Y2dM02CfMT7ZBGL.html
17-06-2020||City||Kalwa hospital doctor succumbs to Covid-19||A 50-year-old woman doctor working with Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, and two other doctors tested positive in Thane on Tuesday. This is the third death of a doctor in Thane due to Covid-19.A total of 24 doctors within Thane are being treated for Covid-19 currently.“The doctor who lost her life on Sunday was diabetic, so she was not on Covid duty. She was posted in the tuberculosis out-patient department. We are deeply saddened by this news as one more amongst us has succumbed to Covid-19 as a warrior,” said Dr Dinkar Desai, president, Indian Medical Association’s Thane chapter.A doctor at the Kalwa hospital said, “More than 60 healthcare professionals including doctors and staff within Kalwa hospital have tested positive till now. In some cases, the staffer has tested positive for the second time as well, which is very dangerous.”Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 112 positive cases and four deaths on Tuesday. To date, 5,415 positive cases and 167 deaths have been reported within the corporation’s jurisdiction.The neighbouring Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation has seen a spike in the number of positive cases since Mission Begin Again, which has prompted the mayor to call for a complete lockdown. Currently, there are 603 positive cases within Bhiwandi and 30 deaths. “To break the chain of the increasing number of cases, we have decided to conduct a complete lockdown and treat the whole city like a containment zone for the next 15 days. This will help identify the problem areas as well. We are also on the brink of preparing a 350-bed facility within the city,” said Pratibha Patil, mayor, Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 158 positive cases and three deaths on Tuesday, taking the count to 2,438 and 65 deaths in the twin city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalwa-hospital-doctor-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-uuTrgb3ImlU3C4NYsYTeZK.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mandi now open 6 days a week, crowding a problem||Even though Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city, the administration has allowed the sabzi mandi (vegetable market) near Jalandhar bypass to open for six days in a week from Monday to Saturday.Opening days were restricted to just three days a week in April after large crowds gathered there even after the virus outbreak. Though entry has been restricted only to listed vendors and locals are not allowed, a large number of street vendors are entering the market by scaling the wall, authorities said. Things were no different on Tuesday after the markets opened with a large number of people collecting there , giving social distancing a miss. Many were not wearing masks even though authorities had claimed that no one without masks would be allowed to enter.Trading in fruits and vegetables too carried on after 11 am despite operations allowed from 5am to 11am.Many arthiyas (commission agents) requesting anonymity said as they had suffered losses during the lockdown they wanted locals to be allowed to come into the market, but the illegal entry of street vendors who were hand in glove with other arthiyas would hurt their business.The district mandi officer, Jaswinder Singh, in the meanwhile, said: “The deputy commissioner’s office had reviewed the situation, following which mandi operations had been allowed for six days a week. Strict directions had been issued to the arthiyas that they should not trade with any person without a mask. The market committee will also be sanitising the mandi every Sunday. Police have been asked to keep a check on the entry of street vendors in the market.”Following complaints of a huge gathering at the sabzi mandi, the administration had, on April 3, restricted the sale of vegetables and fruits to three days, on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Only listed suppliers/vendors selling vegetables to street vendors in the city’s 95 wards were issued passes to enter the market. The vendors were also stopped from setting up their vends.It was suspected that the then district mandi officer Jasbir Kaur who tested positive in April and assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli, who succumbed to Covid-19, had also contracted the virus while deputed at the mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mandi-now-open-6-days-a-week-crowding-a-problem/story-xvVFQACrgNTVnTJZ24D2VL.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Police get 2 months to file charge sheet in N-E riots conspiracy case||A Delhi court granted two months to the Special Cell of the Delhi police to file the charge sheet in an FIR they have registered to prove the conspiracy behind the riots in north-east Delhi. The Delhi police’s special cell had named students, social activists and a local ward councillor as main accused persons of the case. Some of them were Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Gufisha Fatima, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Tahir Hussain who had been arrested under the Unlawful Activity Prevention Act (UAPA) and are lodged in jail.The police, in the FIR, had also named former JNU student Umar Khalid, however, he had not been arrested till now. Khalid has been denying the charges against him.The police had approached the court seeking more time, saying that they were unable to complete the investigation due to the lockdown and would require more time to file its report in the court. According to the Special Cell’s submissions in the court, Umar Khalid along with the accused had hatched conspiracy to orchestrate riots just before the visit of the US President Donald Trump on February 24-25.Besides, the case by the Special Cell, the crime branch and the local police have already filed nearly 100 charge sheets in connection to the riots. While in general cases, the charge sheets are filed within 90 days, in cases related to the UAPA, the final report can be filed within 180 days of arrest of the accused failing which the accused person is entitled to bail.“ ……….I am of the opinion that the reason cited by the additional public prosecutor in the case at hand are of valid reasons…..,” Additional Sessions Judge Dharmendra Rana said.The court noted that the investigation by the police and the application seeking extension mentioned that large number of call detail records and emails of the accused have to be analysed. It also said that the contention of the defense that the report of the prosecution fails to meet the requirement is bereft of merit and thus deserves to be dismissed.On Monday, the Public Prosecutor Irfan Ahmed, appearing for the Special Cell, told the court that some of the key conspirators are yet to be arrested and efforts are being made to identify and arrest the other accused. He said that due to the lockdown, the relevant data from mobile phone of one of the accused, Khalid Saifi could not be recovered as an expert technician could not be reached due to the lockdown.He also stated that efforts are being made to get the mobile phone opened through authorized service station so that data could be extracted and examined to complete the chain of investigation. He said that so far the investigation reveal that there was a deep rooted conspiracy and to unearth that, arrests of remaining accused is important to investigate the case from all possible angles so that a “fair, logical and impartial charge sheet could be filed before the court”.He said that the certified copy of call detail records of the accused are still awaited and it is to be examined for the purpose of investigation.Ahmed also told the court that it is also yet to obtain sanctions from the Department of Prosecution of the Delhi government to prosecute the accused (seven) under the UAPA Act. Delhi police is required to take sanctions from the city government before prosecution under the UAPA act.He sought that the police be granted time till September 17 to file the charge sheets.Opposing the plea, the counsels for the accused contended that their clients have been implicated and there is no evidence with the Delhi police which is why it is seeking time to file the charge sheets.Advocate Mahmood Pracha, who appeared for one of the accused—Gulfisha Fatima—said that even the FIR does not mention the name of her client, and this is a false case by the prosecution.Meanwhile, the Delhi High Court has designated four special courts at the Karkardooma Court complex for hearing the cases related to the riots. In a circular, the high court has designated two sessions and two magisterial courts for trial.Also on Tuesday, a city court posted the cognizance of charge sheet against former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain for Wednesday following the HC’s order. The city police had charged Hussain for leading and instigating the murder of Ankit Sharma, IB official.The matter would be now heard on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-get-2-months-to-file-charge-sheet-in-n-e-riots-conspiracy-case/story-fEKedTYgclW1TVaM4Qi7QO.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||When hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr donated three of his Olympic medals for China War fund||Legendary hockey player and triple Olympic gold medallist Balbir Singh Senior, who died on May 25, 2020, was a true nationalist. So great was his love for India that he did not think twice when the country went to war with China and donated three of his Olympic gold medals to the China War fund in October 1962. “The country’s troubled time was bigger than my Olympic medals. That’s why I gave it to the national defence fund,” Singh had said during one of his interviews. When the hockey legend was battling for his life at the Post Graduate Institute of Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, two years back, an old photograph sent to his family by a retired Army officer revived some fond memories. It was from October 1962, when India was at war with China, reflecting the Olympic champion’s selfless and priceless contribution towards the war fund.Sharing Balbir Singh’s unwavering patriotism, Col BN Bali (retired), recalled witnessing a heart touching moment while he was posted at the office of then Punjab chief minister (CM) Partap Singh Kairon. “I was deputed in the CM’s office in October 1962 when Balbir Singh Sr came to meet him. When I questioned him why he needed to see the CM, he specified no reason. I thought that like others he must had also come to get some of his work done. But when he met Partap Singh Kairon, he offered three of his Olympic gold medals (1948, 52, 56) for the China War Fund. This left everyone in the office, including the CM surprised, as nobody had come forward with such a gracious donation before. However, Kairon refused to accept the medals, saying it was the country’s pride. But Balbir Singh said the medals were the best he could offer, and on his insistence, the CM accepted them,” recalled Bali. “However, Kairon did not send the medals to the PM’s relief fund, and told the staff to keep it in the office safe. After a couple of months, the CM returned the medals to Balbir Singh and told him that these are the country’s pride and can’t be exchanged for money.”It was in 2017, when he read in the newspaper that Panjab University created a chair in the name of the hockey legend, Col Bali called the university office to get his contact number. “Eventually, I was able to get in touch with him and his daughter. Later, while surfing my old documents I came across the photograph of 1962 Balbir Singh handing over the medals to Kairon, so I gave the photograph to his family and told them about Balbir ji’s patriotism.”During the 2012 London Olympics, the hosts invited the living legends from the 1948 London Games and had an exhibition of their Olympics artifacts. During that time the three Olympic gold medals were insured for UK pound 300,000 (Rs 2.76 cr). “For my father these Olympic medals are priceless, he always tells us that there is no pride bigger than the country’s honour. So, we never thought about its value in terms of money,” his daughter Sushbir Bhomia had said.Balbir Singh was part of the hockey team that won the Independent India’s first Olympic gold in 1948. A British colony till a year ago, India defeated Britain on their home turf and saw the tricolour of the newly independent nation being hoisted, in a country which ruled them for two centuries.“Though it happened 70 years ago, memories of the London Games are as fresh as it happened yesterday,” Balbir Singh had said in an interview in 2018. “As a child I used to ask my father (Dalip Singh Dosanjh), who was a freedom fighter, what independence meant and what we would get out of it. He would reply that independence would give us our own identity, flag and pride forever. That day when our flag was hoisted in front of thousands of Britons at the Wembley Stadium, I realised what independence means. It was the proudest moment for me and for all Indians back home. When the national anthem was played and the flag was going up, I felt that I was flying. I am short of words to describe that glorious moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/when-hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr-donated-three-of-his-olympic-medals-for-china-war-fund/story-f4EKlmnYDtkAx9Ue0lDG8H.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Scrap dealer carjacked at gunpoint in Mullanpur||A 35-year-old man was carjacked at gunpoint by two men near Siswan village of Mullanpur in Mohali district on Monday night.Ashok Kumar of Madawala village, a scrap dealer, was on his way home in his Maruti Vitara Brezza when the men intercepted him in a Chevrolet Beat, pointed a gun at him and asked him to hand over the keys and step outside the car. As he did what they ordered, the carjackers left their car – which police later said had been stolen in Haryana – and sped away in his vehicle.Cash worth Rs 30,000 was also kept in Kumar’s car, police said.Deputy superintendent of police, Amroj Singh, said a case has been registered under Section 392 of the IPC. The incident happened at around 10.15 pm on Monday. “We are scrutinising the footage from CCTV cameras from which it has been established that the car went towards Baddi. Investigations are continuing to arrest the suspects soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scrap-dealer-carjacked-at-gunpoint-in-mullanpur/story-Vz4Y1VKqrLezt8yAZ9zNAP.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt confronts staff shortages for its Covid-19 beds||With cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising, the Delhi government is seeking to increase the number of beds available for patients by setting up makeshift hospitals in 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls. The idea is to add 15,800 beds for sick patients. Five hundred converted railway coaches will add another 8,000 beds for the city’s Covid-19 patients.To meet the need for around 150,000 beds by the end of July, the government plans to use stadiums to create makeshift hospitals.The challenge, however, lies in finding a sufficient number of doctors, nurses, and sanitation workers to staff these makeshift hospitals.For Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms – those who are likely to be admitted to the makeshift hospitals – the government would need at least one doctor for every 10 to 12 beds and one nurse for every five to eight beds, in line with the staffing norms followed in several of the city’s Covid-19 hospitals.This means, for the 23,800 beds that the government is likely to add within this month, there will be a need for over 1,983 doctors and 2,975 nurses assuming the lower staffing estimates. Additionally, the government will also have to hire housekeeping and sanitation staff.The state government is in talks with the Delhi Medical Association to provide staff for the makeshift hospitals.“We have requested the Delhi Medical Association to not only arrange for doctors but also other staff as per need for the upcoming makeshift hospitals,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, requesting anonymity.Additionally, the government has set up a helpline number – 08047192219 – where doctors wishing to volunteer for the government’s Covid-19 telemedicine helpline have been asked to give a missed call.“The helpline will recruit doctors for physically treating patients in the makeshift hospitals as well. So far, we have received very few responses,” said the official.The Delhi Medical Association’s plan is also a work in progress, with only four to five people having registered since June 8 when the doctors’ body first met the health minister to discuss the plan.“We have asked our members to provide not only their services but also that of nurses and housekeeping staff they might employ in their clinics and nursing homes. The plan is to ask doctors to adopt a certain number of beds – say 50 or 100 – and use their own staff to man it,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president of the Delhi Medical Association.The requirement“The government will likely have to hire doctors and nurses. That is the plan but there hasn’t been any decision taken on this,” said another Delhi government official, on condition of anonymity.Of the total beds, those in the hotels will be paid facilities with private hospitals pitching in staff and consumables. As per the government’s May 29 order, five-star hotels will be allowed to charge Rs 5,000 and three or four-star hospitals Rs 4,000 per patient per day, with the linked hospitals allowed to charge up to R 5,000 for medical services and consumables per day.“This does not eat into our manpower too much because we need very few nurses and doctors to monitor the patients with mild symptoms,” said a doctor/executive one of the big private hospitals in the city on condition of anonymity. Another private hospital, however, said it was already facing staff shortages. “Most of our nurses put down their papers when we were asked to earmark beds for Covid-19. Several other demanded higher salaries, it is not possible to do so in this economy,” said a doctor at the private hospital.“The shortage was created in the last three months due to two reasons – one the fear of the infection in the minds of the healthcare workers and two salary cuts that several hospitals had to implement is April and May with their routine surgeries and out-patient clinics remaining closed. Hospitals are likely to make up for the shortfall in revenue with many treating Covid-19 patients. But the government also needs to incentivise workers,” said Girdhar Gyani, director-general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India).He cited the example of the Odisha government that is paying a private medical college hospital to reserve around 500 beds. “In addition, the government is also paying the healthcare worker 50% more in addition to their salaries, who wouldn’t want to work then?,” he said.“In case of banquet halls being turned into hospitals, the logistics are being worked out. We are requisitioning some doctors from all our government hospitals that are not being utilised for Covid. As for the support teams, each hotel and each banquet hall while being requisitioned has also signed for making their staff available to us. So, that in addition to the civil defence volunteers will suffice,” said the government spokesperson.Former AIIMS director, Dr MC Misra, said, “There is no doctor patient ratio that we can follow here as this is not an ideal scenario. But we have to make sure that our healthcare workers are comfortable. One person should be on duty with the PPE {personal protective equipment} only for maybe for hours, but in mild cases – those that are likely to be admitted to the makeshift hospitals – one doctor or trained nurse per ward should be enough.”To augment staff, he said, “Interns and medical students who have done their MBBS from other countries but have not cleared the MCI test can be utilised. Ayurvedic practitioners can be roped in. Delhi can request other states with lower disease burden to send their doctors and nurses. However, the government has to ensure their safety and provide proper incentive,” said Dr Misra. He also suggested leveraging technology for monitoring the mild patients remotely or providing specialist consultations to those outside the hospitals.Existing shortagesA senior government official said the city administration is reorganising the staff in all their hospitals to ensure resources are optimally used. This official said it is here that the role of the medical staff under the municipal corporations will also come into play.“Part of the staff shortage is being addressed by reorganising the existing manpower in all the government hospitals. The process will take 2-3 days more to be finalised. We will also be using the medical staff of the MCD-run hospitals,” said the official.This, however, might not work with doctors and nurses in the existing hospitals already stretched thin.“The government has already taken over the services of almost all the big teaching hospitals in Delhi, which have the maximum number of residents who can work in the Covid-19 wards. And, the total number of beds so far is just 10,000. What about the other 70,000 or so beds that the government plans to create?” said Dr Parv Mittal, vice president of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association.The government hospitals have a shortage of staff and in March the Covid-19 hospitals of Delhi government were allowed to hire staff up to 25% of sanctioned strength till June 30 to meet any shortfall.“Most of the bigger private hospitals in Delhi are accredited and hence need to hire 125 nurses for every 100 beds. This ratio in government hospitals across the country comes to about 30 nurses for 100 beds; Delhi being a little better it would be about 45 nurses per 100 beds,” said Gyani.The shortage is also acutely felt when it comes to housekeeping staff. “The hospital has always been short staffed when it comes to housekeeping. Earlier, the family members of the patients could help in cleaning up a little, changing sheets, taking the patients to the washroom. Now, there is a big gap in these services,” said a doctor from Lok Nayak hospital.To add to the shortfall, several healthcare workers testing positive are going into quarantine on coming in direct contact with Covid-19 patients. The government will also find it difficult to draw doctors, nurses and staff from its smaller non-Covid-19 hospitals.“We are a non-Covid hospital, but we keep getting patients who later test positive. Some doctors and staff inevitably get exposed and have to go on quarantine. Several of our staff have also tested positive for the infection. We are finding it hard to run our own hospital with the limited manpower, we do not have anyone to spare,” said the administrator of one Delhi-government run hospital on condition of anonymity. The hospital just runs its clinics and emergency services, all routine surgeries and procedures have been put on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-confronts-staff-shortages-for-its-covid-19-beds/story-6iyFnNJjN2j84LoEqfGRFM.html
17-06-2020||Gurugram||Five held after police finds ₹4 crore cash in hotel room||The crime investigation unit (CIA) of Gurugram police on Tuesday arrested five men who were found ₹4 crores cash in a five star hotel room on the Delhi-Gurugram border.Police said a Delhi-based jeweller was camping in the hotel to convert his black money to white with the help of his associate from Kerala. The cash was handed over to the income tax department.Gurugram police said they received information about a large cache of fake currency being moved in the city. After following the trail for a few days, police received specific inputs about a possible transaction of fake currency at a city hotel.Acting on the information, police raided the hotel room and found five persons with two plastic gunny bags full of currency in denomination of ₹500 and ₹2000. Police found all notes to be genuine. Police immediately alerted the income tax department and a team from there arrived at the hotel to seize the cash.“We had a lead about fake currency racket but turned out to be something different. We seized the items and handed them over to the income tax department,” said assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, adding that the case was handed over to the IT department.According to police, five persons were present in the room at the time of raid – owner of a popular chain of jewellery shops, three of his employees and one person from Kerala who had come to visit him in the hotel.“The jeweller was in Gurugram to strike a deal to convert his black money into white. The person from Kerala was supposed to help the jeweller in all these,” said the officer. The jeweller, according to police, claimed that the cash was related to his jewellery business.Income Tax department officials said they are investigating the case and appropriate action would be taken as per the prescribed law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-held-after-police-finds-4-crore-cash-in-hotel-room/story-9HcOXNKxcni6PWdxJeSn2O.html
17-06-2020||Noida||85 violators on average arrested daily during lockdown||Gautam Budh Nagar Police has taken into custody nearly 85 people daily on an average for violating lockdown restrictions, since March 23, when lockdown was imposed in Uttar Pradesh to check the spread of Covid-19. Nearly 72,000 vehicles have also been issued challans during this period for flouting travel restrictions, said a police spokesperson.A nationwide lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 24. However, the Uttar Pradesh government had already announced to impose a three-day lockdown from March 23, which was subsequently merged with the nationwide lockdown. According to police officials, data from March 23 till June 15 (till 7pm) shows that a total of 8,586 people have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) in 2,045 cases. Of them 7,302 people have been arrested. “The arrests were made for violating Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc), which was imposed in the wake of the lockdown. The section bars the gathering of four or more people,” said the police spokesperson. Anyone booked under Section 188 of the IPC can be granted an interim bail as it carries with it a punishment of less than seven years, said the police.Apart from violating norms of public gathering, police also booked people for not wearing masks, although no separate data are available for this violation. The police department also carried out checks at 200 barricaded posts in the district, including the border areas. As per the police, they have checked 2.35 lakh vehicles during the lockdown period, of which 71, 879 vehicles have been issued challans for various violations and 1,987 vehicles have been seized so far. The department has collected almost ₹7.2 lakh in fines. The police spokesperson said that seven cases under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, have also been registered, of which nine people were booked while five arrested.During this period, the police have permitted the movement of 4,511 vehicles in and out of the district for carrying out essential services.Officials said due to interstate border restrictions in place, many commuters who did not posses travel permits were asked to return. “Several commuters were asked to return with warnings. However, there were a few who refused to follow the regulations despite warnings. On an average 8-10 such people were either issued challans or booked under Section 188 of the IPC at border points daily,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1.So far, 23 police personnel, including the station house officer(SHO) of a city police station, have been tested positive for Covid-19, of whom 17 have recovered while the rest are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/85-violators-on-average-arrested-daily-during-lockdown/story-5XbvQA6loCTbQrAgHKgoLL.html
17-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 23-yr-old woman, a 23-year-old Covid suspect kills self by jumping from hospital building||A 23-year-old woman, who was admitted to a hospital on Sunday after developing symptoms of Covid-19, allegedly killed herself Monday morning by jumping from the seventh floor of the hospital building in Sector 24, the police said, adding that her report came positive on Tuesday.No suicide note was recovered from the spot, the police said. The incident took place around 5.40am. According to hospital authorities, she was suffering from pneumonia. “She had come to the hospital on Sunday and was in the isolation ward on the 7th floor. She was due for a Covid test on Monday, but before that could happen she took her own life by jumping from a window on the floor,” director of the hospital said.The woman had allegedly asked her father to get her juice and when he left, she jumped from the window, the hospital authorities said, adding that she was being taken care of properly. According to police officers, the woman, a Noida resident who had recently completed her graduation, was also suffering from some other ailments like diabetes.“Her family said she had been upset for a while due to her deteriorating health. No note was recovered from the spot, and the family could not think of any other issue that might have led her to take her own life,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1.According to the police, after the incident her samples were taken for Covid-19 test as doctors suspected her of having symptoms of Covid-19 and the body was sent for an autopsy. As it is a non-Covid hospital, they were taking necessary precautions by placing her in an isolation ward, the police said.Her report on Tuesday came positive for the virus, Verma said, adding that arrangements are now being made to perform her last rites as per protocol. The woman’s family has not filed any formal complaint with the police, the official said.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-23-yr-old-woman-a-covid-suspect-kills-self-by-jumping-from-hospital-building/story-7eEUrLW8mT2HmwRSAuhYMJ.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Central committee asked to review 25 private hospitals in Delhi||A 16-member Central panel, formed to assess the existing capacity and patient care amenities at Delhi government hospitals for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have been asked to review preparedness in 25 private hospitals as well.The panel – divided in three teams – was initially supposed to inspect 10 government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in Delhi and submit a report by Wednesday. Now with the Delhi government asking it to check private hospitals, the committee is likely to ask for an extension.“Each of the three teams would now have to visit at least eight hospitals, which would require three to four days. This is in addition to two or three government hospitals. The committee may need more time to assess the hospitals,” said one of the committee members, on condition of anonymity.The private hospitals to be assessed include Max in Saket and Shalimar Bagh, all three hospitals of Sir Ganga Ram, Fortis Shalimar Bagh and Escorts in Okhla, BLK hospital, Indraprastha Apollo hospital among others.The committee will mainly look at five key areas and suggest measures to better implement patient care in the city. The areas of focus would be the existing infrastructure and how it can be expanded, staff issues, mortuaries and dignified disposal of the dead, whether in-house testing is available in the Covid-19 hospitals, and other measures such as signages to help patients.“The aim is to improve patient satisfaction,” said the committee member quoted above.The committee includes senior doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the central Directorate General of Health Services, Delhi government institutes, and municipal corporations.The committee was formed after a meeting of Delhi government ministers and key officials with union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday. Another committee formed after the meeting – headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul – to assess capping of prices in some of the beds in private hospitals was to submit its report on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-committee-asked-to-review-25-private-hospitals-in-delhi/story-dxD395LEScp14yECbN7eOP.html
17-06-2020||Gurugram||Many Gurugram patients seeking plasma therapy, but it is no magic bullet: Doctors||Doctors at privately-run dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Gurugram say that many patients were interested in seeking convalescent plasma therapy, a promising yet unproven treatment, to treat the disease. At present, India’s premier biomedical research body, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has authorised at least 30 hospitals across the country to conduct clinical trials of the treatment. In Gurugram, it is the Medanta Hospital in sector-38. Here too, doctors say, it is a challenge to finding donors.Convalescent plasma therapy, in which antibody-rich plasma from recovered patients is injected into recovering individuals to help them stave off infection, has previously been used during the Sars and Mers outbreaks (which were also caused by viruses in the same family as the coronavirus Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19). Plasma is a major component of a person’s blood, making up almost 55% of it. A plasmapheresis machine separates it from the blood and returns the rest -- the red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets -- back into to the donor who typically supplies 300-500 ml of plasma, and the transfusion process takes between 60-90 minutes.With the rising interest, many citizens have organised themselves on WhatsApp, Twitter and even on web portals designed to meet the demand. Rajat Toor, a Delhi-resident who has been involved in connecting donors with patients, said, “A relative of mine required a plasma for treatment at a hospital in Saket. I posted about it online, and since then many inquiries have been coming in, from recovered patients who wished to donate but also from people seeking plasma. Now I am currently seeking donors for two patients under treatment, one in Delhi and the other in Gurugram.” Doctors say the treatment has come to be perceived as a ‘silver bullet’, particularly among relatives of critically ill patients, which is not the case. A pulmonologist at a prominent private hospital in Gurugram, who is directly overseeing the treatment of Covid-19 patients, said, “Recent stories in the media, celebrating isolated success cases from across the country, seems to have stoked people’s interest in plasma therapy. While it holds a lot of promise, the evidence to widely administer is still being pursued. We are having to turn down multiple inquiries every day.”Dr. Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMS, Chandigarh, who is assisting the Punjab government in its response to the pandemic, pointed to recent examples of plasma therapy-led recoveries of patients in Punjab, Kerala, and more recently at PGIMER, Chandigarh, where a 60-year-old man from Kurukshetra recovered. “These examples are promising, but patients and their relatives should be careful to not grasp at straws. Physicians should be trusted to find the best course of treatment, depending on the patient’s need,” Kumar said, adding that more widespread use of convalescent plasma is still some time away. Another doctor at a private hospital said, “We have one 84-year-old man whose son has been pleading with us to start plasma therapy. He even managed to find a donor from Delhi. When we told him it was not possible, as we do not yet have permission to administer it, he tried to shift his father to another private hospital in the city where it is available. But the patient is already on the ventilator so that would endanger his life even more.”Dr. Sushila Kataria, an internist at Medanta Hospital, said, “Patients and their relatives are seeking this treatment, but we cannot administer it to everyone. The criteria for ICMR’s clinical trial is very strict in terms of the patient’s age, and at which stage of the disease they are at, and so on. Not all patients meet this criteria. In certain cases, and only where required, we are administering ‘off-label’ use of plasma therapy.” Off-label application of the therapy for treating patients in moderate stage of criticality was recently approved by the union health ministry.Then there is the other challenge of finding donors. “It is not possible to harvest plasma from (cured) patients while they are (still) under treatment. It has to be done about two weeks after recovery, at which stage people are reluctant to come back to hospitals,” Kataria said. She added that, at Medanta, it was initially recovered health workers who were donating plasma.Mohit Tandon, whose 74-year-old mother, Sudha Tandon, died due to the virus at Medanta Hospital last week, said, “We were offered the option of plasma therapy when she was critically ill, and were told to find donors. This turned out to be quite hard. You have to find someone of the same blood group, scrutinise their health history, and appeal to their goodwill. I eventually approached an NGO in Delhi which is helping connect patients with plasma donors. Most people I contacted myself were simply not willing.” Immediate relatives of at least four other patients who have received plasma therapy at Medanta said they faced similar issues, and were compelled to rely on the help of NGOs and volunteers to find suitable donors. Manish, who went by only his first name whose sexagenarian father is currently under treatment at Medanta, said, “It was much harder for us because my father has a rare blood type, and it took us three days to find the right person.” Manish, who is a resident of Dwarka in East Delhi, said, “I chose to admit my father in Gurugram precisely because the option of plasma therapy was available there, and government hospitals in Delhi had no beds available. I know at least two other Delhi residents who chose treatment in Gurugram because of these reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/many-gurugram-patients-seeking-plasma-therapy-but-it-is-no-magic-bullet-doctors/story-hV2WobnPDJXcbZ8J6HQ6FP.html
17-06-2020||Gurugram||Nine Covid-19 deaths; total count of infected persons reaches 3,682 in Gurugram||Nine deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours on Tuesday– the highest single day toll– taking the total fatalities to 46 in the city, the highest in Haryana. It included three people had no comorbidities. As the fatalities continue to increase in the city, data shows that number of patients who require ventilator support have also spiked. Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, said, “Of the nine deaths, two were brought dead and later tested Covid-19 positive. Three persons were above 50 years and had diabetes, while three others had no co-morbid condition. A 51-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Jhajjar was also declared dead.” Of the 118 deaths reported in the state, 46 are from Gurugram, followed by 38 from Faridabad. In terms of new coronavirus cases, the city is one of the worst-affected by the pandemic. Gurugram on Tuesday reported 205 new cases taking the total count to 3,682, out of which 1,722 are active cases and 1914 have been discharged. Almost 39% of the overall active cases in the state are clustered in Gurugram alone. Over 8,272 cases have been reported in Haryana, of which 4406 are active. With the rapid surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the patients under critical care have also climbed. The hospitalization data shows that 395 are admitted in the isolation ward of different hospitals, while 73 are in ICU wards requiring oxygen support. Atleast 1,110 infected persons are under home isolation. The district health department is in the process of streamlining testing in the state. In the last 24 hours, 519 samples were collected by government and private labs. The district has also started conducting testing in the sector 10 Civil Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nine-covid-19-deaths-total-count-of-infected-persons-reaches-3-682-in-gurugram/story-nuDBncsTuzuVBGFxLac8II.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Outside GTB Hospital, snatchers target man waiting to receive Covid-19 infected father’s body||Motorcycle-borne men snatched the mobile phone of a man preparing to receive the body of his 44-year-old father, who had died of Covid-19, outside east Delhi’s GTB Hospital on Monday morning, said police.The man, 24-year-old Pankaj Kumar, a resident of west Delhi’s Madipur, was waiting for relatives to arrive and was making calls to friends when the snatcher struck around 6am.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 379 (theft) and 356 (assault or criminal force to commit theft) has been registered at the GTB Enclave police station, said Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), adding they were scanning CCTV footage to identify suspects.Pankaj said his father, Ramesh Kumar, an employee at a footwear firm, fell ill around 10 days ago. “He was weak and had stopped having food. When I took him to a hospital in West Delhi, he was referred to GTB Hospital where he tested positive for Covid-19 last week,” said Pankaj, who works at an optical showroom in Connaught Place and lives with his parents and two siblings in their west Delhi home. Ramesh died on Monday, 2 am. Pankaj was completing formalities to receive the body, and had arranged a cab for his mother and siblings to be with him.“I was outside the hospital’s gate number six and was speaking to a friend to come and help me with cremation when two men on a motorcycle snatched my phone and fled,” said Pankaj. “At that moment, I felt it was the end of the world for me. It felt as if all the troubles of life were meant for me.”The snatched phone, was just a month-old, apart from being a link to his family and friends, also had his father’s Aadhar card image that he needed printed to receive the body. A nearby tea seller offered his mobile phone to call the police. “I first brought out my hand sanitiser and disinfected my hands before accepting his phone. It would have been unfair to put a person helping me at risk,” said Pankaj.Pankaj eventually managed to establish contact with his family, complete all formalities and receive the, and finally cremate his father. “We have some clues about the suspects after working on the ground,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/outside-gtb-hospital-snatchers-target-man-waiting-to-receive-covid-19-infected-father-s-body/story-1Xmqr2l7PoC2Ja8LWmnWGP.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Hospitality to health care: Hotels prepare for life as Covid-19 facilities||Preparations to provide beds for patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in city hotels, which have been attached to hospitals in their neighbourhood, began in full swing from Tuesday, a day after the Delhi High Court allowed the Delhi government to take over two hotels for running extended Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms.Hotel Crowne Plaza, Okhla and Hotel Suryaa, New Friends Colony, had moved the court against the move but after a two-member court appointed committee submitted that there are spaces in the two hotels which can be appropriately equipped and converted into dedicated Covid health centres, the High Court gave the go ahead to the government. The Delhi government had on May 29 ordered five hotels to be used as Covid facilities to meet the requirement for beds in view of the spike in coronavirus cases. The hotels are Crowne Plaza (attached with Batra Hospital; Hotel Suryaa (Apollo ); Hotel Siddharth (B L Kapur Memorial Hospital); Hotel Jivitesh (Sir Gangaram Hospital); Sheraton Saket (Max Super Speciality Hospital). Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, previously attached to Jivitesh hotel, was attached to a second hotel - Taj Mansingh - on Tuesday. The hospital said it has started surveying the hotels assigned to it. “A lot of changes will have to be made because hotels as such are not designed to act as a backup for hospitals. But, these are extraordinary times. We are working closely with the hotel to decide on the separate entrance and exits, sanitising and screening areas at the entry and readily available dedicated ambulances to shift the Covid patient immediately to the hospital if the situation deteriorates,” said Dr Ajay Swaroop, honorary secretary, board of management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. These hotel-hospitals will be equipped with oxygen cylinders and concentrators, medicines, bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP), intravenous (IV) fluids and stands, pulse oximeters and so on. Hospital managements will also have to ensure a conducive air-conditioning at these hotels because they have to ensure the air flow does not spread infections. A senior official of Apollo hospital, which has been attached to Crowne Plaza and Holiday Inn hotels in Mayur Vihar among others, said one of the important tasks at hand is to study the airflow at these hotels. “Typically for Covid positive patients, we need either a negative pressure or a uni-directional airflow so that the common areas and corridors do not get infected. If it is a Covid care centre then it is much easier because you just have to create a good exhaust system. Even rooms which have natural airflow will create a negative pressure. For something more severe, one would need a higher grade of air-conditioning to create a negative airflow, which will be a bit difficult to achieve,” said the official. A negative pressure room includes a ventilation system that decreases the viral load of the aerosolised space by throwing out the infected air out of the building using a negative pressure. On June 14, HT had reported on the government requisitioning as many as 40 hotels having a total capacity of 4,628 beds to be attached with private hospitals. All the attached hospitals that HT spoke to said the HC order on Monday has caused confusion whether the hotels have to be turned into Covid Care Centres (CCCs), primarily meant for asymptomatic (with no facility of home quarantine) patients and mild cases, or makeshift hospitals. They said the government has to clarify whether the HC order of setting up CCCs in the two hotels will be applicable to all other hotels as well. “If it is CCC, the job is much easier and quicker. But if they have to turn into makeshift hospitals, as the government orders also state, then more equipment and arrangements will be required. But, it is totally doable,” the hospitals said. Despite government orders on requisitioning various hotels, only Sheraton in Saket is currently operational as an extended Covid facility. “It is because all other hotels and the hospitals were waiting for the verdict of the high court in the matter,” said a government official. Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket Complex, which has been running the facility in Sheraton said they identified space and created a medical store within the hotel.“This medical store is adequately equipped with medicines, consumables and equipment at all times. This is a must-do for all the hospitals that have been attached to hotels. Spaces also have to be earmarked for the clinical staff such as doctor and nurse duty rooms. Since medical staff also need to be quarantined at defined intervals, manpower planning is the key,” said Dr Gurpreet Singh, vice president and unit head, Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket Complex.The hotels said they would provide their staff for all hotel-related services including rooms, housekeeping, disinfection and food for the patients. “The orders state that the hotel staff will be trained by the concerned hospitals. Right from our chefs to the housekeeping staff, workers will have to be taught how to wear protective gear and how to dispose them. We are also arranging for a lot of disposable plates, water bottles and cutlery. The charges are to be collected by the hospital and the hospital will pay the hotel,” said an official of hotel Crowne Plaza in Mayur Vihar, which has been attached to Indraprastha Apollo hospital in Sarita Vihar. ITC Hotels, which runs the Sheraton hotel in Saket, said it is following a stringent hygiene protocol. “Stringent hygiene protocol is being observed at the hotel. All necessary safety precautions are being taken,” a spokesperson of ITC hotels said. The list of hotels also includes two top hotels in South Delhi, Vasant Continental and Hyatt Regency; Maidens Hotel of the Oberoi Group in Civil Lines (supervised by Sant Parmanand Hospital); Hyatt Regency in Bhikaji Cama Place (Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj); Park Inn by Radisson in Lajpat Nagar (Moolchand hospital) and Hotel Ramada in Pitampura (Jaipur Golden Hospital).Patients opting for the beds in hotels will have to pay a minimum of Rs 63,000 a week if it’s a three- or four-star hotel. For a five-star hotel, the weekly charge may go up to at least Rs 70,000. In addition, patients needing oxygen support will have to pay Rs 2,000 a day. The charges will vary with medical investigations, which private hospitals overseeing these facilities will bill at their own rates and the duration of treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-to-hospitals-delhi-hc-order-paves-the-way-for-transition/story-3O7T9GdBebG4OgEvwQG8eK.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||Disposal of bodies expedited after Amit Shah’s directions||At least 380 cremations and burials of the bodies of Covid-19 positive and suspected patients took place in the last two days across Delhi, officials of the three municipal corporations said on Tuesday. The officials said these cremations and burials include pending as well as fresh bodies released by hospitals in the city. “Nearly 380 cremations and burials (suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients) have been conducted on Monday and Tuesday. Now, there is no pendency at crematoriums and graveyards run by the civic bodies. These cremations include both done on wood pyre and by CNG method,” a senior official at North Corporation said on the condition of anonymity.According to figures provided by the three municipalities, as many as 157 cremations and burials were conducted in the last two days at crematoriums and graveyards managed by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC); at least 121 at those run by SDMC and 103 at facilities run by the North Corporation. There are nearly 17 crematoriums and graveyards where funerals of Covid-19 confirmed and suspected cases are being conducted in the city.Officials said the last rites of confirmed and suspected patients of Covid-19 were expedited after Union home minister Amit Shah’s directions to all Delhi hospitals on Sunday.A statement released by the Press Infirmation Bureau on Tuesday evening said that following directions of the Union home minister, all hospitals in Delhi, (Central and State Government and private), on Tuesday complied with the directive by speeding up cremation and last rites of bodies of Covid-19 patients. “The hospital staff performed the last rites of most Covid-19 deceased with consent and presence of their families and relatives. Last rites of the remaining 36 deceased will be done by tomorrow (Wednesday) as their Next Of Kin are not in Delhi at present,” the PIB statement said.It added that the ministry of home affairs has given strict directions to hospitals that going forward there should be no delays in performing last rites.Earlier last week, the municipalities had claimed that from March 2020 till June 11 afternoon, as many as 2,098 cremations and burials of Covid-19 confirmed cases were conducted at the cremation grounds and graveyards falling under the three municipalities. Out of 2,098 Covid-19 funerals, 1,080 were conducted in SDMC, 976 in north corporation and 42 in EDMC. The Delhi government had, however, pegged the Covid-19 death figure at 1,085 till June 11. The civic bodies had also claimed that they had separately conducted funerals of 240 Covid-19 suspected bodies till June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/disposal-of-bodies-expedited-after-shah-s-directions/story-rsBhZPfPII5m2wlsSvXwzK.html
17-06-2020||Delhi||270 train coaches at Anand Vihar railway station turn makeshift Covid care wards||Nearly 270 train coaches-turned-makeshift Covid-19 wards, to treat those with mild symptoms, were deployed at the Anand Vihar Railway Station on Tuesday, across its seven platforms. Five trains that had been running to and from the station will now operate from the Old Delhi Railway Station until further orders.Officials said the coaches are ready to be used, as and when the government needs. The development comes two days after the Centre had promised Delhi 500 such coaches to fight the Covid-19 crisis, after the Capital reported a surge in numbers and the government said it expects to see nearly 550,000 cases by July-end. As per the Delhi Corona app, the Capital as of Tuesday evening has 10,500 Covid-19 beds, fewer than half of which are currently vacant.Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,859 new cases, taking the tally to 44,688. The government’s bulletin recorded new 93 deaths on the day as well.With the Delhi government exploring spaces like banquet halls and hotels to convert into facilities to treat Covid-19 patients, the remodelled railway coaches equipped with oxygen cylinders, beds, and bathrooms have presented themselves as another alternative for the state government.Over 40 such coaches were stationed at platform numbers 4 and 5 of Anand Vihar station on Tuesday. Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Northern Railway, said another 50 coaches had already been deployed in Shakur Basti railway station’s washing area, Kumar said. Of these, 10 were deployed on May 31, and 40 on Sunday.“Around 170 will be deployed at the platforms and 100 more parked near the washing area at Anand Vihar station. The location for the remaining coaches will be decided in consultation with the Delhi government in the coming days,” Kumar said. While food, electricity, and water will be provided by the railways, the Delhi government will be charged with the management of patients and nominating a hospital to operate Anand Vihar Covid care centre.The Delhi government said the coaches will be used as Covid Care Centres, where patients with mild symptoms of the infectious disease, and who cannot isolate at home, are treated. “The railway coaches will be for mild cases of the disease. The government is still working out the plan for the staff. On site, at present, arrangements for oxygen and other equipment are currently underway,” said a government spokesperson. When asked why the coaches at Shakur Basti were yet to be used, despite being placed on May 31, the above quoted government spokesperson added, “The facility is on a requirements basis. Currently, we don’t need to use all the facilities at one go.”The metal plates on the sides of coaches that usually display the train route, now read “Covid-19 isolation” instead. Each blue and beige non-AC coach, brought in from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana, has three oxygen cylinders and can accommodate 16 patients — two in each coupe. The first coupe equipped with oxygen cylinders will be reserved for medical staff, and is separated from other coupes by a plastic sheet. Each coupe is equipped with two power sockets, and two dustbins, apart from fans, lights and mosquito nets that are fixed to the windows.The toilets have been remodelled to function as a bathing area. With vestibules on either end of the coaches sealed, movement between rakes will be restricted. In addition to the non-AC coaches, two AC coaches have been deployed per platform, for medical equipment, staff members, and other facilities.Kumar said that since the trains were parked near the shed, the temperature would remain bearable. “In areas where there are no sheds, we are in the process of using bubble sheets on the roofs of the coaches that can help bring down the temperature inside the coaches by three-four degrees,” he said.Personnel at the station on Tuesday were busy putting up flex boards demarcating different areas on the platform, to be used for patients to enter and exit. Station manager Om Kumar said the area leading to the platform has ramps and if needed, ambulances can take patients onto the platform as well. Officials also said the entire area will be limited only to permitted staff members once all the coaches are put in place.With the entry and exit point of Anand Vihar railway station barricaded and manned by paramilitary personnel, the area outside the terminal mostly bore a deserted look, barring a few workers carrying medical equipment like oxygen cylinders, masks, nasal prongs, personal protective equipment kits and disposable bags, among other things, into the station from the divisional hospital at Mori Gate. A few passengers who reached the station, unaware of the latest development, were told by Railway Protection Force guards that their trains would now operate from Old Delhi railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/270-train-coaches-at-anand-vihar-railway-station-turn-makeshift-covid-care-wards/story-9DUxqfbrpkcC4DGgAX1jjL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Convict, man under trial commit suicide in Ambala jail||A 32-year-old man undergoing life imprisonment for murder and a 35-year-old under rial reportedly committed suicide in the quarantine wing of Ambala Central Jail late on Monday.The convicted man was out on parole as part of measures to decongest the prison following the Covid-19 outbreak. He was, however, arrested in a chain theft case with the other man and brought back to jail on the intervening night of June 7 and 8. The two were kept in the quarantine block as a precautionary measure to avoid infection among inmates in case they had contracted the virus, said an official privy to the matter.The bodies of the two men were found hanging by jail authorities on Tuesday.An inquiry has been initiated and the bodies sent to the Civil Hospital in Ambala city, said jail superintendent Lakhbir Singh Brar..Autopsy in presence of judicial magistrateAccording to procedures, the postmortem and other formalities were done in the presence of a judicial magistrate. “If the investigation reveals any fault on the part of jail authorities, strict action will be taken,” Brar said.The reason for the suicides was not known, “but we have started online counselling sessions for the inmates as they are not able to meet their loved ones (due to the Covid-19 social distancing measures). We too cannot organise recreational activities for them due to the pandemic,” he added.A police official from the Baldev Nagar police station said both the men were arrested on June 6 in a snatching case in the Sector 7 area. They were sent to judicial custody after a purse was recovered from their possession.Prison in the newsIt is worth mentioning that Ambala Central Jail has been in the news for the last few weeks after an accused lodged in the jail taken on production remand to Chandigarh in a shooting case revealed he had used a mobile phone in the jail premises.Earlier, a couple of mobile phones and SIMs were also recovered from the premises after which cases were lodged at Baldev Nagar police station.Though he did not specifically comment on the Chandigarh case, the jail superintendent said: “In the recent past, outsiders have thrown SIMs and mobile phones inside the jail that were recovered by the jail guards and cases were registered with the police. They are investigating the matter and our staff with the help of the police has conducted searches inside the barracks too.”If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/convict-man-under-trial-commit-suicide-in-ambala-jail/story-19TtKeAQPDPR4qMj48gr8N.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Pune re-draws micro-containment zone map; 73 areas locked down||The Pune Municipal Corporation, on Tuesday, declared its re-drawing of the micro-containment zones for the city, the aim being to open up areas that are for the moment free of Covid-19 infections.A total of 73 micro-containment zones have been announced by municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.Gaikwad said, “The PMC has decided to opt for micro- containment zones, which are limited to buildings or small areas where Covid-19 positive patients are found. Earlier, it was area-wise containment zones. As per previous order, there were 65 containment zones. Some are deleted and new areas have been added to the list.”Specific areas that come under the red zones of Bhavani peth, Kasba Peth and Raviwar peth will be de-contained from June 17 and businesses and stores will be allowed to operate between 9am and 7pm. While issuing the order, Gaikwad clarified that businesses like salons, beauty parlour and gymnasiums will not be allowed to re-open, irrespective of the location.Gaikwad said that local police stations will take a call about entry and exit in the micro-containment zones. Police will remove all barricades from zones which are deleted from the containment list, Gaikwad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-re-draws-micro-containment-zone-map-73-areas-locked-down/story-6i6FddByrJiWZnWZGK8v4K.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Amardeep Singh is Sector 39B RWA chief||Amardeep Singh was re-elected as the president of the Residents Welfare Society, HIG Category-1 Flats, Sector 39-B, at the body’s general house meeting on Monday. The members unanimously resolved to re-elect Amardeep as the president of the society for another term of two years. The general house also empowered the president to nominate its executive body to assist him in welfare works.Amardeep, who is also a member of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), was congratulated by FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amardeep-singh-is-sector-39-b-rwa-chief/story-50BVa6SSJjpzMg7Q1LfUzK.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune breaches grim 10K mark on 100th day||Pune on Tuesday crossed the grim 10,000 Covid-19 cases mark becoming one of the worst-affected cities in the state due tot he pandemic. Tuesday also marked the 100th day since the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection, had been first reported in Pune and in Maharashtra.On the 100th day, the Covid-19 tally of the city stood at 10,183. Besides Pune, other cities in the state which have also crossed the 10,000 mark are Mumbai and Thane. The city reported its first case on March 9 when a resident of Sinhgad road returned from Dubai with his family and tested positive for the virus. The next day on June 10, his wife along with driver of the private taxi he had hired to come to Pune from the Mumbai airport, also tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. Over the 100 days, Pune has recorded 469 Covid related deaths with 11 deaths reported on Tuesday. While the virus spread rapidly across the city, the recovery rate of patients also increased and currently stands at 65.17 per cent. Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner said, “We are facing a rare pandemic for the first time in this century and therefore, our administrative skills were tested and challenged. We estimated to have around 40,000 cases in the city by May-end earlier, but fortunately we succeeded in controlling the situation.”Although Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil wards initially reported high number of cases, the virus spread relented in these areas in June, however, Aundh-Baner and Sinhgad road now witnessing rapid surge in number of positive cases. During these 100 days, the city also underwent massive changes with Covid induced lockdown bringing all outdoor activities to standstill as the fear of infection and government invoked restrictions kept people inside. The virus drastically altered the lives of Punekars with some of the landmark places in the city closing down and most slums and adjoining areas being declared containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-breaches-grim-10k-mark-on-100th-day/story-VhRFxUQEXEHMajicU2QUoK.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar vetoes PMC decision to expand road width||Days after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ratified a proposal to convert roads with six-metre width to nine-metre, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar has stayed the decision pushed forward in civic corridors by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Pawar on Tuesday held a meeting with officials at Mantralaya and instructed the urban development secretary Pravinsinh Pardeshi and Mahesh Pathak to scrap the PMC proposal.He, however, instructed officials to allow additional TDR (transfer of development rights) on existing six-metre-wide roads by keeping some riders, a move considered to boost redevelopment of old buildings and individual bungalows in the city. Higher TDR enable builders to use additional floor space index (FSI) which in turn will create more flats. FSI indicates how many floors a developer can build on a plot. It is the ratio of total built-up area to the size of the plot.Earlier, the proposal approved by PMC standing committee where BJP is in majority, was limited to 323 roads, most of them from central parts and areas like Kothrud and Baner. The decision that time was opposed by the NCP and the Congress. The BJP incorporated suggestions from opposition parties and decided to widen all the six-metre-wide roads in the city into nine metres.The deputy CM, however, instructed officials to allow additional TDR on existing six-meter-wide roads by keeping 1.5 metre free space on either side for road widening. Pawar also put the condition that TDR will be utilised only after widening the road.NCP MP Vandana Chavan, city MLA’s Chetan Tupe and Sunil Tingre were present at the meeting along with urban development officers. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and city engineer Prashant Waghmare joined the meeting through video conferencing.The purpose of widening the roads is that old housing societies and individual bungalows can go for redevelopment. As there is no provision for using the additional TDR below the road width of nine metre, it was not becoming affordable to do redevelopment for builders and property owners.BJP state unit president and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil supported the standing committee’s decision for widening the road width from six metres to nine metres.Ajit asserts his authority in Pune againPMC is ruled by the BJP which has a clear majority. For the last five years, the BJP enjoys power at all the three levels — Centre, state and city. The change of guard in state has powered Pawar to take control over PMC. Earlier, he made changes in former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis dream project High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR).QuotesHemant Rasane (PMC standing committee chairperson, BJP) – I heard that Ajit Pawar scrapped our decision, but we did not get any written order. PMC is yet to forward the proposal to the state government for final approval. The decision was taken for the city to generate more revenue for PMC. It is better to make comments after reading the order.Chetan Tupe (MLA and NCP city unit president) – Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis himself took a decision earlier not to give extra FSI or TDR on roads below 6 metres. The BJP leaders took a U-turn and passed the proposal for widening of roads. They put it only for selected roads. Irony is that BJP’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik earlier used to give letters to minimise road width in Pune and now his party is approving a proposal for widening of roads.Arvind Shinde (Congress party leader in PMC) — The BJP came out with the proposal by keeping specific housing projects in their mind. First they did the fixing with builders and came out with the proposal for only those roads where redevelopment is in the pipeline. From day one, we were demanding that the policy should be for the whole city and not for specific areas.Prithviraj Sutaj (Shiv Sena leader) — We opposed the proposal in the standing PMC committee, but the ruling BJP approved it by majority. We warned them that though they would approve it, we would ask for justice from the state government. The proposal put by the BJP was only for vested interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ajit-pawar-vetoes-pmc-decision-to-expand-road-width/story-IlQhx9mZ3VTvD9TWTQup1I.html
17-06-2020||Pune||100 days of Covid-19: Pune learns to readjust course of life||From taking over municipal schools and college hostels for establishing quarantine facilities to declaring the entire city as a containment zones, Pune has seen it all since the first Covid-19 (coronavirus) case was reported 100 days ago. Pune reported its first Covid-19 positive case on March 9, which was also the first to be recorded in the state. After 100 days, the Covid-19 tally in Pune stands at 10,183 cases and 1,10,744 cases (June 15) in Maharashtra.Over 100 days, the city has seen multiple flu clinics, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres come up with the civic body putting in all its efforts to tackle the spread of virus. The Covid-19 pandemic has altered the lives of residents, bringing various behavioural changes such as social distancing, wearing masks in public among others. One of the city’s busiest market destination, Tulshibaug, had been out of bounds for two-and-a-half months, a scene Pune had never witnessed. The entire Pune metropolitan region, including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, had been declared a containment zone between April 19 and April 27, putting about 7.5 million people of an entire city under strict lockdown, which was the first of its kind in the country. Currently, while the worst-affected wards of Bhavani peth and Patil estate slums are showing an improvement, Aundh-Baner wards, which were on the verge of being declared green zones, are now steadily reporting more cases. There are 66 containment zones spread across 9.28 square kilometers, mostly in the central areas of the city. “With time, we decided to go for smaller containment zones which made it easier for us to manage and control the spread of the virus. We focused on flu clinics, mobile clinics and mobile swab collection centres. Pune city fortunately did not face any shortage of beds, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits or any resources till now. We succeeded in bringing down the death rate from 10 per cent to four per cent. We took over college hostels, municipal schools and even signed MOUs with over 10 hospitals to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far set up 30 Covid care centres, 11 dedicated Covid health centres and 25 dedicated Covid hospitals. However, the frontline workers are still facing problems of coordination with government bodies. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra state president, said, “The government keeps bringing in more notifications without keeping us in the loop and doctors along with the common public has to rely on the media for accurate information. Patients suffering from other ailments have been ignored completely.” The city has also lost three of its police officials and seven PMC staff members to Covid-19. Government bodies at various levels including central, state and local civic bodies announced a collective compensation of Rs one crore for the next of kin of these frontline workers. Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, says, “Our anticipation that this will grow into a bigger challenge helped us take charge of the situation. We ensured the wellness and welfare of our staff which is why no one complained of any shortage of masks. The challenge for us was to ensure that there is a check on crime in the city and also see that our staff is not exposed to the virus. Exposure of even one official meant that the entire police station would have to be shut. During this time, while we advocated social distancing, our men worked tirelessly in containment zones.” The situation also shed light on poor urban planning as the worst-affected cities reported more cases from slums- be it Mumbai’s Dharavi or Pune’s Tadiwala slum or Janata vasahat. Ramchandra Gohad, a town planner, said, “Health and urban planning is linked. The reason for growth of slums in cities also shows the poor execution of government schemes like SRA and MHADA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/100-days-of-covid-19-pune-learns-to-readjust-course-of-life/story-bo9G1RUSNnJGkjmN0jDzqL.html
17-06-2020||Pune||PMPML staff get salary only for days worked during lockdown||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has given salaries to employees for only those days on which they worked during the lockdown period. The public transport’s decision has left drivers and conductors get salary for 2 or 3 days. The company has also deducted its staff’s one-day salary and deposited it in Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.“When the lockdown was announced, the number of PMPML buses plying on roads reduced drastically as only emergency service people were allowed to use the transport utility. Hence, staff were called on rotational basis. Now PMPML has given salaries to workers for only those days which they worked in May. Most of them have got salaries between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000. How can we manage our monthly expenses with this amount? The company has even deducted our one day’s salary to give to chief minister’s relief fund,” said Sunil Nalawade, general secretary, PMPML Nationalist Congress Party union.The monthly salary of PMPML staff ranges from Rs15,000 to Rs 20,000, he said.The union has written to PMPML management demanding full salary for the month of May. It has threatened to go on ‘stop work’ protest from next week if their demand is not met.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a PMPML driver said, “I was ready to work during the lockdown and repeatedly asked for it to my reporting depot manager, but I was called on duty for 3 to 4 days. I got my salary only for those days. I didn’t go on voluntarily leave, but was told to sit at home. I have two children and am the sole earner. How will I manage the family expense during these difficult times.”PMPML joint managing director Ajay Charthankar said, “During the lockdown period, operations were reduced to five per cent and the situation has not improved in the city even now. As a result, revenue generation is less. As the firm is facing huge losses, salary cuts were done but none of our staff have been asked to leave. The issue will be put up before the board of directors and demand for monetary help will be sought from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-staff-get-salary-only-for-days-worked-during-lockdown/story-U97KzsUvNxG5AeAzRLvyXM.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Man duped of Rs 21.2 lakh, four Nigerians among five arrested||Four Nigerian nationals were among five people arrested for duping a man from Pune of Rs 21,23,325 over a false business venture of herbal hair oil.A complaint in the matter was lodged by retired Indian Air Force official who currently works for a private company. The woman approached the complainant through a social media app called TanTan, according to his complaint. “She convinced him to buy the herbal oil that she claimed had medicinal value. After buying a certain amount, she promised the complainant that she will help him sell the oil to companies at double prices,” said police inspector Santosh Barge of the cybercrime cell who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), 66(d) of the Information Technology Act was registered at the cyber police station of Pune.The complaint approached the police in May when he realised that the oil they were selling was fake. By then he had transferred Rs 21,23,325 through multiple transactions to multiple bank accounts.The woman was identified as Radha Nelson Caston (37), a resident of Juhu Mumbai. The woman was arrested on June 14 by the cybercrime cell officials who set a trap near Wakad bridge when she came to deliver the oil sample to the complainant, according to the police.Based on the information provided by the woman, the four men were arrested from Sector 34 of Kharghar in Navi Mumbai on June 15.The five arrested were identified as Guede Francis (38), a native of Ivory Coast; Okoko Okara Nwamamah (38); Alex Ilechukwu Arinze (33); and Kalu Ikechukwu (27), all natives of Nigeria.During the search of their house in Kharghar, 2 laptops, 16 mobile phones, one tablet computer, 5 fake oil bottles, 1 debit card, and cash worth Rs 30,000 were seized by police.A similar modus operandi was used to dupe a real estate businessman in Pune of Rs 38.5lakh in the month of May. The 48-year-old complainant from Mukundnagar area of Pune was approached by a woman through Facebook. She offered him a business deal involving a certain kind of oil required for vaccine-related research by an American laboratory. The woman said she worked for a California-based company that made vaccines for humans as well as animals.The police are investigating whether the two cases are related.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-duped-of-rs-21-2-lakh-four-nigerians-among-five-arrested/story-GqRuGSgvwmrpo57mSuLpEK.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Second inmate who fled temporary jail arrested in Yerawada||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested the second inmate, who escaped from the temporary jail facility in Yerawada on June 13, on Tuesday. The first inmate was nabbed on June 14.The temporary jail is set up after restrictions were placed at the Yerawada central prison due to the Covid-19 situation.The escaped inmates were identified as Harshad Hanif Sayyed, 20, and Akash Babulal Pawar, 24, both booked in two separate cases.“They escaped the jail together, but went their separate ways. Pawar was found near Balaji lawns in Kalewadi,” said senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station.Sayyed was nabbed by the anti-extortion cell of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch on June 14, and Pawar was arrested by officials of the Wakad police station.Sayyed was lodged in prison after he was arrested in a case of attempted murder registered at Wakad police station. Pawar was arrested for chain-snatching and has a history of cases against him, according to the police.“When Pawar was first arrested, he was a co-accused with two others. When they were taken to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital for medical tests, they tried to escape. While one of them managed to flee, Pawar’s attempt was foiled, but later he escaped from the temporary prison,” said Mugalikar.“Both have been handed over to the police station (Yerawada) and sent back to the facility,” said police inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station.The duo made their way out through the bathroom of the hostel facility. The incident took place in the early hours of Saturday before the routine activities in the facility began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-inmate-who-fled-temporary-jail-arrested/story-cfchyeRIXIJeruarB5LTGJ.html
17-06-2020||Pune||PMC standing panel okays 10% cut in capital works to cover virus expenses||The standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved a 10 per cent cut in budgetary provision of all capital works proposed in the civic body budget. The fund will be diverted to works related to Covid-19 (coronavirus).Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad placed the proposal before the standing committee requesting the elected members to approve the cut in the overall capital works marked in the budget.Gaikwad said, “When the civic body approved the budget, there was no Covid-19 situation. The civic administration is utilising fund in providing various health related facilities related to the virus. As per a primary estimate, PMC will require Rs200 to Rs250 crore to cover the Covid-19 expense in the financial year. Hence, the elected members need to raise fund for Covid-19 works.”PMC standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane said, “Standing committee has approved the proposal submitted by the municipal commissioner and agreed for a 10 per cent cut for all the capital works. It would be either road, drainage or any other department’s works.”Rasane said, “The budget provision would not get cut from slum rehabilitation, welfare schemes of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, disabled persons and works carried out by regional ward offices.”The commissioner said, “Right now the administration needs fund for taking various steps to execute the lockdown, provide medical facilities and food to patients, and cover the costs of Covid hospitals.”The commissioner said that as the overall revenue of all government departments would be affected, the civic administration need to remain cautious while restarting any new project.The central teams that visited Pune city recently had stated that the impact of Covid-19 would continue for more months and civic bodies should be prepared to manage its financial responsibilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-standing-panel-okays-10-cut-in-capital-works-to-cover-virus-expenses/story-A98AF3Kk9fmLXWxS3zgjeI.html
17-06-2020||City||Galwan face-off: Nyoma block chief had flagged Chinese activity in eastern Ladakh several times||Before the India-China stand-off in eastern Ladkah took a violent turn in Galwan Valley late on Monday, Nyoma block development council (BDC) chairperson Urgain Chodon had been constantly flagging the Chinese activity picking up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the strategic region.On April 27, Chodon had first raised the issue of heightened Chinese activity in Demchok area on her Facebook page, but had withdrawn the post moments later.However, in a series of posts and pictures on June 11, the BDC chief once again exposed China’s expansionist transgressions and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) continued usurping of Indian territory in eastern Ladakh. These pictures and video clips still remain on her Facebook account.“This year in January, Chinese troops came along with their trained dogs in our territory and warned our nomadic people not to graze herds in their own land and said if they (nomads) did so they will take them away,” she had said in a post.In another post with pictures, she said her maternal uncle Rigzin lost his ancestral shed at Laegoknonboo because PLA pushed him 50 steps back. “So imagine how many square km we lost.”“On July 6, 2019, the Chinese PLA came 6km into our territory and unfurled their flag and went back and later in December 2019, they claimed the adjoining territory as theirs,” she wrote on Facebook.She recalled how Ladakhi herdsmen had to shift their ancestral shed 50 steps back from where they were.The BJP chairperson had also shared a picture of a road project being constructed by the Chinese in May 2019.“This macadamised road was constructed by the Chinese communist govt in May 2019 and I took the photo in December. China constructed this road with almost 150 heavy vehicles under our very nose at Fukgap. What we did nothing and what strategies we laid for our border. But on the other hand in Demchok, we have to get permission from DC even for the movement of one JCB. Where is our strategy,” she had asked in another Facebook post.“Whatever is happening in Galwan valley is nothing new and it’s happening because of lack of concern and strategies for border areas,” she had said on June 11.On April 27 when Urgain had first flagged the intensified Chinese activity, BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal had told HT that the “chairperson’s messages were sent to the ministries concerned”.“There is something fishy and the government needs to investigate it,” she had told HT then.However, Ladakh’s divisional commissioner Saugat Biswas had dubbed Urgain’s claims as “unverified reports”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/galwan-face-off-nyoma-block-chief-had-flagged-chinese-activity-in-eastern-ladakh-several-times/story-gTP839VnRx0CN4HMq9egPP.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana doctors to observe ‘medical bandh’ on June 23||Even as hospitals grapple with Covid-19 cases, Ludhiana doctors have decided to observe a complete medical bandh June 23 to protest against the implementation the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) being enforced from July 1.The Ludhiana branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday burnt the copies of the act.Calling it a “wrongly timed act and completely uncalled for,” Dr Sunil Katyal , president, IMA Ludhiana , said doctors were governed by Punjab Medical Council (PMC), National Medical Council (NMC/MCI) rules and hospital buildings were governed by building regulation/norms. Many hospitals were getting accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). “The introduction of this act will achieve nothing extra, except for the harassment of doctors,” he said.Dr Dheeraj Aggarwal, honorary secretary, IMA Ludhiana, also said the act was against people, patients, the poor and doctors. It will lead to increase in hospital and treatment costs. The private health care delivery in Punjab is already of high quality, as witnessed by the fact that more than 70% patients seek treatment from private setups than from government hospitals, he said.The states where it has been implemented did not show any improvement in health care delivery, he added.Dr Manoj K Sobti, co -chairman, joint action committee, Punjab State governing Council, said, “We are opposing this act completely. Today a Memorandum was given to additional deputy commissioner Ludhiana AS Bains and it will be given to various leaders and the officials in the administration. The IMA Punjab has announced complete medical bandh June 23 if their demands were not met. If the government will not address their problem then a meeting will be held to June 28 to discuss the future course of action,” he added.The Act provides for registration and regulation of all clinical establishments in the country with a view to prescribing minimum standards of facilities and services which may be provided by them so that mandate of article 47 of the Constitution for improvement in public health is achieved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-doctors-to-observe-medical-bandh-on-june-23/story-bW6p708Vg2wJHmIT6qGaJL.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Time for stringent steps to stop Chinese belligerence, says Capt Amarinder||Hours after the Indian Army said on Tuesday that an officer and two men were killed in a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to take “some stringent measures” to stop Chinese belligerence.“It is time now for the Govt of India to take some stringent measures. Each sign of weakness on our part makes the Chinese reaction more belligerent. I join the nation in paying tribute to our brave martyrs. The nation stands with you in your hour of grief,” Captain Amarinder tweeted.A former soldier, the chief minister said it is time now for the country to stand up to Chinese incursions.“The happening in the #Galwanvalley is a continuation of violations by China. It is time now that the country stands up to these incursions. Our soldiers are not fair game that every few days officers and men are being killed and injured defending our borders,” he said in another tweet.Separately, the Congress has described the death of Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh as shocking, unbelievable and unacceptable.The party also said the government must come forward to explain the circumstances of the latest development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/time-for-stringent-steps-to-stop-chinese-belligerence-says-capt-amarinder/story-2MQ5FqWzXvVgTWnWUXPZsN.html
17-06-2020||City||India-China stand-off: J&K opposition leaders take swipe at BJP for ‘inept’ handling of border tension||The opposition leaders in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday took a swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre for its ‘inept’ handling of the border issue while strongly condemning the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley.The Indian army has suffered multiple casualties, including that of an officer, in the “violent face off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh, the army said in a statement on Tuesday. It added that there were casualties on both sides.Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) general secretary and a close confidante of Mehbooba Mufti, Ved Mahajan said, “We strongly condemn the killings of a senior rank officer and two soldiers in Ladakh. It is a big incident and our armed forces should avenge these killings. There should be a tit for tat. This is not 1962, this is 2020. The time has come to prove it practically”.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to condemn the incident. “Seems like China has hijacked the aggressive ‘ghar main ghuske marengay’ militaristic approach. Nation deserves to know why there is no talk of retaliation to avenge the death of three Indian army personnel!”, said Mehbooba, whose Twitter handle is used by her daughter Iltija Mufti.Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir said, “The Modi government showed great postures towards China in the past six years. From tea, coffee, breakfast, dinner and swings, everything was organised but today the ground situation is totally different. They are intruding our territory. It has become a routine and now this incident has escalated tension.”Mir said, “China may have had its compulsions to divert attention from Covid-19 deaths in their country but India should create goodwill to save its people from death and destruction. The issue has to be resolved politically”.“The government has not been able to resolve the issue. Protecting the nation’s sovereignty is the government’s duty. If it is not resolved politically, then there should be a directive to the armed forces to secure our land. There should not be a stand-off,” Mir added.Former chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah also took to Twitter to talk about the incident. “If the Chinese shoot dead an Indian army colonel and two jawans during a “de-escalation process” imagine how escalated the situation must be in the first place. This is what happens when the media propagates the government line that asking questions is anti-national,” he tweeted.NC provincial president Devender Singh Rana said,“Disturbing reports coming in from Ladakh. While de-escalation is the key here, violence against our citizens and our armed forces is unacceptable. We stand by the family of those martyred and pray for the safety of our brothers and sisters in Ladakh. May we emerge from this victorious and with utmost dignity.” CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said, “It is unfortunate that a clash took place during the de-escalation process on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. This has taken place after talks between the two sides at a high military level began on June 6 to discuss the process of disengagement. I express my deep condolences at the death of an Indian Army officer and two soldiers”.“The government should come out with an authoritative statement as to what actually happened. It is imperative that both the governments immediately initiate high-level talks to defuse the situation and advance the process of disengagement on the basis of agreed understanding on maintaining peace and tranquility on the border,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/india-china-stand-off-j-k-opposition-leaders-take-swipe-at-bjp-for-inept-handling-of-border-tension/story-3ZMFUg4BrQqqrdukpXqbBM.html
17-06-2020||Pune||Gultekdi’s wholesale flower market to restart operations on Jun 18 at 50% capacity||The wholesale flower market located at Gultekdi, Market Yard, will restart its operations on June 18 after being shut down for three months due to the Covid-19 lockdown.BJ Deshmukh, Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) administrator, said, “The flower market had been closed for the last three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. APMC had previously given priority to resumption of business of vegetables, fruits and grocery items during the lockdown and now, we have given permission to the traders to start the flower market.”“The flower market will run only at 50 per cent capacity and traders will have to follow the odd-even formula to run their business. Half of the traders will operate on the first day, while the other half will resume business on the next day. Only traders will be allowed inside the flower market, who will follow all necessary precautions, and residents will not be given entry. Residents will have to purchase flowers from retail traders in their respective localities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gultekdi-s-wholesale-flower-market-to-restart-operations-on-jun-18-at-50-capacity/story-N76mPugdrPbHIfyAeQiYuN.html
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM calls for strong Indian response to incursions by China||Expressing anger over the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, which led the Indian Army to lose three brave personnel, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday called for a strong response from the Government of India to the repeated violations of the Indian territory by the Chinese.“Our soldiers are not fair game that every few days officers and men should be killed or injured defending our borders,” a furious Captain Amarinder said, reacting strongly to the development, which came even as the armies on the two sides were supposed to be in the process of disengagement from a tense stand-off of the past several days.“It is time now for India to stand up to these repeated incursions that are a blatant violation of our territorial rights and put a stop to such attacks on our territorial integrity,” said the chief minister, asserting that every sign of weakness on the part of India makes the Chinese reaction more belligerent.While it was important to defuse the tensions at the border, and India was not in favour of war, Captain Amarinder said the country could not afford to show weakness at this time and needed to take a strong stand to deter the Chinese from any further intrusions and attacks on its territories and men.SEND OUT STRONG MESSAGEEven after brutally beating the Indian Army commanding officer and two soldiers to death, Beijing was feigning innocence, and trying to put the blame on India, accusing it of provoking the conflict through “unilateral actions”, the chief minister pointed out.Such reaction on the part of China was typical of its duplicity, he said, adding that the escalation of tensions in the Ladakh sector of the Indo-China border were the direct consequence of the incursions by Chinese troops into Indian territory.The Chinese actions were in direction violation of all treaties signed between the two countries and a brazen assault on Indian integrity, said Captain Amarinder, urging the central government to take suitable steps to send out a strong message that it would not take such attacks lying down.TAKING ADVANTAGE OF COVID CRISISReferring to the rising tensions at the Indo-Pak and Indo-Nepal borders also in the recent weeks, the chief minister said the country was clearly surrounded by forces seeking to destabilise its peace by taking advantage of the Covid-19 crisis. “Let them be warned that India will not compromise on national security at any cost, and is capable of combating external challenges even as it continues to battle the pandemic internally,” he asserted.Paying tributes to the soldiers who had lost their lives in the Galwan Valley violence, Captain Amarinder said the nation stands with the Indian Army in this hour of grief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-calls-for-strong-indian-response-to-incursions-by-china/story-Hi5bd5JNpWXkGnjhNWthoL.html
17-06-2020||City||J&K: Over 1,600 Jharkhand labourers sent to Ladakh for expediting road projects near LAC||Amid the ongoing India-China standoff, around 1,600 labourers, who arrived at Udhampur in a train from Jharkhand on Monday, were sent to Ladakh to ramp up the border roads and allied projects along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).A senior official from the administration revealed that a train from Jharkhand with around 1,600 labourers on board reached Udhampur railway station at 3.15am on Monday.“They were screened and sampled before being ferried to Ladakh in a fleet of buses while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.Sources said that the labourers were being taken to Ladakh to speed up the road projects and allied works of the BRO in eastern Ladakh where India and China are engaged in a border dispute.On June 13, a special train with around 1,648 workers from Jharkhand was flagged off by chief minister Hemant Soren from Dumka. When they reach Ladakh, they would have travelled over 2,500 km.In the days to come, more such trains will be reaching Udhampur with nearly 10,000 labourers, who will then be ferried to Ladakh by road, sources said.India and China are holding talks at the Brigade Commander and Battalion Commander level in eastern Ladakh in Galwan valley area and Hot Springs.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday had said China also wanted to resolve the issue through military and diplomatic-level talks and that India is not a weak nation anymore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-over-1-600-jharkhand-labourers-sent-to-ladakh-for-expediting-road-projects-near-lac/story-aE547yOV9rXHNWS9fAscFP.html
17-06-2020||City||Army rejects purported video of eastern Ladakh face-off||Amid Indo-China stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the Indian Army on Sunday rejected a video that surfaced on social sites, purportedly showing clashes between the soldiers of the two nuke countries.“Do not spread rumours or sensationalise Indo-China conflict,” said Indian Army in a statement issued here.“It has been brought to our notice that a video of eastern Ladakh face-off is doing the rounds on social media. The contents of the video being circulated are not authenticated. Attempt to link it with the situation on the Northern borders is malafide. Currently, no violence is happening. Differences are being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on the management of borders between the two countries. We strongly condemn attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security. The media is requested not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders,” read the statement issued by a spokesperson of the Army.For the past three weeks, both the nuke countries were engaged in a stand-off in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh, in what is turning out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-rejects-purported-video-of-eastern-ladakh-face-off/story-2ysQZXPQ096zRfSyPRUDBO.html
17-06-2020||World||Boris Johnson’s Royal Air Force plane gets red, white and blue makeover||A Royal Air Force plane used by U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson on official trips is getting a red, white and blue paint job at a cost of almost 1 million pounds ($1.25 million).Johnson’s spokesman, James Slack, said Wednesday that the gray RAF Voyager was being painted in the colors of the Union Jack to “better represent the U.K. around the world, with national branding similar to other leaders’ planes.”Unlike some other world leaders, British prime ministers don’t have a plane of their own. A plan in the early 2000s by former Prime Minister Tony Blair to buy a government jet — dubbed “Blair Force One” — was later scrapped to save money.The Voyager also carries other senior ministers and members of the royal family on overseas trips, and is used by the air force for air-to-air refueling.Johnson complained in 2018 about the drab official plane, asking “why does it have to be gray?” and saying he would like a “Brexit plane” to help promote the U.K. around the world.Johnson’s office said the paint job, estimated to cost 900,000 pounds, wouldn’t affect the plane’s military role.But opposition Labour Party lawmaker Louise Haigh questioned the wisdom of “spending almost a million pounds redecorating a plane which in all likelihood has been grounded for months because of the coronavirus” pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-s-royal-air-force-plane-gets-red-white-and-blue-makeover/story-XhwFCaac8nhOwHEZ87T7gI.html
17-06-2020||World||Germany reports 657 virus cases at slaughterhouse in new Covid-19 outbreak||Regional officials in Germany say the number of Covid-19 cases linked to a meatpacking plant has risen to 657.Officials in the western region of Guetersloh said Wednesday that a total of 983 positive test results have so far been received from workers at the Toennies slaughterhouse in Rheda-Wiedenbrueck. Of those, 326 tests were negative.German Chancellor Angela Merkel praised regional officials for swiftly closing schools in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-reports-657-virus-cases-at-slaughterhouse-in-new-covid-19-outbreak/story-1FnDXpiWEpc27K6OZWePMM.html
17-06-2020||World||Boris Johnson runs into a minor car crash after protestor blocks it||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was in a minor car crash on Wednesday after a protester ran in front of the vehicle as it left Parliament. No one was hurt.Footage posted on social media showed a man step running toward the silver Jaguar as it drove out of the gates of Parliament accompanied by a police motorcycle outrider and a Range Rover support vehicle.Johnson’s car braked suddenly and was hit from behind by the Range Rover, sustaining a large dent. It paused for a moment before the motorcade moved on.The prime minister’s office confirmed Johnson was in the car and said there were no reports of any injuries.Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said at a news conference that Johnson was “wholly unscathed.”The protester, who was knocked to the ground in the incident, was detained by police. The Metropolitan Police said he was arrested on suspicion of public order offenses and for “obstructing the highway.”Several groups were protesting outside Parliament in small numbers on Wednesday, including anti-Brexit and pro-Kurdish groups. Johnson was returning to his office at 10 Downing St. from his weekly question-and-answer session with lawmakers when the crash happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-runs-into-a-minor-car-crash-after-protestor-blocks-it/story-NgEcH34T4ZGgUToiQcNGuO.html
17-06-2020||World||New video offers closer view of police SUV hitting black man||A second video has emerged that appears to show a police SUV driven by a white suburban St. Louis police officer striking a black suspect and knocking the man to the ground as he screams out in pain.Florissant detective Joshua Smith was fired on June 10, eight days after the arrest that occurred during protests and unrest over the police killing of George Floyd in Minnesota. Home security video posted online shortly after the arrest led to an investigation by a special prosecutor that is ongoing.The new video, which was provided by attorneys for the man who was struck, offers a closer view and a different angle that shows the moment of impact. It also includes audio of the man screaming in pain after the SUV appears to drive across a front lawn and strike him.“When you see the second video it’s clear that he intentionally ran into him and used the vehicle as a weapon,” the man’s attorney, Jerryl T. Christmas, said Wednesday. “It’s difficult to watch, and difficult to listen to the audio because of the way he’s screaming and hollering.”Smith’s attorney, Scott Rosenblum, has said what happened was an accident.The special prosecutor, Tim Lohmar, scheduled a news conference for late Wednesday morning. He did not specify in a statement that charges would be filed.Florissant is just north of Ferguson, Missouri, where Michael Brown’s death at the hands of a white police officer in 2014 was a catalyst for the national Black Lives Matter movement. The St. Louis region has been the site of dozens of protests since Floyd’s May 25 death in Minneapolis.Florissant Police Chief Timothy Fagan has said Smith was on duty the night of June 2 because of civil unrest in the area following protests. A day earlier, four St. Louis police officers were shot and a retired St. Louis police captain was fatally shot during a violent night in the city.Officers were pursuing the vehicle occupied by three men because it had been seen near an earlier shots-fired incident, Florissant Mayor Tim Lowery said.St. Louis County police said the arrest happened around 11:30 p.m. in Dellwood, another suburb near Florissant. The first video was from a resident’s doorbell camera and posted online by media outlet Real STL news. Christmas said the second video also came from a home security system.It shows a car slowing on a residential street. Two men in the front seat jump out of the still rolling car, then a third man jumps out of the back seat.The unmarked police SUV appears from behind the car and drives across part of a front lawn, striking the third man and knocking him onto the driveway. He immediately cries out in pain. An officer gets out of the SUV and appears to kick and hit the man on the ground as the man yells out, “OK! OK! OK!” and repeatedly says, “I don’t have nothing,” likely meaning he doesn’t have a weapon.Christmas said police had no probable cause to follow the men in the first place and accused the officers of racial profiling.Fagan said the man was treated at a hospital for an ankle injury. Christmas said his injuries were far worse, that the man’s leg was “shattered” and required multiple surgeries.“He was traumatized,” Christmas said.Fagan said police are seeking municipal charges for possession of drug paraphernalia and resisting arrest against all three men. No weapons were found on the men or in their car.In addition to Lohmar’s investigation, U.S. Attorney Jeff Jensen said his office, the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice and the FBI also are reviewing the case to determine if a federal response is warranted.Lohmar, speaking last week, called the video “shocking” but said it showed only part of the encounter.“What I saw is not standard police work, it is not acceptable police work,” he said.The arrest led to several peaceful protests outside of police headquarters in Florissant, including a “die-in” in which participants lay face down with their hands behind their backs. A few dozen protesters also gathered Monday outside Lohmar’s office urging prosecution of Smith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-video-offers-closer-view-of-police-suv-hitting-black-man/story-hJiRlhBkcK6omyMxDJRg4N.html
17-06-2020||World||WHO says more understanding needed on steroid dexamethasone||The emergencies chief of the World Health Organization welcomed the news this week that dexamethasone, a cheap steroid, was shown in a British trial to reduce deaths among patients critically ill with the coronavirus, but said it was too soon to change how patients are treated.“It’s one of the breakthroughs we’re going to need to effectively deal with COVID-19, but it’s still preliminary data,” said Dr. Michael Ryan at a press briefing on Wednesday. “We will pull together the necessary expert group... and come to a decision around our clinical advice to countries.”Ryan said that “this is not the time to rush to change clinical practice” and that it was crucial to understand issues like what dose should be used on patients, how patients would be assessed and if there were adequate supplies of the drug.On Tuesday, when the British researchers announced their findings, the department of health said the dexamethasone had been approved to treat all hospitalized COVID-19 patients, effectively immediately.WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus noted that in the last two months, more than 6 million coronavirus cases have been logged and said cases were still accelerating globally. In the first two months, only 85,000 cases were reported, mostly from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-more-understanding-needed-on-steroid-dexamethasone/story-L7IlwsdOpcR0fKXcGu0qnL.html
17-06-2020||World||Bangladesh launches clinical trial of two-drug combination to treat Covid-19||Bangladesh on Wednesday launched the clinical trial of combination of anti-parasitic and antibiotic vaccines to treat Covid-19 after getting positive results in patients administered with the mix of two drugs.Bangladesh-based International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research (ICCDR’B) said the trial would be conducted on 72 infected patients in four hospitals treating Covid-19 in Dhaka, while “the study has commenced in Kurmitola General Hospital and Mugda Medical College and Hospital and discussions with others are underway.” “Today, ICCDR has started a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of anti-parasitic medicine Ivermectin in combination with antibiotic doxycycline or Ivermectin alone,” the centre said in a statement.A Bangladeshi doctors’ team led by senior medicine specialist Professor Tarek Alam prescribed the combination as it initially cured within days all the 60 Covid-19 patients who were administered with the drugs.According to the ICDDR’B, the study will include Covid-19 patients between 40-65 years of age with mild illness for less than seven days.One group of participants will receive a single dose Ivermectin along with five doses of doxycycline, while another group will receive Ivermectin alone once a day for five days, while the third group will receive a placebo for five days.The test medicine and placebo will be packaged identically and neither the participants nor the physicians will have the knowledge about who is receiving which treatment.According to a statement by the ICDDR’B, a panel of international and local experts were involved with this clinical trial which will be concluded in next two months.The ICDDR’s announcement came hours after the country’s healthcare authorities said experts concerned were asked to quicken examinations on the efficacy of a two-drug combination and studies on it were underway in line with medical protocols.Nearly 100,000 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bangladesh, while approximately 1,305 patients have died, 43 of them in the last 24 hours.The centre said their study, being supported by Bangladesh’s leading drug maker Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd, aimed to understand the virological clearance rate and days required for remission of fever and cough by “using Ivermectin with or without doxycycline.” “It will also try to understand the changes in oxygen requirement, reasons for patients failing to maintain oxygen saturation (SpO2) above 88 per cent despite oxygenation, changes in number of days on oxygen support and hospitalisation, and causes of mortality,” the statement read.Beximco Pharma Managing Director Nazmul Hassan called the proposed clinical trial “well designed” and first such randomised experiment in the country.“Should the outcomes be positive from this trial, as well as other ongoing trials in different countries, Ivermectin can offer itself as a highly affordable and readily available solution for the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) earlier approved Ivermectin as a drug for parasitic infections while it has been in use since 1980 and according to ICDDR’B, it is previously shown to have “broad-spectrum anti-viral activity in vitro”.Director General of Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) Abul Kalam Azad earlier said that once a technical study team of his office gave a go ahead, the combination drugs would be prescribed for “limited-scale application” among Covid-19 patients.He said ahead of a massive-scale application or widened use to treat Covid-19 patients, the combination would have to exhaust clinical trials under the supervision of regulatory Bangladesh Medical Research Council (BMRC).“These are low-cost drugs, Bangladesh will be proud, if the combination is proven effective against the coronavirus,” said Health Ministry’s additional secretary Habibur Rahman Rahman.Head of medicine of private Bangladesh Medical College Hospital (BMCH) Alam led the team in experimenting the combination which, he said worked very well for mild and moderate cases of coronavirus.He said the team now wanted to see the combination’s effectiveness on patients with severe coronavirus infections administering them with increased doses of medicines.Doctors at different facilities said they were unofficially using the matching, observing their effectiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-launches-clinical-trial-of-two-drug-combination-to-treat-covid-19/story-h4hzHmF9UWPwcWTTE9seCM.html
17-06-2020||World||Beijing cancels flights, shuts schools over new coronavirus outbreak||Beijing’s airports cancelled two-thirds of all flights on Wednesday and schools in the Chinese capital were closed again as authorities rushed to contain a new coronavirus outbreak and warned infections may rise.The city reported 31 new cases while officials urged residents not to leave Beijing, with fears growing about a second wave of infections in China, which had largely brought the contagion under control since its emergence in Wuhan late last year.Hundreds of thousands of people have been tested so far following the fresh outbreak, which is believed to have started in the sprawling Xinfadi wholesale food market.Almost 30 residential compounds in the city are now under lockdown.“Because the Xinfadi market is the largest marketplace selling daily necessities, with thousands of migrant workers and a large number of visitors, it is hard to control the spread,” said Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing Center for Disease Control and Prevention.“We may see a rise in confirmed cases in the coming days,” Pang told a regular press briefing.Beijing has reported 137 infections over the past six days and 95 percent of them were “mild cases”, Pang said.The city has ramped up its testing capacity and is gathering about 400,000 samples a day, said Zhang Qiang, an official from Beijing’s epidemic prevention task force.Since June 13, 356,000 samples have been tested. That includes swabs from workers and visitors to different markets in Beijing and communities near to spots where outbreaks have been registered.A shortage of expensive testing machines has led to delays in processing.At least 1,255 scheduled flights were cancelled Wednesday, state-run People’s Daily reported -- nearly 70 percent of all trips to and from Beijing’s main airports.The outbreak had already forced authorities to announce a travel ban for residents of “medium- or high-risk” areas of the city, while requiring all other residents to take nucleic acid tests in order to leave Beijing.Several provinces were quarantining travellers from Beijing, where all schools -- which had mostly reopened -- have been ordered to close again and return to online classes.- Markets closed -Officials have closed 11 markets and disinfected thousands of food and beverage businesses in Beijing after the outbreak was detected.In addition to the cluster in Beijing, two domestic cases -- one in neighbouring Hebei province and another in the eastern province of Zhejiang -- were reported Wednesday, while there were 11 imported cases.A local case was also reported in Tianjin, a large city located just outside Beijing to the southeast, state television announced late in the day.The 22-year-old man, a hotel restaurant worker, reportedly had not left Tianjin in the two weeks before displaying symptoms -- fueling speculation about another possible cluster.Authorities have so far banned group sports, ordered people to wear masks in crowded enclosed spaces, and suspended inter-provincial group tours in response to the outbreak.Bars in Beijing’s trendy Sanlitun area were ordered to shut down, while shops were seeing lighter foot traffic.Officials said that since May 30, more than 200,000 people had visited Xinfadi market, which supplies more than 70 percent of Beijing’s fruit and vegetables.Until the new outbreak, most of China’s recent cases were nationals returning from abroad as Covid-19 spread globally, and the government had all but declared victory against the disease.China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention said Monday that the virus type found in the Beijing outbreak was a “major epidemic strain” in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-cancels-flights-shuts-schools-over-new-coronavirus-outbreak/story-Ty4A34HX0EEkgIxFRdrdaO.html
17-06-2020||World||US ‘closely monitoring’ India-China border situation||The United States has said it is “closely monitoring” the India-China border situation and an American media report suggested China may have suffered severe losses in the eastern Ladakh clashes and put the number of its fatalities at 35 citing an intelligence assessment. US News, the media publication, went on to suggest that the Chinese are taking the deaths as a humiliation and might be reluctant, therefore, to announce or confirm them for fear of emboldening other adversaries.In the reported assessment of US intelligence it was a tense border meeting between military personnel of the two sides to de-escalate tensions that turned violent. Most deaths were caused by batons, knives or from falling off a steep cliff. The details of this account of events could not be ascertained independently.The state department pointed to an earlier statement when asked. A spokesperson had said: “We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation.”The spokesperson had gone on to refer to a June 2 phone call in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump had discussed the India-China border.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters at the daily briefing President Donald Trump is aware of the situation on the India-China border, and went on to repeat a statement earlier issued by the state department spokesperson: “We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation.”The spokesperson had gone on to refer to a June 2 phone call in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Trump had discussed the India-China border.President Trump had earlier, on May 28, offered to mediate the dispute, saying in a tweet, “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute.” The offer was turned down by both India and China and Trump has since not said more on this, snowed under as he is with the twin crises of the Covid-19 epidemic that has killed nearly 117,000 Americans and the civil unrest triggered by the killing of an Africa-American man by a white police officer in Minneapolis.The state department had earlier slammed the border tensions as a reflection of Chinese aggression going beyond the rhetoric and the House foreign affairs committee had blamed the Chinese for as well.“I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border.,” Eliot Engel, the chairman of the House foreign affairs committee, had said in a statement in early June. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbors rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-situation/story-z8teSFt30K38Ee3qwIyx9K.html
17-06-2020||World||‘Black lives do not matter’ in US: George Floyd’s brother tells UN||George Floyd’s brother on Wednesday begged the United Nations to help African Americans because “black lives do not matter in the United States”, as the UN’s rights chief urged reparations for centuries of discrimination.Philonise Floyd made an impassioned speech via video-link to an urgent United Nations Human Rights Council debate on “systemic racism” in the US and beyond.Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said the “gratuitous brutality” of Floyd’s death in police custody encapsulated racism that harmed millions of people of African descent.She also urged countries to confront the legacy of slavery and colonialism and to make reparations.The council, based in Geneva, is debating a draft resolution pushing for Bachelet to investigate racism and police civil liberties violations against people of African descent in the United States.President Donald Trump withdrew the United States from the council two years ago.Floyd, a 46-year-old black man, died in Minneapolis on May 25 after a white police officer -- since charged with murder -- pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck for nearly nine minutes.Amateur video of the incident sparked demonstrations and calls to address systemic racism in the United States and around the world.Philonise Floyd said his brother had been “tortured to death” as witnesses begged the officer to stop, “showing us black people the same lesson, yet again: black lives do not matter in the United States of America”.“You in the United Nations are your brothers’ and sisters’ keepers in America, and you have the power to help us get justice for my brother George Floyd.”“I am asking you to help him. I am asking you to help me. I am asking you to help us black people in America.”He urged them to establish an independent international commission of inquiry -- one of the UN’s highest-level probes, generally reserved for major crises like the Syrian conflict.- Probe proposal dropped -An initial text presented on Tuesday on behalf of 54 African countries had proposed such an inquiry.But the proposal was dropped, the resolution heavily watered down following stark opposition from Washington and some of its allies.But the proposal was dropped, the resolution heavily watered down following stark opposition from Washington and some of its allies.It now calls on Bachelet and UN rights experts to “establish the facts and circumstances relating to the systemic racism, alleged violations of international human rights law and abuses against Africans and people of African descent” by law enforcement in the US and beyond -- especially those incidents that resulted in deaths.The aim, it said, was “to ensure the accountability of perpetrators and redress for victims”.In her statement to the council, Bachelet said Floyd’s death had brought to head the sense of outrage felt by overlooked people and the protests were “the culmination of many generations of pain”.“Behind today’s racial violence, systemic racism, and discriminatory policing lies the failure to acknowledge and confront the legacy of the slave trade and colonialism,” the former Chilean president said.She stressed the need to “make amends for centuries of violence and discrimination, including through formal apologies, truth-telling processes, and reparations in various forms.”- US call for transparency -On Tuesday, Trump issued an order to improve policing, calling for a ban on dangerous choke holds -- except if an officer’s life is at risk.The executive order encourages de-escalation training, better recruitment, sharing of data on police who have bad records, and money to support police in complicated duties related to people with mental or drug issues.However, it stopped well short of demands made at nationwide protests.Andrew Bremberg, the US ambassador to the UN in Geneva, said his country was open in its commitment to addressing racial discrimination and injustice, citing Trump’s executive order.“We call upon all governments to demonstrate the same level of transparency and accountability,” he said.“Sadly, there are too many places in the world where governments commit grave violations of human rights and practice systematic racial discrimination while many of those assembled in Geneva are silent.”It remains to be seen whether the current draft resolution will pass.Australia, South Korea and the Netherlands all issued statements in the chamber that were broadly supportive of Washington’s outlook.“We have confidence in their transparent justice systems to address these issues appropriately,” Australia’s representative said.The UN Human Rights Council’s 47 members are due to vote on the resolution following the urgent debate, which was set to conclude on Thursday.Wednesday marks only the fifth time in the council’s 14-year history that it has agreed to hold an “urgent debate”, which is like a special session, but within a regular session of the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-do-not-matter-in-us-george-floyd-s-brother-tells-un/story-bjkN5SC5sJV5D5dDuQac5J.html
17-06-2020||World||Global Covid tally crosses 8 million mark, WHO sees ‘green shoots of hope’||The world health organization on Wednesday said that green shoots of hope have emerged despite the world crossing a grim milestone of over 8 million deaths due to coronavirus pandemic. The director general of the global health organization added that the developments in the past couple of months have shown that together through global solidarity, humanity can overcome this pandemic.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus’s comments came on a day when the global tally of the Covid-19 infections crossed the 8.3 million mark with 60 thousand fresh cases registered across the globe in the last 24 hours, as per Worldometer.com. What is reassuring in a way that more than half of these patients—435,027—have already been cured. However, the total deaths due to the virus are nearing the 450,000 mark.“There have been more than 435,000 deaths and in the Americas, Africa and South Asia; COVID19 cases are still rapidly rising. However, there are green shoots of hope, which show that together through global solidarity, humanity can overcome this pandemic,” Ghebreyesus said.He underlined the dramatic rise in spread of the disease, which has affected 213 countries or territories in the past three months after its outbreak was first seen in China.Also Read: PM Modi interacts with CMs on day 2 of consultations on coronavirus crisis“The world has now recorded more than 8 million cases of #COVID19. In the first two months, 85,000 cases were reported. In the past two months 6 million cases have been reported,” the WHO director-general added.Coronavirus has infected 1,066 people per million of the world’s population and recorded a global fatality rate of 57.4/million as per Worldometers.com. The United States of America remains the country with the most number of cases at over 2.2 million as per the latest data available on the website. India has the fourth most number of cases-- 354,065-- behind USA (2,213,505), Brazil (929,149) and Russia (553,301). Pakistan, with 154,769 cases, is the only other south Asian country to have registered more than a 100,000 cases. Bangladesh currently has 98,489 positive cases.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The WHO has also expressed concern over the new outbreak of the disease in China. China has reported 31 more cases, taking the total to 137 in the past six days. Beijing has closed schools and restricted air travel from the capital by cancelling more than 1,200 flights with an aim to halt the fresh outbreak, which is being linked to the city’s largest wholesale food market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-tally-crosses-8-million-mark-who-sees-green-shoots-of-hope/story-C4zvQ8vVHaLK2rfvLJVPkJ.html
17-06-2020||World||UK PM Johnson’s car hit in collision outside parliament||The car carrying British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was crashed into from behind in central London on Wednesday after taking evasive action when a pro-Kurdish demonstrator ran on to the road.The protester was stopped and detained, according to an AFP journalist on the scene, after he ran towards Johnson’s Jaguar as it was leaving under police escort from the Houses of Parliament.A video posted online showed the car braking before being struck by the following vehicle in the convoy, causing a large dent, while police wrestled the protester to the ground.Johnson’s Downing Street office confirmed it was the prime minister’s car and there were no reported injuries.The protester was believed to have been demonstrating about Turkish action against Kurdish rebels.The Metropolitan Police confirmed the collision, which happened at about 2:30 pm (1330 GMT) in Parliament Square.“The police vehicles were part of a security movement,” it said in a statement. “A pedestrian is reported to have stepped onto the road, causing the vehicles to suddenly stop, which has led to two of the vehicles in the convoy being involved in a damage-only collision.”No injuries were reported and a man was arrested at the scene on suspicion of a public order offence and obstructing the highway, the force added.“All vehicles were able to drive from the scene,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-s-car-hit-in-collision-outside-parliament/story-r9lV15IypMdv2D4Duq9ISN.html
17-06-2020||World||Chinese property billionaire gets 5 years’ jail for child molestation||The controlling shareholder and former chairman of Seazen Group, one of China’s largest property developers, was sentenced on Wednesday to five years in prison after being convicted him of child molestation.When Wang Zhenhua was arrested last July, shares in the company and its listed units nosedived. At the time, Seazen Group was China’s eighth-largest property developer by sales; it has since slipped to 13th place.The Putuo District People’s Court in Shanghai issued the verdict after a two-day closed-door hearing, according to a statement published on its official WeChat account. Five years is the maximum jail term for child molestation.Reuters was not able to reach Wang or Seazen Group for comment.Wang’s son, non-executive director Wang Xiaosong, was appointed chairman of Seazen Group’s board after his father’s arrest last year. Seazen Group’s subsidiaries include Seazen Holdings Co Ltd and property management unit S-Enjoy Service Group Co Ltd.However, Wang Zhenhua continues to hold about 70% of Seazen Group. The 2020 Hurun Global Rich List in March estimated Wang and his son’s net worth at around $6.1 billion.Seazen sold some of its land parcels shortly after Wang’s arrest to improve its cash flow amid lenders’ worries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-property-billionaire-gets-5-years-jail-for-child-molestation/story-ZbZ3xT9bu5M1Zjqh4Pvp1O.html
17-06-2020||World||Beijing’s new Covid-19 outbreak raises fears for rest of the world||China raised its emergency warning to its second highest level and canceled more than 60% of the flights to Beijing on Wednesday amid a new coronavirus outbreak in the capital — a sharp pullback for the nation that declared victory over the virus in March and a warning for the rest of the world about how tenacious this virus really is.New infections spiked in India, Iran and US states including Florida, Texas and Arizona as authorities struggled to balance restarting economic activity without accelerating the spread of the pandemic.European nations, which embarked on a widescale reopening this week, looked on with trepidation as the Americas struggled mightily to contain the first wave of the pandemic and Asian nations like China and South Korea reported new outbreaks, giving rise to fears of a second wave.In China, officials described the situation in Beijing as “extremely grave.”“This has truly rung an alarm bell for us,” Party Secretary Cai Qi told a meeting of Beijing’s Communist Party Standing Committee.The party’s Global Times said 1,255 flights to and from the capital’s two major airports were scrapped by Wednesday morning, about two-thirds of those scheduled. Beijing Capital Airport is traditionally the world’s second busiest in passenger capacity.Since the virus emerged in China late last year and spread worldwide, there have been more than 8.1 million confirmed cases and at least 443,000 deaths, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. Experts say the true toll is much higher, due to the many who died without being tested and other factors.The US has the most infections and deaths in the world, with a toll that neared 117,000 on Wednesday, surpassing the number of Americans who died in World War I. In a worrying development since the US hurricane season began this month, the virus has even sidelined some members of a US team that tracks hurricanes.Arizona reported a new daily high of nearly 2,400 new infections for a total of more than 39,000, while in Texas, Governor Greg Abbott insisted that the state’s health care system could handle the fast-rising number of new coronavirus cases and hospitalizations.Tuesday marked the eighth time in nine days that Texas set a new high for Covid-19 hospitalizations at 2,518. State health officials also reported 2,622 new cases, a single-day high.“It does raise concerns, but there is no reason right now to be alarmed,” Abbott said.Texas began aggressively re-opening its economy on May 1 and Abbott has continued to relax restrictions. He noted that Texans may have become lax in wearing masks or practicing social distancing and urged people to stay home as much as possible.In Oregon, a rural northeastern church has become the epicenter of the state’s largest coronavirus outbreak, as 236 people tested positive. The outbreak also led to Oregon’s second consecutive record-setting daily case count.Canada and the US, meanwhile, decided to extend to July 21 a deal to keep their border closed to nonessential travel, with many Canadians fearing cases arriving from the US“This is a decision that will protect people on both sides of the border as we continue to fight Covid-19,” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said.As the US struggles with the first wave of the virus, other countries where it was widely thought to be under control faced disturbing developments.In South Korea, authorities reported 43 new cases amid increased public activity. Authorities said 25 of them came from the Seoul metropolitan area, where hundreds of infections have been linked to nightclubs, church gatherings, e-commerce workers and door-to-door salespeople. Twelve of the new cases were linked to international arrivals.Not long after declaring itself virus-free, New Zealand is dealing with a reemergence of the virus. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern assigned a top military leader to oversee the border quarantines after what she described as an “unacceptable failure” by health officials.They had allowed two New Zealand citizens who had recently returned from London to leave quarantine before being tested to see a dying relative. After the women tested positive, New Zealand began tracing their potential contacts to ensure the virus is contained.Their cases raised the specter that international air travel could ignite a new surge of the virus just as countries are reopening airports to boost their devastated tourism industries.The flight cancellations in China were among a number of travel limits placed around the capital. Beijing had essentially eradicated local transmissions until recent days, with 137 new cases since last week.On Wednesday, the city of 20 million people raised its threat level from 3 to 2, leading to the cancellation of classes, suspended reopenings and stronger requirements for social distancing. China had relaxed many coronavirus controls after the Communist Party declared victory over the virus in March.India — which has the fourth-highest caseload after the US, Brazil and Russia — added more than 2,000 deaths to its tally, after Delhi and Maharashtra states included 1,672 previously unreported fatalities. Its death toll of 11,903 is now eighth highest in the world. India has been reporting some 10,000 new infections and more than 300 deaths each day for the last two weeks.In Europe, which has seen over 184,000 virus-related deaths, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced that a ceremony will be held on July 16 to honor the country’s more than 27,000 dead.Denmark’s health minister urged anyone who joined a large protest against racial injustice on June 7 to be tested “whether you have symptoms or not” after one person in the crowd tested positive.“As long as we have the virus in Europe and in Denmark, it will flare up. We are dealing with a very, very contagious disease,” said Health Minister Magnus Heunicke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-s-new-covid-19-outbreak-raises-fears-for-rest-of-the-world/story-n6xlRbPR91Wd0XCFoYYF6M.html
17-06-2020||World||More work to be done to tackle discrimination, says UK PM Johnson||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday there was more work to be done to tackle discrimination in Britain but that his government would look at new ways of legislating against vandalism of war memorials.“It is clear from the Black Lives Matter march and all the representations that we have had that more work needs to be done,” he said when asked why he was launching another review on racial inequality and discrimination.But asked about violence and the targeting of some statues during the anti-racism protests, Johnson told parliament: “I can tell the House (of Commons) any incident of vandalism or attack on public property will be met with the full force of the law and perpetrators will be prosecuted, and I can also confirm that we are looking at new ways in which we may legislate against vandalism of war memorials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-work-to-be-done-to-tackle-discrimination-says-uk-pm-johnson/story-ZA9W1dOfk7b1TqubsAby2L.html
17-06-2020||World||CureVac coronavirus vaccine cleared for human trials in Germany||Germany’s CureVac AG won approval to start human trials of a novel coronavirus vaccine just days after the company secured backing from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government.Regulators gave the company the green light to test the shot in first-phase trials on 168 healthy people, according to a statement on Wednesday. It’s the second such treatment to go into clinical testing in Germany.CureVac’s product is based on an unproven but promising area of pharmaceutical development known as messenger RNA, in which the vaccine teaches the body’s cells to identify and attack the virus. It’s slightly behind that of front-runners Moderna Inc. of the U.S. and BioNTech SE, a local rival, in terms of potential speed to market.As worldwide coronavirus cases top 8 million, governments, investors and the public are keenly watching the race to deliver vaccines that could prevent future infections. Dozens of candidates are being developed in nations from the U.S. to the U.K. and China, with several in human trials, according to the World Health Organization.Germany this week announced a plan to buy 23% of Tuebingen-based CureVac for 300 million euros ($338 million) as Merkel’s government tries to secure a supply of any successful pandemic shot.The company has been considering following Moderna and BioNTech onto the stock market, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Kemula said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Monday, though no firm plans are in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/curevac-coronavirus-vaccine-cleared-for-human-trials-in-germany/story-xDB4p04r7nRRIr1cxhp5GI.html
17-06-2020||World||Combination of self-isolation, testing, contact tracing needed for containing pandemic: Lancet study||In the absence of a vaccine or highly effective treatments for Covid-19, scientists believe that a combination of measures such as intensive testing, and contact tracing along with physical distancing and remote working are needed to contain the pandemic.According to a new modelling research, published in the journal The Lancet Infectious Diseases, combining intensive contact tracing along with physical distancing measures may be the most efficient way to control the spread of the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. It noted that a high incidence of Covid-19 would require a considerable number of individuals to be quarantined to control infection. Citing an example, the researchers, including those from the University of Cambridge in the UK, said if about 5,000 new symptomatic cases were diagnosed each day, it may require 1,50,000-2,00,000 contacts to be quarantined every day if no physical distancing was in place. They said the study is the first to use social contact data to quantify the potential impact of control measures on reducing individual-level transmission of SARS-CoV-2 in specific settings. In the study, researchers analysed data on how 40,162 people moved about the UK and interacted with others prior to Covid-19. Based on this, they simulated how combinations of different testing, isolation, tracing, and physical distancing scenarios such as app- based tracing, remote working, limits on different sized gatherings, and mass population-based testing might contribute to reducing secondary cases. They aimed to identify not only what would theoretically control transmission, but also what the practical implications of these measures would be. However, they said the model is based on a series of assumptions about the effectiveness of testing, tracing, isolation, and quarantine. They assumed that the amount of time it takes to isolate cases with symptoms was on average 2.6 days, and the likelihood that their contacts adhere to quarantine was 90 per cent. According to the scientists, while these considerations are plausible, they are optimistic assumptions. “Our findings reinforce the growing body of evidence which suggests that we can’t rely on one single public health measure to achieve epidemic control”, said Adam Kucharski, study co-author from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine in the UK. “Successful strategies will likely include intensive testing and contact tracing supplemented with moderate forms of physical distancing, such as limiting the size of social gatherings and remote working, which can both reduce transmission and the number of contacts that need to be traced,” Kucharski said. The huge scale of testing and contact tracing needed to reduce Covid-19 from spreading is resource intensive, the researchers said, adding that app- based tracing, if adopted widely alongside traditional contact tracing, could enhance the effectiveness of identifying contacts. In the research, the scientists also modelled the rate at which the virus is transmitted -- known as the reproductive number (R), or the average number of people each individual with the virus is likely to infect at a given moment -- under different strategies. They said, to keep the Covid-19 pandemic declining, R value needed to be less than one. In the model, the researchers assumed the probability that a close contact of a confirmed case will be infected to be 20 per cent among household contacts and 6 per cent among other contacts. They estimated that if no control measures had been implemented, R would be 2.6, meaning that one infected person would infect, on average, 2-3 more people. According to the model, mass testing alone, with 5 per cent of the population undergoing random testing each week can lower R to just 2.5, because so many infections would either be missed or detected too late. Compared with no control measures, self-isolation of symptomatic cases alone reduced transmission by an estimated 29 per cent, while combining self-isolation, household quarantine, and tracing strategies may lower transmission by as much as 47 per cent when using app-based contact tracing. Limiting daily contacts outside home, school, and work to four people along with manual tracing of acquaintances only, and app-based tracing, would have the greatest impact, reducing disease spread by 66 per cent, and lowering R to 0.87, the study noted. However, the scientists said the effectiveness of manual contact tracing strategies is highly dependent on how many contacts are successfully traced, with a high level of tracing required to ensure R is lower than one. They also modelled the number of contacts that needed to be quarantined under different contact tracing strategies.A scenario in which 1,000 new symptomatic cases were reported daily would likely require a minimum of 15,000 contacts quarantined every day and a maximum of 41,000 people, the researchers added. “Our results highlight several characteristics of SARS-CoV-2 which make effective isolation and contact tracing challenging,” said study co-author Hannah Fry from the University College London in the UK. “The high rate of transmission, the short time between one person becoming infected and infecting another, and transmission that occurs without symptoms all make things difficult,” Fry said. For high numbers of symptomatic Covid-19 cases, tracing, testing, quarantining efforts will be a big challenge, the scientists said. “If combined with moderate physical distancing measures, self-isolation and contact tracing would be more likely to achieve control of Covid-19,” the scientists concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/combination-of-self-isolation-testing-contact-tracing-needed-for-containing-pandemic-lancet-study/story-vifNmbhuJbvua78OrNkhUI.html
17-06-2020||World||Pakistan understating Covid-19 infections and deaths, says report||Pakistan is understating its rate of infections and the death toll from the coronavirus, the head of a government task force said, as the country becomes a hot spot for the pandemic in South Asia.“The actual numbers will be two to three times more than what the government is reporting,” Atta ur Rahman, chairman of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s task force on science and technology, said on the phone. A large number of cases aren’t being reported because of low testing and as reasons other than respiratory failure aren’t being counted in deaths, he said.Pakistan’s coronavirus cases have increased manifold since the government eased a lockdown in the second week of May after a partial shutdown of about two months. Khan has said he is allowing some businesses to open as he fears people will die of poverty and hunger instead of the virus. Alarmed by the rising number of cases, the authorities have again started shutting down residential localities in 20 key cities including Lahore, the second-biggest, and Islamabad, the capital.Pakistan is the second most infected nation in Asia after India with 154,760 cases and about 3,000 deaths. The fatality rate of 2% is less than half of the 5% global average.“Virus testing is too low and random testing virtually doesn’t exist,” Rahman said, whose task force is advising the government on developing protective equipment. “The government data is only based on tests being carried out on those people who report symptoms.”The nation expects infected people to rise almost eight times to 1.2 million by the end of July, according to Asad Umar, planning minister who is overseeing the nation’s coronavirus nerve center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-understating-covid-19-infections-and-deaths-says-report/story-BlI3WwMk93FRhXXQpVg97O.html
17-06-2020||World||Taiwan to ease virus border controls to let in some business people||Taiwan will from the start of next week ease border controls put in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus and will allow in business travellers from some lower-risk countries, though they will have to be tested and quarantined.Taiwan has never gone into total lockdown and life has continued largely as normal due to its early and effective prevention work and a first-rate public health system.While it has largely lifted domestic restrictions, Taiwan has been more cautious about opening up its borders, which have been shut to most foreign visitors since mid-March.Taiwan’s Central Epidemic Command Centre said starting from Monday it would allow in business people coming from lower-risk areas including New Zealand, Australia, Vietnam and Thailand, plus those from South Korea, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong and Macau, which it judged medium to low risk.Travellers will have to provide details of where they are going in Taiwan, be able to provide proof of testing negative for the virus three days before flying, and prove they have been invited by a company, the centre said on Wednesday. They will still be subject to 14 days of quarantine, as are all those coming into Taiwan, but will be able to shorten that if they pay for a coronavirus test and test negative. “To foster the opening of foreign business activities in a timely manner, we are announcing the relaxation of some border control measures,” Health Minister Chen Shih-chung told reporters.“We will simplify quarantine measures, starting from low risks areas.”International flights have continued to operate to and from Taiwan throughout the border restrictions, though on a much reduced scale. Previously the only foreigners allowed in where those with residence permits, diplomats and a few other exceptions.Taiwan has reported 445 cases, the majority of which were in people who get infected overseas, and just seven deaths. It has only four active cases remaining. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard and Yimou Lee; Editing by Lincoln Feast.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-to-ease-virus-border-controls-to-let-in-some-business-people/story-BzHH88X3VLBLmtsD5FtZTP.html
17-06-2020||World||China extraditions possible under new security law in Hong Kong: Report||China’s planned national security law for Hong Kong could allow for extraditions to the mainland, the city’s sole representative to Beijing’s top lawmaking body said Wednesday.The comments by Tam Yiu-chung, a veteran pro-Beijing politician, are significant because it was the threat of extradition to China’s party-controlled courts that ignited last year’s explosive pro-democracy protests.The semi-autonomous business hub has been convulsed by a year of huge and often violent rallies that began with an eventually aborted criminal extradition bill but morphed into a popular call for democracy and police accountability.Beijing says the new national security law is needed to end the political unrest and restore stability. But critics see it as potential knock-out blow for Hong Kong’s cherished freedoms and autonomy. In an interview with RTHK radio on Wednesday, Tam said he believed some prosecutions alleging foreign interference, or cases involving diplomatic issues, could be handled by China’s central government.Asked if that might result in Hong Kongers extradited to the mainland for trial he replied: “If the central government thinks it is necessary to do so, not to be handled in Hong Kong courts, then that is an option.”Tam’s comments come after Deng Zhonghua, the deputy of China’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, said Monday that Beijing will have jurisdiction over some “extremely rare” national security cases once the law is passed.Under a “One Country, Two Systems” agreement ahead of the handover by Britain, China agreed to let Hong Kong maintain certain liberties and autonomy until 2047 -- including legislative and judicial independence.Critics fear the new law -- which will bypass Hong Kong’s legislature -- will demolish that separation, and say Beijing has been prematurely eroding the city’s freedoms for years.Beijing denies those allegations and argues that national security is within its purview.The Standing Committee, the party organ that will draw up the new law, is sitting on Thursday and Friday. So far Chinese state media reports have not listed Hong Kong as part of the agenda but Beijing has said it wants the law passed quickly. On Wednesday a group of 86 NGOs and rights groups -- including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and Freedom House -- published a joint letter to the Standing Committee calling on it to scrap the proposed law. “Everything we know about it so far suggests it will threaten the basic rights and freedoms of people in Hong Kong.” the letter said. “It criminalises broad, vague ‘offences’ that can encompass any criticism of the government and be used against people peacefully exercising and defending their human rights,” it added. Peaceful protests in Hong Kong have rekindled since China announced the proposed law, albeit on a smaller scale. Riot police have moved quickly against such rallies, citing anti-coronavirus measures banning large public gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-extraditions-possible-under-new-security-law-in-hong-kong-report/story-TKyT12mo2xRPgAPgYoYnBO.html
17-06-2020||World||German coronavirus tracing app downloaded 6.5 million times||Germany’s smartphone app to help trace coronavirus infections has been downloaded 6.5 million times in the first 24 hours since its launch, the CEO of software company SAP said on Wednesday.Christian Klein said the reception was testimony to the excellent work that teams from SAP and Deutsche Telekom had put into readying the Corona-Warn-App in just six weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-coronavirus-tracing-app-downloaded-6-5-million-times/story-bPYigcsXuNNSr0grU1tcAL.html
17-06-2020||World||Trump administration sues to delay release of Bolton book||The Trump administration sued former national security adviser John Bolton on Tuesday to delay the publication of a book that the White House says contains classified information and that is expected to paint an unfavorable portrait of the president’s foreign policy decision-making.The civil lawsuit in Washington’s federal court follows warnings from President Donald Trump that Bolton could face a “criminal problem” if he doesn’t halt plans to publish the book, which is scheduled for release next week.The complaint is the latest salvo in a contentious relationship between Trump and the hawkish Bolton, who was abruptly forced from the White House in January after repeated disagreements on national security matters. It moves their rift into court, where a judge will be asked to decide whether Bolton short-circuited proper procedures to get his book on the market — something his lawyer and publisher have strongly denied.His publisher, Simon & Schuster, called the lawsuit “nothing more than the latest in a long running series of efforts by the administration to quash publication of a book it deems unflattering to the president.” It said in a statement Tuesday evening that Bolton had worked with White House officials to address their concerns, and that it “fully supports his First Amendment right” to tell his story.Similarly, Bolton’s attorney, Chuck Cooper, has said Bolton worked for months with classification specialists to avoid releasing classified material. He has accused the White House of using national security information as a pretext to censor Bolton.In its lawsuit, the Justice Department administration contends that the former adviser did not complete a pre-publication review to ensure that the manuscript did not contain classified material. It requests that a federal court order Bolton to “instruct or request” that his publisher further delay publication of the book to allow for a completion of the national security review process and to “retrieve and dispose” of existing copies in a manner acceptable to the government.The Justice Department also is asking a federal court to grant it the rights to all proceeds Bolton earns from the publication of the book.In its lawsuit, the Justice Department argues that Bolton’s job meant he “regularly came into possession of some of the most sensitive classified information that exists in the U.S. government.” Officials said Bolton’s manuscript was more than 500 pages and was “rife with classified information, which he proposed to release to the world.”The book contained “significant quantities of classified information that it asked Defendant to remove,” the filing says.“The United States is not seeking to censor any legitimate aspect of Defendant’s manuscript; it merely seeks an order requiring Defendant to complete the prepublication review process and to take all steps necessary to ensure that only a manuscript that has been officially authorized through that process — and is thus free of classified information — is disseminated publicly,” the lawsuit says.Bolton’s book, “The Room Where It Happened: A White House Memoir,” was supposed to be released in March. Its release date was twice delayed and it is now set to be released next week by Simon & Schuster.“Bolton covers an array of topics — chaos in the White House, sure, but also assessments of major players, the president’s inconsistent, scattershot decision-making process, and his dealings with allies and enemies alike, from China, Russia, Ukraine, North Korea, Iran, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany,” according to the publisher.“I am hard-pressed to identify any significant Trump decision during my tenure that wasn’t driven by reelection calculations,” Bolton writes in the book, according to a news release from the publisher.The book has been highly anticipated for months, especially after news broke during Trump’s impeachment trial that the manuscript offered a vivid account of the president’s efforts to withhold military aid from Ukraine in exchange for the country assisting with investigations into Trump’s political rival Joe Biden. Those allegations formed the crux of the impeachment case, which ended with the president’s Senate acquittal in February.Cooper did not immediately return an email seeking comment on the lawsuit. He has previously said that he sent Bolton’s manuscript to White House classification specialist Ellen Knight in late December and that Knight and Bolton spent nearly four months going through the nearly 500-page book multiple times, “often line by line.”According to the lawsuit, Knight completed her review in late April and determined that the manuscript did not contain classified information. But early the next month, Michael Ellis, a senior National Security Council official, began an additional review of the manuscript and found classified information in it, the lawsuit says. The review was still ongoing earlier this month when media reports revealed that Bolton intended to move forward with his book.In a statement Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union said the lawsuit is “doomed to fail.” Ben Wizner, the director of the organization’s speech, technology and privacy project, said the Supreme Court had rejected a half-century ago the Nixon administration’s efforts to block the release of the Pentagon Papers, and said it is well-established that prior restraints on publication are unconstitutional.“As usual, the government’s threats have nothing to do with safeguarding national security, and everything to do with avoiding scandal and embarrassment,” Wizner said.____Associated Press writers Michael Balsamo, Zeke Miller and Deb Riechmann contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-sues-to-delay-release-of-bolton-book/story-beirzocK22VCRLF09JT7QJ.html
17-06-2020||World||Singapore scientists discover 5 antibodies that can combat Covid-19||A team of Singapore scientists has discovered five antibodies that can block Covid-19 infection and protect against the key mutations that have emerged in the virus during the pandemic, the country’s defence research and development organisation said on Wednesday. Human trials for the lead antibody, AOD01, will commence in the coming months, pending approval from the Health Sciences Authority, said the Defense Science Organisation (DSO) National Laboratories. The DSO said that its scientists have screened “hundreds of thousands” of B cells - the cells that produce antibodies to target pathogens - from the blood samples of recovered Covid-19 patients since March this year. The scientists managed to isolate the first two antibodies for testing within a month of receiving the blood samples from the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and Singapore General Hospital. Two months later, it identified another three effective antibodies. This was done using a technique that screens B cells simultaneously with live virus, allowing antibodies with effective virus neutralising properties to be quickly identified, reported Channel News Asia. The technique was developed by the DSO in collaboration with the National University of Singapore’s Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine and Life Sciences Institute over the last five years, according to the report.Results showed that the five antibodies “demonstrate neutralisation” against Covid-19, said the DSO.“They are all potent in blocking infection and effective against key mutations that have emerged in the virus during the pandemic,” it said.With the research phase completed, the study is now transiting into the preclinical phase, where the team is preparing the lead antibody for production, said Dr Conrad Chan, principal research scientist and laboratory director (applied molecular technology). This will allow clinical trials to be conducted, and manufacturing to be scaled up when human trials are successful, he added. If the clinical trial “goes well”, the antibodies could stop the virus from spreading to the lungs if administered before the illness becomes too severe, he said in response to questions about how the antibodies could help patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-scientists-discover-5-antibodies-that-can-combat-covid-19/story-Z2MqwmXkXyNLrjyXfn100L.html
17-06-2020||World||5 years after church massacre, South Carolina protects monuments||Five years ago after eight black church members and their pastor were shot and killed in a racist attack, South Carolina came together and took down the Confederate flag from the Capitol lawn.Today, as yet another shocking killing of an African American roils the country, bringing a wave of pulled down statues and the removal of names of historical figures who repressed or oppressed other people, South Carolina leaders appears to be sitting out this movement so far.Wednesday marks five years since Dylann Roof sat through nearly an hour of Bible study at the Mother Emanuel AME church and then started shooting as the group prayed. Nine black worshippers were killed. Roof spared one woman’s life so she could tell everyone he wanted to start a race war. He was sentenced to death and remains in federal prison.Roof didn’t hesitate to explain his racist beliefs to FBI agents and left a handwritten journal full of his views, such as blacks being inferior to whites. He also left behind pictures of himself holding the gun used in the killings, posing at historic Civil War and African American sites and holding the Confederate flag.Outraged political leaders came together and overwhelmingly voted to take down a Confederate flag that flew near a monument to Confederate soldiers on the Statehouse lawn.That was the last time the General Assembly invoked a 2000 law called the Heritage Act. The law protects all historical monuments and names of buildings, requiring a two-thirds vote from the state General Assembly to make any changes.That’s a tough task in a state where conservative Republicans dominate the House and Senate, made harder after Republican House Speaker Jay Lucas said days after the Confederate flag came down in 2015 that he would never consider another change like it while he led the House.Lucas has kept his word, failing to respond to repeated interview requests and questions whether his stance has since changed.Pressure is mounting, however. Clemson University trustees voted last Friday to ask the General Assembly to let it change the name of Tillman Hall, a main building on campus named for “Pitchfork” Ben Tillman.Tillman gained prominence wguke supporting a white mob that killed four black men in 1876 after they surrendered to them. He later became South Carolina’s governor and a US senator, committed to destroying any rights blacks obtained after the Civil War.“We of the South have never recognized the right of the negro to govern white men, and we never will. We have never believed him to be equal to the white man, and we will not submit to his gratifying his lust on our wives and daughters without lynching him,” Tillman said in a 1900 congressional speech.The president of the University of South Carolina wants lawmakers to let the school remove the name of J Marion Sims from a women’s dorm. Sims is honoured as the father of modern gynaecology, but conducted experimental treatment on slaves without anaesthesia.Sims and Tillman also have statues on the Statehouse lawn. Some African American lawmakers want plaques added, explaining their racist views. Others, like Rep. Justin Bamberg, want Tillman and the others gone.“I don’t like seeing ‘Pitchfork’ Ben Tillman every dang day I go to the Statehouse,” the Democrat said. “He boldly and proudly supported lynching my people.” And in Charleston on Tuesday, the current pastor of Mother Emanuel stood with civil rights activists and politicians who called for the removal from a downtown park of a 100-foot-tall (30-metre) statue of former US Vice President John C Calhoun.Calhoun’s support of slavery never wavered. And in an 1836 speech before the US Senate, he said slaves in the South were better off than free blacks in the North.The Rev. Nelson Rivers said Calhoun “represents Dylann Roof to us” and said Charleston leaders should defy the unjust Heritage Act — which does not include penalties for breaking it — and remove the statue.“The time has come to not just acknowledge your racist evil wicked past. The time has come to take down the monuments that honour the evil that was done in the name of Charleston, in the name of South Carolina,” Rivers said Tuesday at the foot of Calhoun’s statue.Charleston Mayor John Tecklenburg said he will announce the city’s decision Wednesday on the statue’s future.The time has come for Republicans in South Carolina to either clear the way to remove monuments or show their true colours, said Rivers, who spent nearly 40 years with the NAACP and is now a vice president with the civil rights group National Action Network.“Either you support a monument to hate or you do not,” Rivers said. “There is nothing fuzzy about this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-years-after-church-massacre-south-carolina-protects-monuments/story-xbvdFB6zIaSKDUKZwZNXLJ.html
17-06-2020||World||New Zealand military to oversee quarantine facilities after new Covid-19 case||New Zealand on Wednesday said the Defence Force will now oversee the country’s quarantine facilities and strengthen border requirements, after a slip up allowed two people with coronavirus to move around the country.New Zealand on Tuesday lost its Covid-free status when two women who had been given permission to leave quarantine early on compassionate grounds after arriving from Britain tested positive for the coronavirus.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said she was appointing the Assistant Chief of Defence, Air Commodore Digby Webb, to oversee all quarantine and to manage isolation facilities, including the processes of exiting people from these facilities.Ardern said Webb can seek access to military logistics, its operational expertise and, if needed, personnel, for running of the quarantine facilities. She added that an audit would be done to make sure all processes in place are followed and any changes needed can be made to further strengthen the border facilities.“I cannot allow the gains we have all made to be squandered by processes that are not followed,” Ardern said at a news conference in parliament.New Zealand had trumpeted its achievement last week of becoming one of the first countries in the world to eliminate Covid-19 and return to pre-pandemic normality, lifting all social and economic restrictions except border controls. The two women who arrived from Britain on June 7 went into compulsory quarantine after landing, but had been given special permission to leave the facility early to see their dying parent, even though one had symptoms which she attributed to a pre-existing condition. Ardern said the infected person should never have been allowed to leave.“This represents an unacceptable failure of the system,” Ardern said. “We require not one but two tests to be undertaken at those facilities. ..it did not, and there are no excuses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-military-to-oversee-quarantine-facilities-after-new-covid-19-case/story-BU5OceHS83LHl7sMK4m5yM.html
17-06-2020||World||Russian President Putin has ‘disinfection tunnel’ to protect him from coronavirus||Visitors meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin at his country residence must first pass through a walk-through device that sprays them with disinfectant, to protect him from the coronavirus, officials said.Putin has been self-isolating at his Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow under lockdown although he made a public appearance without a mask at an outdoor event on the June 12 Russia Day holiday.As part of precautions to protect the president, visitors walk through the device and get sprayed from above and the side, a video posted Tuesday evening on Twitter by Kremlin pool journalists from RIA Novosti state news agency showed.The authorities in Penza region east of Moscow where the device was made boasted that it “ensured the safety of the head of government and all those who visit him.”The Penza regional government said the president’s staff got in touch with the manufacturing company, which until the virus outbreak specialised in automatic cleaning equipment for industrial use.The device includes facial recognition technology and can take people’s temperatures, according to the manufacturers.The Kremlin has imposed a range of measures to protect Putin including regular virus testing of the leader and all those who come into contact with him.Visitors have to take a virus test before meeting Putin, his spokesman said.The president began holding video conference calls with officials in April, although there have been a few exceptions. For example he was shown meeting in person with the chief of oil giant Rosneft, Igor Sechin, on May 12. Despite these measures, some in Putin’s circle have caught the virus, including his spokesman Dmitry Peskov, who said, however, that he had not met the president recently enough to have infected him.In an apparent close brush with the virus in March, Putin was shown on television shaking hands with the chief doctor at a Moscow virus hospital while neither was wearing a mask. The doctor, Denis Protsenko, soon afterwards tested positive.The elaborate precautions protecting Putin sparked anger from some as the Kremlin has ruled it is safe to hold a national vote on July 1 on constitutional changes that would allow him to serve another consecutive Kremlin term.“Let them install this know-how at every polling station and then hold a vote,” wrote a commentator, Aleks, on the website of Komsomolskaya Pravda tabloid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-president-putin-has-disinfection-tunnel-to-protect-him-from-coronavirus/story-lgiCn2udOsZne9NLemhnvO.html
17-06-2020||World||Undeterred by tourism downturn, Beijing to launch new airlines focussed on ‘Hawaii of China’||Coronavirus pandemic may have severely hit the travel and aviation sector globally but that hasn’t shaken China’s resolve. According to Chinese media reports, the country is all set to launch new airlines. China Eastern Airlines, which is the country’s second-biggest airline, will soon launch a new carrier with a focus on the island destination of Hainan, often referred to as the ‘Hawaii of China’. The move comes at a time when the global airline industry is struggling to survive amid the Covid-19 crisis. The new carrier, called Sanya International Airlines, comes as a joint venture between government-backed China Eastern Airlines and other several regional players. China Eastern will own 51% share in the new carrier. As of now, no timeline has been set on the launch of the new airlines. Also read: China’s PLA is nibbling at the border in name of peace and tranquilityHainan is witnessing a growing significance in China, something the Chinese government is hoping to capitalise on. The island, which is about 30 times the size of Hong Kong, is a popular holiday destination for Chinese tourists. The government, led by president Xi Jinping, aims to turn the island into the largest free-trade zone in the country.This comes at a time when a second wave of coronavirus infection is feared. On Tuesday, Beijing sharply ramped up restrictions on people leaving the capital on Tuesday in an effort to stop the most serious coronavirus flare-up since February from spreading to other cities and provinces, news agency Reuters reported. The decision to impose fresh curbs and raise the city’s emergency response level back to II from III came as Beijing’s current outbreak rose to 106 infections since Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/undeterred-by-tourism-downturn-amid-covid-19-crisis-beijing-aims-to-launch-new-airlines-focussed-on-hawaii-of-china/story-tgGfEKEstbM2RAbL0IthnN.html
17-06-2020||World||Two men linked to ‘boogaloo’ movement charged in US courthouse guard killing||Two men inspired by the militant anti-government “boogaloo” movement have been charged in the drive-by killing of a federal courthouse guard in Oakland, California, last month during a night of nearby protests against police brutality, court records showed on Tuesday.One of the men, US Air Force Sergeant Steven Carrillo, 32, had already been charged with killing a sheriff’s deputy in a violent confrontation with law enforcement in California’s Santa Cruz Mountains that ended in his arrest on June 6.On Monday, federal prosecutors charged him with murder in the fatal ambush of Federal Protective Service officer David Patrick Underwood, who was gunned down at his guard post outside Oakland’s US courthouse on May 29. Carrillo also was charged with the attempted murder of a second guard injured in the Oakland attack, which unfolded blocks away from demonstrations and civil unrest over the death of George Floyd at the hands of police in Minneapolis days earlier.Carrillo’s suspected accomplice, Robert Alvin Justus Jr., 30, was charged with aiding and abetting the Oakland attack. He was arrested, according to an FBI affidavit filed in the case, after confessing to driving the van from which Carrillo opened fire on the two uniformed guards.Justus was not implicated in the events a week later that led to Carrillo’s arrest - a deadly ambush on California sheriff’s deputies, an ensuing gunbattle with police and a failed carjacking getaway attempt.Carrillo was charged last week in state court with one count of murder, eight counts of attempted murder, and various other offenses, including the making and detonating of pipe bombs. Court papers filed in the case linked both men with the far-right boogaloo ideology whose followers see the U.S. government as an enemy bent on confiscating the guns they need in the event of civil war, a violent uprising or collapse of society. The FBI affidavit said Carrillo appeared to have used his own blood to scrawl the word “BOOG” - shorthand for boogaloo - and the phrase “I became unreasonable” on the hood of a car he sought to hijack before he was apprehended near the central California town of Ben Lomond.A search of his vehicle, the same van tied to the Oakland shooting, turned up a ballistic vest with a boogaloo insignia patch, according to the FBI. Authorities also seized an assault rifle equipped with a silencer, a gun they said was used in both killings.The FBI said the two defendants met on Facebook and that Carrillo wrote in an online chat the night before the Oakland shooting that the street protests over Floyd’s death presented “a great opportunity” to stage an attack.The affidavit quoted Justus as replying: “let’s boogie,” which, according to the FBI, signified an “agreement and affirmation to engage in attacks on law enforcement personnel in accordance with boogaloo ideology.”Three other suspected followers of the boogaloo movement were arrested earlier this month by federal authorities and charged with planning to incite violence and destruction during protests in Las Vegas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-men-linked-to-boogaloo-movement-charged-in-us-courthouse-guard-killing/story-tV55srihaRLYSFvLHYPNnM.html
17-06-2020||World||Sinopharm jumps most in 5 years on Covid-19 vaccine results||Sinopharm Group Co. surged by the most since April 2015 to lead a rally among Chinese healthcare names, as the trial results for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate rekindled investors’ enthusiasm for the sector.A vaccine candidate developed by Sinopharm’s Wuhan Institute of Biological Products Co. has shown no serious adverse reactions during phase I and II clinical trials, according to a Weibo posting on Tuesday by China National Biotec Group, a subsidiary of the company’s parent. That sent Sinopharm shares up by as much as 15% in Hong Kong to be the best performer in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.China National Medicines Corp., a unit of Sinopharm, soared by the 10% daily limit in Shanghai while another subsidiary China National Accord Medicines Corp. jumped as much as 8.8% in Shenzhen. The MSCI China healthcare gauge rose as much as 2.2% to the highest in two years.Using a killed version of the coronavirus, the vaccine developed by Sinopharm is among five Chinese experimental shots that have reached the crucial final stage of human testing before they can be approved for public use. Data collected from early phases of human testing in three of the five vaccines have suggested they are safe and able to elicit immune response to the virus in studies that enrolled hundreds of people.As the world races to develop a vaccine against the coronavirus, Beijing has mobilized its health authorities, drug regulators and research institutes to work around the clock with local firms. China has promised to share any successful vaccine globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinopharm-jumps-most-in-5-years-on-covid-19-vaccine-results/story-PiTDWDxCdkSz7ShBHclN6I.html
17-06-2020||World||Turkey moves troops against Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq||Turkey said Wednesday it has airlifted troops for a cross-border ground operation against Turkey’s Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq, the first known airborne-and-land offensive by Ankara inside Iraqi territory.The airborne offensive into Iraq’s border region of Haftanin, some 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the Turkey-Iraq border, was launched following intense artillery fire into the area, said the Defense Ministry in Ankara.The operation by commando forces is being supported by warplanes, attack helicopters, artillery and armed and unarmed drones, according to the ministry’s statement posted on Twitter. It did not say how many troops are involved.The ministry said the operation follows “increasing harassment and attempts to attack” military outposts or bases inside Turkey, near the border area. It said the Turkish forces would target other “terror” groups in the region, but did not name them.“Operation Claw-Tiger is continuing successfully as planned,” the ministry said. It shared videos of Defense Minister Hulusi Akar overseeing the mission at a command center in Ankara.Turkey regularly carries out air and ground attacks against the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK, which it says maintains bases in northern Iraq. Wednesday’s was the first known airborne and land offensive.It came days after Turkey launched an air operation in the region, which the Defense Ministry said hit suspected PKK targets in several locations in Iraq’s north, including Sinjar, and targeted 81 rebel hideouts.“Turkey continues its fight against terrorists using the rights based on international law,” said Omer Celik, the deputy chairman of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s ruling party. “It is our most natural right and duty to fight terrorists who attack our borders, citizens, and security forces.”There was no immediate reaction from the PKK or from Baghdad and northern Iraq’s semi-autonomous Kurdish region.Iraq’s government however, summoned the Turkish ambassador on Tuesday to protest against the aerial offensive.The PKK has led a decades-long insurgency in Turkey’s mainly Kurdish southeast region. It is considered a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States and the European Union. The conflict has led to the loss of tens of thousands lives since it started in 1984.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-moves-troops-against-kurdish-rebels-in-northern-iraq/story-GwiLtQ8armdjPagy30dQoL.html
17-06-2020||World||Hong Kong Chief Executive urges people not to ‘demonize’ security law||Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday that she hopes opponents of a new national security law being imposed by China do not “demonize and stigmatize” the legislation because doing so would mean pitting themselves against residents of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.“The people of Hong Kong want to see stability again, they want a safe environment where they can work and live,” Lam told reporters.She said people were “sick and tired” of violence in Hong Kong and intervention by foreign forces in the city.China’s ceremonial parliament in May approved the decision to enact a national security law in Hong Kong, aimed at curbing subversive, secessionist, terrorist and foreign intervention activities in the city following months of anti-government protests last year.“We are part of the People’s Republic of China, but we don’t have a mechanism to protect national security,” Lam said. “This is a risk not just to over 7 million people in Hong Kong, it’s also a risk to 1.4 billion people in the country.” Lam spoke ahead of a meeting this week by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, which exercises legislative power in China. The law is not on the meeting’s agenda, but Hong Kong delegate Tam Yiu Chung said in an interview Monday that items could be added.Critics consider the imminent legislation an attack on the “one country, two systems” framework in which China promised Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy and freedoms not found on the mainland when the former British colony was returned to Chinese control in 1997. They fear that the law will be used to curb any dissent in Hong Kong.Details about the law have not been disclosed, though Lam said the specifics will be established. She said people “don’t need to worry” about this because at the end of the day, it is for Hong Kong’s authorities to enforce the law.” “Please accept and understand why we have to do it,” she said. “The only purpose of this task is to protect Hong Kong and the country.” The anti-government protests had subsiding during coronavirus restrictions, but have returned to the city in recent weeks, even though social distancing measures remain in place.Lam said Hong Kong will relax its measures gradually.“It would be risky if we completely lift the measures,” she said. “In recent times in some cities such as Beijing, we have seen imported cases and some countries have seen an influx of cases after relaxing measures.” Hong Kong’s secretary for food and health, Sophia Chan, said Tuesday that the ban on public gatherings will be relaxed from eight to 50 people.Restaurants will no longer be limited by capacity. For establishments such as bars and karaoke lounges, the maximum number of guests per table will be doubled from eight to 16.“The relaxation is made in light of the easing of the epidemic. We also realize that certain activities must resume,” said Chan, who stressed that there was “no political consideration” involved in limiting the number of people allowed in public gatherings. Separately, a group of over 50 protesters gathered in a shopping mall in the city’s Causeway Bay shopping district despite heavy riot police presence, shouting slogans and holding up flags that said “Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of our times.” Police stopped and searched several people near Victoria Park, where protests were initially supposed to take place but were later cancelled. They did not appear to make any arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-chief-executive-urges-people-not-to-demonize-security-law/story-2mlxplrTncSJkkYxpGhR5H.html
17-06-2020||World||Group of 86 NGOs issue letter calling for scrapping of planned Hong Kong security law||A group of 86 non-government organisations issued a joint letter on Wednesday asking Chinese authorities to scrap plans to introduce national security legislation in Hong Kong, saying it threatens basic rights and freedoms.The letter, signed by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and Freedom House, among others, was addressed to Li Zhanshu, Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, China’s top legislative body.Beijing last month announced a plan to introduce legislation in Hong Kong to tackle secession, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference. The law could see Chinese security agencies set up bases in the city for the first time.Critics, including diplomats, lawyers and business executives, see the law as a threat to a “one country, two systems” formula, agreed when the former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997 to protect its freedoms and role as a global financial centre.Hong Kong and Beijing officials say the planned law in fact strengthens the governance formula and would only target a small number of “troublemakers” threatening national security, while leaving rights and freedoms intact.They have dismissed criticism from foreign governments and organisations, urging them to stop interfering in China’s internal affairs.Key details of the legislation, expected to be implemented by September, remain unknown.“Although no details of the law’s contents have been made publicly available, the decision – along with recent comments by Chinese and Hong Kong officials – suggest that it will threaten the basic rights and freedoms of the people in Hong Kong,” the letter said.“We are particularly concerned about the law’s impact on Hong Kong, especially its vibrant civil society.”Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam on Tuesday urged opponents of Beijing’s national security legislation plans to stop “smearing” the effort, saying those who did were “the enemy of the people”.The signatories of the letter included rights groups from the United States, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Europe. (Reporting by Pak Yiu; Writing by Marius Zaharia; Editing by Michael Perry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/group-of-86-ngos-issue-letter-calling-for-scrapping-of-planned-hong-kong-security-law/story-fcOmReQn27HLFr0ZUZe3zK.html
17-06-2020||World||Apple’s diversity chief Christie Smith leaves as companies vow to tackle racism||Apple Inc.’s head of diversity and inclusion Christie Smith is leaving the iPhone company, according to people familiar with the matter.Last week, Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook said Apple is launching a $100 million Racial Equity and Justice Initiative, adding to the company’s response to the police killing of George Floyd last month. Earlier this month, Cook wrote in a letter to employees and customers that society needs to do more to push equality, particularly for Black people.“To create change, we have to reexamine our own views and actions in light of a pain that is deeply felt but too often ignored. Issues of human dignity will not abide standing on the sidelines,” Cook wrote in the letter.Smith joined Apple in 2017 after 16 years at consultancy Deloitte. Unlike her predecessor, who reported directly to the CEO, Smith reported to Apple’s Senior Vice President of Retail and People Deirdre O’Brien.“Inclusion and diversity are core Apple values and we deeply believe the most diverse teams are the most innovative teams,” Apple said in an emailed statement confirming the news. “Christie Smith will be leaving Apple to spend more time with her family and we wish her well. Our Inclusion and Diversity team continues to report directly to Deirdre O’Brien on the Executive Team.”Apple said the move was planned two months ago, though a person familiar with the matter said Smith’s last day was Tuesday.The Cupertino, California-based company has made little progress in increasing the diversity among its overall workforce since it began releasing data in 2014. According to its 2018 diversity report, 67% of global employees were male, down from 70% in 2014. In the US, 6% of tech employees were Black in 2018, unchanged from 2014.Apple hasn’t disclosed its most recent diversity numbers yet, but the company has made some headway in recent years increasing diversity among new hires. More than half of new hires in the US in 2018 were Black, Hispanic or from other historically underrepresented groups in tech. Women accounted for 38% of Apple’s workforce under the age of 30, compared to 33% of the its overall staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-s-diversity-chief-christie-smith-leaves-as-companies-vow-to-tackle-racism/story-RuMviujmQPsgW4XEtOOpLP.html
17-06-2020||World||Flying amid Covid-19 pandemic: Airlines across globe are stopping in-flight alcohol sales||The coronavirus pandemic has not only changed our present but is also changing the future in many ways. The state of normalcy in a post-Covid-19 world will be an altered version of what “normal” once looked like. One of the major sectors to have taken the hit of the pandemic is the aviation industry. As it struggles to get back to the open skies, many challenges loom ahead. The future of flying, at least in the immediate days to come, is going to change. One of the major changes brought about by some airlines is temporarily stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages inside the aircraft to make flying amid Covid-19 crisis a safe experience. According to a CNN report, a host of airlines companies including American carriers like Delta, American, have decided not to serve alcoholic drinks to flyers in a bid to reduce food and drink options aboard. US’ Delta Airlines will only be serving alcohol in its international flights. Many airlines, including British budget airline EasyJet, have settled with only serving bottled water aboard. The Netherlands flag-carrier KLM, has suspended sales of hot and alcoholic drinks, but for water and soft drinks. Also read: People with co-morbidities 12 times more likely to die of Covid - US studyThe UK’s flag carrier, British Airways, has suspended its alcoholic beverages in its short-haul economy class flights (”Euro Traveller”). Virgin Australia is serving water and a snack to all its flyers, however, additional food and drinks - including alcoholic beverages - aren’t currently available for onboard. India resumed domestic air travel last month with a strict ban on international flight operations in place. As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, “no newspaper or magazine shall be provided on board by the airlines to the passengers”. Sale of eatables is barred and passengers are not allowed to consume food inside the aircraft.The ministry issued a detailed “inside the aircraft” guidelines to inform about the measures to be followed inside the aircraft and restricted consumption of eatables, barring water, inside the flight. In the Aircrafta. Throughout the flight, hygiene and sanitation to be maintained by the passengers. Face to face interaction to be minimized.b. Passenger are advised to minimize use of lavatory and to avoid any non-essential movement in the aisles.c. No queuing at the lavatory and only one companion for children and the elderly to be allowed.d. No meal services would be made available in the aircraft. Water bottle to be made available in the gallery area or on the seats.e. Passengers would not be permitted to consume any eatables inside the aircraft during the flight.f. Passengers to note that No paper/magazine will be available in the aircraft.g. There would be no on-board sale of any item to minimize the physical contacts.h. lf any passenger feels uncomfortable, fatigued or have cough, it should be brought to the notice of the crew for handling the passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flying-amid-covid-19-pandemic-airlines-across-globe-are-stopping-in-flight-alcohol-sales/story-ZxULXpUtOnJJA3i6h7iiSP.html
17-06-2020||World||Facebook aims to help voters, but won’t block Trump misinfo||Facebook is launching a widespread effort to boost US voter turnout and provide authoritative information about voting — just as it doubles down on its policy allowing politicians like President Donald Trump to post false information on the same subject.The social media giant is launching a “Voting Information Center” on Facebook and Instagram that will include details on registering to vote, polling places and voting by mail. It will draw the information from state election officials and local election authorities.The information hub, which will be prominently displayed on Facebook news feeds and on Instagram later in the summer — is similar to the coronavirus information center the company launched earlier this year in an attempt to elevate facts and authoritative sources of information on Covid-19.Facebook and its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, continue to face criticism for not removing or labeling posts by Trump that spread misinformation about voting by mail and, many said, encouraged violence against protesters.“I know many people are upset that we’ve left the President’s posts up, but our position is that we should enable as much expression as possible unless it will cause imminent risk of specific harms or dangers spelled out in clear policies,” Zuckerberg wrote earlier this month.In a USA Today opinion piece Tuesday, Zuckerberg reaffirmed that position.“Ultimately, I believe the best way to hold politicians accountable is through voting, and I believe we should trust voters to make judgments for themselves,” he wrote. “That’s why I think we should maintain as open a platform as possible, accompanied by ambitious efforts to boost voter participation.”Facebook’s free speech stance may have more to do with not wanting to alienate Trump and his supporters while keeping its business options open, critics suggest.Dipayan Ghosh, co-director of the Platform Accountability Project at Harvard Kennedy School, said Facebook “doesn’t want to tick off a whole swath of people who really believe the president and appreciate” his words.In addition to the voting hub, Facebook will also now let people turn off political and social issue ads that display the “paid for by” designation, meaning a politician or political entity paid for it. The company announced this option in January but it is going into effect now.Sarah Schiff, product manager who works on ads, cautioned that Facebook’s systems “aren’t perfect” and said she encourages users to report “paid for by” ads they see if they have chosen not to see them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-aims-to-help-voters-but-won-t-block-trump-misinfo/story-fB27jOJUAE5nrTqiSuqThK.html
17-06-2020||World||Report: 60% of Beijing flights canceled to stem virus spread||The Chinese capital on Wednesday cancelled more than 60% of commercial flights and raised the alert level amid a new coronavirus outbreak, state-run media reported.The website of the Communist Party’s Global Times said that as of 9 a.m. Wednesday, a total of 1,255 flights to and from the capital’s two major airports have been scrapped.Beijing has enacted a number of measures to limit travel in and out of the city, especially among those coming from districts where new cases have been detected. Beijing had essentially eradicated local transmissions but in recent days has added a total of 137 new cases with no new deaths.On Wednesday, the city raised its threat level from 3 to 2, leading to the cancellation of classes, suspension of plans for opening up and stiffened requirements for social distancing.No official public notice on a change in regulations has been issued by China’s civil aviation authority or by either Beijing Capital Airport — traditionally the world’s second busiest handling more than 101 million passengers — or Beijing Daxing International Airport.However, on its official microblog, Beijing Capital said it expected to handle 500 flights on Wednesday. According to the official Beijing Daily website, the number of takeoffs and landings at the airport on June 10 was 901.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/report-60-of-beijing-flights-canceled-to-stem-virus-spread/story-3bToc8unAB1VMstucVenwJ.html
17-06-2020||World||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau calls PM Modi, discusses Covid-19 pandemic and situation at LAC||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on phone, during which he discussed the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), among other things.The call was initiated by Trudeau and he was the first leader of a G-7 nation to discuss the confrontation with Chinese soldiers with the Indian Prime Minister.“The Prime Ministers discussed regional and global issues of concern, including the situation along the Line of Actual Control,” a readout issued by the Canadian PMO stated.Canada has also been on the receiving end of Chinese aggression since a senior Huawei executive was detained in Vancouver in 2018, leading to impositions of unofficial economic blockages by Beijing and the arbitrary arrest of two Canadians, including a former diplomat, with a third being sentenced to death by a Chinese court.Meanwhile, the Indian readout did not mention the section of the conversation relating to the situation along the LAC.Trudeau’s call was among a series he made to leaders of various nations seeking support for Canada’s candidacy for a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, elections for which was due on Wednesday. He also contacted the leaders of Mexico, Spain, Ethiopia, Angola, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan.While India is almost assured of being elected, Canada faces a stiff challenge from Ireland and Norway, as the three countries compete for two seats from the Western European and Others group. This may have been a last gasp effort by Trudeau to secure India’s backing even though New Delhi appears to be going by the reciprocal arrangement already arrived at with Ireland and Norway even before Canada entered the fray.Impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was part of the conversation, as Trudeau “highlighted the need for continued international coordination, including through multilateral institutions, to fight the pandemic and promote sustainable economic growth.” The Indian statement said the leaders agreed that the two nations could be “a force for good in the post-Covid world.”PM Modi “warmly appreciated” the assistance provided by Canada in facilitating the repatriation of Indians stranded in the country, while Trudeau reciprocated as New Delhi helped in the process of brining Canadians back home from India.They also “agreed that as large economies wedded to democratic values, India and Canada have a natural convergence on many global issues” and “looked forward to continuing to work together to strengthen the dynamic and mutually beneficial Canada-India relationship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-prime-minister-justin-trudeau-calls-pm-modi-discusses-covid-19-pandemic-and-situation-at-lac/story-FUetGAxFgAM2HD3ubKcM8L.html
17-06-2020||World||UAE can work with Israel, despite political differences, says minister||The United Arab Emirates can work with Israel on some areas, including fighting the new coronavirus and on technology, while still having political differences with the state, a senior official said on Tuesday.Addressing a conference of the American Jewish Committee (AJC) advocacy group, minister of state for foreign affairs Anwar Gargash said communication with Israel was important and would yield better results than other routes taken in the past.His question and answer session, described as “historic” by the AJC, occurred days after another senior official made a rare appeal to the Israeli public by having an article published in Hebrew in Israel’s leading newspaper. The official said Israel cannot expect to normalise relations with the Arab world if it annexes land in the occupied West Bank. “Can I have a political disagreement with Israel but at the same time try and bridge other areas of the relationship? I think I can and I think this is fundamentally where we are,” said Gargash, who has previously said the Arab decision not to have contact with Israel was wrong.He added that cooperation on the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic does not affect the UAE’s opposition to the proposed annexation or other political issues.Israel has no diplomatic relations with Gulf Arab countries, but common concerns over Iran’s regional influence have led to a limited thaw in ties. In May, Abu Dhabi-based Etihad made the first known flight by a UAE carrier to Israel, carrying coronavirus-related aid for the Palestinians.Egypt and Jordan are the only Arab states that have peace deals with Israel. The Israeli government intends to begin debating on July 1 the annexation plan, which would apply Israeli sovereignty to Jewish settlements and the Jordan Valley in the West Bank.In the newspaper article, the UAE’s ambassador to Washington said annexation would upend Israeli aspirations for improved security, economic and cultural ties with the Arab world and the UAE.The Jewish community in the UAE has recently taken on a more public profile. A new kosher food delivery service was covered in national newspapers, and a group called the Jewish Community of the UAE opened a Twitter account in late May.The group released a video, shared on Twitter by the UAE ambassador to London, featuring a Hebrew prayer for the UAE leadership.“We want to see a region that is more stable. A region that can resolve its issues over a negotiating table,” Gargash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-can-work-with-israel-despite-political-differences-says-minister/story-FPieAetMFtRHN0If8r8x0K.html
17-06-2020||World||CIA failed to protect agency’s top-secret hacking tools, leading to historic data loss: Report||A specialized CIA unit that developed sophisticated hacking tools and cyber weapons didn’t do enough to protect its own operations and wasn’t prepared to adequately respond when the secrets were stolen, according to an internal report prepared after the worst data loss in the intelligence agency’s history.“These shortcomings were emblematic of a culture that evolved over years that too often prioritized creativity and collaboration at the expense of security,” according to the report, which raises questions about cybersecurity practices inside US intelligence agencies.Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a senior member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, obtained the redacted report from the Justice Department after it was introduced as evidence in a court case this year involving the stolen CIA hacking tools.He released it on Tuesday along with a letter he wrote to new national intelligence director John Ratcliffe, asking him to explain what steps he’s taking to protect the nation’s secrets held by federal intelligence agencies.The October 2017 report, whose findings were first reported by The Washington Post, examined the theft one year earlier of sensitive cyber tools the CIA had developed to hack into the networks of adversaries.The document is dated months after WikiLeaks announced that it had acquired tools created by the CIA’s specialized Center for Cyber Intelligence. The anti-secrecy website published comprehensive descriptions of 35 tools, including internal CIA documents associated with them, according to the report.The report describes the spring 2016 theft as the largest data loss in agency history — compromising at least 180 gigabytes to as much as 34 terabytes of information, or the equivalent of 11.6 million to 2.2 billion pages in Microsoft Word.The agency did not realize the loss had occurred until the WikiLeaks announcement a year later, the report said. As officials scrambled to pinpoint who was responsible, they ultimately identified as a prime suspect a CIA software engineer who they said had left the agency on stormy terms after falling out with colleagues and supervisors and had acted out of revenge.The former employee, Joshua Schulte, was charged by the Justice Department with stealing the material and transmitting it to WikiLeaks. But a jury deadlocked on those charges and convicted him in March of more minor charges after a trial in Manhattan.The CIA report revealed lax cybersecurity measures by the specialized unit and the niche information technology systems that it relies upon, which is separate from the systems more broadly used by everyday agency employees. The report says that because the stolen data was on a system that lacked user activity monitoring, it was not detected until WikiLeaks announced it in March 2017.“Had the data been stolen for the benefit of a state adversary and not published, we might still be unaware of the loss” the report says.The report, prepared by the CIA’s WikiLeaks Task Force, suggests the CIA should have been better prepared in light of devastating data breaches at other intelligence agencies. The hacking tools compromise occurred about three years after Edward Snowden, a former contractor for the National Security Agency, confiscated classified information about the NSA’s surveillance operations, and disclosed it.“CIA has moved too slowly to put in place the safeguards that we knew were necessary given successive breaches to other US Government agencies,” the report said.Among the problems the report identified: sensitive cyber weapons were not compartmented, passwords were shared and users had indefinite access to historical data.CIA spokesman Timothy Barrett declined to comment on the report’s findings, but said the “CIA works to incorporate best-in-class technologies to keep ahead of and defend against ever-evolving threats.”Sean Roche, a former associate deputy director for digital innovation at the CIA who testified at the Schulte trial, said that although the CIA did have a problem with one of its networks, “to say that the people at the CIA don’t take security seriously is not accurate. It’s completely inaccurate.”Speaking Tuesday at a webinar hosted by the Cipher Brief, an online newsletter that focuses on intelligence, Roche likened the task force report to an after-accident report by the National Transportation Safety Board.“This broke. This is what happened,” Roche said. “We need to make sure this doesn’t happen again. How is that not a healthy thing for an organization that doesn’t have a public eye into what it’s doing?”The disclosure of the hacking tools featured prominently in Shulte’s trial, with prosecutors portraying him as a disgruntled software engineer who exploited a little-known back-door in a CIA network to copy the hacking arsenal without raising suspicion.“These leaks were devastating to national security,” Assistant US Attorney Matthew Laroche told jurors. “The CIA’s cyber tools were gone in an instant. Intelligence gathering operations around the world stopped immediately.”Defense attorney Sabrina Shroff argued that investigators could not be sure who took the data because the CIA network in question “was the farthest thing from being secure” and could be accessed by hundreds of people.Ultimately, Schulte was convicted of contempt of court and making false statements after a four-week trial. The jury was unable to reach a verdict on the more significant charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-failed-to-protect-agency-s-top-secret-hacking-tools-leading-to-historic-data-loss-report/story-VISyRMHgJA8Qdw8smxRIIO.html
17-06-2020||World||Beijing reports 31 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 137 in 6 days||Beijing on Wednesday reported 31 new cases of Covid-19 for June 16, four more than the day before, taking the total number of cases to 137 in six days as city authorities race to contain the fresh cluster of infection with renewed restrictions on travel and public gatherings.Following the rise in cases, two airports in Beijing have cancelled 1,255 flights, nearly 70 % of all scheduled trips, for June 17, according to state media.Overall, 44 confirmed cases, including 11 imported cases (10 in Gansu and 1 in Sichuan) and 33 local cases -- 31 cases in Beijing, one case in the neighbouring province of Hebei and one more case in eastern China’s Zhejiang province -- were reported from mainland China in the past 24 hours, the national health commission (NHC) said in its daily bulletin on Wednesday morning.Late on Tuesday night, the city government had upped the emergency response level back to the second level from the third, barely two weeks after it had lowered it to the least after the capital reported no new case for almost two months.The late-night announcement on Tuesday shut down all schools, banned residents from middle and high-risk areas from leaving the city, and suspended all outdoor sports and entertainment activities.Those who must travel out of Beijing, as per the directive, need to present a negative nucleic acid test result conducted within seven days of departure.The new cluster, linked to the Xinfadi wholesale food market in the southwest Fengtai district, has spread to nine of the city’s 16 districts and at least 29 localities and streets.Local officials had already locked down dozens of residential compounds close to the Xinfadi and three other fresh food markets and had ordered more than 30000 restaurants to be disinfected.Chen Yankai, a deputy director of the Beijing market supervision bureau, was quoted by state media as saying that Beijing has disinfected 276 farm produce markets and closed 11 such underground and semi-underground markets as of 6 Tuesday morning.About 200,000 people who had visited the Xinfadi market since May 30 were interviewed via door-to-door inquiries, calls, social media platforms and other methods.State media reported that over 46 percent of 833 flights inbound and outbound flights from Beijing’s airports were cancelled because of the new outbreak.The “…epidemic situation in Beijing remains grim”, as the city has been reporting a daily double-digit growth in domestically transmitted Covid-19 cases since June 11, Chen Bei, deputy secretary-general of the Beijing municipal government, said Tuesday.The cluster outbreak is believed to be caused by human-to-human transmission or contamination of articles and environment, Chen said.According to the official news agency, Xinhua, she stressed that there had been confirmed secondary infections among close contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-reports-31-new-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-137-in-6-days/story-pU767eqbxl9rEjDwrmdtPL.html
17-06-2020||World||North Korea’s military to re-enter inter-Korea cooperation sites||North Korea said Wednesday it will redeploy troops to now-shuttered inter-Korean cooperation sites, reinstall guard posts and resume military exercises at front-line areas, nullifying the landmark reconciliation deals reached with South Korea just two years ago.The announcement came a day after North Korea destroyed an inter-Korean liaison office in a choreographed display of anger that puts pressure on Washington and Seoul amid deadlocked nuclear diplomacy. The demolition was the most provocative act by North Korea since it entered nuclear talks in 2018, though the building in its border town of Kaesong was empty and the North had previously signaled plans to destroy it.The North’s General Staff said regiment-level units and units supporting them with armed reinforcement will be deployed to the Diamond Mountain resort and the Kaesong industrial complex, both just north of the heavily fortified border. Those sites, once symbols of inter-Korean cooperation, have been shuttered for years due to the economic sanctions imposed on North Korea because of its nuclear program.Also read | Kim Yo Jong: North Korean leader’s increasingly powerful sisterThe North said it will also resume military exercises and reestablish guard posts in border areas and open front-line sites for flying propaganda balloons toward South Korea. These steps would nullify 2018 agreements reached during inter-Korean diplomacy that were aimed at lowering military tensions at border areas.Under those agreements, both Koreas halted live-firing exercises, removed some land mines and destroyed guard posts inside their border, the world’s most heavily fortified. Some outside experts have said these moves undermined South Korea’s security more as the North’s nuclear weapons arsenal remain intact.South Korea’s government didn’t immediately respond to the North Korean military statement. Seoul’s Defense Ministry had said Tuesday it would strongly deal with future provocation by North Korea.Some outside analysts predicted North Korea would resort to provocation to wrest outside concessions because its economy has likely worsened under the persistent US-led sanctions and the coronavirus pandemic. North Korea may also be frustrated because the sanctions prevent Seoul from breaking away from Washington to resume joint economic projects with US.The North’s official Korean Central News Agency on Wednesday said the hard-line steps were taken to retaliate for South Korea’s failure to prevent activists from floating propaganda leaflets across the border.Also read | South Korea vows to respond sternly if North keeps raising tensionsThe building destruction was a “reflection of the zeal of our enraged people to punish human scum who challenged the noblest dignity and prestige of our country and those who sheltered the scum, perpetrators of shuddering crime.”It said the destruction was the first step in the retaliation and North Korea will set the intensity and timing for its additional steps while closely monitoring South Korean moves. “Under such an acute situation as now, shameless and reckless attitude and response of the South Korean authorities will lead to our tougher retaliation plans,” it said.Kim Yo Jong, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, issued a separate statement saying North Korea had rebuffed a recent offer by South Korean President Moon Jae-in to send special envoys to Pyongyang to defuse animosities.She said Moon had offered to dispatch his National Security Director Chung Eui-yong and spy chief Suh Hun at the earliest possible date that North Korea would want. Moon’s office didn’t immediately confirm the North’s report.Kim Yo Jong, who has spearheaded the North’s recent fiery rhetoric against South Korea, called Moon’s offer “unrealistic” and “nonsensical.”“The (South Korean) chief executive greatly favors sending special envoys for ‘tiding over crises’ and raises preposterous proposals frequently, but he has to clearly understand that such a trick will no longer work on us,” Kim Yo Jong said. She said the current Korean crisis “can be terminated only when proper price is paid” for South Korea.Chung and Suh shuttled between Pyongyang and Washington in 2018 and helped to set up Kim Jong Un’s first summit with President Donald Trump in June that year in Singapore.The liaison office building was opened in 2018 when Korean ties flourished.South Korea on Tuesday expressed “strong regret” over the destruction of the liaison office the two Koreas had opened in 2018 when ties flourished. The statement also warned of a stern response if North Korea takes additional steps that aggravate tensions.North Korea’s moves have been a serious setback to Moon’s efforts at engagement. Moon champions greater reconciliation with North Korea, met Kim Jong Un three times and was a driving force behind the diplomacy between Pyongyang and Washington.Inter-Korean relations have been strained since the second summit between Kim Jong Un and Trump in early 2019 fell apart because of disputes over how much sanctions relief the North should get in return for dismantling its main nuclear complex, which was seen as a limited denuclearization measure.Moon and Kim, after the first of their three 2018 summits, agreed to stop all forms of hostile acts against each other, including leafleting campaigns. But the agreement doesn’t clearly say civilian leafleting should also be banned.Jang Kum Chol, director of the inter-Korean affairs department at North Korea’s ruling party, said Wednesday that Seoul is responsible for the building’s destruction because activists and North Korean defectors in South Korea continued launching leaflets.“Therefore, there can be no exchange or exchange with (the South’s) government. No words will be exchanged at all,” Jang said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-military-to-re-enter-inter-korea-cooperation-sites/story-D5VbIOo4p2lhbggi9kzT0J.html
17-06-2020||World||Some Amazon villagers eschew drugs for Covid-19, take ‘toothache plant’ herbal tea||Some villagers in the eastern Amazon are spurning Brazilian government advice to take the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine to keep the novel coronavirus at bay and are drinking tea of jambú, also known as the toothache plant.Maria de Nazaré Sajes, 65, tested positive for the coronavirus and believes she fought off the symptoms by drinking the infusion of bitter leaves.“I made jambú tea and felt healthy again. People said: ‘Look at Maria, how she has recovered, she no fever or pains’,” Maria said boiling water on a gas stove in her wooden house.Her village on the banks of a tributary of the Amazon was visited by public health workers to test inhabitants for the virus that is ravaging Brazil in the world’s second worst outbreak after the United States.US regulators withdrew approval this week for the emergency use of hydroxychloroquine to treat patients with Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. It is still being prescribed in Brazil as scientists around the world are working to develop a vaccine and effective treatments.In remote corners of the Amazon rainforest, where access to intensive care wards can require long boat rides to the nearest cities, prevention is paramount, and people there place their faith in traditional herbal medicines.Nurse Marilia Costa says there is resistance to taking hydroxychloroquine.“We are seeing that most inhabitants here are taking home-made remedies that they believe have great curing qualities,” she said. “They accept pills for fever, but they take it with their own local medicine.”Jambú leaves are used in local dishes, but said to work as an anesthetic that helps relieve pain, besides other properties fighting viruses and use as a laxative or aphrodisiac.“I’m afraid to go to hospital because there would be no natural medicine that we find here,” said a young woman called Maria Claudia. “They wouldn’t allow me to have jambú tea there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-amazon-villagers-eschew-drugs-for-covid-19-take-toothache-plant-herbal-tea/story-xBmfxlZwSjMSbxVErr3CPM.html
17-06-2020||World||Coronavirus leaves more Americans dead than World War I||With 740 new coronavirus deaths in 24 hours, the United States has seen more people die from the pandemic than died in World War I, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The new figure, counted at 8:30 pm (0030 GMT) Tuesday, brought the country’s total Covid-19 deaths up to 116,854, the tracker from the Baltimore-based university showed. The increase came after two days of death tolls under 400. And 23,351 new cases in the same 24-hour period brought the total US count up to 2,134,973, making it by far the hardest-hit of any country in the world. The country’s pandemic death toll had already passed that of its soldiers in the Vietnam War in late April. The United States, where many businesses are reopening, continues to register around 20,000 new cases of the novel coronavirus each day. Several states are even recording their highest levels of new cases since the start of the pandemic.The administration of President Donald Trump, who has downplayed risks of the virus and instead focused on reviving the economy as he faces a tough re-election battle in November, insists there will be no shutdown of the economy if a second full-blown wave of the epidemic arises.Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell meanwhile warned that the US economy is unlikely to recover as long as “significant uncertainty” remains over the course of the pandemic.Trump has come under scrutiny for an upcoming campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma -- his first since March when the pandemic halted mass gatherings. It is so far planned for an indoor arena that holds about 20,000 people. The United States also agreed to keep its borders with Mexico and Canada closed until July 21, officials said Tuesday, extending travel restrictions for a third time due to the pandemic.la-caw/ch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-leaves-more-americans-dead-than-world-war-i/story-rOiD42MIVuDjoc7pRbveVI.html
17-06-2020||World||Kim Jong Un may have more targets after blowing up Korea liaison office||North Korea’s move to destroy a liaison office with South Korea follows weeks of escalating rhetoric from the reclusive nation and may signal the start of fresh provocations against a country with which it shares one of the world’s most militarized borders.Kim Jong Un’s regime will probably stick for now to measures that are less likely to draw in the US military, with its 28,000 troops in South Korea and far superior firepower, to the Soviet-era weaponry in North Korea’s arsenal. Kim would also be calculating how to avoid raising the ire of China, which is North Korea’s main geopolitical and economic benefactor.That still leaves Pyongyang with an array of options to pressure South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who has called for months for talks and sought economic exchanges but hasn’t broken away from the global sanctions regime choking North Korea’s crippled economy. Kim is the first North Korean leader to have direct talks with a sitting US president and now views Moon as meddlesome for attempting to act as a bridge to Donald Trump.So far the South Korean president has shown almost no appetite for retaliating against the regime at the risk of derailing a pledge he made to his supporters to bring the Koreas closer together. That’s even as trade between the countries, which was once about 10% of the size of North Korea’s economy, has shrunk to virtually zero due to the global sanctions pushing Pyongyang for nuclear and missile tests conducted in 2017.Here are some actions that might come next:More DestructionKim threatened in October to tear down South Korean-built structures at a North Korean mountain resort, saying they looked like “makeshift tents in a disaster-stricken area.” The Mount Kumgang resort, built by an affiliate of South Korea’s Hyundai Group and shuttered for more than a decade, opened in 1998 as a symbol of cooperation between two countries technically still at war. It has hotels, restaurants, shopping arcades and a performance hall. Moon has been pushing for it to reopen. Hyundai Asan Corp. said it has invested 767 billion won ($653 million) in total. In 2008, South Koreans were ordered to vacate the resort after a 53-year-old female vacationer who wandered off its grounds was shot dead by a North Korean soldier.Troop MovementsJust hours before North Korea blew up the liaison office, it said it was reviewing a plan to send troops into some areas of the Demilitarized Zone that divides the peninsula. On Wednesday, it made clear its intentions by saying it would deploy troops into disarmed areas on its side of the border where it had joint projects with South Korea. These are an area in the western border city of Kaesong where it had a joint factory park and the liaison office and Mount Kumgang on the east, where there was a joint resort. Troops were moved out to make way for those projects. It could also try to sully a 2018 agreement Moon reached with Kim to reduce tensions on the border by reopening 10 front-line guard posts.Olympic DreamsAfter marching together under a joint flag when South Korea hosted the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, prospects seem dim for a similar procession when Tokyo is set to host the summer games next year. The two told the International Olympic Committee in 2019 they were looking into a joint march and fielding a few unified teams. But after North Korea cut communications with South Korea this week in anger over anti-Pyongyang leaflets flying over the border, it’s almost impossible to iron out such details.Missile DeploymentSince 2019, North Korea has tested several types of short-range ballistic missiles capable of hitting all parts of South Korea, including US military bases. These solid-fuel missiles are among the new weapons rolled out under Kim and are easier to hide and deploy than his older rockets. The arsenal includes the nuclear-capable KN-23 that’s designed to avoid US interceptors on the peninsula. Kim could speed up his short-range weapons program to pressure Seoul, even as he holds fire on launching longer-range missiles.Armed ConflictThis is the highest-risk option but one North Korea has taken before, most notably a decade ago when it was suspected of torpedoing a South Korean warship, killing 46 sailors, and a few months later shelling a South Korean island, killing two soldiers and two civilians. An attack that goes too far runs the chance of spinning into war. An attack that leads to South Korean deaths undermines the calls for rapprochement on the grounds of brotherly unity made by many in Moon’s progressive camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-may-have-more-targets-after-blowing-up-korea-liaison-office/story-Ba6Zuo1tbCbzTDLw1kt3fO.html
17-06-2020||World||$190K in gold bars unclaimed from Swiss train||If you happened to leave more than $190,000 worth of gold bars in a Swiss train, you can now come forward to claim it.Authorities in the central city of Lucerne say a package containing bars worth some 182,000 Swiss francs was found in a train that arrived from the northern town of St. Gallen in October, and efforts to find the owner failed.The bars were then seized by Lucerne prosecutors. Regional authorities confirmed on Tuesday a statement from law enforcement over the weekend saying any claimant has five years to report “justified claims” of ownership.The incident is eye-popping even for a wealthy Alpine country with a high cost, and standard of living.In a similar incident three years ago, authorities in Geneva turned up wads of cut-up 500-euro notes (about $600 at the time) that were mysteriously jammed into the toilets of three restaurants and a bank in separate episodes. The shredded notes were once worth tens of thousands of euros in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/190k-in-gold-bars-unclaimed-from-swiss-train/story-vQAYnCvRxr8ISSqQe98ZFM.html
17-06-2020||World||Boris Johnson’s pledge to UK pensioners could be at risk after Covid-19||One of Boris Johnson’s most politically sensitive election pledges could be at risk in the wake of the economic fallout of the coronavirus.Government officials are aware that the pensions “triple lock,” promised by the last three Conservative prime ministers, may have to be reviewed if it becomes unaffordable, a person familiar with the matter said.A Treasury official denied that any decision had been taken, and rejected suggestions that Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak was preparing to drop the promise.But the virus has left a question mark over the guarantee to raise the state pension every year by the annual growth in average earnings, inflation, or 2.5% -- whichever is highest.That stems from the effect, first highlighted a week ago, that furloughing millions of workers and then returning them to work is expected to have on earnings. Some economists predict a drop this year followed by a rapid increase in 2021. That would mean the state pension, which already costs the government about 100 billion pounds ($126 billion) a year, having to rise substantially.The pensions rise in question isn’t due until April 2022, so ministers have some time before they have to decide. Much also depends on how the figures turn out. The Bank of England’s illustrative scenario for earnings sees them fall 2% in 2020 and then rise 4% in 2021, an increase that isn’t far off the minimum required under the triple lock.The Treasury said in a statement: “Announcements on tax and pension policy are for budgets. The government is committed to supporting pensioners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-s-pledge-to-uk-pensioners-could-be-at-risk-after-covid-19/story-ZeWX3D0iYF80oiVbWuxrwM.html
17-06-2020||World||US expects insurers to cover Covid-19 vaccine without copays||US officials have said they expect health insurance companies will cover vaccines for Covid-19 without charging copays, once those vaccines are developed and become available.At a briefing for reporters, a senior Trump administration official said on Tuesday the government has been talking with insurers about offering vaccines at no cost to patients. The industry earlier made a similar commitment to cover testing for the coronavirus without charging copays.The White House has launched an initiative to quickly manufacture millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines, once the Food and Drug Administration approves one or more formulations.Candidate vaccines are in early trials, and the goal — considered ambitious — is to have 300 million doses by early next year. At the White House signing of an executive order on policing, President Donald Trump predicted it could even be met before the end of this year. Dr. Anthony Fauci of the National Institutes of Health has said a vaccine by year’s end is conceivable only if everything goes right in final testing this summer.Earlier Tuesday, senior administration officials provided an overview of the effort to rapidly manufacture, distribute and deliver eventual vaccines. The officials spoke on condition that they not be publicly identified.The White House has dubbed the initiative “Operation Warp Speed,” a joint project of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Pentagon, under the overall direction of HHS. The Defense Department has extensive medical capabilities to keep US service members worldwide safe from disease.As with other vaccines, US insurers will have a strong financial interest in covering one for Covid-19. Vaccines are seen as a win-win, helping the insurers’ customers stay healthy by preventing disease, which in turn can save the companies money. Administration officials told reporters on Tuesday that the Covid-19 vaccine, once available, will be distributed according to priorities, with the most vulnerable people ahead in line. The coronavirus has taken a disproportionate toll on older people and those with other underlying conditions such as high blood pressure and diabetes. Not all Americans will have to be vaccinated, because it’s expected that millions will be protected by their own antibodies.Health insurers cover vaccines recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. They’re considered a preventive service, and the Affordable Care Act requires insurers cover them at no charge to patients. A range of screening tests, immunizations and birth control for women are already covered under the Obama-era Affordable Care Act. However, the Trump administration is pressing the courts to overturn “Obamacare” as unconstitutional.At the White House, Trump exuded optimism, not dwelling on potential complications, whether legal or scientific.“I predict we will have a very successful vaccine, therapeutic, and cure,” said the president. “We’re making tremendous progress. I deal with these incredible scientists, doctors, very, very closely. I have great respect for their minds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-expects-insurers-to-cover-covid-19-vaccine-without-copays/story-JGKJZPswk9ZKDBJr7A7JII.html
17-06-2020||World||US urges North Korea to avoid further ‘counterproductive’ steps||The United States on Tuesday urged North Korea to avoid further “counterproductive” steps after it blew up a liaison office on the border with the South.“The United States fully supports the ROK’s efforts on inter-Korean relations and urges the DPRK to refrain from further counterproductive actions,” a State Department spokesperson said, referring to the South and North by their official names.North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office on its side of the border on Tuesday, triggering broad international condemnation after days of virulent rhetoric from Pyongyang.The demolition came after Kim Yo Jong -- the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un -- said at the weekend the “useless north-south joint liaison office” would soon be seen “completely collapsed”.Footage of the explosion released by Seoul’s presidential Blue House showed a blast rolling across several buildings just across the border in Kaesong, with a nearby tower partially collapsing as clouds of smoke rose into the sky.Analysts say Pyongyang may be seeking to manufacture a crisis to increase pressure on Seoul while nuclear negotiations with Washington are at a standstill.After an emergency meeting, the National Security Council said it would “react strongly” if Pyongyang “continues to take steps that aggravate the situation”.“All responsibility for repercussions stemming from this action falls squarely on the North,” it added. The US, European Union and Russia all called for restraint.The EU warned Pyongyang against taking further “provocative and damaging steps”.The liaison office -- in a dormant industrial zone where Southern companies once employed Northern workers -- was opened in September 2018, days before the South’s President Moon Jae-in flew to Pyongyang for his third summit with Kim.Around 20 officials from each side were stationed at the office during subsequent months.But inter-Korean relations soured following the collapse of the Hanoi summit between Kim and US President Donald Trump in February last year over sanctions relief and what the North would be willing to give up in return.Operations at the office were suspended in January because of the coronavirus pandemic.And since early June, North Korea has issued a series of vitriolic condemnations of the South over activists sending anti-Pyongyang leaflets over the border -- something defectors do on a regular basis.Pyongyang’s official Korean Central News Agency said Tuesday the liaison office’s destruction was in line with “the mindset of the enraged people to surely force human scum and those who have sheltered the scum to pay dearly for their crimes”.Last week Pyongyang announced it was severing all official communication links with Seoul.“North Korea has started a provocation cycle with stages of escalation,” said Leif-Eric Easley, a professor at Ewha University in Seoul, calling the destruction of the office “a symbolic blow to inter-Korean reconciliation and cooperation”. “The Kim regime is also signalling the United States won’t have the luxury of keeping North Korea on the back-burner for the remainder of the year,” he added.- Relations soured -Since Pyongyang condemned the leaflet launches -- usually attached to hot air balloons or floated in bottles -- the Unification ministry has filed a police complaint against two defector groups and warned of a “thorough crackdown” against activists.On Monday, the left-leaning Moon urged the North not to “close the window of dialogue”.The two Koreas remain technically at war after Korean War hostilities ended with an armistice in 1953 that was never replaced with a peace treaty.Last week the North criticised Trump in a stinging denunciation of the US on the second anniversary of the Singapore summit, with its foreign minister Ri Son Gwon accusing Washington of seeking regime change.US diplomats insist that they believe Kim promised in Singapore to give up his nuclear arsenal, something Pyongyang has taken no steps to do.The North is under multiple international sanctions over its banned weapons programmes.It believes it deserves to be rewarded for its moratorium on nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests and the disabling of its atomic test site, along with the return of jailed US citizens and remains of soldiers killed in the Korean War.“Nothing is more hypocritical than an empty promise,” Ri said in his statement, carried by the official KCNA news agency.Cheong Seong-chang, director of the Sejong Institute’s Center for North Korean Studies, said: “North Korea is frustrated that the South has failed to offer an alternative plan to revive the US-North talks, let alone create a right atmosphere for the revival.“It has concluded the South has failed as a mediator in the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-urges-north-korea-to-avoid-further-counterproductive-steps/story-35ELNOtQATgQRowGRtxGZJ.html
17-06-2020||World||Police choke holds to be ‘banned’ unless threat to life: US President Trump||US President Donald Trump responded to nationwide anger at racism and deadly police violence Tuesday with measures aimed at reforming police forces, including a push to end dangerous choke holds during arrests.In a Rose Garden ceremony attended by police and Republican congressional allies, but no black civil rights representatives or political opponents, Trump said “we have to break old patterns of failure.”The president has limited power over policing, which is run mostly at a state and local level. However, Trump said that he would use access to federal funding grants as leverage to persuade departments “to adopt the highest professional standards.”His executive order encourages de-escalation training, better recruitment, sharing of data on police who have bad records, and money to support police in complicated duties related to people with mental or drug issues.A highlight of Trump’s proposals, which he said could be complimented by legislation being negotiated in the Republican-controled Senate, was ending choke holds “except if an officer’s life is at risk,” he said.Praise for police Trump began by announcing he’d just met in private with families of several black people killed in encounters with the police.“We are one nation. We grieve together and we heal together,” he said.However, Trump’s choice to keep the televised audience overwhelmingly white, male and focused on law enforcement representatives reinforced his message that racism has nothing to do with police violence.“Americans know the truth: without police, there is chaos, without law, there is anarchy and without safety, there is catastrophe,” Trump said. Only a “very tiny” number of police commit wrongdoing, he said in remarks that frequently veered into a campaign speech about his accomplishments.Democrats and civil rights groups say that full-scale rethinking of police culture, and even cuts in police funding, are needed to bring necessary change.“While the president has finally acknowledged the need for policing reform, one modest executive order will not make up for his years of inflammatory rhetoric and policies designed to roll back the progress made in previous years,” said the top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer.A first wave of unrest began more than three weeks ago, after the May 25 death of George Floyd, an African-American man, in Minneapolis.Floyd stopped breathing when an officer kneeled on his neck, having already handcuffed him during arrest for a minor offense. Amateur video of the incident sparked demonstrations nationwide and in some places looting and arson.New tension erupted last week after the death in Atlanta, Georgia, of Rayshard Brooks, another African American whom police say was shot in the back as he ran away from arresting officers, having grabbed one of their tasers and aimed it at them.Seeing public opinion shift less than five months before November’s presidential and congressional elections, Republicans are moving quickly not to be left behind on the highly emotional issue.According to a senior White House official, who spoke on condition of not being identified, Trump’s executive order was meant to deliver “the discussion that the country needs to have... and hopefully bring some unification and some healing.”Campaign slogan But Trump has struck a hardline tone throughout the tense period, sparking uproar even from his own party with his warning that he could send federal troops to cities unable to control the crowds.The president clearly felt that the tough approach played well with his base, a passionately loyal minority of the electorate that he hopes will power him to a win, however narrow, in November. The slogan “law and order” has become a new pillar of his reelection campaign platform.Trump’s frequently lukewarm attempts to express empathy for the fear and powerlessness that many black Americans say they feel on a daily basis when encountering police left a vacuum that his Democratic opponent Joe Biden is seeking to fill.“Systemic racism pervades every part of our society, including law enforcement -- and we have to do the hard work to root it out,” Biden tweeted Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-choke-holds-to-be-banned-unless-threat-to-life-trump/story-6kfpgwg1nolxi5xY3GifjJ.html
17-06-2020||World||A ‘mistake’? PM Boris merges foreign, aid departments||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday announced the merger of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office with the Department for International Development (DfID) as part of his vision for a ‘Global Britain’, but it was soon panned by critics as a ‘mistake’. Former Prime Minister David Cameron welcomed the intention to retain the UK’s commitment to spend 0.7 per cent of its GDP on international aid, but said “the decision to merge the departments is a mistake”. The new department is to be called Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.Cameron tweeted: “More could and should be done to co-ordinate aid and foreign policy…but the end of @DFID_UK will mean less expertise, less voice for development at the top table and ultimately less respect for the UK overseas”.Labour and campaign groups such as Oxfam criticised the move as Johnson outlined the merger to take effect from September to “unite aid with our diplomacy” as part of what he called “long overdue reform” in Whitehall. The DfID was created in 1997; the UK no longer gives aid to India but funds some projects.Former Prime Minister Tony Blair expressed dismay: “I am utterly dismayed by the decision to abolish DfID. We created DfID in 1997 to play a strong, important role in projecting British soft power. It has done so to general global acclaim”.“The strategic aims of alignment and diplomacy and focus on new areas of strategic interest to Britain could be accomplished without its abolition. Wrong and regressive move”.Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown also opposed the move, reiterating his view that the merger “would essentially solve one big problem – the rundown of Britain’s diplomatic service – by creating a much larger problem: the loss of Britain’s soft power”.Labour leader Keir Starmer said there was “no rationale” for the merger, while Conservative MP Andrew Mitchell, who was international development secretary from 2010 to 2012, said abolishing the department would be a “quite extraordinary mistake”.According to Johnson, the merger will give more powers to British ambassadors.He said in a statement to the House of Commons: “The Foreign Secretary will be empowered to decide which countries receive – or cease to receive – British aid, while delivering a single UK strategy for each country, overseen by the National Security Council, which I chair”.“Those strategies will be implemented on the ground by the relevant UK Ambassador, who will lead all of the Government’s work in the host country. And in this we are following the examples of Australia, Canada and New Zealand, all of whom run their development programmes from their foreign ministries”.“And we will align other British assets overseas, including our trade commissioners, who will come under the authority of the UK ambassador, bringing more coherence to our international presence”, he added.Oxfam GB chief executive Danny Sriskandarajah joined the voices opposing the merger: “It is scarcely believable that at a time when decades of progress are under threat from Covid, the prime minister has decided to scrap DfID, a world leader in the fight against poverty”.“This decision puts politics above the needs of the poorest people and will mean more people around the world will die unnecessarily from hunger and disease. The Foreign Office may be excellent at diplomacy but it has a patchy record of aid delivery and is not as transparent as DfID”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-mistake-pm-boris-merges-foreign-aid-departments/story-uSD0Fjhp7L5BeKWysUM91J.html
17-06-2020||World||Reached positive consensus, says China on talks with India over border tension||China on Wednesday refused to give details about the disengagement of border troops of the two countries along the line of actual control (LAC) in Ladakh but said both sides were trying to “ease the situation” following dialogue between diplomats and military officers. The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying made the remarks in the backdrop of reports in Indian media, which said that the armies of India and China had undertaken a “limited disengagement” in eastern Ladakh to demonstrate intent to end the month-long border standoff ahead of another round of military talks on Wednesday. Asked about the reports of the troops on both sides disengaging and moving back to their previous positions, Hua only said at the regular ministry briefing that both sides are taking steps to ease the situation along the borders. Also Watch | India-China tension: Defence minister Rajnath Singh’s first message on tussle She did not specifically refer to the military talks that India and China held on Saturday to resolve the problem “Recently the diplomatic and military channels of China and India held effective communication on the situation along the border and reached positive consensus,” she said. Also read | India, China disengage in three sectors at LAC“The two sides are following this consensus to take actions to ease the situation along the borders,” Hua added. Last week, the Chinese foreign ministry had said the situation along the border was “stable and controllable”. Anonymous sources in New Delhi have told the media that the two armies have begun “disengagement” around patrolling points 14 and 15 in Galwan Valley and another in the Hot Spring area, adding the Chinese side has even moved back up to 1.5 km in two areas. The trigger for the latest round of standoff was China’s opposition to India laying a key road near the Pangong Tso Lake besides constructing another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ladakh-stand-off-china-refuses-to-share-details-of-disengagement-says-effort-to-ease-situation-on/story-ywrMhONPE1gEEr7x2dOEPN.html
17-06-2020||World||‘Actions that authoritarian regimes take’: Pompeo on Chinese aggression along LAC||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said on Monday China has moved up its forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India and has made “continued efforts” to expand militarily in several places.Earlier this month, China had moved a large number of its troops to four points in Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso area. It has turned out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017.That was in an apparent effort to browbeat the Indian side to stop border construction projects including a 60-metre concrete bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.On Sunday, the Indian Army dismissed a video purportedly showing a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh describing it as “malafide.”The two-and-a-half-minute video ostensibly shows a brawl between Indian and Chinese troops on the banks of the Pangong lake.“We see even today increasing forces of China moved up to the north of India on the Line of Actual Control there on the Indian border. These are the kinds of actions that authoritarian regimes take and they have a real impact…” Pompeo told Marc Thiessen and Danielle Pletka of AEI’s ‘What The Hell Is Going On In The World’ podcast.The top US official also mentioned “Hong Kongers in Hong Kong” and said the United States has a responsibility and the capability to push back against that, “ensure that the American people are properly served by foreign policy that recognizes the threats that emanate from China today”.Pompeo, responding to a question, said that the recent Chinese actions on the Indian border or Hong Kong or the South China Sea have been part of the Chinese behaviour in the recent past.“…It’s not just over the past six months. We’ve seen over the past number of years, continued Chinese build-out of the military capabilities and then continually more aggressive action. I mentioned India. You mentioned the South China Sea,” he said. “We see these same kinds of things with them attempting to build ports around the world as part of their Belt and Road Initiative, places where they can move the People’s Liberation Army, Navy. We’ve seen their continued efforts to expand militarily,” he said.For the past 20 years, the US has not responded to these things in a real way, he said.“We’ve viewed the 1.5 billion people in the Chinese market as so important to the American economy, and the risk that the Chinese would respond by closing us out for the favour of some other nation – I think people have just been too worried about that to actually take the responses that we take to every other country that behaves in the way that China has done,” Pompeo said.President Donald Trump’s approach has been different, he said.“Trump’s made it very clear whether it’s the signature issue on trade... reciprocal trade... and now beginning to move to all the other elements of power that the Chinese Communist Party is trying to expand,” he added. The Communist Party of China (CPC) continues to hide and obfuscate and delay the global response to the coronavirus pandemic that began in Wuhan. It has taken actions destroying the freedom of Hong Kong’s people, he said.“Those are just two pieces of the behaviour of this regime of the Chinese Communist Party. The nature and the activity that they’re undertaking, the continued efforts to steal intellectual property, to advance in the South China Sea,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/actions-that-authoritarian-regimes-take-mike-pompeo-on-chinese-aggression-along-lac/story-B788qyAmtLfP5aqO5FZ8BP.html
17-06-2020||World||China bans import of pigs, wild boar from India because of African swine fever||China, the biggest consumer of pork in the world, has banned the import of pigs and wild boars from India to prevent the spread of the African swine fever (ASF), Chinese customs and agricultural ministry have announced. According to a state media report, the General Administration of Customs of China and the Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Affairs took the decision following cases of ASF being discovered among domestic pigs and wild boar in Assam earlier in May.Details of the ban’s impact could not be immediately ascertained.The ban has taken effect China strives to restore pig production after the deadly disease ravaged its massive herd last year, a Reuters report said.“A sharp 29% plunge in first-quarter output underlines the extent of the impact from the disease and the huge task the sector faces in trying to rebuild after African swine fever killed millions of pigs since August 2018,” the agency reported in April.The ASF outbreak and culling of hogs slashed China’s pork output to a 16-year low of 42.6 million tonnes in 2019, while some experts estimate the sow herd shrank by at least 60% last year after the disease spread throughout the country.In December, tighter border controls put in place by China because of the ASF had impacted the export of buffalo meat from India.A report in the nationalistic tabloid Global Times linked China’s decision to ban pig imports from India was linked to the recent Sino-India tension at the border.It pointed out that the ban comes “…after tensions between the two countries flared up in Galwan Valley region due to India’s recent, illegal construction of defence facilities on the border to Chinese territory”.The charge has been categorically denied by India, which says its Chinese troops who are trying to change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-bans-import-of-pigs-wild-boar-from-india-because-of-african-swine-fever/story-jDqLZy3VM6d3a72BvYKmBM.html
17-06-2020||World||Situation at Sino-India boundary ‘stable and controllable’, says China||China on Wednesday said the situation at Sino-India boundary was “stable and controllable” and indicated bilateral negotiations were on at diplomatic and military levels to de-escalate tension between border troops.The Chinese foreign ministry said it was firm about protecting its territorial sovereignty.Indian and Chinese soldiers are said to be locked eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the line of actual control (LAC), which experts said could escalate into a standoff more serious in nature than the one that chilled ties in Doklam (Donglang in Chinese) in 2017.Reports say thousands of troops have been amassed by both sides in an evolving situation. Answering a question on whether talks were on to de-escalate the situation, foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said: “I think we have established border-related mechanisms and diplomatic channels. This includes the communication between border troops, and between our diplomatic missions”.“Between the two countries, we have good border-related mechanism and communication channels. We are capable of resolving related issues properly though dialogue and consultation,” he said at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.He neither confirmed nor denied a question on reports, which said China had deployed more than 5,000 troops at the flashpoints.Zhao said China was following the “important consensus” reached by the two leaders of India and China and was “…strictly observing the agreements between the two countries”.“We are committed to safeguarding our territorial sovereignty and security and safeguarding peace and stability in the border areas. Now, the China-India border area situation is overall stable and controllable,” Zhao.China has so far not released details about the situation on the ground.It had denied being the aggressor in a statement to the Hindustan Times on May 19.“For some time now, the Indian army has crossed in Chinese territory in the western and Sikkim sections of the China-India border, obstructing the normal patrol and operation of Chinese border troops and attempting to unilaterally change the state quo of border control. China has to take necessary countermeasures,” the foreign ministry statement said.Tensions have flared between border troops this month; in Naku La, in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier, and also near Pangong Lake in the Ladakh sector.While not sharing details, Beijing has allowed state-controlled media to publish comment pieces blaming India for the current situation.“India in recent days has illegally constructed defense facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region, leaving Chinese border defense troops no other options but making necessary moves in response, and mounting the risk of escalating standoffs and conflicts between the two sides,” Long Xingchun, president of the Chengdu Institute of World Affairs wrote in the nationalistic and state-controlled tabloid, Global Times.Long added that unlike previous standoffs, the latest border friction was not caused by accident, but was a planned move of New Delhi.“India has been clearly and definitely aware that the Galwan Valley region is Chinese territory. But according to media reports, since early May, India has been crossing the boundary line into the Galwan Valley region and entering Chinese territory”.“Indian soldiers have also deliberately instigated conflicts with their Chinese counterparts. If India failed to stop such provocations as soon as possible, it will impact on Beijing-New Delhi ties - and may even exceed the sort of intensity of the Doklam standoff,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/situation-at-sino-india-boundary-stable-and-controllable-says-china/story-syyKZxx6OrR72brUlB8aTP.html
17-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest watcher crushed to death by wild elephant in Kumaon||A forest watcher was crushed to death by a wild elephant on Wednesday in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region’s Haldwani forest division while on patrolling duty, forest officials said.“One of our forest watchers was on patrol with other forest officials in Haldwani forest division in Kumaon. An elephant suddenly appeared and trampled him to death. Other forest officials drove away the tusker and recovered the body of the forest watcher,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forests, western circle, Kumaon.Bhuwan Ram, 51, a resident of Lakhamandi, Chaurgalia was on patrol in Karakot beat of the forest division when attacked. Other officials tried to save him by raising an alarm but by that time Bhuwan had lost his life, officials said.“Our department has sanctioned ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh for the deceased’s family and officials on patrolling have been advised to be more alert these days,” Dhakate said.This is not the first incident of elephants killing people in the hill state in the recent past. In May this year, a 65-year-old old labourer working in Chilla range of Rajaji National Park was mauled to death by a tusker.Also Read: Uttarakhand: 43 fresh Covid-19 positive cases take state tally to 1,985Last year in November, a 52-year-old man died after a wild elephant used his trunk to pull him out of a bus he was travelling in, and flung him out in the air near Corbett Tiger Reserve. In the same month, a wild elephant killed two people, including a woman in Haridwar district while on a rampage in two villages. In June last year, a 60-year-old man was crushed to death by a wild elephant in the forests of Kaladungi area in Nainital district.Uttarakhand has 1,797 elephants, including 1,035 in Corbett landscape and 309 in Rajaji landscape according to forest officials. Man-elephant conflict is on the rise in the state. The aggression of elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett landscape, Rajaji National Park landscape and Tarai areas is becoming a major concern for wildlife officials. People are killed by elephants on a regular basis and elephants also get killed due to electrocution and train-hits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-watcher-crushed-to-death-by-wild-elephant-in-kumaon/story-sFThkuuUqEcth0yk4NBAuN.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Conscience of the nation bruised’: Pranab Mukherjee seeks bipartisan consensus on Ladakh clash||Former President Pranab Mukherjee who also served as India’s defence minister during UPA-1 has said that the violent clash with Chinese military at Galwan Valley in Ladakh is of grave concern not only for India’s national strategic interests but will also have “far reaching” global geo-political ramifications.The senior Congress leader also said that a bi-partisan consensus among the political class was needed to address the bruised conscience of the nation. He said the onus of achieving that consensus mostly lied with the government of India.“I would like to underline that this particular situation at the Indo-Chinese line of control (line of actual control) in Ladakh is of grave concern for not only our national strategic interests but also have far reaching global geo-political ramifications,” Mukherjee’s statement read.Mukherje, who also served as India’s defence minister between May 22, 2004 and October 26, 2006, said that it was his “considered opinion that no service in the cause of Mother India could be greater than the service rendered by the brave hearts, who guard our sovereignty and integrity”.Mukherjee’s statement comes on a day when Congress President Sonia Gandhi sought to know from the central government, the details of the clashes between Indian and Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley on Monday that led to the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers. “The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address. She also added that her party stands behind the government.Also Read: ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-offPrime Minister Narendra Modi has called for an all-party-meet on Friday to discuss the latest incident which has been described as an outcome of Chinese attempts to change the status quo of the LAC despite consensus between the two sides to refrain from such attempts.Also Read: PM Modi on the situation in India-China border areas: Complete statementMukherjee said the government of India needs to take various stakeholders including the armed forces on board.“The conscience of the nation has been bruised and needs to be addressed satisfactorily by the entire political class through a bipartisan consensus- the onus of achieving which lies mostly on the Government of India, by taking various stakeholders, including the Armed forces on board. It is for the Government of the Day to ensure that nothing but out National Interests are kept supreme,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conscience-of-the-nation-bruised-pranab-mukherjee-seeks-bipartisan-consensus-on-ladakh-clash/story-2yVeF1jlqNDlLnaUFHz3wN.html
17-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 47K after another record single-day spike||The national capital recorded its highest spike of 2,414 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday taking tally to 47,102 while 67 casualties took the death toll to 1,904, the Delhi health department said.A total of 510 people were declared cured/discharged on Wednesday. The cumulative number of cured/discharged now stands at 17,457. There are 27,741 active Covid-19 cases in the national capital now.Among the news cases on Wednesday was Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain who tested positive a day after his first report came out negative.Another AAP MLA, Atishi also said she had tested positive for coronavirus.Delhi’s Covid-19 count went past the 2,000 mark after remaining below it for the last two days.As the national tries to staves of a surge in Covid-19 cases, a high-level committee formed on Sunday after Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvinf Kejriwal and Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to look into testing rates in Delhi has decided to fix the price at Rs 2,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-47k-after-another-record-single-day-spike/story-fiR40pxVw5HSGzHBabDz6M.html
17-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, a child heart care hospital chain comes to the aid of kids||As hospitals across India focus on the Covid-19 pandemic, congenital heart disease, which is most common among children, poses a threat to many young lives. To deal with the disease and save the lives of numerous children, the Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani chain of hospitals for child heart care has opened its doors for those in need in Nava Raipur (Chattisgarh), Palwal (Haryana) and Kharghar Navi Mumbai (Maharashtra). , are opening their doors to all in need. “The treatment is ensured keeping all the Covid-19 norms in mind,” said C Sreenivas, Chairman of Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospitals.The treatment is totally free of cost.Common among newborns in India, congenital heart disease is caused by a defect in the structure of the heart. It can lead to disruption in blood flow through the heart. As a result, the blood flow can slow down, go in the wrong direction or get blocked completely.“Amidst surrounding peril, several parents from all over the country braved every danger and started queuing up at Sanjeevani Hospitals gates,” Sreenivas said.Among the cases the hospitals dealt with was that of Tanmay, son of laborer Devanand Bharati from Kharora, Chhattisgarh. The little boy was just 3.5 kg when he was admitted with obstructed TAPVC. He recovered in five days. Another case was that of Piyush, son of Rashmi and Deepak Marachini, a labourer couple from Dibrugarh in Assam. The little one returned to his home state after successfully repairing his Tetralogy of Fallot. happy. Mitansh , son of a fisherman from Alibaug near Mumbai also got a new lease of life in Sanjeevani Navi Mumbai during the recent Nisarga cyclone.The hospital treats kids as young 2-3 months old, weighing less than 4 kgs. They have successfully conducted operation for obstruction in heart valves, pulmonary valve (right side) and aortic valve. As many as 2,00 critically ill children have been treated so far.“Close to 200 critically ill children were successfully operated on and lives saved, over 750 patients were treated from various states of India during this pandemic. And the numbers are growing,” Srinivas claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-a-child-heart-care-hospital-chain-comes-to-the-aid-of-kids/story-fAuBdtxzXslFUbCu9ZxoAI.html
17-06-2020||India||AP govt faces financial crisis as legislature adjourned sine die without passing appropriation bill||In an unprecedented development, the Andhra Pradesh state legislative council was on Wednesday adjourned sine die without passing the appropriation bill which is mandatory for the state to spend the government funds under various heads as per budgetary allocations.As a result, the state government has been left in a quandary, as it cannot draw even a single rupee from the treasury with effect from July 1, in absence of the approval from the legislature for the bill.The state assembly in the morning passed the appropriation bill, 2020-21 and referred it to the state legislative council for approval. The state legislature was convened for only two days to approve the state budget and pass the appropriation bill.However, soon after the bill was brought before the legislative council, members of the ruling YSR Congress party and the opposition Telugu Desam Party indulged in heated arguments.TDP member and former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu insisted that the appropriation bill be introduced first and taken up for discussion, since it was mandatory for the bill to be passed to facilitate the state government draw money to spend as per budgetary allocations.The ruling party, however, did not agree for the same and insisted that the council first discuss the crucial bills which were passed by the assembly on Tuesday.Two of these bills – AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill 2020 and Decentralisation of Administration-Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 – aimed at creation of three capitals for the state were strongly opposed by the TDP.These bills were originally passed in the state assembly in January this year, but were stalled by the TDP in the council and were referred to the select committee. However, the legislature secretariat refused to constitute the select committee on the ground that due procedure was not followed by council chairman. The TDP members challenged the same in the high court.After four months, the YSRC government reintroduced the two bills in the assembly and got them passed on Tuesday. However, in the council, the TDP members on Wednesday stalled the bills again stating that they cannot be passed since the issue was still pending in the high court.Ramakrishnudu said the discussion on the two bills could be taken up later after the passage of the appropriation bill. However, minister for finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said as per the traditions, the appropriation bill should be the last bill to be passed in the House.With the state government refusing to take up the appropriation bill first, deputy chairman of the council Reddy Subrahmanyam asked Ramakrishnudu to take up the discussion under Rule 90 of the legislative procedures to reject the two bills pertaining to the three capitals.This led to a pandemonium in the House till late in the evening, forcing the deputy chairman adjourn the council sine die, without passing any bill including the mandatory appropriation bill.Even after the adjournment of the council, members of the ruling party and TDP indulged in arguments and counter arguments. YSRC members alleged that two TDP members manhandled a minister who objected to TDP MLC Nara Lokesh taking pictures on his mobile on what was happening in the House.YSRC floor leader Ummareddy Venkateshwarlu said the TDP had created an unruly atmosphere in the House to ensure that the appropriation bill was not passed and the government would face Constitutional stalemate. He also criticised the deputy chairman for adjourning the House abruptly.“By not passing the Appreciation Bill, they created a situation where the government cannot draw even a single rupee from tomorrow. We cannot pay salaries from July. They will remain as a blot in the history of the state”, he said.Another senior member Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose said finance minister B Rahendranath Reddy had requested with folded hands to allow the appreciation bill be passed so as to avoid a Constitutional stalemate, but the deputy chairman ignored his request.Ramakrishnudu, however, said the TDP had repeatedly requested the government to take approval for the appropriation bill first and then move the other bills. “But they did not listen and wanted the capital bills first. Finally, their strategy boomeranged. The government should find alternatives to overcome the crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-faces-financial-crisis-as-legislature-adjourned-sine-die-without-passing-appropriation-bill/story-F1DB0HO2KZ8wHPVCjXQrcP.html
17-06-2020||India||Sanjay Jha removed as Congress spokesperson days after he penned critical article against party||The Congress on Wednesday cracked the whip and removed Sanjay Jha as party spokesperson after he publicly criticised the party’s functioning while questioning the leadership a few days ago.A party press release said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has “approved that Shri Sanjay Jha be dropped as AICC Spokesperson with immediate effect”.Jha had written an article in Times of India on June 7, saying it is a false claim that the Congress had an internal platform for frank exchange of ideas and counter-ideas to get the party back on track.“It is a false claim that there exists a robust internal democratic process that listens to individual voices, and more importantly, is continuously focused on party renewal, political strategy, tactical warfare, leadership development and resuscitation starting at the grassroots, the erstwhile USP of the Congress,” he wrote in the article.Jha’s comments had once again brought the focus back on the leadership issue, especially after Rahul Gandhi resigned as the Congress president in May last year following the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Sonia Gandhi then assumed the charge of the Congress president once again in August last year but on the condition that the arrangement was temporary and that the party will elect a new chief soon.Also Read: ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-offThe Congress had officially dismissed his contention. Senior leader Ajay Maken said there is no dearth of internal decision making or discussion mechanism in the Congress and the leaders and workers are free to air their views.In another decision, the Congress also appointed Abhishek Dutt and Sadhna Bharti as its national media panelists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-jha-removed-as-congress-spokesperson-days-after-he-penned-critical-article-against-party/story-cHG4SZysgjtHKqTt1vWouO.html
17-06-2020||India||Karnataka: Congress names Hari Prasad and Naseer Ahmed for legislative council||The Congress on Wednesday announced B K Hari Prasad and Naseer Ahmed as party’s candidates for the two seats it can win in the upper house of Karnataka. Hari Prasad recently completed his six-year Rajya Sabha term and while he was an aspirant for a ticket again, another senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge was preferred by the party high command for the RS seat. Hari Prasad has twice in the past contested Lok Sabha polls from Bangalore South and lost on both occasions.Naseer Ahmed is retiring from the legislative council and has been re-nominated by the party. Seven seats will become vacant in the legislative council for which elections are scheduled on June 29. Ruling BJP, which is yet to announce its candidates, can win four seats, Congress two and Janata Dal Secular (JDS) one. The regional party is also yet to announce the choice of its candidate. Also Read: Karnataka govt to take steps to improve telecommunication system in state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-names-hari-prasad-and-naseer-ahmed-for-legislative-council/story-OiPKTOoYM6FkCwotcznTUO.html
17-06-2020||India||At CMs meet with PM Modi, KCR requests lockdown rumours be put to end||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put an end to rumours about further extension of lockdown in the country to contain the spread of Covid-19.Earlier in the day, KCR took part in the video-conference with the Prime Minister and sought clarity from the Centre on the subject.“There have been rumours for quite some time that the Centre might re-impose lockdown in the country. People are speculating that an announcement could be made to this effect after the PM’s video conference with chief ministers of all the states. I have been telling people that the PM will not take a decision to reimpose lockdown without talking to all the CMs. It will be better if there is clarity from the Prime Minister in this regard,” KCR said.An official statement from the chief minister’s office said Modi had made it clear that lockdown in the country was over and that a period of Unlock 1 was underway“There will not be any lockdown in the country. The four phases of lockdown are over. The phase of Unlock 1 is going on now. We all should discuss what to do during the unlock 2.0,” the Prime Minister said.The Telangana chief minister explained to the Prime Minister several measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus, adding that the Covid-19 situation was under control in the state. “Death rate is also registering a low percentage. We are confident that with the efforts put in by both the Centre and states, we will have a decisive victory over Corona,” he said.KCR explained that the Covid-19 positive cases were reported mostly in Hyderabad and neighbouring districts. “We are also putting strong efforts in these areas to contain the spread. I am confident that within days the spread would be under control. Life is coming back to normal in Telangana,” he said.Migrant workers and labourers from various states, said the CM, were getting ready to work in Telangana and the government was providing them work. Hamalis from Bihar are ready to come back to Telangana, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cms-meet-with-pm-modi-kcr-requests-lockdown-rumours-be-put-to-end/story-WYs8L49kdSroddXNnngoDL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Overall border situation stable’: China after violent face-off in Ladakh||The overall situation at the India-China border is stable and controllable, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday, a day after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in an unprecedented violent face-off with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday night.Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, refused to share details – including the casualties on its side – and repeatedly said border troops from both countries were dealing with the matter on the ground.China and India are in close communication on resolving relevant issues through both diplomatic and military channels, Zhao said, adding that China “…does not want to see more clashes”He said the incident was very clear, as it happened on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the responsibility did not rest with Beijing.“As far as the right and wrong go, this is very clear - this incident happened at the Chinese side of the LAC and China is not to blame for this.“… both sides are having close communication with each other on resolving this relevant matter through diplomatic and military channels. The overall border situation is stable and controllable,” he said.Zhao repeated yesterday’s statement by People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command, which blamed Indian troops for provoking the Chinese side, leading to the violent exchange. New Delhi has already denied the charge.The spokesperson went on to repeat his own statement from Tuesday, almost word-for-word, in which he had also blamed the Indian army.When asked about specifics of the incident on Monday night, he said troops were jointly dealing with the matter on the ground.“I have stated that the Chinese and Indian border troops are now jointly dealing with the relevant matter on the ground. Have nothing to add at the moment,” he said.When asked about Indian and Chinese claims and counter-claims on the Galwan Valley, Zhao read out the one-day old PLA statement, which had claimed that sovereignty over the Galwan Valley had always been with China.Zhao said that China and India have both said that the two countries are committed to resolving differences through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquility in the border area.“As the world’s two biggest emerging economies and developing countries, the shared interest of China and India are far larger than the differences. Both sides should earnestly follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and ensure that the bilateral relation can move forward in the right direction, that serves our people’s interests and expectations. We hope India can work with China to this end,” the spokesperson added.New Delhi has already said the violent face-off was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region.The Indian soldiers’ deaths were the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troops-jointly-dealing-with-matter-on-ground-china-after-ladakh-face-off/story-Ko7IqtxQ2L1AYbOCojulfI.html
17-06-2020||India||Three cops test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, state’s tally rises to 656||Three police personnel tested positive in Goa for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the number of cops testing positive to four. The three policemen were among 27 new cases that took Goa’s tally to 656 out of which 560 are active cases. Covid-19 cases have soared in Goa since June 1 when the state’s tally was 73.Eleven people were declared recovered on Wednesday.Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said that the police personnel were posted at the Vasco and Mormugao police stations, which cover areas that have been largely affected in terms of number of cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Meanwhile ‘isolated cases’ began to emerge in parts of the state including urbanized localities and villages like Porvorim where the first case was detected, Quepem where four were detected, Margao two, Curtorim eight and Raia two, leaving Health authorities puzzled. “These isolated cases are those in which there is no clear link. It means there is no established link at the time. We begin the contact tracing in each of the cases from the time a person tests positive. It is possible that sometimes we are able to establish a link as to where the patient contracted the virus from,” Mohanan said. The emergence of isolated cases has sparked worries that the virus has spread beyond the state’s containment zones, where the bulk of the cases have registered to date and has spread to other villages other than those that are linked to either the containment zone or to the health workers who worked there. The state now has two major containment zones at Mangor Hill a locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama and at Morlem village in rural Goa where some health workers hailed from and spread it to their family members. A third micro containment zone has been set up at Baina, another locality in Vasco da Gama where three buildings have been declared as a containment zone. The number of cases in Goa continues to rise despite the efforts of the state government to track, test and isolate patients and their primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-goa-state-s-tally-rises-to-656/story-DuGoWPvVV35FVLh4B8LUdK.html
17-06-2020||India||2 priests in Kerala suspended after alleged sleazy audio clips go viral||The Thalassery Arch Diocese of Syro-Malabar church in north Kerala on Wednesday suspended two priests after an alleged audiotape of the two engaged in a sleazy talk surfaced on social media and online sites. The diocese has also tendered an apology to believers.The two were supposed to “hold a high moral ground but they failed”, said a statement issued by the public relations officer of the diocese signed on June 14.Both Father Joseph Poothattil and Father Mathew Mullappallil were debarred and restrained from carrying out priestly duties indefinitely, said the diocese. Both are parish priests in north Kerala.Last year a woman believer had complained to the diocese about their alleged sexual advances. Some believers also complained about their behaviour. But the church brushed aside these charges and defended them.Last week, two audio clips surfaced on social media in which one of the priests was heard allegedly saying he had an illicit relationship with the woman in question and wanted to come out of it. One of them was also heard detailing his sexual dalliance with the woman. Later some video clips also surfaced.Soon these clips went viral, forcing church authorities to take action against them.“Whatever we want to say is there in the statement. We don’t want to make more comments on this,” said the spokesman of the archdiocese.Police said they are yet to get a complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-priests-in-kerala-suspended-after-alleged-sleazy-audio-clips-go-viral/story-2QOtw0ZkynifhHk98nlYYN.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Railways provides 960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets 503 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways provides 960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets 503The Centre has deployed 960 Covid isolation coaches across five states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - amid rising demand from the federal units as India’s total positive cases cross 3.5 lakh. Read moreOdia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sisterTwo weeks before he was killed in the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan valley in Ladakh, 28-year-old Chandra Kanta Pradhan, a sepoy in 16 Bihar Regiments, probably had a premonition of the things to come, says his sister. Read moreDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain tests coronavirus positiveDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain tested coronavirus positive on Wednesday, a day after his first came out negative. Earlier in the day, his party colleague Atishi said she had tested positive for coronavirus. Read moreMoto Razr 2 codenamed ‘Odyssey’ to launch by August-endMotorola has been rumoured of working on its next-generation foldable smartphone. A new leak now suggests the Moto Razr 2 will launch by August-end. Read moreCancel pending CBSE board exams considering prevailing situation: Sisodia to HRD ministerDelhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote to union Human Resource Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ requesting him to cancel the plan of conducting the remaining CBSE board exams for classes 10 and 12 slated in July and promote all students based on their internal assessment citing rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital. Read moreFather’s Day 2020: Best wishes, quotes, status to share with your DadFather’s Day is celebrated in India, the United States of America and several other parts of the world on the third Sunday of June. This day was commemorated to complement Mother’s Day celebrations. On this day the bonds of fatherhood, the role of fathers in families and society, and paternal bonds are celebrated. Read moreThat was my biggest legacy: Sourav Ganguly identifies players who helped India win 2011 World CupFormer India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has always been credited with ushering in a new dawn in Indian cricket. He took over the mantle when Indian cricket was down in the dumps as it was reeling under the scourge of match-fixing. Read moreMumbai Police shares anti-drugs post with a punny twist. WatchAn advisory or PSA against drugs would usually be a serious and hard-hitting one that could really scare a person. But trust Mumbai Police to share an anti-drug post which will make you smile and also do the job it is meant to. In a post shared on June 16, Mumbai Police shared a ‘say no to drugs’ post but with a little twist. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-railways-provides-960-covid-isolation-coaches-across-5-states-delhi-gets-503-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TlVuyefA78c3HG6B8qoAfO.html
17-06-2020||India||Sepoy Ganesh Hansda, 22, killed in Ladakh face-off was on his 1st posting||A 22-year-old was one among the 20 soldiers killed in the line of duty in Galwan Valley in the border clash between troops of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening.A pall of gloom descended on the nondescript house of Hansda family in Kosaphaliya village under Chingra panchayat in Jharkhand on Wednesday morning as the news of sepoy Ganesh Hansda’s death trickled in.The young sepoy was on his first posting at Leh. Despite the setback, the family, given a chance again, says they will fight for the country.“I am ready to join the army and fight for my country if given a chance. My brother sacrificed his life to protect the nation and we are all proud of him. He had joined Bihar Regiment in September 2018 and was deployed at Leh in his first posting after completing 9-month training at Danapur on July 27 last year,” said Dinesh Hansda, the sepoy’s brother. Ganesh, says his brother, was to be transferred but it was delayed due to the coronavirus crisis.“He [Ganesh] was to be transferred to Hyderabad but could not due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic,” Dinesh Hansda, Ganesh’s elder brother said this morning, adding that the sepoy had last visited them in February.The entire Kosapthaliya village near Basda chowk under Baheragora police station (PS), about 93 km from Jamshedpur, was in a state of shock as Dinesh said they were informed by a Colonel of Indian Army about the tragedy at around 10.30 pm Tuesday night.“Ganesh was the sole earning member from the family who had brought light of hope after long years of penury. Now that light has gone off. We don’t know how this darkness will be cleared. We hope and request the government to do something, give a job to me in the army or any other job so that we can survive, live a respectful life and carry forward his dreams. He was very fond of playing football and promoting Santhali language,” said Dinesh, who works as a daily wage labourer after completing ITI course from Jamshedpur.Ganesh had completed his three-year NCC training from LBSM College, Jamshedpur. His father Subda Hansda is also a daily-wage labourer while his mother Kapra Hansda is a housewife. Chief minister Hemant Soren said the sacrifices by the sons of Jharkhand in protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the country would be remembered for years to come. “I am absolutely shocked by this tragic news of Kundankant Ojha and Ganesh Hansda martyred in India-China violent standoff,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sepoy-ganesh-hansda-22-killed-in-ladakh-face-off-was-on-his-1st-posting/story-Q3rLPw8wNxuoYinHFdfg9L.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Nobody should have an iota of doubt’: PM Narendra Modi’s message to China in five quotes||Prime Minister Naredra Modi on Monday said that the sacrifice made by 20 Indian Army soldiers will not go in vain and reiterated India’s policy of not provoking anyone and of peaceful coexistence, while adding that there will be no compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of the country. He added that India had demonstrated its strength whenever needed for the purpose of protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. The PM was reacting to violent clashes between Indian Army and the Chinese army at the line of control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night. Here are five quotes from PM Narendra Modi on the latest faceoff with China.1. The brave sons of Mother India made the supreme sacrifice while protecting our motherland in the Galwan Valley. I salute them for their great sacrifice in their service to the Nation. I pay tributes to them with my heartfelt gratitude. In this difficult moment of grief, I express my condolences to the families of these Martyrs. Today the entire Nation is with you. The country’s sympathies are with you. This supreme sacrifice of our Martyrs will not go in vain.2. India is culturally a peace-loving country. Our history has been that of a peace-loving country.The ideological mantra of India has been -May all beings be happy and free. In every era, we have wished for peace and welfare of the entire world and humanity.Also Read: ‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective steps3. We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare. Whenever there have been differences of opinion, we have always tried to ensure that those differences never turned into a dispute.4. We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. Sacrifice and endurance are part of our national character, but at the same time bravery and valour are also equally a part of it. Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect.Also Read: Odia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sister5. I want to assure the Nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain. India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have an iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply. The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers have been martyred while they were fighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-should-have-any-iota-of-doubt-pm-narendra-modi-s-message-to-china-in-five-quotes/story-SSo9ih05CjIqZEvYiLuJKP.html
17-06-2020||India||Expert panel caps price of Covid-19 test in Delhi at Rs 2,400||A high-level committee formed on Sunday after Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvinf Kejriwal and Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to look into testing rates in Delhi has decided to fix the price at Rs 2,400. “As per direction of HM @Amit Shah in providing relief to the common man high level expert committee’s report on #Covid19 has been further sent to Delhi govt for necessary action. It has been decided to fix the test rate at Rs 2,400,” the Union home ministry spokesperson tweeted Wednesday evening. As per the directives of HM @AmitShah in providing relief to the common man. High level expert committee's report on #COVID19 testing rates received by @MoHFW_INDIA has been further sent to Delhi Govt for necessary action. It has been decided to fix the test rate at Rs 2,400.In line with Shah’s directive to increase testing and quick delivery of results in Delhi, tests will be done via new Rapid Antigen methodology approved by ICMR from June 18. Delhi would be given priority for these kits. 169 centers have also been set up across Delhi, the spokesperson said.Authorities have also boosted contact mapping in containment zones and expect to complete the exercise by June 20.“To improve contact mapping in Delhi’s containment zones, health surveys have been started on the directions of HM @Amit Shah. Out of a total of 2,30,466 in 242 containment zones, survey of 1,77,692 people was conducted b/w 15-16 June. Remaining will be covered by 20 June,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.The Centre had announced a slew of measures to control the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi after Shah’s meeting on Sunday.The Delhi government has taken over a few hotels and attached them to hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The railways have also placed hundreds of isolation coaches for use by the Delhi government.Last month, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removed the price cap of Rs4,500 for the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19). States were given a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost to conduct Covid-19 test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-caps-price-of-covid-19-test-in-delhi-at-rs-2-400/story-1dtiGaPgrUUqOL5IqQYskI.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi on the situation in India-China border areas: Complete statement||Here’s the English rendering of PM’s remarks on the situation in India-China Border areas:Friends,The brave sons of Mother India made the supreme sacrifice while protecting our motherland in the Galwan Valley.I salute them for their great sacrifice in their service to the Nation. I pay tributes to them with my heartfelt gratitude.In this difficult moment of grief, I express my condolences to the families of these Martyrs.Today the entire Nation is with you. The country’s sympathies are with you.This supreme sacrifice of our Martyrs will not go in vain.Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect.India is culturally a peace-loving country. Our history has been that of a peace-loving country.The ideological mantra of India has been - Lokah: Samastah: Sukhino BhavantuIn every era, we have wished for peace and welfare of the entire world and humanity.We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare.Whenever there have been differences of opinion, we have always tried to ensure that those differences never turned into a dispute.We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country.Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country.Sacrifice and endurance are part of our national character, but at the same time bravery and valour are also equally a part of it.I want to assure the Nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain.India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it.Nobody should have any iota of doubt about this.India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply.The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers have been martyred while they were fighting. I urge all of you to pay homage to these sons byobserving two minutes of silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-the-situation-in-india-china-border-areas-complete-statement/story-tFVxPjCzAvtSuV5MaP542K.html
17-06-2020||India||Odia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sister||Two weeks before he was killed in the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan valley in Ladakh, 32-year-old Chandra Kanta Pradhan, a sepoy in 16 Bihar Regiments, probably had a premonition of the things to come, says his sister.Pradhan was posted at Ladakh in February this year and seemed to be excited amid the snow-clad mountains. When he called up his sister Sandhyarani in Biarpanga village of Kandhamal district on June 1, he told her to take care of everyone. The eldest of the tribal family in Raikia block of Kandhamal, Chandra Kanta was known for his jovial nature and courage.“He was crying over the phone and asked for forgiveness over any hurt that he may have caused to me and my younger brother. He told me to look after my younger brother and our parents. He never cries, but that day he cried and said war may start,” said Sandhayarani.Also Read: Akhilesh calls for economic reply to China, has his hands on popular pulseAs TV channels started flashing the news of the killing of Indian Army personnel at Ladakh, Pradhan’s family could hardly remain calm. His father Karunakar Pradhan then rang his mobile phone, but no one picked up.Hours later, when a retired army man in the neighbouring village ran to Biarpanga to inform the family about the bad news coming from Ladakh, Karunakar’s heart sank.“When he was selected for the army, I pleaded with him to not join. But he was insistent that he would join and serve the country. Just the other day, he had told me that he had flown in a chopper three times. He said 14 of his mates have been selected and all of them are flying. I told him to be careful,” said Karunakar, a marginal farmer.The death was confirmed after Chandra Kanta’s sister spoke to the head of his brother’s unit. In one moment, the Pradhan family had lost their only breadwinner. Chandra Kant is the second soldier from Odisha to be killed in the action on Monday night.Also Read: Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s death“He was like my father and my brother. I have lost everything. He was highly sincere towards his duty. He was courageous, simple and hard working,” said Sandhyarani, whose marriage was on the cards.Chandra Kanta left behind a younger brother, an elder sister, besides his parents.“I am proud that he has laid down his life for the motherland,” said his father.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh each from chief minister’s relief fund to the next of the kin of the two Odia jawans who were killed at Galwan valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-jawan-killed-at-ladakh-may-have-premonition-of-the-tragedy-says-sister/story-YheBsFyFN9sejpEWcKZ0EN.html
17-06-2020||India||960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets major share||The Centre has deployed 960 Covid isolation coaches across five states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - amid rising demand from the federal units as India’s total positive cases cross 3.5 lakh.Out of the total 960 coaches, 503 Covid Care coaches have been deployed in Delhi alone, 20 in Andhra Pradesh, 60 in Telangana, 372 in Uttar Pradesh and 5 in Madhya Pradesh.The 503 have been deployed in Delhi alone across nine stations. Fifty Covid Care coaches are deployed at Shakurbasti station, 267 at Anand Vihar, 21 at Delhi Safdarjung, 50 at Delhi Sarai Rohilla, 33 at Delhi Cantt, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 13 at Delhi Shahdara, 13 at Tughlakabad and 26 at Patel Nagar station, officials said.In Uttar Pradesh, total 372 Covid Care coaches have been deployed at 23 different locations: Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Jn., Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, Saharanpur, Mirzapur, Subedarganj, Kanpur, Jhansi, Jhansi Workshop, Agra, Nakha Jungle, Gonda, Nautanwa, Bahraich, Varanasi City, Manduadih, Mau, Bhatni, Bareilly City, Farrukhabad and Kasganj.“The Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has visited today and reviewed the coaches. They are seriously considering it and will inform us on the patients once the demand arises,” said Rajiv Chaudhary, General Manager, Northern Railways said. Thus far no patient has been admitted, he added.In Madhya Pradesh, 5 coaches are deployed at Gwalior. In Andhra Pradesh, total 20 Covid Care coaches are deployed at Vijayawada while in Telangana, a total of 60 Covid Care coaches are deployed at three different locations: Secunderabad, Kachguda and Adilabad.The isolation coaches will be under the complete care of the chief medical officer of the state government in the states where they will be deployed. Doctors and paramedics are to be provided by the state governments as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the health ministry, the railway ministry said adding that railways will deploy two liaison officers for each location of coaches to assist state government officials.“It is worth mentioning that Indian Railways is working as a service provider of coaches to Covid Care Centres as its contribution to national cause. Doctors and paramedics are to be provided by the state governments…All efforts are being made to reduce the heat in the coaches in the given weather conditions. Railways to assist the state government in all possible manners to help in care of Covid patients,” the ministry said.It may be noted that these coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid Care centers as per guidelines issued by the health ministry, it added. These coaches can be used in areas where the state has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed Covid cases.The first such Covid Care Centre was deployed at Shakur Basti railway station in New Delhi on May 31 consisting of 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds and three AC coaches, for healthcare staffers, including doctors.The demand for the special coaches has come nearly two months after they were prepared. Trains with a composition of 10 coaches and patient capacity of 16 people have been made ready by the railways. A total of 5,231 coaches were modified to be used as Covid Care Centres.The Centre in May had drafted a plan to deploy 5,231 railway coaches as isolation wards across 215 stations in 15 states considering the possibility of an increase in cases of Covid-19.The railway board had written to zones in May seeking to take back 60% of the Covid-19 coaches to be utilised as Shramik Special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-covid-isolation-coaches-across-5-states-delhi-gets-major-share/story-T1pSBQcYs2nGtVk0BRL5fJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Employees at 41 ordnance factories to go on indefinite strike against corporatisation||Eighty two thousand civilian employees of India’s 41 ordnance factories will go on indefinite strike after the second week of July in protest against the Centre’s decision to corporatise weapon and defence equipment manufacturing units run by the Ordnance Factory Board of the ministry of defence.The announcement was made on Wednesday afternoon by all three national trade unions, including the Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party.The unions, however, said that the strike will be deferred if the killings in Galwan, in which the Indian Army lost 20 soldiers, leads to a crisis. “The nation comes first. If there is a crisis we have to work round the clock and supply equipment to the army,” Mukesh Singh, general secretary, BPMS, told HT.The date of the strike will be decided in mid-July. The unions decided to go on indefinite strike after their members gave their opinion through ballot between June 8 and 17.“Ordnance factory workers toiled day and night whenever India was at war with its neighbours. There was no need to corporatize the factories. We are ready to stand up to any crisis,” said C Srikumar, general secretary, All India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF).In a statement, the trade unions described the decision to corporatise the plants “arbitrary, illegal and unjustified” and “in violation of assurances” given by former defence ministers.“In spite of the Covid-19 lockdown more than 99 per cent employees participated in the ballot and voted in favour of the indefinite strike,” said Srikumar.The unions started a movement against corporatization in July last year. The agitation started to build up soon after the Centre enforced Arms Rules 2016, which introduced new laws to facilitate production of weapons by private players in collaboration with foreign partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employees-at-41-ordnance-factories-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-against-corporatisation/story-xlGM6Q5uuDHp34GHZM3mUN.html
17-06-2020||India||Akhilesh calls for economic reply to China, has his hands on popular pulse||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav has called for cancellation of contracts awarded to Chinese companies as part of an economic reply to China in addition to the strategic response for the killing 20 Indian soldiers at the line of actual control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday.Akhilesh’s call on Wednesday follows similar demands by some other groups including RSS linked Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), whose members protested outside the Chinese Embassy earlier today.“Govt should not only give strategic but also an economic reply. Contracts awarded to Chinese companies should be suspended with immediate effect; restrain imports from China. Samajwadi Party will support the government in any such endeavour for the country’s sake,” Akhilesh Yadav tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday.Akhilesh’s suggestion comes close on the heels of demand by the SJM to oust Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC)- a Chinese company—from the project to build the underground stretch of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS (Regional Rapid Transit System) corridor.Also Read: ‘Why not name China in your tweet?’, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath SinghSTEC has emerged as the lowest bidder for the project and the government clarified on Wednesday that the part of the project was funded by the Asian development bank and it was obligated to not discriminate between companies or countries.“Five bidders submitted bids and qualified for financial bid opening including (i) SKEC (Korea) +Tata, (ii) STEC (China), (iii) L&T (India), (iv)Afcons (India) and (v) GulermakAgir (Turkey). On 12th June 2020 - Financial bids were opened – M/s STEC emerged as lowest bidder. The tender is under process and yet to be finalised. Pl note that the ADB/World Bank/Multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among firms/ countries,” a government press release clarified.A news agency reported that protestors in Varanasi burned Chinese flag and effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping and said that similar protests were also seen in Patna and Gujarat.Also Read: ‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective stepsThe ‘boycott Chinese goods’ sentiment has surfaced in India from time to time and it witnessed a surge recently when innovator and education reformist Sonam Wangchuk posted a video last month asking Indians to shun all Chinese products including the popular mobile application TikTok in response to the Ladakh stand-off.Wagchuk’s video from Ladakh drew over 20 lakh views in two days.India has lodged a strong protest with the Chinese government over the Galwan Valley incident in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and blamed Beijing for seeking to alter the status of the line of actual control by erecting a structure on the Indian side. A statement issued by the ministry on Wednesday evening said Chinese actions were directly responsible for the violence that led to casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-calls-for-economic-reply-to-china-has-his-hands-on-popular-pulse/story-kRTjvW4czC01Te91ecuz9J.html
17-06-2020||India||As fire at Assam gas well continues, studies under way to assess impact on environment||Several studies are underway by different agencies to assess the impact on the fragile ecosystem due to blowout and subsequent fire at the natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district.The gas well in Baghjan, located close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and Maguri Motapung wetland, had a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas and oil on May 27 and it caught fire two weeks later on June 9.While the blowout had displaced nearly 7,000 local residents, the fire claimed the lives of two OIL firefighters. It also destroyed nearly 30 houses, burned trees and crops in the radius of few hundred metres from the well and also impacted flora and fauna in the national park and the wetland, a prominent bird-watching site.According to a release issued by OIL on Wednesday, ERM India, a company accredited by National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET), is conducting an environment and ecological survey within the vicinity of Baghjan, including DSNP and Maguri Motapung wetland.“Preliminary assessment by the Delhi-based The Energy Research Institute (TERI) is in progress at the site for studying air quality and noise-level monitoring around Baghjan,” said the release.The TERI team is also carrying out bioremediation of the sludge accumulated in the area due to the blowout and the subsequent fire.Bioremediation is the process of introducing microorganisms to consume and break down environmental pollutants to clean a polluted site.Another study is being done by the Council of Science and Industrial Research-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST) to find out about the tremors being felt in the area since June 9, when the well caught fire.Assam Agricultural University did a preliminary assessment on the effect of the blowout on plants and tea gardens in the area.OIL authorities have asked them to conduct a post-fire damage assessment study to ascertain the impact of the fire on trees, crops, tea-gardens, etc; in Baghjan.The fire at the OIL well continued for the ninth day on Wednesday amid efforts to control it and plug the blowout.Earlier, OIL authorities had stated that it would take about four weeks to complete the process.Protests by local groups blaming OIL for the blowout and fire have affected gas and oil production in the area. OIL has recorded a production loss of 6,132 metric tonnes (MT) of crude oil and 7.97 million metric standard cubic metres (MMSCM) of natural gas since May 27, when the industrial disaster occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-fire-at-assam-gas-well-continues-studies-under-way-to-assess-impact-on-environment/story-ln2wfXDM9B6D48Cbk3VVlM.html
17-06-2020||India||India primed to win unopposed UNSC’s non-permanent member seat today||India is expected to be elected unopposed to the UN Security Council on Wednesday and will hope to use its eighth term as a non-permanent member to further bolster its claim to a permanent seat with the avowed goal of forging a “new orientation for a reformed multilateral system”.India is the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faces no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council is a given, though some UN diplomats intimately involved with the election said they are “keeping our fingers crossed”.Voting by paper ballot got underway at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11:pm, India), stretching a process that should hav been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to the UNSC. The results will be known around 4:30 pm (2:00 am Thursday in India).The 193 UN member countries will vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner, for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They will be allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups of 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19, said diplomats familiar with the process. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats are not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button.Candidate countries such as India need two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico is the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway are contesting for the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti are running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-primed-to-win-unopposed-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat-today/story-aK4KzBqwkVRdiujFDC6skK.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Why not name China in your tweet?’, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath Singh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tore into defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday for not mentioning China in his tweet condoling the death of Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“If it was so painful:1. Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet? 2. Why take 2 days to condole?3. Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred?4. Why hide and get the Army blamed by the crony media?5. Why make paid-media blame Army instead of GOI?” Gandhi tweeted.If it was so painful:1. Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet?2. Why take 2 days to condole?3. Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred?4. Why hide and get the Army blamed by the crony media?5. Why make paid-media blame Army instead of GOI? https://t.co/mpLpMRxwS7 Rajnath Singh who hailed the courage of the fallen soldiers in his tweet had described their deaths as disturbing and painful.On Sunday, in a virtual rally for Jammu he said that India and China want to resolve the stand-off between their border troops through dialogue even as he underlined that the government will never compromise when it comes to national pride. “India is no longer a weak nation,” the defence minister had said.Rahul Gandhi’s tweet came hours after Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean about the situation in Ladakh.“The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address.The Congress has been hammering away at the government, asking it to reveal the extent of Chinese intrusions in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-not-name-china-in-your-tweet-rahul-gandhi-asks-rajnath-singh/story-JF6LzE5cSvjnfZvrnjj5RM.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective steps||India on Wednesday conveyed its protest in “strongest terms” to China over the violent face off in the Galwan valley on Monday night and said that China had attempted to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC. New Delhi also said that the Chinese side took “premeditated and planned” action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties including deaths of 20 Indian soldiers.The protest was lodged during a telephonic conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday.A statement by the external affairs ministry following the conversation said that India had conveyed to China that the Galwan Valley development will have a “serious” impact on the bilateral relationship. It also added that the need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take “corrective” steps.“EAM underlined that this unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship. The need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps. The two sides should scrupulously and sincerely implement the understanding that was reached by the Senior Commanders on 6th June,” the official statement from the ministry of external affairs said.The ministry’s statement pointed out that according to the agreement reached on June 6, the two sides had agreed for de-escalation and disengagement, which was being followed through regular meetings between ground commanders last week before the Chinese side sought to erect a structure.“While there was some progress, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan valley on our side of the LAC. While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” the EAM statement said.‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaThe ministry said that the state councillor and foreign minister of China conveyed the Chinese position on recent developments. However, the two sides at the end of the conversation agreed to implement the agreement reached on June 6 to strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and not take any unilateral action to alter it.“At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of 6 June sincerely. Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sought-to-erect-a-structure-on-indian-side-of-lac-which-led-to-clash-mea/story-KAxdMuj6gKII6zgOdZ7HmO.html
17-06-2020||India||‘I will return after the lockdown’: India Army braveheart’s last message to family||Indian Army soldier Deepak Singh Gaharwar, one of the 20 bravehearts who lost their lives in the face-off with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, had told his family about his return after the Covid-19 lockdown.About 15 days back, Gaharwar told his family members that he would return when the situation gets back to normal after the Covid-19 lockdown.Deepak Singh, 30, hailed from Faranda village in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, about 536 kilometres northeast of Bhopal. His wife, Rekha, works as a teacher at a Navoday school. The couple got married in November last year.Also read: ‘No compromise on borders’ - PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaA pall of gloom engulfed the village when the news of Singh’s sacrifice reached his family on Wednesday morning.He was the younger son of Gajraj Singh Gaharwar, a farmer. Singh lost his mother in his childhood. He was raised by his father and grandmother Phoolmati Devi. They were inconsolable when they heard about his demise. Singh’s elder brother Prakash Singh also serves the Army and is posted at the India-Pak border in Rajasthan, the family shared.Also read: ‘He sacrificed life for nation, will send my grandsons too’ - Sepoy Kundan Kumar’s father  तूने सींचा है अपने लहू से वतन की मिट्टी को वीरों की इस मिट्टी पर हम अभिमान करते हैं। ऐ मेरे वतन के शेर तेरे जाने से चीत्कार रहा दिल तेरे लहू के हर कतरे, तेरी शहादत को सलाम करते हैं। भारत-चीन की झड़प में शहीद हुए रीवा के वीर सपूत दीपक सिंह के चरणों में विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। pic.twitter.com/vism8TgPEWHis grandmother said, “He talked to me about a fortnight back. He told me, ‘Dadi tum pareshaan mat hona. Main lockdown khatam hote hi aaunga (Don’t worry. I will come home after lockdown restrictions are lifted)’. I didn’t know he would never come.”Singh’s cousin Sachin Singh said, “He called me up about the same time when he talked to his family. Since he was posted as a nursing assistant at the border, it was difficult to talk to him. Often, there would be no mobile network. He was the most adorable person in our village. He respected all and everyone had respect for him.”“This is the time when we must teach a lesson to China that it doesn’t dare to indulge in such a crime again,” the agitated cousin said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tributes to the soldier with a salute to his sacrifice for the nation and a patriotic verse. State Congress president Kamal Nath too paid condolences on the demise of the soldier.(With input from Vijay Vishwakarma in Rewa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-return-after-the-lockdown-india-army-braveheart-s-last-message-to-family/story-pR2wSSDhfoSW4S0I37flbK.html
17-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Tandoorwala’ in Chandigarh lost his job, but cooked for migrants||Narinder Singh has a popular eatery in Chandigarh’s sector 19, and sold up to a hundred piping hot vegetarian meals to college students daily, in non-pandemic times. However, the ‘tandoorwala’ as he is known among his clients was forced into unemployment when the nationwide lockdown was announced in March. He did not make any money for well over two months, but he never stopped cooking.Between March 31 and May 21, the 54-year-old cooked two meals at a langar seva (food service) run by a local organisation. When the chairman of the organisation approached him to cook meals for the needy, Singh agreed instantly.“My immediate answer was yes but my family was concerned. After all, it is such a deadly disease which spreads by through contact with others,” he said. “I sat down with my wife, daughter and son and explained to them that if the doctors, police, and sanitation workers and other such Covid warriors also sat at home fearing the coronavirus, who will take care of our city?” he said.Singh has a 27-year-old daughter and 21-year-old son; his wife Baljeet is a home maker. Often, they had to make do with the food he would bring back from the langar at the end of the day.“I would cook lunch for 800 people [in the kitchen] of Kashyap Samaj in sector 37. In the evening, I would go to Maloya and cook dinner for 700 people,” he said. The community organisation provided the raw material — rice, dal, vegetables — and Singh along with two other cooks, would make two meals a day that would then be distributed in the colonies and slums of Maloya and Dhanas.“In these 50 days, this service became centre of my existence, so much so that one day it was raining heavily yet I decided to go, all drenched in the rain because my absence would have meant that over a 1000 people will sleep hungry.”Singh, who has worked his as a cook all his life — he opened his tandoor near the sector 19 gurudwara in the 1970s—was among the small business owners who were worst hit by the lockdown.Singh has also had to make many personal sacrifices due to the lockdown, which depleted his earnings.“My daughter was supposed to get married this year. I was saving for her wedding. For the last two months there was no income for my family,” he said.“But with god’s grace, we managed, somehow,” he said.Since June 8, his eatery has reopened but his client base has dwindled, as colleges still remain shut.He is hopeful that in a month or two, when colleges reopen, his eatery will start making profit. But he is nervous about the competition posed by online delivery outlets. He is not technology savvy and might lose out on orders if people start ordering online, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-tandoorwala-in-chandigarh-lost-his-job-but-cooked-for-migrants/story-It0p5pXIPS2WXHOgZzf7sJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with China||India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, his first remarks on the border clash between soldiers of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening. PM Modi’s sharply-worded statement was aimed not just at reassuring the country that the government was taking steps to protect India’s sovereignty but was also designed to deliver a stern message to Beijing.India has always promoted peace among nations, PM Modi said on Wednesday afternoon. PM Modi, who is meeting chief ministers via video conference on the Covid-19 pandemic, started with a reference to the border clash in Galwan Valley that cost 20 lives on the Indian side.Over the next five minutes, PM Modi summarised his government’s stand on the clash and his determination not to let anyone stop India from retaliation if someone does target the country’s sovereignty.In our neighbourhood, India’s constant effort has been that differences should not become disputes, PM Modi said a throwback to one of the principles that India and China had pledged themselves to at his meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping.India has blamed China for the border clash that New Delhi says could have been avoided had the Chinese soldiers scrupulously followed the agreement and not tried to unilaterally change the status quo in the Galwan region.Colonel Santosh Babu and his men were outnumbered by the Chinese troops who attacked the Indian soldiers, but they still struck back at their adversary. In the process, Col Santosh, according to one estimate by the army, killed or critically injured over 40 Chinese soldiers including a commander of the People’s Liberation Army.PM Modi referred to the extraordinary courage that they displayed. “The country will be proud to know that they died after they killed their adversaries (Desh ko Is baat par garv hoga ki vae maarte, maarte, maren hai),” PM Modi said.Also read | PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situationThe Chinese military or the foreign office has not made public the casualties suffered by the PLA.Officials said PM Modi’s statement had omitted any reference to dialogue to signal that the government was not looking for a way out. To the contrary, PM Modi underscored that no one could stop India from hitting back if its sovereignty was targeted.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, India’s unity and sovereignty is the most important and no one can stop us from protecting it. No one should have a doubt on this point. India wants peace but is capable of a befitting reply in every circumstance,” PM Modi said.This clear message comes against the backdrop of Chinese PLA’s introducing a fresh claim over the Galwan Valley. This was one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception between the two sides was minimal. In New Delhi, the Chinese statement is seen as an effort to create fresh areas of differences even as older differences turn into disputes.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who was also present at the chief minister’s conference along with Home Minister Amit Shah, had earlier in the day described the loss of soldiers “deeply disturbing and painful”.“The nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stands shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the defence minister tweeted.Shortly after the prime minister’s intervention, Amit Shah also paid rich tributes to the fallen soldiers.“The pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Ladakh’s Galwan can not be put in words. Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep Indian territory safe and secure. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-compromise-on-borders-pm-modi-spells-out-india-s-stance-on-row-with-china/story-X2xKmstoBuaaYeWfUriXqL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Control frontline troops’, says China’s Wang Yi in phone call with S Jaishankar||India should not misjudge or underestimate China’s will to safeguard its territory, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, demanding that New Delhi immediately cease all “provocative” actions at the border and “thoroughly” investigate the clash between the border troops on Monday night.Wang told Jaishankar that Indian army’s adventurous act triggered the clash.A strongly worded statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry – after a phone conversation between Wang and Jaishankar on Wednesday -- said the former told the Indian minister that New Delhi “should strictly control frontline troops”.Also read| ‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaThe phone call took place two days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in an unprecedented violent exchange with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh.Until now, China’s foreign ministry and the People’s Liberation Army have squarely blamed the Indian army for the violent face-off, which India has rejected as well: Wang’s phone call clearly shows that China will continue to be aggressive.“Again, China expresses its strong protest to the Indian side. We demand that the Indian side conduct a thorough investigation into the matter, severely punish those responsible, strictly control the frontline troops and immediately cease all provocative actions to ensure that such incidents do not recur,” the statement released in Mandarin by the ministry said.Wang, who is also a state councillor, which makes him one of the most senior officials in China, said Indian border troops “brazenly” broke the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries.“When the situation on the ground in the Galwan Valley had already eased, they once again deliberately provoked and even violently attacked officers and soldiers of the Chinese side who were on their way to negotiate across the Line of Actual Control.”Also read| ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-off“This led to violent physical confrontations, resulting in injuries and deaths. This adventurous act by the Indian army is a serious violation of the agreements reached between the two countries on the border issue and a grave breach of the basic norms of international relations,” Wang said.The Chinese minister said India and China should step up communication through existing channels like special representatives’ mechanism on the Sino-India boundary and communication channels between border troops to safeguard peace and tranquillity in border areas.Wang himself, and national security advisor AK Doval are the two SRs for the ongoing boundary talks between the two countries.“Mutual respect and support between the two sides is the right way to go and is in the long-term interests of both countries; mutual suspicion and friction go against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/control-frontline-troops-says-china-s-wang-yi-in-phone-call-with-s-jaishankar/story-xJivzBrrRvqkX6NcMon0JP.html
17-06-2020||India||Odisha to set up Covid Care Homes in all the 6,798 gram panchayats||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced that Covid Care Homes (CCHs) and Ward Level Committees will be set up across the state to monitor the coronavirus situation.The announcement was made by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.“We have decided to set up Covid Care Home facilities in all the 6,798 gram panchayats across the state. About 10 to 20 people can stay in each home,” Patnaik said in a statement.As many as 70,000 people could be accommodated in CCHs in rural areas, the chief minister said.He said that the people showing corona symptoms like cold, cough and fever will be kept in the facility. If the patient tests positive for Covid-19 then only he/she will be shifted to the special Covid Hospitals.The chief minister said Odisha has enough special Covid Hospitals where about 10,000 beds are available with ICU facilities for critical patients. The state also has trained manpower to handle the Covid patients and there is sufficient medical equipment to deal with the situation, he said. If the corona test result comes negative, a person will go back home and get treatment at house, Patnaik said, adding that the government has also decided to decentralize the Covid-19 management system in the state.“Covid management committee in the ward level will be formed comprising ward members, ANM, ASHA and Women Self Help Group members. The committee will be given special power under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” Patnaik said.He said the ward level committees will be provided Rs 10,000 each for expenditure. At present, the Gaon Kalyan Samiti (Village welfare committees) take care of the Covid management in villages. In urban areas, ward offices, local volunteers will be members of the Covid management committee which will monitor the corona situation in towns. “The urban committee is asked to focus on slums and if required Covid Care Homes can be set up in major slums,” he said.Following the return of above five lakh people to the state during the pandemic, Patnaik said the state government has decided a door-to-door survey to detect the Covid symptoms among the population. These people are being quarantined in the temporary medical centres before being allowed to go home.The state government has set up 16,815 Temporary Medical Centres/Camps in 67,98 gram panchayats. In all these centres, a total of 7,62,345 beds have been arranged to provide Covid-19 health services in rural areas.However, Patnaik said that many TMCs are now closed as the number of returnees are declining by the day. The TMCs presently operate in clusters where the returnees are being put in quarantine where their treatment and care is being taken by the sarpanchs, who have worked all along the three months with dedication.“I thank the panchayat level functionaries for their dedicated service for which the corona situation in Odisha is better than many states, Our recovery rate is high and the fatality rate low. Therefore, Odishas situation is in a good position,” the chief minister said.The Corona situation has impacted lives all sections, all categories and all people, Patnaik said, adding that the only alternative left is precaution and awareness since there is no such medicine or vaccines for the killer disease.“I have been repeatedly saying that June is a crucial month for the state because many people have returned to the state and movement has started in the unlock process.Gradually, many things will open up and possibilities of transmission can be reduced by maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene and using face masks,” he said.Therefore, under the changed circumstances, the state needs to change its strategy for which CCHs and Covid Management Committees are formed in the ward level to keep a proper tab on the situation.Patnaik also suggested the people keep special care of the elderly persons and kids below 10 years of age as they have low immunity power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-set-up-covid-care-homes-in-all-the-6-798-gram-panchayats/story-vEqYb0eq5nzqWbvi6X7rrO.html
17-06-2020||India||Centre responsible for death of 20 soldiers in Ladakh, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday held the Narendra Modi government responsible for the loss 20 soldiers in clashes with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and alleged that the Centre’s priority was not the country but the rule of the BJP.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government is silent now. The country did not expect that the government’s 40-day silence would be so heart-wrenching. It is because of the flaws and failures of the central BJP government that the country has to see this sad day of martyrdom of our soldiers,” AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters.Surjewala said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the entire opposition repeatedly kept asking about the situation on the border and how far the Chinese had intruded. Former army officers were also constantly warning that the situation is serious and the government needs to be careful.“But the careless and failed government kept busy in its political processions, electoral battles, conspiracies to topple opposition governments and kept the truth of the border hidden from the country. The priority of the central BJP government is not the country but the power of its party,” alleged Surjewala.“There is a ban on questions and information in the Modi government. Today everything is being hidden from the country. But does the Modi government have any answer for those mothers who sacrificed their sons in defence of the country?” he said.The entire country and Congress party stands with the government on every issue of national security and integrity but the government will have to take the nation into confidence. The Prime Minister will have to tell the truth of how China occupied our land and how our 20 soldiers were martyred, he said.“What is the situation today on the ground and how many of our officers and soldiers are missing or injured? How much and where has China occupied our land? The government should tell what about its plan to deal with the situation,” Surjewala said.The BJP reacted by accusing the Congress of politicising the country’s security.“The Indian army was holding continuous talks with China but they betrayed the trust and attacked but our soldiers gave a befitting reply. The India army is standing strong to protect the country. The government is actively playing its role. Unfortunately, the Congress is politicizing a serious issue like the country’s security, which is unjustified,” BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation in Ladakh.Earlier on Wednesday in his first remarks since the clash in Ladakh late Monday night, Modi said, “I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-responsible-for-death-of-20-soldiers-in-ladakh-says-congress/story-QvPrH1eAv2nVkto6CjE2vJ.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Expansion of health infra should be India’s top priority amid increase in Covid cases, says PM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Need to expand health infra, says PM Modi on Day 2 of talks with CMs on Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said expansion of health infrastructure should be the country’s top priority amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Read moreChhattisgarh CM writes to Nitin Gadkari, urges him to expedite work National Highways in the stateChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, urging him to expedite the tardy construction work of national highways (NH) that pass through the state and convert some state highways into NH. Read moreMumbai BJP leader booked by CBI for ‘cheating’ Bank of India of Rs 57.26 croreThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj and directors of his company for allegedly cheating Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 57.26 crore. Read moreCureVac coronavirus vaccine cleared for human trials in GermanyGermany’s CureVac AG won approval to start human trials of a novel coronavirus vaccine just days after the company secured backing from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government. Read more‘Sachin wanted to give up the game,’ How Gary Kirsten sparked a late career renaissance for TendulkarFormer India coach Gary Kirsten has opened up on a chapter from his coaching tenure with the Indian cricket team, where he helped Sachin Tendulkar thrive in the final leg of his career, and in turn, banishing the thoughts of retirement that had surrounded the mind of India’s batting genius. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput death: Ekta Kapoor says ‘beyond upset’ after abetment case filed against her, Salman Khan in BiharAmid the debate around nepotism and the treatment of outsiders in Bollywood triggered by the news of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, a case has been filed against in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur against a number of influential people from the film industry. Read moreHappy Father’s Day 2020: Best wishes, images, quotes, Facebook messages and WhatsApp status to shareEvery year, the third Sunday of June is observed as Father’s Day in India, and this year the date is June 21. This day commemorates and appreciates the role that fathers, father figures and paternal bonds play in a family and society as a whole. Read moreWatch| ‘It’s a wake up call’: Bollywood actor on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-expansion-of-health-infra-should-be-india-s-top-priority-amid-increase-in-covid-cases-says-pm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3g6UEGIGJfCfd69kwD33xM.html
17-06-2020||India||New Delhi could opt out of Russia-India-China virtual meeting||India is unlikely to join a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping scheduled for June 23 in the aftermath of the violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.After a weeks-long military build-up along the LAC, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in what Indian officials described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night. One officer was among the 20 soldiers killed in the confrontation and several more were injured.Though the border stand-off was not on the agenda of the RIC meeting via video conference, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity it appeared unlikely the Indian side would join the meet in view of the prevailing tensions with China and the domestic situation.The meeting, which hasn’t been officially announced as yet, was originally scheduled to be held in March but was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia recently took the initiative to organise the virtual meeting on June 22, as first reported by HT on June 13. It was subsequently deferred by a day to June 23.The meeting was expected to largely focus on enhancing cooperation to tackle the fallout of the global pandemic and the agenda was to have been finalised by early this week.The situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran were also expected to figure so that the three countries could reach common ground on issues such as regional security and stability.“The atmosphere has been vitiated by the developments of the past two days and Indian participation is looking unlikely,” said one of the people cited above.The people didn’t rule out a last minute push by Russia to go ahead with the meeting, especially in view of recent remarks by Russian officials about India and China taking steps to de-escalate tensions.“The existing situation is a concern but Russia is trusted by the other two countries. There is a need for all sides to keep in touch, especially in multilateral formats, to expand multilateral cooperation and accumulate more trust,” said a second person.Moscow’s relations with both New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in recent remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.Kudashev said Russia is confident India and China will be guided by commitments made by their leadership during two informal summits and work for peace and tranquillity on the border. He also said Russia is looking toward to further engagements in the RIC, SCO and Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) groupings to enhance mutual trust and stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-could-opt-out-of-russia-india-china-virtual-meeting/story-yUzSQnDrnLZimUH0y1sCJI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Bow to the families of great heroes’: Amit Shah pays tribute, says India is in their debt||Home minister Amit Shah has paid tribute to Indian soldiers who died in a violent clash with Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night and said their sacrifice can’t be put in words. He added that their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards safeguarding her land.Shah’s homage followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clear message that while New Delhi wants peace, it was capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked.“Pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Galwan Valley can’t be put in words. Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep the Indian territory safe. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land,” said Shah in a tweet on Wednesday afternoon.Indian Army has reported loss of 20 lives on its side, including that of a commanding officer of the Bihar Regiment, in clashes with China during the de-escalation process in Eastern Ladakh on Monday night. The Indian government has blamed China for not honouring a consensus reached between the two sides to withdraw and said the clashes were a result of China’s attempts to change the status quo of the line of actual control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.Shah went on to say that the country will always be in debt of the soldiers’ supreme sacrifice.“I bow to the families, who have blessed Indian Army with such great heroes. India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. Entire nation and the Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured,” Shah added.Earlier, during his meeting with the chief ministers of states, the prime minister had said that the sacrifice of the jawans will not go in vain.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,” PM Modi said.Also Read: ‘India wants peace but capable of giving befitting reply if instigated’: PM Modi on Ladakh face-offAccording to intelligence inputs, China has suffered 43 injuries or deaths in the clashes. The deadly faceoff between the two neighbours, has marked a new low in the ties, however, both sides have disengaged at the site of the clash in Galwan Valley. Earlier today, defence minister Rajnath Singh had also offered his condolences and said the death of Indian soldiers was extremely disturbing.“The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said in a statement.Also Read: Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s deathOpposition parties, particularly the Congress, have been demanding that the government come out with a detailed account of the incident that resulted in casualties in Indian Army-- the first since October 1975 when Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector killing four soldiers.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tell the country how the Chinese occupied the Indian territory, and why 20 soldiers were killed,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said Wednesday.The Congress chief also asked the government to clarify if Indian territory has been occupied by China and what is the government’s strategy to deal with the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-the-families-of-great-heroes-amit-shah-pays-tribute-says-india-is-in-their-debt/story-4bRi7wUMnhHcQ6tqRxoG3L.html
17-06-2020||India||‘He sacrificed life for nation, will send my grandsons too’: Sepoy Kundan Kumar’s father||Father of Sepoy Kundan Kumar, one of the 20 bravehearts of the Indian Army who lost their lives in Monday’s violent face-off with China in Ladakh, said that he is proud of his son’s sacrifice. He said that if given a chance, he will send off his two grandsons to join the army as well so that they could serve the nation. “My son sacrificed his life for the nation. I have two grandsons, I will send them too,” he said. Also read: ‘Sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain’ - PM Modi #WATCH Bihar: Father of Sepoy Kundan Kumar, who lost his life in #GalwanValley of Ladakh on June 15-16, says, "My son sacrificed his life for the nation. I have two grandsons, I will send them too." pic.twitter.com/WHkkJw0HEXThe killing of 20 Indian Army men in the face-off with China’s military earlier this week has angered New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the sacrifice of the soldiers will not go in vain. “I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important. India wants peace but it is capable of giving a befitting reply if instigated,” the prime minister said. PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China.Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh condoled the loss of the bravehearts in the Galwan Valley and described the incident as “deeply disturbing”. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said. “The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister tweeted.Tensions between India and China flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides led a series of high-level delegation talks this month in a bid to settle the stand-off. The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the face-off in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-sacrificed-life-for-nation-will-send-my-grandsons-too-sepoy-kundan-kumar-s-father/story-gHb7qtHTv3k6223EnalGMK.html
17-06-2020||India||Need to expand health infra, says PM Modi on Day 2 of talks with CMs on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said expansion of health infrastructure should be the country’s top priority amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases“With increase in the number of corona patients, expansion of health infrastructure should be our utmost priority. This will happen when each corona patient will get proper treatment. For this, we’ll have to emphasize on testing so that we can test, trace and isolate infected persons,” he said during his virtual meeting with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to discuss the pandemic situation.Modi said India has fought back from facing a supply shortage of medical kits to become self sufficient.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Just 3 months back, there was a shortage of PPE kits and diagnostic kits across the world. In India too, we had a very limited stock because we were completely dependent on imports. But today, more than 1 crore PPE kits and an equal number of N95 masks have reached the states,” he said on the second day of his interaction with chief ministers.On Tuesday, he had interacted with chief ministers, Lt Governors and administrators of 21 states and UTs on opening up the economy and at the same time preventing a surge in coronavirus cases.The PM reiterated that India has been able to fight Covid-19 and control its spread because of the timely measures it took. He also said that very few patients are currently on ventilators or in ICUs“The number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 till now is more than the number of active cases in the country,” Modi said.India’s Covid-19 tally now stands at over 3.54 lakh. According to the government’s latest figures, 6,922 Covid-19 patients were cured in the last 24 hours taking the number of those cured/discharged to 1,86,934 patients. The recovery rate has risen to 52.80%.There are 1,55,227 active cases of Covid-19 in the country now.At the start of the meeting, a two-minute silence was observed as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in a clash with Chinese troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-expand-health-infra-says-pm-modi-on-day-2-of-talks-with-cms-on-covid-19/story-4RmXnYkikpbKu0Nc3Tl9HM.html
17-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to Nitin Gadkari, urges him to expedite work National Highways in the state||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, urging him to expedite the tardy construction work of national highways (NH) that pass through the state and convert some state highways into NH. Baghel urged in his letter to Gadkari sent on Tuesday that Ambikapur-Bhaisamuda-Wadrafnagar-Dhangaon-Bamhani-Renukoot road, whose 110-kilometre (km) stretch falls in Chhattisgarh, and Raigarh-Dharamjaigarh road, 72 km of which passes through the state, be declared as NH.The CM has also requested the Central minister to ensure the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) gives permission for upgrading and widening of NH-149B, which includes the Champa-Korba-Katghora stretch.Baghel also drew Gadkari’s attention to the tardy construction work for the past two years of NH-30, which runs between the state capital Raipur and Dhamtari district. He also pointed out that the condition of NH-43 that runs between Pathalgaon and Kunkuri is pitiable, and immediate efforts must be made to improve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-nitin-gadkari-urges-him-to-expedite-work-national-highways-in-the-state/story-vc6cOV8pIhqyD3aw8PEPKN.html
17-06-2020||India||Mumbai BJP leader booked by CBI for ‘cheating’ Bank of India of Rs 57.26 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj and directors of his company for allegedly cheating Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 57.26 crore. The CBI has also booked unknown public servants and bank officials, while its inquiry in the case continues.The cases have been registered against two Mumbai-based firms known as Avyaan Overseas private limited-- now known as M/s. Bagla Overseas private limited, Mumbai--- and KBJ Hotels Goa private limited. Mohit Kamboj, managing director of the former has also been booked along with firm directors Jitendra Gulshan Kapoor, Siddhant Bagla and Irtesh Mishra.According to a CBI official, between 2013 and 2018, the Mumbai based firm ‘Avyaan Overseas private limited and its managing director Mohit Kamboj, along with unknown public servant, entered into an agreement with the bank’s Mid Corporate Branch in Fort, with an intention to cheat through FB purchase/ Foreign Bills Negotiation Limit and Export Packaging Credit Limit facilities worth Rs.60 crore (approx.) extended to the firm.It was further alleged in the complaint that the accused company diverted the funds obtained from the bank followed by forging and fabrication of documents in support of their claim, which resulted in a loss of Rs.57.26 crore to the bank, as per the CBI press release.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The CBI has been conducting searches at five places in Mumbai including at the residential and official premises linked to the accused individuals and companies. The search has led to recovery of certain incriminating documents pertaining to property, loan, various bank accounts and locker keys, said the CBI official.Mohit Kamboj, who changed his name to Mohit Bhartiya said, “Compromise in the above loan account has been done in 2018 by paying Rs 30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I have also received no dues certificate from the Bank of India in March 2019. I don’t know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint, after two and a half years of clearing all the dues. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with the CBI probe as I have full trust in them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-bjp-leader-booked-by-cbi-for-cheating-bank-of-india-of-rs-57-26-crore/story-wZqQ8AmOUxhbSHXL5F5lHL.html
17-06-2020||India||Meghalaya’s Covid-19 count comes down from 44 to 43 after patient found ‘false positive’||Meghalaya’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases have reduced from 44 to 43 after it came to light that a senior citizen (70) became the first case of false positive in the entire north-east region, comprising seven states.“The patient, who belongs to Ri Bhoi district, had a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and was admitted to a hospital in Shillong on June 9. His RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test results had shown he was Covid-19 positive,” Meghalaya health minister AL Hek said on Wednesday.The patient was put under quarantine and 43 of his contacts were also traced. But the doctors were surprised, as none of his contacts, including the source from where he was suspected to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, were found to be infected.“A fresh round of RT-PCR and rapid tests were conducted and both came negative. It’s a case of false positive,” Hek said.According to health officials, the RT-PCR tests have an accuracy rate of 99%, and the case of the Meghalaya patient could belong to that rare 1% that shows false results.The patient, who suffers from hypertension and diabetes, is still admitted to the hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.Meghalaya has the lowest number of Covid-19 positive cases among the north-eastern states. The state reported one death, 28 recoveries, and 14 Covid-19 active cases until Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-s-covid-19-count-comes-down-from-44-to-43-after-patient-found-false-positive/story-tJLBSNfat1coxAKuXx3WnI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain’: Highlights of PM Modi’s address on Ladakh face-off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that although India wants peace, when instigated it is capable of giving a befitting reply. The prime minister gave a brief address on the Ladakh face-off right before beginning his virtual meeting with the chief ministers and heads of 15 states and Union territories. PM Modi said that the sacrifice of soldiers who lost their lives on Monday will not go in vain. The PM, along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers, observed a two-minute silence as a tribute to the soldiers who got killed in the recent military stand-off with China.I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important...India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated: PM Narendra Modi #IndiaChinaFaceOff pic.twitter.com/kFIC3F1fE4Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Monday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China. Here are the key highlights of PM Modi’s address:• I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain. • India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated. • India has always worked with its neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner, hoped for their growth and development. • We’ve always tried to resolve differences and not let them turn into disputes. • The unity and sovereignty of the country is of the utmost importance and we won’t compromise with it. Nobody should test our patience.• Valour and courage are also part of our country’s character as much as sacrifice is. • Nation takes pride in the fact that our valiant soldiers lost their lives while fighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacrifice-of-our-jawans-will-not-go-in-vain-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-address-on-ladakh-ladakh-face-off/story-AvDNe8Ln4aXNZgHOcH6ILJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Jayant Khobragade set to take over as acting head of Indian mission in Islamabad||Jayant Khobragade, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 1995 batch, is expected to soon take over as the acting head of India’s mission in Islamabad, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.Khobragade, who served as a counsellor in the Indian High Commission in Islamabad some years ago, has also held assignments in Russia, Kazakhstan, and Spain and was ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic between 2013 and 2017.He is expected to take up the position in the near future, the people cited above said on the condition of anonymity. Khobragade has worked in different divisions of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), including the disarmament and international security affairs division, and joined the Department of Atomic Energy (DEA) on deputation in 2017.Last August, Pakistan had asked India to withdraw then high commissioner Ajay Bisaria as part of a slew of retaliatory actions in response to New Delhi’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status.Pakistan had also decided not to go ahead with the posting of the diplomat, who had been chosen as its next envoy to India.Since then, the Indian mission in Islamabad and the Pakistani mission in New Delhi have been headed by their charge d’affaires.In a separate development, JP Singh, who was till recently India’s consul-general in Istanbul, Turkey, is expected to take over the crucial position of joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran). Singh has considerable experience in the region and has served in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, where he was the deputy chief of mission.The Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk was until recently headed by Deepak Mittal, who has been named the new Indian ambassador to Qatar. The desk is playing a crucial role again, following a spurt in tensions with Pakistan and the uncertainty surrounding the Afghan peace process in the aftermath of the deal signed by the United States of America (USA) and the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jayant-khobragade-set-to-take-over-as-acting-head-of-indian-mission-in-islamabad/story-TSoGmM0mmsdICXu1KFzrJL.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi interacts with CMs on day 2 of consultations on coronavirus crisis||Continuing with his consultations with state governments on ways to check the spread of coronavirus during ‘unlock 1.0’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday is holding interaction with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.His virtual interaction on day two of his consultations with states is attended by the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujara, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar among others, and assumes importance as some of these states account for a majority of the cases in the country.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is not participating in the meet as her name was reportedly missing from the list of speakers.On Tuesday too, he had interacted with chief ministers, LGs and administrators of 21 states and UTs on opening up the economy and at the same time preventing a surge in coronavirus cases.The meeting comes on a day the country registered the highest-ever spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities pushing the death toll to 11,903 after Maharashtra and Delhi added earlier deaths that were not attributed to the disease.Of the 2,003 new deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 1,409 fatalities taking its COVID-19 death tally to 5,537, while coronavirus deaths in Delhi surged by 437 taking it to 1,837, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Modi had told the participants that the economy is showing “green shoots” as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown.He also underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood.He said on the one hand health infrastructure will need to be boosted with emphasis on testing and tracing, and on the other hand economic activity will also need to be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-cms-on-day-2-of-consultations-on-coronavirus-crisis/story-J14aZKo9VO1qnfmv6zc9xJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-off||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean about the situation in eastern Ladakh, where 20 soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in a violent confrontation with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley late on Monday.“The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address.The Congress president also sought to know how many soldiers are injured or still missing. She said her party stands behind the government and sent her tributes to the families of soldiers who died for their country.“The sacrifice of our 20 jawans has shaken the conscience of the nation. I pay my tribute to all those brave soldiers from the core of my heart and pray to the almighty to give their families the strength to face this pain,” said Gandhi.The Congress chief’s address came almost simultaneously as the Prime Minister’s first reaction to the Indian Army’s face-off with Chinese troops late on Monday.Also Watch : Sonia Gandhi questions PM Modi over India-China faceoff The PM said the sacrifice of the soldiers who were killed in the line of duty in Galwan Valley will not go in vain.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our soldiers will not be in vain. India wants peace but it is capable of giving a befitting reply if instigated,” said the PM.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi demanded to know “why is the PM silent?” and raised questions on the Chinese aggression. Shortly after came defence minister Rajnath Singh’s tweet mourning the loss of 20 Indian soldiers in the scrap with the Chinese troops. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister tweeted.Since May, there have been tensions between the Indian and Chinese sides following clashes between the troops of the two countries in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the face-off in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead. On the Chinese side, news agency ANI reported, 43 soldiers have been killed or seriously injured, though the Indian army’s statement did not refer to this.The army statement issued on Tuesday evening said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “ have disengaged”.The External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Monday evening’s violent face-off took place after the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC” and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. HT has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-should-tell-how-chinese-occupied-indian-territory-sonia-gandhi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-cDYmEj7y1ELk4ghcUYA6LK.html
17-06-2020||India||‘India wants peace but capable of giving befitting reply if instigated’: PM Modi on Ladakh face-off||India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, his first remarks on the border clash between soldiers of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening.The prime minister started his meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 with a two-minute silence as a tribute to the 20 soldiers who were killed in action in Galwan Valley this week. As he spoke, it became clear that the message was aimed not just at reassuring the nation but also delivering a sharp message to Beijing.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,” PM Modi said. Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh were also present in the meeting.Also Read: PM Modi calls all-party meeting to discuss India-China border situationTwenty Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off which took place in Eastern Ladakh on Monday. The troops fought each other with fists and rocks. After the clash, the two sides “disengaged” from the area where the fighting happened, the Indian army statement said. News agency ANI quoting sources said four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off.ALSO WATCH | ‘We want peace, don’t provoke us’: PM Modi gives tough message to ChinaOn the Chinese side, news agency ANI reported, there have been 43 casualties.Defence minister Rajnath Singh mourned the death of 20 Indian soldiers. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said in a statement.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister further said in the statement posted on Twitter.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-peace-but-capable-of-giving-befitting-reply-if-instigated-pm-modi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-1mnvax4CQm4VzvH1jpoePM.html
17-06-2020||India||Conditions rife for more pandemics in absence of curbs on deforestation and wildlife trade: WWF||Large-scale conversion of tracts of land for agriculture; trade and consumption of high-risk wild species are the two main drivers of zoonotic diseases, according to a report by Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) released on Wednesday. Zoonotic diseases are viral infections that are transmissible from vertebrate animals to humans.The report, a compilation of existing evidence on SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and other zoonotic diseases, said the frequency of zoonotic disease outbreaks caused by a spillover of pathogens from animals to humans might have more than tripled in the last decade.The diversity of these pathogens has also increased with the number of new zoonotic diseases infecting people quadrupling in the last 10 years, the WWF report titled, “Covid 19—Urgent Call to Protect People and Nature” said, referring to a 2008 paper published in the Nature journal on emerging infectious diseases.“These increases are driven by more frequent contact between humans and dangerous animal pathogens, as well as by contact with a wider variety of species, resulting in the emergence of new forms of diseases in humans. These new zoonotic diseases have posed a grave threat to human health around the world, causing global pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Swine Flu, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Ebola and currently Covid-19,” the report said.Every year three to four zoonotic diseases are emerging.The increase in zoonotic outbreaks is a symptom of a broken relationship between humans and nature and is likely to worsen, the report said warning that ecological conditions are rife for another pandemic unless strong actions are taken such as a complete halt of wildlife trade, enforcing legislation to stop deforestation, a new deal for nature and people that safeguard biodiversity and halves consumption. It also called for the incorporation of a One Health Approach, which has shared policies for humans, animals, and the environment.The report underlined that though questions remain about the exact origin of Covid-19 by keeping different wild and livestock species in cramped conditions, the risk of genetic recombination between different viruses and transmission to new species, including humans, has increased.Improper handling of live domestic animals and their meat can also drive potential disease exposure, particularly, when these animals are slaughtered or kept along with other wildlife species. The initial Covid-19 disease outbreak is likely to have been attributed to human contact with infected palm civets and raccoon dogs at a wildlife market in China’s Guangdong province.This was substantiated by the discovery of SARS-like viruses in these animals in Chinese wildlife markets after the initial outbreak.Researchers have also found that several of the early SARS patients in Guangdong province were involved in selling or preparing wildlife for consumption, the report said.Globally between 1945 and 2005 land-use change has contributed to almost half of zoonotic disease events, WWF said, referring to findings of another scientific paper published in 2010 in the Nature journal. Extensive deforestation and fragmentation of land in West and Central Africa are linked to several Ebola outbreaks in these regions, according to WWF.Most habitat loss associated with agriculture is owing to only three commodities such as beef, soy, and palm oil.“As a result of extensive land conversion, about 70% of forests globally are now within one kilometre (km) of a forest edge and are exposed to further fragmentation. Not only forests are at risk – over half of the original Cerrado and North American grassland prairies have also been lost,” the report said calling for laws to stop the fragmentation of forests.Experts said India, which has its own rich biodiversity, also needs a One Health policy.“In a country like India, where people live cheek-by-jowl, not just with each other, but also with among the highest numbers of livestock, including both four-legged and two-legged, as well as in areas of high biodiversity. Such close proximity means that the diversity of pathogens that humans are potentially exposed to is very high. To understand the risks from these pathogens, it’s necessary for us to adopt a One Health approach, where we have to work in large interdisciplinary teams that can investigate not only human and animal health, but also the linkages with changes in the natural environment,” said Abi Tamim Vanak, fellow, Wellcome Trust and senior fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.“It’s hard to think beyond the tragic impacts of the ongoing Covid-19 healthcare crisis. But, it’s also an opportune moment for us to act if we are to deliver a recovery that benefits both humans and nature. The challenge and opportunity before us are to begin to think of development through the lens of environmental health,” said Ravi Singh, secretary-general, WWF India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-rife-for-more-pandemics-in-absence-of-curbs-on-deforestation-and-wildlife-trade-wwf/story-78fqDzijw3Oqi9ROrqxF1N.html
17-06-2020||India||26-yr-old became a dad 17 days back, killed in action in Ladakh clash||Kundan Kumar Ojha, a trooper in the Bihar Regiment who was among 20 soldiers killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladkah’s Galwan valley, had become a father barely a fortnight ago and was planning to go home to see his baby girl in Jharkahnd.Family members said Kundan spoke to them last when his daughter Diksha was born.Also read: Ladakh clash evokes memories of China’s brutal killing of Soviet troops in 1969“He became a father only 17-18 days back. He promised his wife Namita Devi that once tension along the India-China border eased, he would come to see Diksha soon after. But that day will never come. His wish to see his daughter will never be fulfilled,” Mukesh Ojha, the grieving elder brother of Kundan said over the phone.Kundan who hailed from Dihari village in Sahebganj district 440 km from the state capital Ranchi, had joined the Army in 2011.“Kundan got married in 2018. His wife is inconsolable,” Mukesh said. Kundan’s father Ravi Shankar Ojha is a farmer and mother Bhawani Devi is a housewife. Devi had three children and Kundan was their second child. Despite their grief, the family is proud of his sacrifice.Also Read: PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situation“We are proud of our brother, who laid his life for the country. If required, my 23-year-old younger brother Kanhiya Kumar and I would also join Indian Army and fight with the enemy on the border till our last breath,” Mukesh said.The family wants Kundan’s body to be brought to their village as early as possible. “We are getting no information from the district administration regarding when the body would be sent. We called contacts in Kundan’s battalion but could not receive any information in this regard,” Kundan’s elder brother said.Sahibganj superintendent of police (SP), Anuranjan Kispotta said they are expecting official correspondence about the body’s arrival by the evening.“We have received the news regarding the death of the Jawan. But, official correspondence in this regard is still awaited from the unit (Army). We are expecting the correspondence by this evening.”Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also paid homage to the fallen soldier.“Giving a befitting reply to the Chinese encroachment, the brave son of Jharkhand Kundan was martyred,” he tweeted. Amid the escalating tension on India-China border, the Jharkhand government on Tuesday cancelled the special train, scheduled to carry 1,600 labourers from Dumka for road construction projects of the Border Road Organization (BRO) in Ladakh.Earlier, a train with labourers left on June 13 and more trains were scheduled in the next few days carrying more workers for road projects in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/among-indians-killed-in-ladakh-a-trooper-who-was-to-go-home-to-see-his-baby/story-sxLwFlpILkAow510gqSYUN.html
17-06-2020||India||Bombay HC asks CISCE to submit exact methodology on marking for Class 10 and 12 students||The Bombay High Court has directed the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board to place before it the exact methodology it would be adopting to address the issue of declaring the exam results of Class 10 and 12 students. The board was also asked to extend the date from June 22 for parents and students to decide whether they wanted to appear for the exams in July as per the rescheduled dates fixed by the board or opt for the internal assessment or pre-board exam marks to be declared as their class 10 and 12 results. The board has been asked to submit the methodology by Monday, June 22 and the matter has been posted for hearing on Tuesday.Also read: Delhi to get world’s biggest Covid-19 facility, the size of 22 football fieldsThe division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice SS Shinde, while hearing the petition filed by a parent and advocate Arvind Tiwari - who appeared in person through video conferencing on Wednesday, was informed that there was no clarity in the decision of the board wherein it had given two options to the parents and students to decide on how their class 10 and 12 results would be declared.The board had submitted before the court on Tuesday the two options namely —a student could appear for the remaining papers as per the revised schedule in July or they could opt for having their final results declared based on their performance in internal assessment or pre-board exams.Tiwari submitted that students had appeared for some papers and hence there was a confusion as to whether the marks of these papers and the performance of the student in internal assessment or pre-board exams would be jointly considered or the results of the papers in which the students appeared would be kept aside and only internal assessment and pre-board exam results would be considered.Meanwhile, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the state was empowered during the pandemic to regulate the functioning of the non-state boards and would decide on whether the board can conduct the exams as per the rescheduled dates. Kumbhakoni further submitted that the state would decide on the same after the board informed how many students were opting for the July exams.After hearing the concerns of the parents and students seeking clarity and transparency in the methodology that the board would adopt to declare results, the court directed the board to explain the exact methodology so that the parents and students could take an informed decision. The board has been asked to submit the methodology by Monday. On part of the board, senior counsel Darius Khambatta informed the court that the schools would be asked to extend the time for parents and students to decide on which option they wanted to choose and would submit the detailed methodology before the court by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-cisce-to-submit-exact-methodology-on-marking-for-class-10-and-12-students/story-NkioIUKnanaH98bghHGqWO.html
17-06-2020||India||Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s death||Among the 20 Indian Army personnel killed during the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday, was Odisha’s Nandu Ram Soren, a Naib Subedar deployed in 16 Bihar Regiment.Soren, a 43-year-old Santhali tribal hailing from Champauda village of Bijatala block in Mayurbhanj district had joined the army in 1997 and was the only earning member of his extended family. “He was the youngest among us 4 brothers and used to help us financially after the passing of our parents,” said his elder brother Daman Soren.Daman said Ram’s wife Laxmi and three daughters who stay in Rairangpur town, about 3 km away, are yet to be told about his demise. “I don’t think she can bear the loss. We are dreading to pass on the news to her,” he said. Soon after news filtered in, local BJP MLA Naba Charan Majhi visited Soren’s family to console the grieving brothers.Also Read: Indian Army should give a befitting reply: Father of soldier killed in India-China border violenceNandu Ram’s senior in Bihar regiment and his native friend, Mahendra Nath Mahanta said both of them had met at Mayurbhanj six months ago when on leave from duty. Mahanta retired from 154 TA Battalion under 16 Bihar Regiment this month.“Both of us served in the same unit for about 8 years. I spoke to him two months ago when he called up. I can’t believe he is not any more. He had promised to meet me next time he visited home,” said Mahanta.Virat Kohli, Yuvraj Singh, Bhaichung Bhutia pay tribute to Indian soldiers killed in Galwan clashThe retired army man said soon after he heard about the death of Nandu Ram, he found it difficult to control his rage. “What China has done is nothing less than back stabbing. In Indian Army we are taught to look the enemy in the eye and fight. We never hit from the back. We have to teach China a lesson,” said Mahanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-odia-jco-killed-at-galwan-valley-yet-to-know-of-husband-s-death/story-8B9brrneU2agDvoeBznOZJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Soldier, killed in Galwan Valley violence, planned to get married on his next visit home||Ganesh Kunjam, a resident of a nondescript village in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker district, last came home in January this year.The parents of the 27-year-old Indian Army soldier had fixed his wedding during that visit to Kukurtola in Bastar region of the state. Also read: Ladakh clash evokes memories of China’s brutal killing of Soviet troops in 1969He was among the 20 soldiers who lost their lives in the clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh on Monday night.“In January, his parents fixed his marriage… He was going to be married on his next visit,” Surya Nevendra, a childhood friend of Ganesh’s, said.“His parents and his uncle live in a joint family. He had recently built a house and spent about Rs 10 lakh of his savings,” said Navendra.Tiharu Ram Kunjam, Ganesh’s uncle, said he got a call from an army official who told him about his nephew’s death.“He was speaking from Kashmir and said that Ganesh had got martyred on the China border. He told us to watch TV and when I switched on the TV, I got to know about three deaths, which did not include Ganesh,” Tiharu Ram said while speaking to reporters.“Ganesh has two sisters. One of them is married and another sister lives in Pune,” Tiharu Ram said and added that Ganesh had joined the army in 2011.Ganesh was in regular touch with his uncle but for the last one month, he had not made any phone calls.“Ganesh talked to me about one month ago. He told me that he going to be posted to some other place. Since then I was trying every day but was unable to contact him,” said Tiharu Ram.He said the officer who called him informed that his nephew’s body will reach Kanker by Wednesday evening.MR Ahire, Kanker’s superintendent of police, said he got the information about Ganesh’s death from his family members.“We are gathering more information. I have no official confirmation from authorities,” Ahire said.Chhattisgarh’s health minister TS Singh Deo condoled Ganesh Kunjam’s death on Twitter.“My tributes to Shri Ganesh Ram Kunjam from Kanker, Chhattisgarh who made the supreme sacrifice in Ladakh along with 20 of our brave soldiers defending our country. My thoughts are with their families in this moment of grief,” Singh Deo tweeted.The confrontation between the two armies came after tensions between India and China first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. Both the sides have held a series of talks to resolve the six-week-long issue.Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-killed-in-galwan-valley-violence-planned-to-get-married-on-his-next-visit-home/story-YbnBRTXo92CKqglNCuCgmI.html
17-06-2020||India||Man found dead, police say he died of suicide; wife was arrested for corruption||A man was found dead in Hyderabad on Wednesday, the police said, adding that it was a suicide. He was the husband of a senior woman official of the revenue department who has been arrested in an alleged bribery case.The woman officer was arrested nine days ago by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the Telangana Police.The man had been staying along with his son at his sister’s place ever since his wife was arrested on June 8.“The body has been shifted to the Osmania General Hospital for post-mortem. We are yet to find out the exact reason behind his extreme step,” a police official said.The man was supposed to appear before the ACB authorities later in the day.According to the police, the man’s family members claimed that he had been in a state of depression after the arrest of his wife. During the searches, the ACB authorities found Rs 30 lakh unaccounted cash, besides jewellery from the woman’s house. She is presently in the judicial custody.Further investigation is on, the police said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad): 040-66202001, 040-66202000; ONE Life (from 11 am to 9 pm, Monday to Saturday): +917893078930 and Seva (between 9 am and 7 pm): 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-found-dead-police-say-he-died-of-suicide-wife-was-arrested-for-corruption/story-THgn4Oh4rmH2miyyDYKWqN.html
17-06-2020||India||IIT-Guwahati develops low-cost, high-quality ‘Made in Assam’ Covid-19 kits||In order to boost testing capabilities, Indian Institute of Techonoly-Guwahati (IIT-G) has developed several low-cost and high-quality ‘Made in Assam’ Covid-19 kits.The institute has developed viral transport media (VTM) kits, RT-PCR kits and RNA isolation kits. The first lot of 20,000 VTM kits, used to keep the collected nasal and throat swab samples, was handed over to Assam government on Wednesday.“This is a very good development. Till now we were procuring all our VTM kits from outside the state. We faced some problems in sample collection during the initial lockdown phase because of paucity of VTM kits,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while launching the kit on Wednesday. @IITGuwahati develops highquality affordable Sterile "SPILD" VTM, RT-PCR & RNA isolation kits. The ‘#MadeInAssam/ #MadeInIndia’ kits will spur product development & career opportunities to #healthcare professionals @DrRPNishank @SanjayDhotreMP @PMOIndia @himantabiswa pic.twitter.com/dC4ECoGxF3“This is an indigenous ‘Made in Assam’ product. We need nearly 10,000 VTM kits daily. Once they are made on a mass scale we won’t have to but from outside. Earlier each kit used to cost us Rs 206, but now we can get them for Rs 140 per unit,” he added.Due to huge demand and high price of these kits, National Health Mission (NHM), Assam, had asked IIT-G to develop them. Incidentally, the institute was already working on developing the kits, but the request from NHM speeded up the process.According to IIT-G, the VTM kit is suitable for collection, transport and long term freezer storage of the swab samples. The formulation of the transport medium helps in preserving viability of viruses for up to 72 hours (at refrigerated temperatures), said a release from the institution.“In addition to the VTM kits, we will also deliver the RNA isolation and RT-PCR kits to the Assam government. This would help in boosting large scale testing capacities and prevent spread of the pandemic,” Parameswar Krishnan Iyer, professor at department of chemistry and centre for nanotechnology, said.Assam has ramped up its testing facilities in recent weeks and nearly 10,000 tests are being conducted daily. Till Tuesday 4,511 Covid-19 positive cases have detected in the state. There have been eight deaths and 2,412 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-guwahati-develops-low-cost-high-quality-made-in-assam-covid-19-kits/story-VEAsSuM6WCCq6kjZdFxF2K.html
17-06-2020||India||Delhi Police detain at least 22 protesters outside Chinese Embassy||At least 22 protesters, who had assembled close to the Chinese Embassy at Chankyapuri in south Delhi on Wednesday, to protest against the death of 20 Indian soldiers, who were killed on Monday night in a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, were detained by Delhi Police. While a small group of ex-servicemen, who had come to protest outside the Chinese Embassy, were asked to return, Delhi Police officials said.No one was injured in the protests, they added.The protesters started assembling near the embassy around noon.“They’re told to disperse, as no public gathering is allowed in the area. They’re detained, when they refused to obey the orders,” said a Delhi Police official, requesting anonymity.Deepak Yadav, an additional deputy commissioner of police (DCP), New Delhi, said the detainees belong to a group called the Swadeshi Jagran Manch.“At least 22 protesters have been detained. A small group of about 10 ex-servicemen had also reached the embassy to protest against the violent face-off between the Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, but they returned after we told them to disperse,” Yadav said.Vikas Chaudhary, co-convenor of Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said the protesters had assembled at Teen Murti Bhavan around 12 noon.“The protesters started marching towards the Chinese Embassy after paying homage to the 20 martyred Indian soldiers. However, they were stopped mid-way by the police, as the area was cordoned off with barricades. Photographs and effigies of Chinese President Xi Jinping were burnt as a mark of protest. There was a minor scuffle between the protesters and the police after which 22 of our members were detailed,” Chaudhary said.Security in and around the embassy has been intensified following inputs about several groups are planning to carry out similar protests.Delhi Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and reserved battalion have also been deployed in addition to the Diplomatic Security Force personnel, who are in charge of security of embassies and diplomatic missions in the national capital, Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-detain-at-least-22-protesters-outside-chinese-embassy/story-X8GX21EIjpG9JYO54S0FPM.html
17-06-2020||India||Army should give befitting reply to China, says father of fallen solider||The father of one of two soldiers from West Bengal, who were among the 20 personnel killed after a violent face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, said the Indian Army should give a befitting reply to China.Twenty-six-year Rajesh Orang belonged to the Adivasi village of Belghoria at Md Bazar in south West Bengal’s Birbhbum district. His ailing father, mother and two sisters, the elder of whom recently got married, live in Birbhum.“I am proud of my son. My only request to the Indian Army is that they should give a befitting reply to China and avenge the killing of Indian soldiers,” Subhash Orang said.The martyr’s younger sister Shakuntala Orang, with whom he had last spoken two weeks back and his mother Mamata Orang echoed the same: “We want a the country to avenge his death. We want a befitting reply.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of both the soldiers and said that the government will support the families with Rs 5 akh each and a government job to one member of the deceased’s family. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also condoled Rajesh’s death.It was around two weeks ago that Rajesh had called up his family members and spoke to his sister for around two minutes. He also spoke to his cousin Abhijit who stays nearby.“Mother was not at home as she had been to the bank. He asked to be stay well,” said an inconsolable Shakuntala.Rajesh joined the army in 2015 when he was in his second year of college. He was the sole earning member of his family and had recently built a pucca house, where his family presently stays. “His family got a call in which the family was informed that Rajesh was admitted in the hospital. A few hours later they again got a call in which they were informed that Rajesh had died. Since then his mother and younger sister have been crying inconsolably. They have stopped eating,” Prasenjit Malakar, a neighbour, said.The last time he came home was in September 2019. His family member said that he was planning to get married during his next visit.“He was good at sports and wanted to join the Indian Army since he was a child. He has made all of us proud. It is just that he died too early,” his uncle Nagen Orang said.Another soldier, Bipul Roy, belonged to Alipurduar district in north Bengal was also killed in the clash in Ladakh. His father, mother and brother live in at Bhatibari village of the district. The 36-year-old soldier used to live in Delhi with his wife and daughter, Roy’s family members said. He was posted in Ladakh for the past one month. “He has a five year old daughter. He came home in December 2019 and that when we last met. I am proud of him,” said Rajib, his cousin. Officials in the know the development said rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. However, no shots were fired.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-should-give-a-befitting-reply-father-of-soldier-killed-in-india-china-border-violence/story-bU93nNjWNi7OX9iYyLDNuK.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, his office said on Wednesday.Twenty Indian Army soldiers, including a commanding officer, were killed on Monday after over six hours of “violent face-off” with troops of China’s People’s Liberation Army along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh.Four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. “In order to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas, Prime Minister @narendramodi has called for an all-party meeting at 5 PM on 19th June. Presidents of various political parties would take part in this virtual meeting,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted.The scrap came after tensions between India and China first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. Both the sides have held a series of talks to resolve the six-week-long confrontation.Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.In first comments from the Centre, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday condoled the death of the 20 soldiers in Galwan Valley. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Singh tweeted.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister added.The Congress party, including its senior leader Rahul Gandhi, have questioned the Prime Minister’s silence over the Chinese aggression.Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday demanded to know about the violent confrontation between Indian and Chinese armies.The Indian Army has said in a statement that the troops have disengaged since Monday’s confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-all-party-meeting-on-june-19-to-discuss-india-china-border-situation/story-VVZqgEIqgKyKbCDDcUheXM.html
17-06-2020||India||Ladakh clash evokes memories of China’s brutal killing of Soviet troops in 1969||The violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night that left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead has revived memories of a conflict between Chinese and Soviet forces over 50 years ago that led to the brutal killing of 31 Soviet border guards.For old China watchers, there were several similarities between the two incidents – Chinese troops engaging in aggressive patrolling and intrusions along a disputed border, a large number of Chinese soldiers launching a brutal attack on an outnumbered adversary, and suggestions that Beijing wanted to cut a nuclear-armed opponent down to size.The build-up of Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC led to what Indian officials described as “violent face-off” on Monday night, when Chinese troops sought to alter the status quo in Galwan Valley along the LAC. Also Read: PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situationAt least 20 Indian soldiers, including the commanding officer of 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), were killed, some brutally beaten to death by Chinese troops armed with rods and clubs wrapped in barbed wire.On the morning of March 2, 1969, Soviet border guards saw a Chinese patrol marching across the frozen Ussuri river, which formed the boundary between China and the erstwhile Soviet Union, toward a disputed riverine island called Zhenbao by the Chinese and Damansky by the Russians.A 2010 study of the incident by the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), the US-government-funded research centre for the US Navy, said: “From the Soviet border outpost located on the bank of the Ussuri, a group of border guards, led by outpost commander Senior Lieutenant Ivan Strelnikov, was dispatched to the island to meet the advancing Chinese contingent.Also Read: All you need to know about Galwan Valley, the site of clash between India and China“At the time, such episodes were common: Soviet or Chinese border guards would patrol one of the many disputed islands, and guards from the other country would meet them on the island, claim that they were trespassing on their sovereign territory, and demand they leave. Up to this point, these confrontations had typically involved little more than shouting, fistfights, and the occasional use of clubs, sticks, and fire hoses.“On this morning, however, when Soviet border guards were within range, the Chinese opened fire with automatic weapons, killing Senior Lieutenant Strelnikov and six others at the outset.”After almost two hours of fighting, 32 Soviet border guards were dead, including one killed in Chinese captivity. The fighting continued sporadically till March 22, 1969, and a total of 58 Soviet troops – 49 border guards and nine soldiers –- were killed and 94 more were injured. Also Read: 20 Indian soldiers killed in LAC stand-off with Chinese troopsScholar Dmitri Ryabushkin of Tavrida National University, Ukraine, who compiled an account of the incident after studying Soviet documents, wrote that what military medical experts found after examining the bodies was shocking – “nineteen of the 31 men [killed on March 2, 1969] had only been wounded during the engagement, but were then summarily dispatched by the Chinese by rifle-butt blows to the head, by a point-blank shot into the brain, or most commonly, by stabbing/bayoneting in the head, chest, and neck area”.“The fact that only one prisoner…was taken and no first aid offered suggests that the Chinese soldiers were following direct orders to kill without mercy all Russians who fell into their hands,” Ryabushkin wrote.A diplomat from a country that was part of the Soviet Union, who declined to be named, said: “There were reports that most of the Soviet troops were repeatedly stabbed and killed.”As with the violent clash in Ladakh on Monday night, the Chinese side never offered any clarity on its own casualties.The CAN study of 2010 concluded there were “a still-unknown number of Chinese casualties”. Ryabushkin wrote: “As to Chinese losses, information about them is very discrepant. Chinese officials hide the true figures…”Though the Ussuri river was designated a boundary line between China and the Soviet Union by the Treaty of Peking of 1860, ownership of small, uninhabited, and strategically irrelevant riverine islands became a point of contention as tensions between the two sides grew in the 1960s. Also Read: Galwan face-off: Nyoma block chief had flagged Chinese activity in eastern Ladakh several timesSome analysts have concluded that China was possibly trying to cut India down to size for rapidly building up infrastructure along the LAC and for playing a greater role in efforts to reshape the world order, the CNA study concluded China’s decision to attack the Soviet border forces was influenced Chinese leader Mao Zedong’s efforts to teach the Soviet Union a “bitter lesson”.“For China, the attack on Zhenbao was designed to deter future Soviet provocations. The sharp downturn in Sino-Soviet relations, a significant Soviet military build-up in the border region…all convinced Mao of the need to forcibly demonstrate China’s courage, resolve, and strength in the face of what was perceived to be a looming Soviet threat. By initiating a limited attack, flexing some muscle, and killing a few Soviets, China sought to forcibly demonstrate that it could not be bullied…,” the study concluded.Indian experts believe the government should have done more to avert clashes such as the one on Monday night as the Chinese build-up had begun months ago and there was enough time to prepare a long-term strategy.Former Indian Navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash said: “This was going on for almost two months and there were already photographs of Indian troops tied up. There has to be a red line somewhere, as Indian soldiers were beaten to death.”He added, “The troops should have been given permission to use their weapons to defend themselves. There has to be a graded response to what’s happened. There was enough time for people at the top to create a long-term strategy after assessing what could be China’s likely course of action and the options available to India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-clash-evokes-memories-of-china-s-brutal-killing-of-soviet-troops-in-1969/story-fmdjpOrNwPMmCbWqFuDWJI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Don’t shoot the messengers’: Supreme Court tells Delhi govt over action against doctors, healthcare workers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday made strong observations against the Delhi government for taking action against doctors and health workers, who it said acted as messengers in bringing out the real picture in government-run hospitals in the Capital. “Don’t shoot the messengers. You stop registering FIRs against doctors fighting this war against Covid,” a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said.The Delhi government has been asked to file a better affidavit by Friday on this aspect on whether they have reinstated those doctors who were dismissed, withdrawn first information reports (FIRs) against doctors and payment of salaries to medical workers. The order came in a suo moto proceeding with regard to disposal of dead bodies and poor facilities in government hospitals in the national capital taken up last week. The top court had invited status reports particularly from Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The report of other states will also be taken up on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-shoot-the-messengers-supreme-court-tells-delhi-govt-over-action-against-doctors-healthcare-workers/story-9PC3HXgmMgHhsNzhMLLn3J.html
17-06-2020||India||All you need to know about Galwan Valley, the site of clash between India and China||A violent face-off took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night in which 20 Indian soliders were killed. Defence minister Rajnath Singh issued a statament on Wednesday in which he mourned the loss of lives of 20 soldiers.In his first comments since the clashes on Monday, Singh said that the loss of soldiers in Galwan is “deeply disturbing and painful”. He also said that India will never forget the bravery and sacrifice of soldiers who displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives. Singh had briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening and held two other meetings with the Chief of Defence Staff and the three service chief.News agency ANI quoting sources said four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off.The US media quoted reported from its intelligence officials to say that 35 Chinese troops have been killed in the clashes.The troops fought each other with fists and rocks, people aware of the development said. Neither side fired any shots in the clash, they added.After the clash, the two sides “disengaged” from the area where the fighting happened, the army said in a statement.A protest was held outside the Chinese embassy in New Delhi on Wednesday.The stand-off at Ladakh’s Galwan Valley has escalated in recent weeks due to the infrastructure projects that India has undertaken in the recent years. India is building a strategic road through the Galwan Valley - close to China - connecting the region to an airstrip.China is opposed to any Indian construction in the area. In 1962, a stand-off in the Galwan area was one of the biggest flashpoints of the 1962 war, according to news agency Reuters.India last year abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution, thereby ending the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. It further bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. China was among the handful of countries to strongly condemn the move, raising it at international forums including the UN Security Council.Beijing said the move violated Chinese sovereignty but will also not change the situation on the ground as part of the area in the former state remains under Chinese control.The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso.The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the border row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-galwan-valley-the-site-of-clash-between-india-and-china/story-dsoTEObOX3PWYO0NVNFASJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Election Commission to take strict action against candidates filing false affidavits||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday decided to take strict action against candidates filing false affidavits during the nomination process.In a meeting, chaired by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and attended by election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, the issue was discussed at length.“Filing of false affidavits by candidates during the nomination process, in terms of false or incomplete information, is a key challenge as it undermines the rights of voters to be fully informed about their political representatives,” the the EC said in a statement.Also read: State ECs hold mock elections, gear up for Rajya Sabha pollsAffidavits mandate that a candidate disclose any criminal antecedents, assets and liabilities and educational qualifications. Subsequently, the Commission in 2013, decided that the assets and liabilities of the candidates, as filed in their affidavits, would be verified by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).“The Commission has today decided to robustly address this challenge to further ensure free, fair and ethical elections in the country,” the statement said.The Commission has further decided to refer the cases to investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis.“Now, Commission has reviewed this position and decided that, in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints, which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis,” it added.In September 2018, the EC had also asked the central government to make filing a false affidavit a “corrupt practice” under electoral law after the Congress party approached the Commission over “incomplete information” furnished by home minister Amit Shah.While the Supreme Court had earlier in the same month observed that filing a false affidavit is “in-principle a corrupt practice”, it had added that it couldn’t direct the Parliament to include it. As of now, bribery, appeal on grounds of religion, race and caste, creating enmity between people on the basis of religion, race and caste are considered corrupt practices under section 123 of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-to-take-strict-action-against-candidates-filing-false-affidavits/story-BH3IBb7WM0MgibQeua7rdO.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Top officials explain why Maharashtra recorded sudden spike in Covid deaths and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra records sudden spike in Covid-19 fatalities. Top official explains whyOver 2,000 Covid-19 fatalities were added to the national death toll, taking the final figure to 11,903. This comes after Maharashtra and Delhi, two of the worst-hit states in the country, added unreported fatalities to their respective death tolls after review. Read moreAbove normal temperature in Delhi-NCR for 3 days, relief likely after June 20: IMDNational capital Delhi and the nearby areas in northwest areas will continue to experience above normal temperatures for the next three days. Read moreCovid-19: Supreme Court wants doctors to be paid full wages, says violators to be punishedThe Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to issue directions to states and union territories for complying with payment of full wages to doctors and healthcare workers. Read moreHong Kong Chief Executive urges people not to ‘demonize’ security lawHong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday that she hopes opponents of a new national security law being imposed by China do not “demonize and stigmatize” the legislation because doing so would mean pitting themselves against residents of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory. Read moreRishabh Pant immensely skilled but needs to be groomed: Syed KirmaniWicketkeeping has come a long way since the time Syed Kirmani – arguably India’s most skilled stumper – used to play. Back in the day, it wouldn’t matter if he didn’t score runs, but what did count was that Kirmani should bag a 100/100 when his performance behind the stumps would be assessed. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s home was a reflection of his love for science: ‘Made it by mending and fixing, like my career’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput perhaps loved space and science as much as he loved being an actor, if not more. Sushant, who died earlier this week, was a big fan of everything astronomical and it all reflected in the style he chose for his Mumbai home. Read moreSustainable fashion: Actress Emma Watson joins board of French Gucci owner Kering to promote slow fashionBritish actress Emma Watson, famed for playing Hermione in the Harry Potter film series, and former Credit Suisse boss Tidjane Thiam are set to join the board of French luxury group Kering as it pushes to raise its profile in areas such as sustainability. Read moreTransformation of this ‘Canadian sink seal’ into a fluffy doggie is pawsomeThis is a pawsome tale of the transformation of a ‘Canadian sink seal’ into a fluffy doggo and we bet that it will leave you amazed. Chances are many of you may also go “aww” and “wow” after seeing the change. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-top-officials-explain-why-maharashtra-recorded-sudden-spike-in-covid-deaths-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MR1bUkPoQeEGi8YGxBYH4J.html
17-06-2020||India||Maharashtra records sudden spike in Covid-19 fatalities. Top official explains why||Over 2,000 Covid-19 fatalities were added to the national death toll, taking the final figure to 11,903. This comes after Maharashtra and Delhi, two of the worst-hit states in the country, added unreported fatalities to their respective death tolls after review. The national capital’s death toll went up by 437 of which 93 occurred over the past 24 hours while the rest were added after a review of pending fatalities. Maharashtra added 1,409 more fatalities to its Covid-19 death toll of which 1,328 deaths were added to the tally after the reconciliation exercise. Together, Delhi and Maharashtra added a total of 1,672 deaths after reconciliation. The addition led to a spike in Maharashtra’s case-fatality rate – defined as the ratio of deaths to the total number of cases – and now stands at 4.9, against the national rate of 3.4.Also read: Why was there a sudden spike in coronavirus deaths in Delhi?Sudden spikeMumbai alone added 862 fatalities to its death toll on Tuesday with officials citing discrepancies in records filed from various counting centres, according to a Bloomberg report. All of these cases correctly recorded Covid-19 as the cause of death but weren’t integrated into the master database, it said.Why the mismatch?Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, the Chief Minister’s Office, blamed lack of information in private hospitals and poor record-keeping in government facilities.“The figures of the deaths have risen suddenly owing to the reconciliation of the figures. It is true that there was negligence to a certain extent at some level and it led to the mismatch in the figures,” he said. He admitted that the data was not being fed as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, leading to the mismatch.Also read: India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciled“Some private hospitals did not provide us the information in time while in some government hospitals, the records about the deaths were not kept properly. In some cases, the death certificates had the mention of Covid infection as the cause of the fatality, but in hospital records, the entry was missing. When we realised the lapses we, last week, asked all the municipal corporations and district collectors to reconcile the data on an urgent basis,” he added.Undercounting fatalitiesEarlier, health experts had warned that India was undercounting fatalities as some states used different criteria. Like elsewhere, the actual numbers are thought to be higher as testing remains limited.Tamil Nadu administration was recently under the scanner as reports of more than 250 unreported Covid-19 fatalities in Chennai surfaced. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that the government has nothing to hide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-sudden-spike-in-covid-19-fatalities-top-official-explains-why/story-twCRShPqje5opLuzmGf4eL.html
17-06-2020||India||Odisha’s BJP MLA Madan Mohan Dutta dies of cardiac arrest||The MLA of Balasore Sadar constituency in Odisha and BJP leader Madan Mohan Dutta died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday, family sources said.He was 63 and is survived by his wife and two children.The first-time MLA was admitted to a hospital in Bhubaneswar a week ago with liver-related ailments and he died there due to cardiac arrest on Wednesday, they said.Dutta had successfully contested the 2019 Assembly elections from the constituency as a BJP candidate, defeating BJD candidate and sitting MLA Jiban Pradip Dash by a margin of 13,406 votes.He was chairman of Remuna block before being elected as an MLA and the president of the Balasore district unit of the saffron party.Chief Minister Naveen Pattanaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Leader of Opposition in Odisha Assembly, Pradipta Kumar Nayak, have condoled Dutta’s death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-bjp-mla-madan-mohan-dutta-passes-away-at-62/story-OI8FkBFTHHDfAzkrcV1YYL.html
17-06-2020||India||4 Indian soldiers injured in face-off with Chinese troops in critical condition: Report||Four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the violent face-off with Chinese troops on Monday evening, according to sources.The violent clash started on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh and the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, India had said on Tuesday.At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off, government sources had revealed and added that the casualty numbers could rise.Indian intercepts revealed that Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured in the violent clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-face-off-4-indian-soldiers-in-critical-condition-say-sources/story-BvpzBy6m6j89j3aZfORofN.html
17-06-2020||India||Mortal remains of Col Santosh Babu arrive in Hyderabad||The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), the commanding officer of 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment, who was killed in hand-to-hand combat with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Monday night, will be consigned to flames at his native village Kasarabad in Telangana’s Suryapet district on Thursday, his family members said.The body of the slain Colonel will arrive in Hyderabad on Wednesday evening. However, earlier on Wednesday, Santosh’s wife Santoshi, along with their two children – daughter Abhigna (9) and son Anirudh (4) – arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, located on the outskirts of Hyderabad, from New Delhi at around 9:30 am. Cyberabad police commissioner, VC Sajjanar, along with Shamshabad deputy commissioner of police, N Prakash Reddy, and other police officers received Santosh’s family members at the airport. Sajjanar expressed his grief and conveyed heartfelt condolences to fallen braveheart’s family.Santosh’s father B Upender, a retired manager of State Bank of India (SBI), could not come to the airport, as doctors have advised him to take rest because he is suffering from low blood pressure, the commissioner said.Later, the family left for Suryapet by a special vehicle, which was arranged by Telangana energy minister G Jagadish Reddy, who also hails from Suryapet.Santosh’s body will be taken to Suryapet in another special vehicle in the evening and kept at his residence for locals to pay homage.The last rites would be performed with full military honours at his native village Kasarabad on Thursday morning, the commissioner of police said.A pall of gloom descended on Suryapet town, as people in large numbers, thronged Santosh’s residence to share their condolences with the family. Many carried national flags and raised slogans like: “Santosh amar rahe,” (Long live Santosh) and “we are proud of our hero”,Police have put up barricades in Suryapet to ensure that the visitors would maintain social distancing because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Hand sanitisers are in place and every visitor has been urged to undergo thermal screening in a bid to keep the viral outbreak at bay.Officials are trying to ensure that only close family members of Santosh and dignitaries are allowed to visit his ancestral house, as it has been cordoned off for the general public.His relatives, childhood friends, and acquaintances thronged to his residence and shared fond memories of the martyr.Minister Reddy is personally supervising the arrangements for his last rites in coordination with the Army officials. He visited Colonel Santosh’s parents and consoled them. The Telangana government assured the family all support in this hour of grief.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao expressed shock over the Colonel’s death and said his sacrifice for the country is invaluable.The CM conveyed his heartfelt condolences to Santosh’s parents, wife, and children, and other family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-col-santosh-babu-arrive-in-hyderabad/story-lXaeDjX8zMdYsPx3q57S5K.html
17-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Supreme Court wants doctors to be paid full wages, says violators to be punished||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to issue directions to states and union territories for complying with payment of full wages to doctors and healthcare workers.The three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed the Centre to also issue direction to states to comply with providing accommodation to healthcare workers.The court said that any doctors or healthcare worker involved with care and treatment of Covid-19 patients must be kept under quarantine for at least a week. It asked the health ministry to issue directions by Thursday.The court also said that any violation by states will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant).The court has given a month’s time to the Centre for compliance after which the hearing will take place.The top court had said last week that the country cannot afford to have “dissatisfied soldiers” in the war against the pandemic.“In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances. Country cannot afford to have dissatisfied soldiers in this war which is being fought against Corona,” the court had said during the hearing on June 12.The bench also noted there are reports coming that in many areas doctors are not being paid.“We saw a report that doctors went on strike. In Delhi, some doctors have not been paid for past three months. These are concerns that should have been taken care off. It should not require court intervention,” it had said.On April 8, the apex court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the “first line of defence of the country” in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPEs are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-supreme-court-wants-doctors-to-be-paid-full-wages-says-violators-to-be-punished/story-d6VUDOdZb31pCFlMOmo01H.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Brilliant guy both in studies and duties’: Col B Santosh Babu lived his dream in the Indian Army||Thirty-seven-year-old Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu wanted to be with the Indian Army since he was a boy.Babu, who was one of 20 Indian soldiers killed during a “violent face-off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday night in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, even completed his Class 12 from Sainik School under the ministry of defence in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram district. He then joined the premier National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune and the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun.The resident of Suryapet in Telangana was commissioned into the 16 Bihar regiment in 2004 and was posted in Jammu for the first time. Since then, he had been working on the borders in various locations. His father, B Upender, said he lived his ambition to join the armed forces through his son.Also read | What is China trying to achieve: 5 experts weigh in“In fact, I wanted to join the army in my student days. But somehow the family circumstances did not permit me. I realised my dreams through my son,” the 63-year-old said.Upender described his son, who was promoted as a colonel in February, as a “brilliant guy both in studies and duties”. “I never expected that he would desert us like this. But I am proud he gave up his life for the country,” he said.“I am shocked. But I am also feeling proud for my son who laid down his life in service of the country,” his mother, who was more composed than her husband, said.The colonel is survived by his mother Manjula, wife Santoshi, nine-year-old daughter Abhigna and four-year-old son Anirudh. His wife and children live in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brilliant-guy-both-in-studies-and-duties-col-b-santosh-babu-lived-his-dream-in-the-india-army/story-ftMlISJZcfMK5KflXwcUAN.html
17-06-2020||India||Above normal temperature in Delhi-NCR for 3 days, relief likely after June 20: IMD||National capital Delhi and the nearby areas in northwest areas will continue to experience above normal temperatures for the next three days.“Temperatures in Delhi-NCR region and northwest India are above normal which will continue in coming days. Maybe after June 20, the temperature will fall,” said Anand Sharma, Deputy Director-General, India Meteorological Department (IMD).“We are expecting a low-pressure system to form in the Bay of Bengal which will strengthen the easterlies and that can bring rain,” Sharma added.The weather is very uncomfortable due to humidity and heat, he added. “At isolated places in West Rajasthan, we have issued heatwave warning. Monsoon has arrived in Eastern UP yesterday, Gorakhpur has received good rainfall in the last 24 hours,” said Sharma.In its weather outlook for the coming week, the IMD said that western Rajasthan will experience sever heatwave for the next two days.It also said that deue to the advancement of the Southwest monsoon, Gujarat is likely to witness light to moderate rainfall at scattered places for the next two days.The IMD has predicted generally cloudy sky with light rain for the next four days in Ahmadabad with maximum and minimum temperature hovering around 36 degree Celsius and 26 degree Celsius respectively, while rain or thundershowers have been predicted for June 21 and 22.Fishermen have been advised not to venture out in the sea in coastal areas along the Arabian Sea.Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty wind is likely in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, GilgitBaltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-temperature-in-delhi-ncr-for-three-days-relief-likely-after-june-20-imd/story-xURSpCoMdfKgVIenYXhvcJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu inches toward 50,000-mark, rapidly escalating infections in Chennai: Covid-19 state tally||After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with over 48,000 coronavirus cases till date. Panic has gripped the capital city as more than 70 percent of cases in the state come from Chennai. Last week, chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that Chennai is the largest city in the state and is densely populated owing to which maximum numbers of cases are arising from the city. In the view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the chief minister has announced a complete lockdown in Chennai and three districts from June 19 to 30. Besides, Maharashtra continues to register more coronavirus infections with state tally jumping beyond the one lakh mark. Delhi stands third with over 44,000 cases followed by Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. India’s Covid-19 tally on Wednesday jumped to 354,065 with 11,903 fatalities till date.Also read: India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciledHere’s a look at the statewise numbersWorst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 113,445 on Wednesday. As many as 5,537 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 57,851 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 48,019 in the southern state. Five hundred and twenty-eight people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 26,782 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 44,688 on Wednesday, 16,500 patients have recovered here while 1,837 have died due to Covid-19. GujaratPM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 24,577 on Wednesday. The state has seen 17,082 people recover from coronavirus while 1,533 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 14,091 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,610 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 417.Rising numbersMadhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,083 on Wednesday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 13,216.  In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 11,909. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,650 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 6,778 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,530 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 5,406 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,200-mark. Haryana have sen more than 8,200 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,163 while Assam has reported 4,319 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,000-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Manipur, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-inches-toward-50-000-mark-rapidly-escalating-infections-in-chennai-covid-19-state-tally/story-XOL9K9qpjSZx6j01DIhARN.html
17-06-2020||India||Commuters urge government to provide relief as fuel prices continue to rise||The rates of fuel have been increased again in the national capital on Wednesday causing more troubles for the commuters.With the hike in fuel prices, the petrol prices stand at Rs 77.28/litre (increase by Rs 0.55), and the diesel prices stand at Rs 75.79/litre (increase by Rs 0.69) in Delhi, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies.“Even a one rupee increase has an effect on us. The government should not increase prices like this, they should try to stop this hike as and when they can,” a commuter told ANI here.Another customer, Naresh, at the same pump said that the hike in prices, especially during the phase when the city is trying to recover from the effects of Covid-19 induced lockdown is making it worse for the people and urged them to take immediate steps in this direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commuters-urge-government-to-provide-relief-as-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise/story-PPBzRrXLPrxq1xz5fRuhlJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciled, infection tally tops 3.5 lakh||India recorded more than 2,000 deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after Delhi and Maharashtra updated their figures taking the country’s toll to nearly 12,000 as the infection tally rose to 354,065, the Union health ministry’s report showed on Wednesday.According to the ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard, 10,974 fresh cases were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours and 2,003 patients succumbed to the respiratory disease. India’s death toll stands at 11,903 so far.The death toll surged after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, officials have said. There are 155,227 active cases and 186,934 people have been discharged after being cured of the coronavirus disease, data showed.Also read| Nearly 12,000 deaths in 97 days: How India’s toll soared across statesThe recovery rate was at 52.79% slightly up from 52.46% on Tuesday.The surge in numbers comes on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to discuss the pandemic situation.PM Modi has already held consultations with chief ministers from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states on Tuesday.The PM in his sixth such meeting on the pandemic between the Centre, and states and Union territories said once again that the national priority must be to protect both lives and livelihoods.“We must focus on both life and livelihood, boost health infrastructure, testing and tracing as well as increase economic activity,” he said during the virtual meeting.How the death toll roseAs of Tuesday, 83% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the five worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The 10 worst-affected states account for more than 96% of all deaths reported in India.The country had recorded its first fatality in March when the Covid-19 infection tally was a little over 70.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.A 76-year-old man, who returned to Karnataka’s Kalburgi from Saudi Arabia, tested positive for Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease. It was reported on March 12.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of death to the total number of cases has gone up to 3.4% from 2.9% with the jump in the death toll.Also read| People with co-morbidities 12 times more likely to die of Covid: US studyIndia is the fourth worst-hit country in the world in terms of total Covid-19 cases but it has fared much better in terms of deaths where it comes on the eighth spot.Its total death trajectory is also a lot more gradual when compared to many other nations ravaged by the disease. India’s CFR is at 14% and is much lower than the global average of 56%.Worldwide, there are 8.6 million infections and 441,668 people have died till date, according to the Johns Hopkins coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-death-toll-nears-12-000-after-backlog-data-reconciled-infection-tally-tops-3-5-lakh/story-S8biV1q5XMPPlbQkGDiXWO.html
17-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally reaches 14,091; Noida, Agra lead surge||The number of coronavirus disease cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 14,091 on Wednesday, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The districts with highest caseload are Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) - with 1,099 cases - and Agra - with 1,075 cases. The other such districts are Kanpur (over 800 in rural and urban combined), Ghaziabad (673) and Lucknow (653).Agra reported three deaths and 18 new cases reported till Wednesday morning, state health department officials said.Of the total Covid-19 affected patients in the city, 883 have recovered and been discharged.The specially appointed nodal officer state Energy Secretary M Devraj held extensive discussions with the department heads, and visited the Covid-19 hospitals. The police have, meanwhile, intensified patrolling and checking of vehicles.Noida recorded 27 new cases of the coronavirus disease till Tuesday. Thirteen people have died in the district due to Covid-19.A 29-year-old man died on Tuesday, the youngest to die due to the disease in the district. He was admitted to the private Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida.News agency PTI quoted health officials as saying that 13,682 samples have been collected so far for Covid-19 testing in the district. The recovery rate of patients stood at 50.57 per cent.Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Tuesday that 8,904 people have recovered from the disease across Uttar Pradesh and the state has 5,259 active coronavirus cases.He said 13,966 tests were conducted in the state on Monday, adding that accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace those who have returned from other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-tally-reaches-14-091-noida-agra-lead-surge/story-7xNcOk3dxqHo8JGuxuWphP.html
17-06-2020||India||‘How dare China kill our soldiers?’: Rahul Gandhi demands answers over Galwan Valley face-off||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday demanded to know about the violent confrontation between Indian and Chinese armies along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.The Indian Army has said 20 of its soldiers, including a commanding officer, had been killed in clashes with Chinese troops in a major escalation of a weeks-long standoff between the two neighbours in the western Himalayas. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened,” Gandhi tweeted.“How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land?” he asked.The Indian Army said in a statement that the troops have disengaged since Monday’s scrap and confirmed the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.The immediate spark for the conflict at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh isn’t known, although it could have been about Chinese soldiers dragging their feet about removing some of the installations they erected in May in an area India claims as its own. Anurag Srivastava, the ministry of external affairs’ spokesperson, has blamed Chinese troops for the incident and referred to the meeting between army commanders of the two sides on June 6 that agreed “on a process of de-escalation” after the two sides deployed heavily on their respective sides of the LAC, which has never been defined.Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) Western Theater Command, in turn, blamed India for the clashes, on similar lines that the Chinese foreign ministry did earlier.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.No shots were fired this time.HT has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-dare-china-kill-our-soldiers-rahul-gandhi-demands-answers-over-galwan-valley-face-off/story-JEryNJdiGaopyx6e4aydMI.html
17-06-2020||India||Shipped from India’s Telangana, 25-feet-tall Hanuman statue installed in US||Carefully crafted in India and widely worshipped in the United States, a towering statue of Hanuman was installed on Monday in the city of Hockessin- making it the country’s tallest Hanuman statue.Costing more than a whopping $100,000 for construction and logistics, Standing 25 feet tall and weighing more than 30,000 kg, this handcrafted statue has been chiselled from a single block of black granite in Warangal, a small town in southern India.The statue has been handcrafted by a number of artisans or shilpils, who specialized in the skill and It took more than a dozen of them working full-time for more than a year to carve out the installation.Donning bright orange shirts that read, “The Hanuman Project,” more than 300 families, temple devotees and resident priest organized the ten-day-long Sthapana or installation ritual.Back in January, the 25 feet tall installation Travelled from Hyderabad to New York by ship, and then by flatbed truck to Delaware, to the state’s largest Hindu temple. For the purification of the Moorty, after it arrived Nagraj Bhattar, a priest from Bangalore who has been with the Hindu Temple of Delaware performed several rituals including purification of the deity with rice grains, water and flowers beds.The priest and the devotees then performed the Puja for a Devine intervention at a time when Covid derailed so many lives. ‘“We all believe that with the moorty coming to Delaware, lord Hanuman will bring all the good things like he bought the Sanjeevani. So that was the main central focus for all devotees and the priest,” Bhattar told ANI.Once the statue was unveiled American Senator Chris Coons, New Castle County executive Matt Myer and Lt Governor of Delaware Bethany Hall-Long also stopped by to support the Indian community and seeks blessing at the Hindu Temple.The president of the Hindu Temple of Delaware association, Patibanda Sarma, says the statue was supposed to be celebrated by thousands of devotees. However, due to the coronavirus pandemic, there weren’t many gatherings of the public during the installation ceremonies, he added.In an interview to ANI, Sarma thanked everyone who made this happen with a special mention to those people of all faiths who worked tirelessly to make it happen.“It is a big tribute to all the people who handled the idol, we have been very fortunate, I must say whenever we have any contract, whether it is crane operators to lift or concrete operators to install. I am not exaggerating they take more than more care than we do ourselves very careful about handling the statue, and being respectful that’s more important,” he added.Sarma says the next step after the installation is to invite the Hindu community to come In batches and offer their prayers to the almighty and in the days to come the statue will be open to people of all faiths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shipped-from-india-s-telangana-25-feet-tall-hanuman-statue-installed-in-us/story-HDRzuaooCi9CDrhFUJdmPI.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol, diesel prices rise for eleventh consecutive day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up again. Here’s what you will have to payThe price of petrol and diesel went up for the eleventh consecutive day on Wednesday, touching the highest level since more than a year. Read moreBeijing’s Tibet plan, Delhi’s infra push possible triggers for China’s troop build-upAnalysts say there could be a host of reasons behind China’s massive troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that flared up into the first conflict between the sides in almost 45 years: from Beijing’s desire to tighten its grip on Tibet to anger over New Delhi’s rapid development of infrastructure in border areas. Read moreVictoria Beckham reveals how ‘insecurities’ pushed her to wear uncomfortably tight clothesSinger-turned-fashion designer Victoria Beckham says with age she has started feeling more confident and that reflects on the way she dresses up. Read moreRiddhima Kapoor Sahni says she and Ranbir Kapoor fight ‘all the time’, Neetu Singh is doing wellLater actor Rishi Kapoor’s daughter and jewellery designer Riddhima Kapoor Sahni held an Instagram AMA session with her followers on Tuesday. She answered questions about her mother Neetu Singh, brother Ranbir Kapoor and also her diet and fitness. Read moreHopes fade for T20I World Cup, brighten for Indian Premiere LeagueThe Indian cricket board has again sought a quick decision on the T20 World Cup after a Cricket Australia (CA) official said holding it this year would be ‘unrealistic’. Read moreToll collection on highways speed up after weeks of lull due to lockdown: ReportCollection at toll booths across Indian highways has started gathering momentum after a sharp decline owing to the national lockdown previously put into place which had resulted in only a trickle of vehicles moving from one part to another. Read moreWatch: Actor Gulshan Devaiah on ‘insider vs outsider’ debate in BollywoodIn the latest episode of In Focus, Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad discusses the issue of nepotism in Bollywood with actor Gulshan Devaiah & film trade analyst Komal Nahta after Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide sparked a fresh debate. Watch to know more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-diesel-prices-rise-for-eleventh-consecutive-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dOPIXBVUYzy3P5XGBp7t0N.html
17-06-2020||India||New ordinance gets nod, people violating Covid-19 norms in Uttarakhand could face jail term||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday amended Covid-19 rules by making not wearing masks, damaging property, defying government orders on containing epidemic, and violent acts against healthcare workers a punishable offence. The information was shared by the government in an official statement released on Tuesday evening. Under the amended rules, it will be mandatory for everyone to wear masks, ‘gamcha’, handkerchief or scarf in public places or outside home. It also prohibited spitting in public place while also making it mandatory for everyone to follow the guidelines issued on the pandemic by Centre and state government. Violation of the aforementioned rules have been made punishable under the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020. According to the statement, anyone found not wearing masks or not covering their face in public place or outside home will be fined Rs 100 for first and second-time violation. In case the person is found violating the rules for the third time, he/she would be fined Rs 200. Similarly, in case anyone is found not following the guidelines issued by Centre and state government, that person would be fined Rs 100 for first-time violation followed by Rs 200 for second-time violation which may be extended up to Rs 500. After second-time violation, if again found flouting the guidelines, the culprit would be fined Rs 500 for every repetition of the violation. If the violators don’t pay the penalties imposed, they could be jailed up to six months or slapped a fine of up to Rs 5,000, or both of these. In the amended rules, the government also made any violent act against any healthcare worker and damage to property in epidemic punishable. Earlier on Tuesday, the state government had in a gazette notification, promulgated the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, after which anyone flouting the norms of Covid-19 epidemic could be penalised and punished.The development came after Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent to the ordinance on Saturday which was passed by the state Cabinet a few weeks ago. Under the new ordinance, amendments have been done in sections 2 and 3 of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The Section 2 of the act deals with powers to take special measures or prescribe regulations as to dangerous epidemic disease. The Section 3 deals with the punishment for any person disobeying any regulation or order made under the act which shall be deemed an offence punishable under Section 188 of IPC which is related to disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant. The gazette notification issued by the state government stated, “Whereas the Legislative Assembly is not in session and the Governor is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for her to immediate action. In excercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 213 of the Constitution of India, the Governor is pleased to promulgate the Ordinance- The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.”As per the ordinance, a clause has been now added in Section 2 of The Epidemic Diseases Act which is related to “procurement of goods, services and equipment necessary for prevention and control of the epidemic disease and the manner of such procurement.”After the amendment in Section 3 of the aforementioned Act, anyone “disobeying its provision or regulations or order would be punishable with either description for a term which may extend up to six months or a fine which extend to Rs 5,000 of with both.”Under section 188 of IPC under which the accused would be punished, talks of punishment of a jail term or one month or fine of Rs 200 of both which may be extended to a jail term of six months of a fine of Rs 1,000 or both. The ordinance, however, states that every offence punishable under the section shall be cognizable and bailable. The Uttarakhand government had declared Covid-19 outbreak in the state as epidemic on March 14 following which it had brought the aforementioned ordinance for amendemnt in the act concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ordinance-gets-nod-people-violating-covid-19-norms-in-uttarakhand-could-face-jail-term/story-jnCAlTaM7qx2Q12sIRcT6N.html
17-06-2020||India||Bengal dropped from speaker’s list, Mamata Banerjee likely to skip PM Modi’s virtual meet today: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee may not attend the virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the coronavirus pandemic with the chief ministers on Wednesday after the state was not allowed a spot as a speaker, reports said.The Prime Minister has been holding consultations with the chief ministers from Tuesday as the country gradually emerges out of lockdown in the backdrop of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country.Prime Minister Modi will discuss the pandemic situation in Delhi on Wednesday along with Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, he held a video conference with the CMs from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states.News agency PTI said Mamata Banerjee is “undecided” about participating in a virtual meeting.It cited unnamed sources from her party, the Trinamool Congress, saying that Banerjee is still undecided about attending the meeting and the state would be represented in it by a senior government official.“What is the need for attending the meeting if you are not allowed to speak ... The chief minister is still undecided about attending the meeting with the prime minister,” a senior TMC leader told PTI.The sources, PTI said, that West Bengal has been invited to the meeting but has not been slotted as one of the speakers.This has kicked off a political storm in the state with the TMC criticising the Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for defending the “Centre’s decision as the right one”.“It seems the Centre’s so worried about exposing itself to @MamataOfficial’s constructive criticism on #COVID response that our hon’ble CM’s been reduced to just a mute spectator for the latest round of VCs with the PM. People of Bengal won’t forgive this,” Dinesh Trivedi, senior TMC leader and MP, tweeted.Trivedi’s remark was echoed by the TMC’s secretary general Partha Chatterjee. He said it is an attempt by the Centre to suppress West Bengal’s voice.“Just because Mamata Banerjee has been pointing out the lapses and wrong decisions in implementing the lockdown, she has been blacked out in the meeting. This is an attempt to scuttle democracy and the BJP government’s inability to face constructive criticism. We condemn it,” he said.The BJP’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh supported the Centre’s decision of not giving Banerjee the chance to speak and said the state government, apart from seeking funds, has done nothing during the previous such meetings.“The West Bengal government has been a complete failure in implementing the lockdown in the state. It has been busy in blaming the central government. In previous meetings our chief minister has done nothing apart from seeking funds,” Ghosh alleged.Banerjee had slammed the central government for “playing politics” on the issue of Covid-19 by trying to shift the blame on the states during the last virtual meeting between Modi and the chief ministers.She had said the onus lies with the Centre to come out with a clear strategy for the way forward.West Bengal has reported 11,494 cases of the coronavirus disease and 485 people have died so far, according to the Union health ministry.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-dropped-from-speaker-s-list-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-skip-pm-modi-s-virtual-meet-today-report/story-3V8eAEb5EP3n9XfQlFKI8L.html
17-06-2020||India||Assam man picked up during counter-insurgency operation dies in custody; probe ordered||Authorities in Assam’s Jorhat district have ordered a magisterial inquiry after a 30-year-old man, who was picked by during a counter-insurgency operation, died in custody.Jayanta Bora, a resident of Kakodonga village, was picked up by a joint team of Indian Army and state police on Sunday night. He was declared dead on arrival later at the Jorhat Medical College Hospital (JMCH).According to district officials, a team of 244 Field Regiment of the army based in neighbouring Charaideo district and police personnel of Borholla in Jorhat carried out the search operation based on information of the presence of ULFA-I and NSCN-IM cadres in the area.During the operation, Bora, whose father is an ex-serviceman, was picked up from his residence on suspicion of being a United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) cadre.Bora was first taken to the Borholla police station where the army “reported the person was feeling uneasy”. He was first taken to the local health centre and from there to JMCH where he was declared brought dead.Alleging torture by army and police as the cause of Bora’s death, residents of the village refused to accept the body.Roshni Aparanji Korati, Jorhat’s deputy commissioner, ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident on Monday.“We have directed the inquiry report to be submitted within 10 days. I have also written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into this incident,” Korati said while speaking to journalists.On Tuesday, three Assam police personnel were suspended in connection with the incident. The police have also registered a case and are investigating.“Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal assured that the case will be tried in a fast track court. A sum of Rs 6 lakh will be given to the deceased’s family as well as a government job to a kin,” Atul Bora, the state’s agriculture minister who visited Bora’s family on Tuesday, said.Following the incident, a meeting of the unified command comprising the army, police and administrative officials was held in Guwahati on Tuesday to discuss the security scenario in the state as well as counter-insurgency operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-picked-up-during-counter-insurgency-operation-dies-in-custody-probe-ordered/story-reU6bD6oe3PyxkHuA83H7M.html
17-06-2020||India||India-China border face-off at Galwan Valley: Latest developments||Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese soldiers at the border on Monday night. Initially, the Indian Army had put the number at three, but in an update on Tuesday evening, it said that 17 soldiers who were wounded in the clashes succumbed to injuries.The face-off has been going on for weeks. It began near the Pagong Lake in Ladakh on May 5-6.This is the first deadly conflict between India and China in at least 45 years. Around 43 Chinese soldiers have been injured in the violent face-off, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.Here are the latest developments on the India-China face-off:• The United States has said that it is “closely monitoring” the after the clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh. A senior State Department official said he hopes that the differences will be resolved peacefully.• The army has said that both Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged from the Galwan valley area where the clashes took place. Senior military officers had held talks in the area to defuse the situation.• In a statement, the army had said that it is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.• The External Affairs Ministry said the violent face-off was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region. Officials later said it could be a reference to an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC that was removed by Indian soldiers.• The officer killed in the clash is Colonel Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of the 16 Bihar regiment.• These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. However, no shots were fired this time.• Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs. The brawl went on for over six hours.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the Line of Control (LAC) on Tuesday evening and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options.• The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-face-off-at-galwan-valley-latest-developments/story-LxRQ4vr4g2wajNcFPOZGXK.html
17-06-2020||India||Nearly 12,000 deaths in 97 days: How India’s toll soared across states||India’s death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has exceeded the 10,000-mark after nearly 100 days since the first fatality was recorded in the country in March.The country added 2,004 deaths, including the 1,672 backlogged fatalities, and 10,951 infections in its Covid-19 tally on Tuesday, taking the toll to 11,919 from 353,853 infections, according to the HT dashboard.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is defined as the proportion of death to the total number of cases, rose from 2.9% to 3.4%.The Union health ministry, which updates its data every morning, is yet to reflect the backlogged deaths.The death toll in India surged beyond the 10,000-mark after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review. Their toll went by 437 and 1,409 respectively. Maharashtra recorded 81 cases through the day to take its total death count to 5,537. The state has had 113,445 Covid-19 cases and the new death numbers take its CFR to 4.9% from 3.7 a day earlier.The national capital also recorded the highest number of deaths – 93 – in a 24-hour period. Delhi now has recorded 44,688 infections in all and 1,837 of the patients have succumbed to the disease. Tuesday’s reconciling of numbers takes CFR in the city from 3.3% to 4.1% in a single day.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the jump in numbers was due to the death committee’s efforts over the last four days to go through all previous emails and add the deaths.“Some of the deaths were missed as a result of clerical and technological errors,” the official said asking not to be named.The official cited above said that most of the backlog deaths were from June.As of Tuesday, 83% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the five worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The 10 worst-affected states account for more than 96% of all deaths reported in India.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12 after a 76-year-old man who returned to Karnataka’s Kalburgi from Saudi Arabia tested positive and succumbed to the disease.India is the fourth worst-hit country in the world in terms of total Covid-19 cases but it has fared much better in terms of deaths where it comes on the eighth spot.Its total death trajectory is also a lot more gradual when compared to many other nations ravaged by the disease. India’s CFR is at 14% and is much lower than the global average of 56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-12-000-deaths-in-97-days-how-india-s-toll-soared-across-states/story-tSLP7x9IMebwDQ4Fo9LLGM.html
17-06-2020||India||Day 2 of PM Modi’s consultation with chief ministers on Covid-19 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the second round of consultation with chief ministers of various states on Wednesday, on the Covid-19 situation in the country. The meeting will take place at 3 pm.Today’s interaction will be held with chief ministers of 15 states, including Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and the LG of Jammu and Kashmir. These are the states where coronavirus cases are on a much higher side.However, there are reports that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee may not attend the virtual meeting after the state was not allowed a spot as a speaker. News agency PTI said Mamata Banerjee is “undecided” about participating in a virtual meeting.The situation in national capital Delhi, which has seen a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, will be discussed at length today. Home minister Amit Shah earlier held a series of meeting on the situation in Delhi - first with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and then with mayors of Delhi’s civic bodies.Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh will also attend today’s meeting, news agency ANI reported.On the first day of the consultations, the Prime Ministers told the chief ministers that the Indian economy was witnessing a recovery, and that “cooperative federalism” helped India deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.“We must focus on both life and livelihood, boost health infrastructure, testing and tracing as well as increase economic activity,” he said.PM Modi also said that deaths were contained to a minimum and that, with adequate precautions, India could emerge from the battle against the disease with “minimal damage”.The chief ministers provided feedback about existing health infrastructure in their states and efforts to augment the medical facilities. Tuesday’s interaction included CMs from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh spoke about micro-containment zones — an idea that found support from the Prime Minister. Singh said that in his state, the authorities were not sealing the entire street or an area if cases were found in a house; they were sealing only a few houses. Modi appreciated the idea and said other states could consider this model for replication.On the healthcare front, the PM said that timely decisions taken to tackle the pandemic contained the spread of the disease in India. “When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in the future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism. We have tried to save each and every life.”In particular, he highlighted India’s lower case fatality rate compared to the rest of the world, and the recovery rate.The PM’s comments come at a time when India reported a total of 353,853 cases, with 11,919 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-2-of-pm-modi-s-consultation-with-chief-ministers-on-covid-19-today/story-NmTqP5SFceNtuYYnCog4WJ.html
17-06-2020||India||100 days of Covid-19: Pandemic presents a new political paradigm||Think back to February this year. The political lexicon of India revolved around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register; Shaheen Bagh and protests; Namaste Trump; Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra and violence; and an economy in decline. A little over 100 days later, examine what has animated the Indian political discourse: Lockdown; migrant workers; testing; hospital beds; inter-state movement; the Mahatma Gandhi Nation Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS); Tablighi Jamaat; eastern Ladakh; Centre-state relations; digital rallies; economic recession; and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and its case count.It is now a truism to suggest that the pandemic has changed India, and Indian politics. But the past does not go away, and there is never — in history — a clean, new slate. But disruptive events have an ability to force transformation and throw out variables with long-lasting consequences.FIRST, RUPTURESOne, never in the history of Indian politics has public health been this significant. From testing capacity to providing personal protective equipment for health care workers, from increasing the number of beds across public and private hospitals to health services for patients with other medical conditions, public health and infrastructure has become central for the first time. What has changed is that all citizens across regions, castes, communities and classes today experience, simultaneously, the urgency of health care. Such a large collective experience cannot but have an impact on politics. Governments and parties will be judged on whether they were able to cope with the crisis; there will be louder demands for better health care; and India will need not just more doctors, but nurses, paramedical staff, and Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha workers) . Whether this translates into a longer term shift, where public services and quality of governance is the central issue in electoral debates and political discourse, is to be seen. Two, never in Indian history and politics have migrant workers been as central to public consciousness as they are today. When workers first began walking back to their villages and towns, soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, it was as if an invisible India appeared. In the absence of income and food, and given the deep yearning for emotional security of families and communities, tens of thousands of workers kept walking, as all public transportation had been stopped during the lockdown. The government, after 36 days of the lockdown, finally allowed their movement by buses, and then trains. This, however, was accompanied with a different set of controversies — from payment for their fares to lack of coordination between the Centre and states. The Supreme Court eventually stepped in, but its intervention was seen as coming rather late. The image of the migrant family walking back home will be the defining moment of this crisis and is a stark reflection of how the Indian State sometimes treats its poorest citizens. The scattered nature of migrant workers and their own heterogeneity made them politically weaker than usual. The weakening of trade union movements and the limited bargaining power of labour, especially in the unorganised sector, left them vulnerable.For the government, the challenge now is in providing opportunities to migrants who now want to stay home. For the opposition, the crisis presents an opportunity to channel the discontent of migrant workers. For the Indian political economy in general, the reverse migration could lead to a shift in the way labour markets operate. How migrant workers will act — will their economic identity become more important than other identity markers; will they stay home or return to the cities; will they be angry at the government or see it as a function of the pandemic — will determine political trends. Three, never in recent history has the country seen the kind of economic contraction that now seems inevitable. With the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic, factories and businesses shut down, supply chains got disrupted, company revenues went down and unemployment soared. There is a real possibility that millions of people may be pushed back to poverty. The government first announced a relief package of ₹1.7 lakh crore for the marginalised, and followed it up a month and a half later, with a cumulative ₹20 lakh crore stimulus. But the package has come under criticism for lacking a strong enough fiscal component. Economists believe that while the structural reforms announced are important, they may not solve the crisis at hand.There is a clear link between the state of the economy and politics. If distress grows, businesses continue to close down and millions find themselves deprived of basic incomes, there is a real possibility of social unrest. But if governments use this as an opportunity to rethink the nature of growth, provide immediate relief through a possible universal basic income, ramp up the welfare architecture, provide a buffer through a larger fiscal stimulus, and succeed in attracting investment, the future could be different. India’s political economy is at a crossroads. Four, never have political parties had to innovate on such a scale to continue their internal functioning as well retain their connect with people. To adhere to the norms of social distancing, large gatherings have been prohibited; even face-to-face meetings have declined. Political parties have turned to technology. The most visible symbols of this include the digital rallies that the Bharatiya Janata Party is organising across the country and the digital conversations Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is having with Indian and global thought leaders. This trend will accelerate, especially for elections. Parties will rely even more on the mobile phone to reach out to voters. Data will become even more powerful in the micro targeting of voters. Large rallies will have to give way to either virtual gatherings or very limited, localised small meetings. Normal political activity and the value of direct human interface can never be substituted. But the form of both political outreach and political communication will change. And five, never has Indian federalism been put to test as now. To be sure, India has always had a division of powers but rarely have states and the Centre had to work on a single issue, for weeks at end, together. This was most clearly reflected in the five meetings held between the PM and chief ministers (a sixth is scheduled this week). While this coordination began on a promising note, there have also been increasing differences between the Centre and Opposition-ruled states — especially on the duration of the lockdown, financial support, health protocols, and movement of migrant workers. What is clear is that the power balance that forms the basis of Indian federal arrangements will change. Some states which have performed credibly will manage to enhance their political capital; other states which have struggled will see an erosion of their power and greater central intervention. But fundamentally, this can open up a conversation on the division of powers (in terms of Union, state and concurrent lists) especially in a crisis. NOW, CONTINUITIESOne, leadership will continue to be a critical component in parties and a key basis on which voters judge parties. And on this metric, Narendra Modi still ranks above others. The structure of power between the BJP and the non-BJP parties remains tilted towards the former in substantial ways. Two, inter-community relations will remain fragile — as witnessed during the Tablighi Jamaat controversy, which was used by a section to introduce a communal element to the Covid-19 crisis.There is a clear possibility that the pandemic may reinforce existing cleavages in society and push people back to narrow, parochial identity grouping.Three, India’s security challenges will persist. As we can see with the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, Pakistan’s continued efforts to create terror in Jammu and Kashmir, and now, Nepal’s decision to pass a map which incorporates territory claimed and controlled by India, the neighbourhood will remain difficult. And four, Indian institutions will remain under scrutiny. It took months for the judiciary to address the migrant crisis; the nature of investigation and arrests over the Delhi riots in February points to politics colouring independent probes; the fact that major legislations have been pushed through the ordinance route without parliamentary scrutiny speaks of the weakness of the legislature. The dialectic between the ruptures and continuities will determine India’s future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-days-of-covid-19-pandemic-presents-a-new-political-paradigm/story-ByKnMOm7C0NaZFKpjiqiyJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, asks for rollback in fuel price hikes||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to roll back recent fuel price hikes and pass on the benefit of reduced international crude oil rates to consumers. “(If) you want citizens to be self-reliant then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward,” she said.In her letter, Gandhi said the hikes came at a time when the country was facing unprecedented public health, economic and social challenges during the ongoing battle against Covid-19 pandemic. “I am deeply distressed that in these exceedingly difficult times since the beginning of March, the government has taken the wholly insensitive decision to increase petrol and diesel prices on no less than ten separate occasions,” she wrote.The letter came a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the government over the increase in petrol and diesel prices.The opposition party also wants that the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG be reduced to the August 2004 level. The price of petrol then was ~36.81 per litre; diesel was sold at ~24.16 per litre and LPG ~261.60 per cylinder in Delhi, it said.On Tuesday, petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 10th straight day. Petrol was hiked by ~0.47 per litre to be at ~76.73 per litre, while diesel rates were increased ~0.57 to be at ~75.19 a litre. A petroleum ministry spokesperson declined to comment on the issue.However, an oil ministry official said on the condition of anonymity that fuel retailers enjoy pricing freedom and pair pump prices of petrol and diesel on the basis of international prices. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and that of diesel on October 19, 2014.Alleging that the government is earning out of the pockets of the poor by imposing high taxes on fuel, the Congress has been demanding that fuel be brought under the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST).“Your government is seeking to earn an additional revenue of nearly ~2,60,000 crore by these ill-advised hikes in excise duty and increases in petrol and diesel. As it is, people across the board are facing unimaginable hardships...,” the Congress chief said.“These price increases are saddling our people with an additional burden of this enormous magnitude that is neither justified nor appropriate. It is the duty and responsibility of the government to alleviate suffering, not put the people to still greater hardship,” she added.Gandhi questioned the “logic” behind such an increase at a time when the economic impact of Covid-19 is “depriving millions of jobs and livelihood, devastating business big and small, rapidly eroding the income” of the middle class.She said it is a matter of record that despite historically low oil prices over the last six years, the government’s revenues have been massively enriched by the cumulative increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel on twelve different occasions (by an additional ~23.78 per litre on petrol and ~28.37 on diesel). Gandhi urged the Prime Minister to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit of low oil prices directly to the citizens. “If you wish for them to be ‘self-reliant’ then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward. And I am once again obliged to repeat what I have said before: please use the government’s resources to put money directly into the hands of those who need it in this time of severe hardship,” she said.The issue will also come up for discussion at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on June 23.Later in the day, Rahul Gandhi once again attacked the Prime Minister over the issue. “PM Modi, these tragic times dictate putting money directly in the hands of the middle class and poor. STOP profiteering from their misery,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-asks-for-rollback-in-fuel-price-hikes/story-ZOCHWnHZvUnIPlMDz8WpOO.html
17-06-2020||India||US ‘closely monitoring’ India- China border issue, supports peaceful resolution||The United States on Tuesday said it is “closely monitoring” the situation between India and China after a violent face-off between troops of the two countries at the Line of Actual Control and has extended support to a peaceful resolution of the current situation.“We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation,” a State Department spokesperson said.This comes hours after India said that 20 of its army personnel were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galway Valley at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. During their phone call on June 2, 2020, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi discussed the situation on the India-China border,” the spokesperson further said. Also read| A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedDuring the faceoff, the external affairs ministry said, both sides suffered casualties and the Chinese side had departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in the Galwan Valley.The faceoff happened on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-issue-supports-peaceful-resolution/story-3xS0DV5P0hQUyrivAPB4rJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Firmly committed to protect India’s sovereignty’: Army’s statement on Galwan valley face-off||A commanding officer of an infantry battalion and 19 other Indian soldiers were killed on Monday evening when a clash erupted between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley of Eastern Ladakh.The Indian Army had initially said that an officer and two soldiers were killed in action. In an update on Tuesday evening, the army said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.Read the full statement: Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020. 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20. Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-s-releases-full-statement-on-ladakh-faceoff-between-india-china-troops/story-vF4d5995ObHFy9KRQKW2RO.html
17-06-2020||India||What is China trying to achieve: 5 experts weigh in||Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology:With the Indian Army now sustaining fatalities in the tense border confrontation with China, the key question is what China’s objective is. Regardless of the tactical details and the legal and linguistic gymnastics over whether China has entered Indian “territory”, there is no question that the scope, scale and swath of Chinese pressure is unprecedented and strategic. There are many hypotheses but few definitive answers: Is this about Indian infrastructure development along the DSDBO [Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie] road? Article 370? To settle the border unilaterally on their terms through fait accompli? General assertiveness East and West? Something else? Without any definitive statements from the Chinese, we are left with much speculation. And it is when the Chinese say nothing that one should worry. The objective may become clear in due time, but one thing is clear now: The PLA came to play and they came to stay, and they are intent on making India pay.Rajiv Bhatia, former ambassador , distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House:China’s recent intrusions aim to serve three purposes: First, to stop or slow down India’s border infrastructure development, second, to restrict New Delhi to South Asia, thus reducing its ambitions for a global role, and three, to weaken the traction the Quad partnership has been gaining of late. Kathmandu and Islamabad are happy to lend a helping hand to Beijing on the second objective mentioned above. Our response has to be firm and resolute.Nitin Pai, director of The Takshashila Institution, an independent think tank:For Beijing, border transgressions are a cheap instrument to apply pressure on India’s political leadership. The Chinese side doesn’t tell you “why”, “why now”, and indeed what their claim actually is. By keeping New Delhi guessing as to its intentions, Beijing puts the Indian government on the back foot on lots of issues. For instance, we are now asking whether it is to pressure India to stay neutral in the WHO investigation on the origins of Covid-19, whether it is to retaliate against FDI restrictions, to coerce India on the 5G issue, to counter the Modi government’s move to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir, or indeed in response to purely military developments.Christopher Clary, assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, State University of New York:China has a set of fuzzy claims all along its boundary with India, and the American scholar M Taylor Fravel has found that China historically has escalated militarily when it perceives steps taken by others erode the likelihood of China ever securing its territorial claims. In this case, Indian road- and bridge-building in the area, especially combined with Ladakh’s change to union territory status, may have led China to conclude a sharp signal might be necessary to arrest developments weakening its hold on disputed areas in eastern Ladakh.Harsh V Pant, head of the strategic studies programme at Observer Research Foundation:China’s actions along the LAC, which have gradually escalated in tone and tempo over the last few weeks, are a reflection of its growing military capabilities and its attempts to dictate the terms of engagement to India. First, this puts into perspective New Delhi’s inability to put its own house in order by highlighting the power differential between the two Asian powers. Simply put, China is doing this because it can today and might not tomorrow. Second, this is an attempt by China to show India its place at a time when India’s cachet has been rising globally and China’s declining on account of the backlash because of its mishandling of Covid-19. Finally, this is a pre-emptive move by China to make it difficult for India to consolidate New Delhi’s hold over strategically important Ladakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-china-trying-to-achieve-5-experts-weigh-in/story-Jai6IGvvk7l3HrOSeVeN6O.html
17-06-2020||India||Political row erupts as Opposition takes on Centre||The Congress on Tuesday said the deaths of an army officer and two soldiers in a violent face-off with Chinese troops were “deeply shocking, horrifying and unacceptable” and alleged that the Modi government has been a mute spectator to China’s transgressions in Ladakh area since April-May this year. The party’s statements came after the initial army statement. The army, late on Tuesday night, said, “During the de-escalation process underway in the Galwan Valley, a violent face-off took place on Monday night with casualties. The loss of lives on the Indian side includes an officer and two soldiers.”The standoff between the troops of India and China in Ladakh will be discussed at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on June 23.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said India has the political will and its army is fully equipped to take on any adversary and added that the borders of India will remain intact under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“During the de-escalation process that was underway in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, a violent face-off took place with Chinese army. Indian army gave a befitting reply, but unfortunately, we have lost our three army men. I pay homage to them for their sacrifice and I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised,” BJP chief JP Nadda said, addressing a virtual rally for the party’s Kerala workers.In a statement, Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala questioned the “silence” of the Prime Minister and defence minister Rajnath Singh on the death of the Indian soldiers.India and China are currently engaged in a military dialogue for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between their border troops that flared up in early May. Last week, the Indian army announced that the two sides started a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions. However, Indian officials confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces has extended as far as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. The talks continued, and were even held on Monday; that evening, the two sides scrapped violently. “To the distress and dismay of the entire nation, the Prime Minister and the defence minister remain absolutely mum. They must come forward and answer if the Chinese have killed an Indian army officer and soldiers in the Galwan valley? If true, it is indeed, deeply shocking, horrifying and unacceptable,” Surjewala said.He alleged that the Modi government remained a “mute spectator” as reports of brazen Chinese transgressions at three points into the Indian territory in Ladakh since April and May this year have caused grave concerns.“In last five decades, not a single casualty or martyrdom of our soldiers has occurred or happened on the Indo-China border i.e. LAC,” he said. “There can be no compromise with India’s security and territorial Integrity. Reports of Chinese army moving thousands of troops in Galwan valley and Pangong Tso Lake area (Ladakh) shocked the entire nation as an audacious attempt on our territorial integrity,” the Congress leader added.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Words cannot describe the pain I feel for the officers and men who sacrificed their lives for our country. My condolences to all their loved ones. We stand with you in this difficult time.”BJP’s national general secretary (organisaton) BL Santhosh tweeted, “…As a country it’s time to stand with our forces & Govt. Rest everything can wait.”“Indian efforts at building infrastructure in a never before scale increased Chinese worries. Our forces were resolute in forcing Chinese troops to retreat. In the process yesterday we have lost 3 brave Deshbhakt soldiers . Veer Sadgati to the departed souls . The picture on the Chinese side is yet to emerge . It is still more huge,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-erupts-as-opposition-takes-on-centre/story-XjPk4HljmPFEcYBGlJByUI.html
17-06-2020||India||Beijing’s Tibet plan, Delhi’s infra push possible triggers for China’s troop build-up||Analysts say there could be a host of reasons behind China’s massive troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that flared up into the first conflict between the sides in almost 45 years: from Beijing’s desire to tighten its grip on Tibet to anger over New Delhi’s rapid development of infrastructure in border areas.Tensions between the two sides first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the “violent face-off” in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left at least 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.“The obvious priority for the Chinese side in Galwan Valley appears to be to move the perception of the LAC to their advantage,” said one of several people familiar with developments who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity.This sentiment in New Delhi appears to have been vindicated as a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”This is what China does, the people cited above pointed out: forcibly establish a military presence in a disputed region and then stake claim to it.The people said China was also irked by India’s speedy development of infrastructure, especially in recent years, in strategic sections of the LAC, including in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. This includes bridges and other structures along the key Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road.But there could have been other irritants as well. “Then there’s Tibet and the Dalai Lama factor. Chinese officials have been saying for some time that India shouldn’t come in the way of their efforts to choose the next Dalai Lama. The current Dalai Lama is based in India along with the Tibetan administration in-exile and that’s always been a problem for China,” said a second person.Or it could be plain old-fashioned distraction. The people said China’s actions along the LAC could also have been aimed at countering growing criticism within the country and abroad of Beijing’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the calls from several countries, including India, for an examination of the response from global bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) as well as a probe to identify the “zoonotic source” of the virus and the route that led to human infections.“Linking the border stand-off to the pandemic may sound far-fetched to some but President Xi Jinping has been strongly criticised within the country for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. This stand-off could help burnish his image and also help distract attention from the blame from around the world,” said the second person.“China has also watched the role India has sought to play in shaping the post-Covid world order and they could be thinking this is the perfect way to cut India down to size,” the second person added.The people attributed the timing of the troop build-up and intrusions into the Indian side of the LAC to the preparations apparently done by the Chinese side over the winter months.“This was a coldly calculated move and there doesn’t seem to be anything spontaneous about their actions. They prepared through the winter and acted as summer set in,” said a third person.Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), said the time has come for the Indian government to take the opposition parties into confidence so that the political leadership could present a united stand on the border stand-off. He too said the Tibet factor could have influenced China’s actions along the LAC.“The government has to take the opposition into confidence and brief them and plan a coordinated response before things spiral further out of control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beijing-s-tibet-plan-delhi-s-infra-push-possible-triggers/story-tAcUN2CpZgMzewjJ3kMMXI.html
17-06-2020||India||India’s death toll soars past 10K, backlog deaths raise count by 437 in Delhi, 1,409 in Maharashtra||The death toll in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared past the 10,000-mark on Tuesday after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, increasing their total count by 437 and 1,409 respectively. In all, the country added 2,004 deaths -- including the 1,672 backlogged fatalities -- and 10,951 infections in its Covid tally on Tuesday. The national capital also recorded the highest number of deaths – 93 -- in a 24-hour period. The city has now has recorded 44,688 infections in all with 1,837 of them succumbing to the disease. Tuesday’s reconciling of numbers takes case fatality rate (CFR) in the city from 3.3% to 4.1% in a single day.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the jump in numbers was due to the death committee’s efforts over the last four days to go through all previous mails and add the deaths. “Some of the deaths were missed as a result of clerical and technological errors,” said this person, asking not to be named. Most of the backlog deaths were from June, with a few pending from before, this person said.In Maharashtra, the state recorded 81 cases through the day to takes its total death count to 5,537. The state has had 113,445 cases, and the new death numbers take its CFR to 4.9% from 3.7 a day earlier.Overall, India’s CFR rose from 2.9% to 3.4% as the country now has had 11,919 fatalities from 353,853 infections.While the first 5,000 deaths took 80 days, the latest 5,000 fatalities came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in just the last week.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12, with a 76-year-old man who returned to Kalburgi in Karnataka from Saudi Arabia testing positive and succumbing to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-death-toll-soars-past-10k-backlog-deaths-raise-count-by-437-in-delhi-1-409-in-maharashtra/story-9GNbe7iMBKLsiHtByjRKCJ.html
17-06-2020||India||A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explained||India and China, on Monday evening engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.Timeline of the weeks-long stand-off and the ensuing clash between India and China:May 5-6: Violent clash between Indian and Chinese patrols on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake. Soldiers exchange blows, throw stones at each other and Chinese troops attack Indian soldiers with nail-studded clubs. Scores of soldiers (from both sides) injured in the skirmish involving 250 men.May 9: Tensions spread to eastern sector. Heated confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim’s Naku La area. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers injured during the face-off involving 150 soldiers.May 10: Army issues statement confirming Naku La face-off, says aggressive behaviour by soldiers led to injuries on both sides. Army officers also confirm the Pangong Tso clash.May 12: Reports of tensions building up in Galwan Valley emerge. In a statement, army reiterates “face-offs and aggressive behaviour occur” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as the boundary is not resolved.May 19: As tensions simmer in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, China’s foreign ministry accuses Indian troops of trespassing across LAC, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian side allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.May 21: India strongly refutes China’s contention that tensions in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors were triggered by Indian troops. External affairs ministry says Indian activities entirely on the Indian side of LAC and China hindering India’s normal patrols.May 22: Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane makes a low-key visit to Leh-based 14 Corps headquarters for a security review of the sensitive sector. Troop build-up and military reinforcement from both sides. May 25: China marshals close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements.May 27: The army’s top brass discusses security issues including the ongoing border row with China in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese soldiers are locked in a standoff at multiple points.May 30: Defence minister Rajnath Singh says India and China talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the standoff, assures the country that government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt.June 2: In the first official acknowledgement of a troop build-up along the border with China, Singh says a significant number of Chinese troops are present along LAC and that the Indian Army is matching the neighbour’s military moves.June 6: In a rare meeting between top military officers, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, discuss de-escalation plan.June 9: Army officers say China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along LAC, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets. They say “limited military disengagement” has started in the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.June 10: Indian and Chinese delegations, led by Major General-rank officers, meet at Patrolling Point 14 at the Galwan Valley area as part continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that has eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots. This is the fourth round of talks between the two-star generals to break the stalemate.June 12: Major General-rank officers meet for the fifth time to discuss de-escalation plan and ease border tensions. Chinese deployment in their ‘depth areas’ across LAC includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars. June 13: Army chief says disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces taking place in a “phased manner” along LAC with China where the situation is “under control”.June 15: Army delegations from India and China hold discussions again. Talks take place at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers meet in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs.The engagement between the two sides happens the same evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-timeline-india-china-s-deadliest-border-clash-since-1975-explained/story-9Ct6lHQKkRuXM5w2K5xmwO.html
17-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On June 15, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a study based on studying 1.3 million cases of the coronavirus disease reported to CDC between January 22 and May 31. Of these, around 290,000 people had significant underlying conditions (the study is clear that while more may have had such conditions, CDC did not have information on these). None of these numbers is insignificant. 1.3 million is a large enough sample. So is 290,000.The study is a treasure trove of information on the people affected by Covid-19. While each population is different, there is a high likelihood that this information will also be applicable to people infected with the virus here.So, what do we know?ONE: The chances of the virus infecting men and women are roughly the same. Put otherwise, there’s an equal chance of the virus infecting men and women.But women do seem more resilient to the virus as indicated by previous research from Italy.Only one in eight women infected required hospitalisation as compared to one in six men; and one in 16 men died, as compared to one in 20 women.TWO: People over the age of 80 are the most likely to get the disease. How likely? Well, there is a 0.9% chance of someone over the age of 80 contracting the infection. The probability for the overall population is 0.4%. Interestingly, there is a 0.54% chance and a 0.55% chance of people between the ages of 40 and 49, and 50 and 59 respectively contracting the disease, higher than the chances of anyone between the ages of 60 and 79 contracting it. Children under the age of 9 have the least probability of being infected, 0.05%.The important thing is to understand these probabilities. They are not very high but also not very low — the probability of being killed in a road accident in the US is around .012%.As an aside, CDC’s study shows that the median age across these 1.3 million cases, was 48. That’s not too high. The median or the “middle” is a good statistical measure of the typical age of those infected by the disease. While 48 isn’t young, it definitely isn’t old either.THREE: Only 14% of those infected were hospitalised (this is not to be read as “needed hospitalisation” because that number will likely be higher), and around 16% or one in every six people admitted in hospitals needed ICU treatment.It’s important to note that unlike in India, where, at least in the initial stages of the pandemic’s run, even people with mild symptoms or no symptoms were admitted in hospitals, in the US, it is usually people in distress from the disease who were (and are) admitted. That could explain why 39% of the people hospitalised in the US died. But overall, only around 5% of those infected died.FOUR: Almost half (45.4%) of the people with underlying conditions — what we call co-morbidities; usually heart problems, diabetes, or lung disease, although, in India, kidney disease seems to be a co-morbidity that has a high correlation with Covid-19 fatalities — were hospitalised. In contrast, according to CDC, only 7.6% without an underlying condition were hospitalised.More worryingly, almost one in five (19.5%) of infected people who had an underlying condition died. Only 1.6% of infected people without an underlying condition died.This clearly means that reasonably healthy people, with no major co-morbidities, have a good chance of outlasting the coronavirus disease, although actuaries would still describe a 1.6% fatality rate as too high (at the level of the population, it is).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-9i3xiVrMDY0NyxvVCHFF4O.html
17-06-2020||India||UN chief expresses concern about reports of violence, deaths at LAC between India, China||UN chief Antonio Guterres has expressed concern over reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urged both sides to exercise “maximum restraint,” his spokesperson said on Tuesday.A total of 20 Indian Army personnel were killed during a violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, escalating the already volatile border standoff between the two sides, an Army statement said on Tuesday.Eri Kaneko, Associate Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, made the comments at the daily press briefing.“We are concerned about reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urge both sides to exercise maximum restraint. We take positive note of reports that the two countries have engaged to deescalate the situation,” Kaneko said.Kaneko was responding to a question on the death of Indian Army personnel in a violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley amid escalating tensions at the LAC.Initially, the Indian Army said one officer and two soldiers were killed. Later in the night, an Army statement said 17 more soldiers who “were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20.” “Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020,” it said, adding that the “Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.China has not released any information on the casualties suffered by the People’s Liberation Army soldiers during the violent face-off in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-chief-expresses-concern-about-reports-of-violence-deaths-at-lac-between-india-china/story-Xr7ux6j379lYNNe7j0IOOP.html
17-06-2020||India||China suffered 43 casualties in violent face-off in Galwan Valley, reveal Indian intercepts||Indian intercepts reveal that Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured in the violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, sources confirmed to ANI.The violent face-off happened on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh and the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, India said on Tuesday. At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off, government sources said and added that the casualty numbers could rise.External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said earlier in the day that both sides suffered casualties in the violent face-off and the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held two review meetings over developments in Eastern Ladakh during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-suffered-43-casualties-in-violent-face-off-in-galwan-valley-reveal-indian-intercepts/story-7JhOt8tC6cfC9bx3CUzrTI.html
17-06-2020||India||20 Indian soldiers killed in LAC stand-off with Chinese troops||Days after they appeared to have settled the six-weeks-long eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation between their troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC), India and China, on Monday evening engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low. The immediate spark for the conflict at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh isn’t known, although it could have been about Chinese soldiers dragging their feet about removing some of the installations they erected in May in an area India claims as its own. The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this. Also read: Have disengaged, says Indian Army day after 20 soldiers killed in clash with PLAThe ministry of external affairs’ spokesperson Anurag Srivastava blamed Chinese troops for the incident, and referred to the meeting between army commanders of the two sides on June 6 that agreed “on a process of de-escalation” after the two sides deployed heavily on their respective sides of the LAC, which has never been defined. “While it was our expectation that this would unfold smoothly, the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect LAC in the Galwan Valley,” he said. Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the PLA’s Western Theater Command, in turn, blamed India for the clashes, on similar lines that the Chinese foreign ministry did earlier.“In the evening of June 15, in the area of the Galwan Valley on the Sino-Indian border, the Indian Army, contrary to its commitments, once again crossed the LAC and carried out illegal activities, deliberately launching provocative attacks,” Zhang said in a statement issued in Mandarin.Earlier, a spokesperson for that country’s foreign ministry said that on “June 15, the Indian side severely violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line and attacked the Chinese forces”. Also read: Proud that our son gave his life for country, say parents of Col Santosh BabuExperts said the motives for China’s aggression in eastern Ladakh could be varied. “Is this about Indian infrastructure development along the DSDBO [Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie] road? Article 370? To settle the border unilaterally on their terms through fait accompli? General assertiveness East and West? Something else?” asked Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.However, no shots were fired this time. Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. Under an informal understanding between the two sides, evolved over years of discussions over a contentious LAC, forward troops either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on. Some soldiers on both sides fell into the water. This wasn’t the first time the two armies engaged in fisticuffs or used stones and rods to attack each other in the area.In New Delhi, defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the LAC and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options, defence ministry officials said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of the meetings.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday in the wake of the border confrontation.The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers.Indian Army officials who asked not to be named said 43 may have died or been injured. They added that enhanced air activity was witnessed on the Chinese side, possibly indicating the bodies of the PLA soldiers were being lifted. The flashpoint came when the Indian soldiers removed an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC, officials said. The deceased included Col B Santosh Babu, commanding officer of 16 Bihar, Havildar K Palani of 81 Field Regiment and Havildar Sunil Kumar Jha, also of 16 Bihar.The army statement added that “17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand-off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total killed in action to 20.” The army said the incident took place at a time the de-escalation process was “underway in the Galwan Valley”. It said senior military officials of the two sides met to defuse the situation.Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash. The outcome of the talks was not immediately known.The ongoing border scrap began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. It now seems to have gone from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China have held a series of discussions along the LAC to break the stalemate.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) flagged concerns about the “serious escalation” along the LAC, saying that it reflected the heightened tensions on the ground. “This will require diplomatic intervention,” he said.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.Officials said limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times last week.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries were also injured near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle involving around 250 men.“We remain firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the external affairs ministry’s Srivastava said. (With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis in Beijing and Rezaul H Laskar in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-indian-soldiers-killed-in-lacstand-off-with-chinese-troops/story-1qTQWKJjba6xXAKwyMh2aM.html
17-06-2020||India||Advisory urges domestic help in urban slums to stay home for now||India’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which functions under the health ministry, has issued an advisory for urban slums in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, asking house helps in these areas to take a short break from work in order to ensure that neither they nor their employers catch the infection.“Any family member working as domestic help in neighbourhood should request exemption from service for a short period of two weeks so as to ensure that neither the employer nor employee acquires and spreads COVID-19. If they are required to go to work, they should practice proper hand washing with soap and water at and after work,” the advisory said.Urban areas in India, particularly slums, have been found to be most vulnerable in various surveys.The NCDC advisory said neighbourhoods should identify volunteers in order to ensure people follow home quarantine for the time specified.Health authorities will share the list of those advised to go in home quarantine with local representatives/ward members, who should be informed by the volunteers if there is any breach, according to the advisory.It said all residents should have access to soap and water for frequent hand-washing for at least 20 seconds, and local leaders need to check the spread of rumours and misinformation related to the disease. If an infection is detected in a locality, the Centre’s containment plan will be put in place, according to the document, which asked residents to cooperate with health authorities.“For communities, inadequate shelter and overcrowding are risk factors in the transmission of diseases with epidemic potential such as Covid-19. Unauthorized colonies and Jhuggi-Jhopri clusters pose a serious human problem as a huge population is living in these colonies,” the government document said.In a recent serological survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), about 1.89% of the population in urban slums surveyed — as opposed to the 1.09% in urban areas surveyed and 0.73% in overall population surveyed in over 20 states — showed past exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the infection. A sero survey is conducted by testing blood samples to determine the presence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2.According to the 2011 Census, there were 2,613 towns/cities with such settlements having a total population of 65.4 million in 13.9 million households. The government’s focus is now on containing the disease’s spread in urban areas, and to ensure the virus did not affect rural areas or green zones, which are largely unaffected at the moment.“Urban areas are densely populated that puts the population at a higher risk of contracting infection. However, we must realise that no two urban settlements are the same; so there is a need to draft a micro plan for prevention and containment keeping in mind the local conditions of the area. In Delhi, if you see, there are several types of residential colonies and each would require a specific containment plan, especially those that are more populated,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine faculty, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisory-urges-domestic-help-in-urban-slums-to-stay-home-for-now/story-xcnTBIu1W4mn7kqKinHtsO.html
17-06-2020||India||Heartland sees decline in cases as migrants’ return slows down||Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Jharkhand have over the last week reported a decline in Covid-19 cases for the first time since May 1 when migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 pandemic started returning to their homes in larger numbers with the start of special trains for them. A bulk of the workers employed in better-off places like Maharashtra are from these four states. The return of the workers coincided with a spike in the number of infections in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and JharkhandAs many as 356 cases daily were reported in the second week of June in Uttar Pradesh, compared to 412 in the first week of the month. “Over 500 cases were reported on Saturday and Sunday because of the results of the pending test reports. Otherwise, the rate of increase has gone down,” said principal secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad. Officials said the return of three million workers to Uttar Pradesh since mid-April caused a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. Prasad said till June 14, there were 1.6 million migrant workers under home quarantine and only 1,455 of them had coronavirus symptoms. “Samples of those who showed symptoms have been taken,” he said.Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the number of cases has increased but the rate of growth has slowed down. There was a 10.81% increase in the cases in the second week of June compared to about 12% in the first. “The peak of returning migrant workers is over,” said Singh, explaining the decrease. The number of cases in Bihar increased to 6,581 on June 15 from 3,923 on June 1.The railway ministry also reduced the number of special trains from June 15 because of a decrease in their demand.According to Bihar public relations department, around 2.1 million workers have returned to Bihar since May 1. Only 2,50,000 of them came in the first two weeks of June. “Most of the migrant workers, who arrived by Shramik special trains to Bihar between May 3 and June 11, have completed their mandatory [14-day] quarantine period,” said Anupam Kumar, Bihar’s public relations secretary. Anupam Kumar said only 6,082 workers were in quarantine centres as on Monday. He added they expect the cases to go down as very few workers are expected to return.Jharkhand has on average reported 50 cases daily after June 8 when it recorded the highest ever single-day spike with 187 infections. From 610 cases on May 31, the state’s tally on June 15 increased to 1,151. “The inflow of migrants was very high in May leading to a huge backlog of untested samples. As we cleared the backlog, there was a spike in cases,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. “The inflow of migrants has substantially reduced... we have seen a downward trend of the Covid growth...”The number of cases recorded in Madhya Pradesh fell from 1,424 in the last week of May to 1,401 in the second week of June. Officials said it is because only 54,282 workers have returned to the state in June compared to over 300,000 in May. “...49,280 are under home quarantined and remaining under institutional quarantined,” said an official. (With inputs from Ranjan in Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heartland-sees-decline-in-cases-as-migrants-return-slows-down/story-NdRhZ9yg1y23so7mJRsAsI.html
17-06-2020||India||Travelling in trains without tickets may not attract jail term||The Railways is planning to remove provisions for imprisonment from several minor offences, making acts such as travelling without a ticket or riding on the footboard punishable only with penalties. The move, a part of Centre’s plans to decriminalise a bunch of Indian laws and provisions in order to ease the burden on courts, also involves removing offences such as begging as an illegal activity from the Railways Act of 1989. The ministry has now begun a comprehensive review of all provisions of the law and is likely to make is easier to prosecute minor violations through “compounding with the objective of preventing harassment of citizens, de-clogging the criminal justice system and promoting ease of doing business,” according to an official aware of the development. Compounding refers to the practice of using on-spot fines.“The cabinet secretary had asked all ministries to review such minor offences. We are under the process of reviewing existing laws for the ministry,” said Arun Kumar, the director general of the Railway Protection Force, the law enforcement agency with jurisdiction over the Indian railways network. It passes on suspects to the Government Railway Police (GRP) that investigates and prosecutes an offence.The security of passengers and their belongings in trains and on railway premises is the shared responsibility of the RPF and the GRP. The responsibility for arrest and prosecution for minor offences falls with the RPF. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba had asked for the review in a letter to all ministries and departments on June 1.At present, carrying out an offence while in a train, a railway station or on railway property is punishable either by a fine, jail term or both. Among the offences that will no longer include a jail term are pulling the alarm chain for no reason, travelling without authorisation, trespassing and riding in reserved coaches. According to the official quoted in the first instance, 16 sections under the act have been identified to be diluted.Some of these are: Sections 137 (travelling without proper pass/authority), 141 (alarm chain pulling), 144 (hawking), 145 (committing nuisance), 147 (trespass and failure to desist from trespass), 157(altering/defacing pass/ticket), 159(disobedience of lawful instructions by drivers in railway area), 162 (unauthorized travel in ladies coaches), 166 (penalties for littering) and 167 (smoking in passenger area).The penalty for travelling without a ticket at present, for instance, could be a fine of up to ₹1,000 or a prison term that extends to six months.“The ministry has sought comments from railway officers for the proposal,” the official said. There are nearly 37 penal offences under Railway Act at present.According to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) the number of chain pulling incidents reported in 2019 was 55,373, while 45,784 were arrested and 43,951 prosecuted. According to National Crime Records Bureau’s crime data for 2018 the RPF registered 10,94,684 cases and crimes in railways registered by GRP stood at 1,01,638 cases registered.Law enforcement veterans said decriminalising petty crimes may not be a good idea but making them compoundable is a good move. “As a police officer I will not be in favour of decriminalising petty offences but making the offences on the spot fines and compounding the offence then and there is a good move. I support this,” said former Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar. “Decriminalisation of minor offences, including those of the Railways Act is a step in the right direction. However, there are a couple of concerns - Firstly, the decision to decriminalise should be based on robust evidence-based research of the implementation of each legislation rather than blanket decriminalisation of minor offences across multiple legislations. Secondly, there are more than 350 central statutes that stipulate imprisonment. If the objective is also to unclog the criminal justice system and prisons and reduce the unnecessary incarceration of people, then the government has to look beyond these legislations focused primarily at economic offences,” said Raja Bagga, senior researcher, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-plans-to-do-away-with-jail-terms-for-petty-offences/story-XlO3wqD4IFahwBlHPlOQuO.html
17-06-2020||India||Steroid reduces Covid-19 deaths up to a third, shows UK trial||A cheap and easily available steroid has proven to reduce deaths by up to one third in severely ill patients with the Covid-19, according to a trial in the United Kingdom that now offers one of the strongest hopes of tackling a disease that has claimed more than 430,000 lives this year. The results – described as a major breakthrough by the researchers -- were released on Tuesday by the University of Oxford. The study involved 2,104 patients who were randomly given dexamethasone and their recovery was compared with 4,321 patients getting only usual care. “Dexamethasone is the first drug to be shown to improve survival in Covid-19. This is an extremely welcome result. The survival benefit is clear and large in those patients who are sick enough to require oxygen treatment, so dexamethasone should now become standard of care in these patients,” said Peter Horby, professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases in the Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, and one of the chief investigators for the trial. “Dexamethasone is inexpensive, on the shelf, and can be used immediately to save lives worldwide,” he added.The results were described by experts such as the UK government’s chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance as “ground-breaking” and came on a day the Imperial College London announced it will begin its human trial for a vaccine from this week.Oxford said that it began the RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trial in March to test a range of potential treatments for Covid-19, including low-dose dexamethasone. Over 11,500 patients have been enrolled from over 175 hospitals in the UK. The trial also recently found that hydroxychloroquine did not lead to any significant benefits.A total of 2,104 patients randomly received 6 mg of the drug once a day (either by mouth or by intravenous injection) for ten days and were compared with 4,321 patients randomised to usual care alone. Among the patients who received usual care alone, 28-day mortality was highest in those who required ventilation (41%), intermediate in those patients who required oxygen only (25%), and lowest among those who did not require any respiratory intervention (13%).Dexamethasone reduced deaths by one-third in ventilated patients, and by one fifth in other patients receiving oxygen only, the researchers said in their statement. More details about the results were to be published soon, they added.“Based on these results, 1 death would be prevented by treatment of around 8 ventilated patients or around 25 patients requiring oxygen alone,” the university added.Experts in India agreed the finding represented a significant breakthrough. “Along with remdesivir, this is the most significant therapy for Covid-19. The Oxford study is a large study, as over 2,000 patients were randomised to receive dexamethasone, which reduced deaths by one-third in pressurised ventilated patients and by a fifth in patients receiving oxygen only. It did not benefit patients with mild disease without respiratory support,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The development is particularly significant because it is cheap and widely available in India. “It costs a few rupees, and is the standard of care to treat septicaemia for decades,” he said, adding that it was being used in India to treat septic shock in Covid-19 patients, an advanced stage condition when patients register a sudden blood pressure drop and fluid blood vessels develop leaks, which leads to death. “In this trial, it was given to ventilated patients and patients on oxygen before they went into septic shock, which prevented death,” he added.“But I want to caution people not to have it without medical supervision as it belongs to the cortisone family, which are steroids used to lower inflammation,” the former ICMR head said.American surgeon and public health researcher Atul Gawande said the findings were welcomed but urged that people wait for the trial results to be published in full. “It will be great news if dexamethasone, a cheap steroid, really does cut deaths by 1/3 in ventilated patients with COVID19, but after all the retractions and walk backs, it is unacceptable to tout study results by press release without releasing the paper,” he said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steroid-reduces-deaths-up-to-a-third-shows-uk-trial/story-ojJkKjP6txF7NGTPtyeg8I.html
17-06-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 1,328 old fatalities to its Covid death toll||Maharashtra added 1,328 old fatalities to its Covid-19 death toll on Tuesday as part of a data cleaning and reconciliation exercise that pushed the state’s tally of virus casualties past 5,000 and prompted allegations that the government was fudging disease figures.India’s worst-hit state reported 81 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The 1,328 deaths are from March and April, said a senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on condition of anonymity.The state’s death toll now stands at 5,537, a little less than half of all coronavirus-related deaths in the country.The addition led to a spike in the state’s case fatality rate – defined as the ratio of deaths to total number of cases – and it now stands at 4.9, against a national rate of 3.4.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party demanded a high-level inquiry and termed the development a conspiracy. Maharashtra also logged 2,701 more infections in the last 24 hours, taking the case tally to 113,445.“The figures of the deaths have risen suddenly owing to the reconciliation of the figures. It is true that there was negligence to a certain extent at some level and it led to the mismatch in the figures,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary.He blamed lack of information in private hospitals and poor record keeping in government facilities.“Some private hospitals did not provide us the information in time while in some government hospitals, the records about the deaths were not kept properly. In some cases the death certificates had the mention of Covid infection as cause of the fatality, but in hospital records, the entry was missing. When we realised the lapses we, last week, asked all the municipal corporations and district collectors to reconcile the data on an urgent basis,” he added.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said he mandated exhaustive data reconciliation last week.“On June 13, the state asked all municipal commissioners and collectors to check with all local labs and hospital on the same. The state is fighting Covid with absolute honesty and it holds transparency sacred. Data reconciliation and tally will be done every few weeks so as to ensure complete transparency.”Gagarani admitted that the data was not being fed as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, leading to the mismatch.The Opposition alleged that the government was “covering up” death figures.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded to know what action would be taken by the state government.“ICMR and World Health Organisation have clear guidelines on recording the Covid-19 deaths, despite which the state government appointed a committee for the audit of the deaths. Was this committee to reduce the fatalities or to hid them? It is my sincere request to the state government that please don’t ignore this entire episode of criminal negligence in the name of reconciliation of numbers,” he tweeted.On Monday, he had written to Thackeray claiming that the BMC had allegedly not registered 950 Covid-19 deaths.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the government’s efforts to correct data should be lauded. “Today’s declaration was part of the ongoing process which will happen every month,” he added. The senior BMC official quoted earlier said the authorities were cleaning data for the past 15 days as several hospitals didn’t report deaths according to norms. “We want to be completely transparent as nothing can be achieved by hiding figures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-1-328-old-fatalities-to-its-covid-death-toll/story-JuAOfrNzo480DPl1JXvXmM.html
17-06-2020||India||People with co-morbidities 12 times more likely to die of Covid: US study||People with underlying health conditions like heart disease and diabetes are 12 times more likely to die and six times more likely to be hospitalised with severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than healthy patients, according to what is the largest yet analysis of patient records to understand how to save lives from the virus that has infected 823,289 and claimed 431, 541 globally (WHO report as on June 15).One in five (19.5%) people with underlying diseases died compared to 1.6% of those who were healthy, found an analysis of 1.3 million cases and 103,700 deaths in the United States from January 22 through May 30 done by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the country’s federal agency. Hospitalisations were also significantly higher in those with chronic diseases, with 45.4% of such people needing to be hospitalised compared to 7.6% with no pre-existing disease.  Of the 1.3 million cases, 14% needed hospitalisation, 2% needed intensive care, and 5% died, but the real death rate is likely to be lower because people with mild or no symptoms often remain undiagnosed, said the CDC. The chances of severe illness and death increase with age, particularly in men and people with underlying health conditions, according to the analysis.The CDC report is consistent with reports from around the world, including India, where people with other diseases had a higher risk of hospitalisation and death.  In the US, cardiovascular disease (32%), diabetes (30%) and lung disease (18%) are the most common chronic diseases among Covid-19 patients. Even among young adults below 39 years, the hospitalisation rate in the US is at least four times higher for those with underlying illnesses. Deaths are highest among people 80 years or older, irrespective of whether they had chronic illnesses, but about 50% of all deaths were in that age group with a chronic health illness.The prevalence of underlying diseases is similar between the sexes, but men with Covid-19 were twice as likely to need hospitalisation, the CDC study found. In a separate but linked study published in the journal Lancet on Tuesday, an estimated 1.7 billion people -- more than 20% of the world’s population – have at least one underlying health problem such as obesity or heart disease that put them in greater danger of Covid-19 infection.In India, close to four in five people (78%) diagnosed with Covid-19 have underlying conditions, according to an analysis of data from first 33,050 cases in India reported till April 30. Men accounted for two-thirds of cases, and half (51.2%) of all patients were over 60 years old, said the Union ministry of health analysis.The risk factors for severe Covid-19 include old age, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease and obesity. “Our clinical experience in India is that those at the highest risk of severe disease and death are Covid-19 patients with any two or more underlying conditions, such as hypertension and kidney disease, or diabetes and chronic lung diseases,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. In India, an estimated 54.6 million people have heart disease and 70 million people have diabetes , according to estimates based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.“With testing remaining low and many sick people avoiding hospitals, there is a danger of the death certificates not recording the correct cause of death and Covid-19 being missed, which is why we must study all-cause mortality to see if overall deaths have increased during the pandemic. Also, the advantage of a young demographic is negated if chronic diseases are high in young people and the health systems are weak,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Public Health Foundation of India, Gandhinagar.“In the West, it is easy to track of deaths from to cardiac arrests at home through 911 emergency calls, but it is very difficult to get community-level data from India, where the cause of death often goes unrecorded or it not clinically accurate. There is anecdotal evidence of more people dying at home than the total Covid-19 deaths because many, especially the elderly, are scared to go to hospitals due to corona fears, which leads to delays in treatment and avoidable death,” said Dr Ashok Seth, chief cardiologist and chairman, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, New Delhi.In the Lancet study cited above, the authors estimate that 349 million people -- or 4% of the world’s population -- are at high risk of severe disease needing hospitalisation. The modeling used data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017, UN population estimates for 2020 and the list of underlying health conditions relevant to Covid-19, as defined by current guidelines. This risk varied from less than 1% in people under 20 to nearly 20% of those 70 or older, rising to 25% in men over 70 years. The Lancet study also found that twice the number of men as women needed hospitalisation. Globally, less than 5% people under the 20 have underlying health condition, which is over 66% for those aged 70 and above. Among the more mobile working age population (15 to 64 years), 23% people worldwide are estimated to have at least one underlying condition. “Our estimates suggest that age-based thresholds for shielding could play a role in reducing deaths and reducing the number of people who require hospital treatment, but the choice of threshold needs to be balanced against the proportion of people of working age affected, as well as the health and economic consequences associated with long periods of isolation,” says Dr Rosalind Eggo from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK, in a statement.Along with health and other frontline workers, vaccination in the future must be prioritised for vulnerable populations, including the elderly and people with underlying conditions to save lives. “Not only should the elderly and people with chronic disease follow social distancing and protection norms, such as masks, but so must young people around them to prevent transmission of infection,” said Dr Mavalankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-co-morbidities-12-times-more-likely-to-die-of-covid-us-study/story-MjafvURM5fxc4nFxmmsmlK.html
17-06-2020||India||Proud that our son gave his life for country, say parents of Col Santosh Babu||Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), who was killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday night, would have been spending his time with his old parents in Telangana’s Suryapet town by now, had he not been held up due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“He had been trying for a transfer to Hyderabad for a long time and it was approved in February after he was promoted from Lt Colonel to Colonel in February. But even before the formalities of his transfer were completed, the Centre announced lockdown in the country and he was asked to continue in the Indo-China border at Ladakh till further orders,” his uncle Ganesh Babu said.The news about Santosh’s death reached his parents – B Upender (63) and Manjula (58) at around 2 pm on Tuesday, leaving them in deep shock.Also read: Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA; casualties on both sides“We have been watching the news about clashes between Indian and Chinese troops at the border on television. But since no names were mentioned in the news, we never thought our son would be among the dead. But when I received a call from my daughter-in-law in Delhi, we realised that my son was martyred,” Upender, a retired employee of State Bank of India, told Hindustan Times.The Colonel’s family – wife Santoshi, daughter Abhigna (9) and son Anirudh (4) reside in Delhi. “He spoke to me only two days ago and told me he might get relieved in September once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. But he has left us forever,” Upender said.Santosh’s sister Sruthi, is a homemaker. He had nurtured an ambition since childhood to join the armed forces. “In fact, I wanted to join the Army in my student days, but somehow, the family circumstances did not permit me. I realised my dreams through my son,” he said.Also read: Have disengaged, says Indian Army day after 20 soldiers killed in clash with PLAAfter the primary schooling in Suryapet, Santosh took admission in Sainik School, Korkukonda, under Union Ministry of Defence in Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh, where he studied up to Class 12. Later, he joined the graduation course in National Defence Academy in Pune and then the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. In 2004, he was commissioned into the 16 Bihar regiment and his first posting was in Jammu. Since then, he had been working on the borders in various locations.“He was a brilliant guy both in studies and duties. I never expected that he would desert us like this. But I am proud he gave up his life for the country,” Upender said.His mother Manjula was shocked but more composed than her husband. “I am shocked. But I am also feeling proud for my son who laid down his life in service of the country.”The mortal remains of Santosh are expected to be brought to Hyderabad by 9.30 am on Wednesday and would be straightaway taken to Suryapet by afternoon for cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-that-our-son-gave-his-life-for-country-say-parents-of-col-santosh-babu/story-ZcF1A8xkxSopRA8DfCW17O.html
17-06-2020||India||7 fresh charge sheets filed in Delhi riots case||The Delhi Police in the last two days have filed seven charge sheets in seven different cases related to the north-east Delhi communal riots that claimed 53 lives and left over 400 others injured in February. While five charge sheets were filed in a Delhi court on Tuesday, the other two were submitted on Monday and Sunday, senior police officers privy to the cases said. A total of 39 persons had been arrested and charge sheeted in the seven cases, six of which were related to rioting and murders at Shiv Vihar near Karawal Nagar while the seventh rioting and murder incident took place at Khajoori Chowk. All the seven deaths were reported on February 25, the officers said.The trial of all cases related to north-east Delhi riots will be held in a special court regarding which the Delhi high court had passed an order on Monday.On February 25, a police officer associated with the cases said, a clash broke out between two communities at Shiv Vihar and violent mobs from both the sides indulged in rioting, stone pelting, firing of bullets, arson and looting and damaging of private and public property. The violence began in the morning and continued throughout the day, the officer said, requesting anonymityThree men, identified by their first names Anwar, Aftab and Salman, were killed in the clash during the morning hours. Between 5 and 10 pm, three men from the other community were also killed in the rioting. They were identified as Veer Bhan, Alok Tiwari, and Dinesh.A total of 11 people have been charged for rioting, murder, criminal conspiracy and other offences in connection with the separate murder cases of Anwar, Aftab and Salman. Twelve persons have been charged for similar offences in the murder cases of Bhan, Tiwari and Dinesh, the officer cited above said.In the Khajoori Chowk rioting incident in which a man, identified by his first name Babbu, was killed, the police have charged 16 people, for rioting, murder, promoting enmity between different groups, and criminal conspiracy, the police are learnt to have said in the charge sheet.As many as 100 charge sheets have been filed in as many cases by the Delhi Police, which registered more than 750 cases pertaining to the north-east Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-fresh-charge-sheets-filed-in-delhi-riots-case/story-LUDA373OpTcmW0V3LwwOUM.html
17-06-2020||India||State ECs hold mock elections, gear up for Rajya Sabha polls||From mock election training sessions to isolation rooms and separate voting booths, states are gearing up for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The elections, to be held on June 19, will be the first major voting exercise since the pandemic. Nearly 1,000 legislators will vote across eight states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Rajasthan.While it is the health department of each state that is overseeing preparations, Election Commission officials, too, are extra vigilant. The commission has appointed a nodal officer in each state to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed.In Madhya Pradesh, where one MLA has tested positive for Covid-19, a health team will be present in the secretariat in case of medical emergencies.“The MLA will be brought in last to vote,” an Election Commission official told HT on the condition of anonymity. “A separate polling booth is planned for the MLA, and all the elections officials present (when the MLA comes to the booth) will be wearing PPE (personal protective equipment) suits. The MLA, too, will be in PPE and will travel by ambulance, which will be sanitised properly.”In Gujarat, where three MLAs have tested positive, discussions are still on to “finalise the arrangements”, additional chief electoral officer Ashok Manek said.Amit Chavda, the Congress’s Gujarat president and a legislator, said the party has requested the poll watchdog to make separate arrangements for MLAs who have tested positive.Officials in other states, too, are on alert.In Andhra Pradesh, a special health team will be present to tackle exigencies, if any. “The polling staff will wear PPE suits and a separate isolation room has been created for emergencies,” said chief electoral officer (CEO) K Vijayanand. “Although there are no cases as yet, we are making sure we are prepared.”MLAs will be provided with a mask and sanitizer upon arrival. In case an MLA is quarantined before the election, a sanitised vehicle will be provided for her/his travel and s/he will voted in a separate room, Vijayanand added.In Meghalaya, along with sanitizer and mask, MLAs will also be provided a booklet on Covid-19 guidelines containing the dos and don’ts. “Holding room, medical room in case of medical eventualities have been arranged, and a contingency plan for alternative location has also been drawn up,” CEO F Kharkongor said.Manipur CEO Prashant Kumar Singh, too, said the state will release a detailed booklet on preventive measures. “The officials will wear face shields,” Singh added.In Rajasthan, a larger polling booth has been made and a dispensary set up. “A medical team will be present, and in case anyone shows signs of Covid-19, they will be taken directly to the dispensary,” Rajasthan CEO Arun Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-ecs-hold-mock-elections-gear-up-for-rajya-sabha-polls/story-nfPtpk09qxVXIlTUOsy00N.html
17-06-2020||India||SC asks govt, IRDAI to respond to petition over mental illness insurance||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought the response of the central government and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on a plea seeking directions to insurance companies to provide medical insurance coverage for treatment of mental illness.The plea, filed by an advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, stated that insurance companies were refusing to provide such coverage despite a mandate under the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017.A bench headed by justice Rohinton Nariman issued notice to both the centre and IRDAI.Section 21 (4) of the Mental Healthcare Act states that “every insurer shall make provision for medical insurance for treatment of mental illness on the same basis as is available for treatment of physical illness”.Based on that provision, IRDAI had issued a circular in August 2018 to insurance companies, directing them to comply with the legislation, but to no avail.Bansal had, in January 2019, filed an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act seeking details about the insurance companies which had complied with the Mental Healthcare Act and the IRDAI circular. He had also queried whether insurance regulatory had taken any action against companies for non-compliance.IRDAI replied to the RTI application in February 2019, stating that none of the insurance companies had complied with the mandate under the Act and that no action had been taken against any of them. “Despite the fact that one year has passed, situation as far as implementation of Section 21 (4) of Mental Health Care Act remains the same The inaction by IRDAI is hampering the rehabilitation process of thousands of persons with mental Illness,” the petition said.Bansal had approached the Supreme Court in 2016 highlighting another issues surrounding mental illness – the rehabilitation of people who had recovered from mental illness but are still forced to languish in hospitals. The court in that case had asked all states and Union territories to set up rehabilitation homes for people who had been cured of mental illness, or who do not need further hospitalization, or those who are homeless or are not accepted by their families.Bansal had filed another plea before the top court in 2019 for framing and implementing a public health programme for reduction of suicides and attempted suicides. The court had sought the response of all states and the central government in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-govt-irdai-to-respond-to-petition-over-mental-illness-insurance/story-C2AQ1KOl1AxxGGCM82gkqM.html
17-06-2020||India||Monsoon may reach Delhi earlier this year, says IMD||The monsoon has advanced well and reached parts of northwest India on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, and added it is expected to arrive in Delhi earlier than the normal date of June 27. It has covered areas of eastern Uttar Pradesh, western and eastern Madhya Pradesh, IMD said.IMD scientists said they will confirm the arrival of monsoon in Delhi depending on how favourable the conditions are for its advancement over the next four to five days. “It will be humid and hot with maximum temperature ranging from 40 to 43 degree C in most parts of northwest India including Delhi. But there will be no heat wave condition. We are expecting the monsoon to pick up again from June 19 due to the formation of a low-pressure system and advance towards western Uttar Pradesh,” said Regional Weather Forecasting Centre head Kuldeep Shrivastava. He said the monsoon could even reach the Delhi suburb of Noida around June 19 or 20. Shrivastava, however, underlined that the department cannot say if the monsoon arrival in Delhi can be announced immediately.The monsoon arrives in Kerala in June before it covers other parts of the country and starts to retreat by September. It delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. The monsoon is crucial to the cultivation of rice, wheat, sugarcane and soybeans in the country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people. The monsoon is also important for restocking reservoirs and replenishing groundwater.Monsoon rains lasted longer last year and triggered floods even as it started with the driest June in five years and below-average precipitation in July. IMD said the monsoon was passing through Kandla and Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Indore, Raisen, and Khajuraho (Madhya Pradesh) and Fatehpur and Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, where it has reached at least five days in advance. It added the monsoon, was, however, on a normal track. National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said the monsoon had advanced very well so far with help from a low-pressure area, which developed over the Bay of Bengal last week. “The low-pressure system moved inland from the Odisha coast and helped the monsoon advance, bringing a lot of rain. Another low-pressure system is likely to develop over the north Bay of Bengal on June 19. These low-pressure systems move west northwestwards. If they do develop, they will strengthen the monsoon and help it advance further.”IMD said the low-pressure system, which helped the monsoon flow advance, has weakened now. So, there is unlikely to be any rain in northwest India over the next three days, it added.It said heavy to very heavy rain is likely in Konkan, Goa and over central Maharashtra during the next two days. IMD said the rainfall intensity over eastern India is likely to increase and heavy to very rainfall is likely over the region, including sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim in the next two days. There will be widespread rain in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during the next five days, IMD’s Tuesday bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-may-reach-delhi-earlier-this-year-says-imd/story-gjBdF5zuA6tLBp327eoC2H.html
17-06-2020||India||China dumping key medicine in India||The government has found sufficient evidence that China is dumping a key medicine -- ciprofloxacin hydrochloride -- below cost in the Indian market and hurting the domestic pharmaceutical industry, two officials aware of the development said.The medicine is used to treat bacterial infections, including skin, bone, respiratory and urinary tract infections, and certain types of diarrhoea.After a thorough investigation, the government has found that the volume of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride imported from China has increased significantly and at a pace that is undercutting prices in the domestic industry, the officials cited above said, requesting anonymity. China alone accounts for about 98% of the total Indian imports of the medicine. “Domestic medicine had a price disadvantage of up to $3.3 per kg over Chinese products,” an official of a pharmaceutical association said on condition of anonymity. Even as domestic manufacturing capacity of the medicine has increased, actual production and sales of local industry have declined and the market share of Chinese ciprofloxacin hydrochloride in India has increased, causing losses to the Indian pharma industry, the officials said.“DGTR (Directorate General of Trade Remedies) on June 15 provisionally concluded that the domestic industry has suffered material injury and its preliminary findings favoured the imposition of an anti-dumping duty on Chinese import,” one of the officials said. DGTR may take a final view on the matter after hearing all interested parties again next month, he added.DGTR, previously known as the Directorate General of Anti-dumping and Allied Duties, is an arm of the ministry of commerce and industry and acts as a single-window agency providing a level playing field to domestic industry against unfair trade practices.The finance ministry will consider imposing an anti-dumping duty on the Chinese medicine if DGTR recommends such a step, the second official cited above said. DGTR had initiated the investigation against the dumping of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride from Chine in January after domestic manufacturers accused the neighbouring country of engaging in an unfair trade practice.Dumping is an unfair trade practice that entails the export of a product at a price lower than its value and is countered by a punitive duty, which is an acceptable measure under multilateral trade agreements, the second official said.Complaints have been received by domestic industry that China was dumping several products . All such complaints are being investigated, he said.HT reported on May 11 that India could extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods ranging from calculators and USB drives to steel, solar cells and Vitamin E amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products. Anti-dumping duties on these products were imposed five years ago and are expiring this year.India has taken a tough position against unfair Chinese trade practices as it is committed to protecting domestic industry under the government’s Make in India campaign, the officials said. India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.“Dumping of goods below their actual cost harms the domestic industry, and anti-dumping duty is one of the means to protect local manufacturing from such unfair trade practices,” Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA) executive director Ashok Madan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-dumping-key-medicine-in-india/story-cJvksOZZ1RZPLvVInllnaO.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China troops have disengaged at Galwan, says army on clash that killed 20||Twenty Indian soldiers including the commanding officer of an infantry battalion were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley where soldiers of the two countries have been locked in a tense stand-off for 40 days, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.In its initial statement early on Tuesday, the army had announced that an officer and two soldiers had been killed in action. By evening, an update by the army said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.The army statement issued on Tuesday evening also said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “ have disengaged”.The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers. The army statement came hours after the external affairs ministry rebutted the China that pointed fingers at Indian soldiers for provoking the clash. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Monday evening’s violent face-off took place in Galwan valley where the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC (Line of Actual Control)” and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.Also Read: India blames China for violent face-off in eastern Ladakh, says PLA tried to change status quoThe external ministry ministry did not elaborate how the Chinese troops had tried to alter the status quo. Officials later said it could be a reference to an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC that was removed by Indian soldiers. These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.However, no shots were fired this time.Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. However, this wasn’t the first time the two armies engaged in fisticuffs or used stones and rods to attack each other in the area.The ongoing border scrap began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. The border row appears to have turned from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China have held a series of discussions along the LAC to break the stalemate.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.As news of the border clash reached New Delhi last evening, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot and spent most of Tuesday at strategy meetings in New Delhi. Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the LAC and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options. External affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of the meetings.The external affairs ministry, which firmly pinned the blame for the clash on the Chinese side, linked the face-off to “an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there”.“Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” Srivastava said.The limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs had started after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Referring to the June 6 meeting where the two sides had agreed on a process for de-escalation, Srivastava said India had expected this would unfold smoothly but “the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the LAC”.The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-indian-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-border-clash-with-china-s-pla-official/story-WibnYn8pOvhNomLVoUIizM.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Borders are intact under PM Modi’s leadership’: JP Nadda on LAC clash with China||BJP President JP Nadda on Tuesday asserted that India’s borders are and will remain intact under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and stated that the Indian Army had given a “befitting” reply to Chinese soldiers who had clashed with Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last night resulting in deaths of three personnel including one officer and two soldiers.“Borders of India will remain intact and are intact under the leadership of the PM. During the de-escalation process that was underway in Galwan Valley in Ladakh, a violent face-off took place with Chinese Army. Indian Army gave a befitting reply. Unfortunately, we lost our 3 army men,” Nadda was quoted as saying by BJP’s official twitter handle.Nadda’s comments came close on the heels of the external affairs ministry accusing China of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley in a departure from the consensus achieved in ongoing talks between the two sides to respect the LAC.Official spokesperson of the ministry Anurag Srivastava said on Tuesday afternoon that both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side.A Commanding Officer (CO) of the Colonel rank was killed along with two soldiers in the violent encounter.The statement from the foreign ministry further said that India holds a responsible approach to border management and is convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue.“At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” it added.Nadda, while paying homage to the sacrifice of the army personnel, said that India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised.I pay homage to them for their sacrifice and I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised. We now have the political will and our army is fully equipped to take on any adversary,” Nadda said.The Chinese foreign ministry and the PLA had earlier issued statements claiming Indian soldiers had crossed the LAC and launched “provocative attacks” which led to a “fierce physical confrontation” between the two sidesNadda’s comments come amid demands by opposition parties, particularly the Congress, to disclose the circumstances of the clashes that led to the deaths of Indian personnel during the de-escalation process.The de-escalation process had begun after the two armies were locked in a 40-day standoff at four locations in Ladakh since early May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borders-are-intact-under-pm-modi-s-leadership-jp-nadda-on-lac-clash-with-china/story-kxbpI2hnr0FxuQrJhuBaAJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India blames China for violent face-off in eastern Ladakh, says PLA tried to change status quo||A colonel-ranked army officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with People’s Liberation Army soldiers in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley late on Monday evening. The deadly border clash, which led to casualties on both sides, took place at one of the four locations in Ladakh where the two armies have been locked in a 40-day standoff.In a statement earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry and the PLA’s western command had blamed Indian soldiers for triggering the border clash. It had claimed that Indian soldiers had crossed the border, provoked PLA soldiers and attacked them. India’s sharp rebuttal came soon after.In its first comment on the clash, the external affairs ministry said the violent face-off happened “as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there”. “Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in response to queries on the border situation.Srivastava also underscored that activities of the Indian army were within the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control. “We expect the same of the Chinese side,” he said.“We remain firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Srivastava said.The Indian army had early on Tuesday issued a brief, terse statement on the Galwan valley clash that led to at least three casualties on the Indian side. India said there were casualties on the Chinese side too but did not get into the details. The Chinese side initially didn’t acknowledge any casualties.But first the Chinese foreign ministry, and later the PLA Western Command’s Colonel Zhang Shuili in separate statements accused India of crossing the LAC and launching, what they described as, “provocative attacks”. This resulted in a fierce physical confrontation between the two sides “that led to casualties”. The People’s Liberation Army statement also appeared to lay claim to the Galwan valley, a move that is being seen as an effort to expand its territory.Along the LAC, military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart, held talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions. It is not clear if any progress was made.The deaths, the first in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years, were mostly attributed to stones thrown by both sides. Some soldiers also used rods to hit the other side.The last time Indian soldiers died in a clash with the PLA was in October 1975 when a small group of soldiers patrolling the border in Arunachal Pradesh were ambushed. Four soldiers were killed in this attack.The two countries have been in talks for weeks via military and diplomatic channels to end the standoff that started last month after a violent clash between Indian and Chinese natrols on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake. Soldiers had then exchanged blows, thrown stones at each other. Scores of soldiers from both sides had been injured in the skirmish involving 250 men.But the two sides appeared headed to an agreement after senior commanders of the two armies met on 6 June and agreed on a process for such de-escalation. Ground commanders had been holding meetings since then.The external ministry said New Delhi had expected that this process of de-escalation would unfold smoothly. But the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.In Delhi, there were a string of meetings to review the continuing developments in the eastern Ladakh sector. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blames-china-for-violent-face-off-in-eastern-ladakh-says-pla-tried-to-change-status-quo/story-AzXWO2odokbI31lhEACFbN.html
17-06-2020||India||Casualties on our side too, says Chinese media on LAC clash with India||Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday blamed the Indian army for provoking the serious physical conflict along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, said Indian troops twice crossed the border line for what he described as “illegal activities”, and attacked the Chinese personnel “which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides”.The Indian army has confirmed that three including an army officer had died in the clash that took place in Ladakh’s Galwan valley late on Monday evening. The army has also confirmed that there were casualties on both sides in the violent face-off.The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, however, insisted that he was not aware of any fatalities.Some time later, the first confirmation of casualties on the Chinese side came from Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of Global Times.Also Read: Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: What we know so far“Based on what I know, Chinese side also suffered casualties in the Galwan Valley physical clash,” Hu Xijin tweeted on Tuesday afternoon. He went on to ask India not to misread China’s restraint to be a sign of weakness. “China doesn’t want to have a clash with India, but we don’t fear it,” the editor tweeted.The Global Times newspaper, a tabloid published by China’s ruling Communist Party’s official newspaper, however, has not reported the casualties so far. The only news report on the border clash was based on the foreign ministry briefing.According to the Indian army, the border clash at Galwan valley took place when the de-escalation process was underway. Officials later said military commanders, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart are holding talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions.A Colonel-rank officer, the commanding officer of the unit posted at the standoff point, was among the three to have died in Monday’s clash. The deaths, the first in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years, were mostly attributed to stones thrown by both sides. Some soldiers also used rods to hit the other side. In 1975, an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La. Four Assam Rifles soldiers were killed in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/casualties-on-our-side-too-says-editor-of-china-s-mouthpiece-on-lac-clash-with-india/story-X5eiAisgp7OL5QkEyvuCyI.html
17-06-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviews Ladakh situation after face-off between India and China||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed current operational situation in the Eastern Ladakh region after an incident of violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, three service chiefs - General MM Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Marshal RKS Bhadauria - discussed the situation with Singh. Foreign minister S Jaishankar was also present in the meeting.The Indian Army said that there were casualties on both sides in the incident which took place in the Galwan valley on Monday night. HT has learned that the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and a JCO are among those killed.These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.The army said the incident took place at a time the “de-escalation process was underway”.It also said that senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation.All the deaths are from thrown stones and rods that were used by the soldiers, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The army did not comment on this.Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, spoke about the close communication through military and diplomatic channels before going on to blame Indian soldiers for Monday evening’s violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,” Zhao said.India and China are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks. It began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.In their first serious efforts to end the row, Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held a nearly seven-hour meeting on June 6.The meeting was followed by more rounds of military talks. The Indian side has been pitching for restoration of status quo ante and immediate withdrawal of thousands of Chinese troops from the areas which India considers on its side of the LAC.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-ladakh-situation-after-face-off-between-india-and-china/story-dtbMN58AtR8HVDULIDnilM.html
17-06-2020||India||China accuses India of starting ‘serious physical conflict’, quiet on details||China on Tuesday accused the Indian army of provoking and attacking Chinese soldiers after a border meeting to de-escalate the ongoing tension, leading to a “physical conflict” between the two sides on Monday.”These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA s ince 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.HT learns that the officer is the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and that one of the other casualties is that of a JCO.The Indian army said the incident took place at a time the “de-escalation process” was “underway in the Galwan valley”. Senior “military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation”, the army said, signalling that the efforts to stabilise the situation is still work in progress.The Chinese foreign ministry said it was not aware of Indian soldiers being killed in the exchanges. Neither did it say anything about casualties on its side.Also Watch l India-China border faceoff: What led to escalation of tensions? A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers near the line of actual control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, where rival soldiers were caught in a standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, has led to multiple casualties on the Indian side, New Delhi said in a statement on Tuesday.Responding to a query on the development, Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, said he wasn’t aware about the fatalities.“I am not aware of the information you provided. Recently to ease the situation on the India, China border, the two countries have been in close communication through military and diplomatic channels on June 6,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Zhao then put the blame squarely on Indian soldiers for triggering the violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,’’ Zhao said.China has lodged strong protest and representation with the Indian side, Zhao added.Last week, when asked about the reports of the troops on both sides disengaging and moving back to their previous positions, spokesperson Hua Chunying said that both sides were taking steps to ease the situation along the borders. “Recently the diplomatic and military channels of China and India held effective communication on the situation along the border and reached positive consensus,” she said. “The two sides are following this consensus to take actions to ease the situation along the borders,” Hua added. The Chinese foreign ministry had earlier said the situation along the border was “stable and controllable”. HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-accuses-india-of-starting-serious-physical-conflict-quiet-on-details/story-gByCdMPZG3xksZkPLZJqzI.html
17-06-2020||India||Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: Here’s what we know||Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley where troops from the two countries have been locked in a face-off for 40 days, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The encounter happened along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where rival soldiers were caught in stand-off that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.Here is what we know so far: • The Indian casualties include a commanding officer of an infantry battalion.• The Indian Army, in its initial statement early on Tuesday, had announced that an officer and two soldiers had been killed in action. However, by evening, an update said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand -off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.•The army statement issued on Tuesday evening also said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “have disengaged”.•The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers.•India said Monday’s violent clash happened when the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC (Line of Actual Control) and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.•Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Modi on the developments at the LAC after holding two meetings with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. The external affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of these meetings. • Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday.• This is the first casualties for India in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.• The Chinese foreign ministry has called on India to not take unilateral actions or stir up trouble, news agency Reuters reported.• India and China have been locked in a stand-off in the Ladakh region for weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-off-between-india-and-china-in-galwan-valley-what-we-know-so-far/story-NNjwanbGiNiyAhQhnmj25I.html
17-06-2020||India||Congress’ highest decision-making body to meet on June 23, discuss face-off with China, Nepal||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet on June 23 to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, the hike in petrol and diesel prices and the border tension with China.The highest decision making body of the party will also discuss the current stand-off with Nepal.Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair the meeting. India and China are currently engaged in diplomatic and military contacts for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between their border troops that emerged in the public in early May. Earlier last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) - Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs - in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, Indian officials have confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces has extended as far as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. A “violent face off” was reported on Monday night in which both the sides suffered casualties.Nepal’s Parliament last week cleared a constitutional amendment bill to revise the country’s map, a move that is seen to virtually make the boundary row a permanent irritant in its relations with India.In its previous meeting on April 23, the CWC had alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seeking to inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles” the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi, on her part, had also accused the BJP of spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred in the country. The remarks were in apparent reference to the communal colour given to the lynching incident in Palghar district of Maharashtra. “The virus does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed, religion or gender. As a nation we must be wary of forces that seek to polarise in times of crisis such as these. The onus lies on us to ensure that we stand together as one nation in the face of all odds,” the resolution added.The CWC also discussed the issues of migrant workers, farmers, revival of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs), empowering of states to devise solutions tailored to their unique situations and challenges and adequate financial package for them to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-highest-decision-making-body-to-meet-on-june-23-discuss-face-off-with-china-nepal/story-drMhbLLOLQ0YSR1bPediHO.html
17-06-2020||India||Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA; casualties on both sides||The Indian army suffered multiple casualties, including that of an officer, in a “violent face off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday night in eastern Ladakh, the army said in a statement. It added that there were casualties on both sides.These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh. HT learns that the officer is the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and that one of the other casualties is that of a JCO.The army said the incident took place at a time the de-escalation process was “underway in the Galwan valley”.“Senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation”, the army said, signalling that the efforts to stablise the situation is still work in progress.Military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart are holding talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions.All the deaths are from thrown stones and rods that were used by the soldiers, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The army did not comment on this. However, this won’t be the first time the two armies have engaged in fisticuffs or used stones as missiles to attack each other in the area. Also Watch: India-China border faceoff: What led to escalation of tensions?   In Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation after the clash on the LAC, along with the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar was also present. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had cancelled his scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday.The encounter happened along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where rival soldiers were caught in a standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. The Indian Army is said to have suffered three casualties, including a colonel, in the sector on Monday, said one person familiar with the matter. Both sides suffered fatal casualties on Monday, claimed another person familiar with the matter. Both asked not to be named. The number of Chinese casualties wasn’t immediately known.The China’s foreign ministry said it wasn’t aware of fatalities on either side.At his media briefing spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry Zhao Lijian spoke about the close communication through military and diplomatic channels before going on to blame Indian soldiers for Monday evening’s violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,’’ Zhao said.Hu Xijin, the editor-in-chief of Global Times, a tabloid run by the ruling Communist Party of China, however, tweeted that his information indicated casualties on the Chinese side and asked India not to misconstrue the PLA’s restraint for weakness.Also Read: Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: What we know so farThe worrying development comes at a time when India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops.The border row seems to have turned from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China held discussions along the to break the stalemate. Former Northern Army commander Lt Gen DS Hooda (retd) flagged concerns about the “serious escalation” along the LAC saying that it reflected the heightened tensions on the ground. “This will require diplomatic intervention,” he said.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.Also Read: Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tacticsLimited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a faceoff.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries were also injured near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle involving around 250 men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-officer-two-others-killed-in-clash-with-pla-at-pangong-tso/story-Y9KgO45d76fU0Tm1QtuVpM.html
17-06-2020||India||India, Chinese troops face-off at Galwan valley; army officer, 2 soldiers die||A n army officer and two soldiers died in a violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley, one of the four standoff points in the eastern Ladakh sector, an army statement on Tuesday said. The face-off took place during the de-escalation process that has been underway between the two sides.“Senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting at the venue to defuse the situation,” the statement said.Also Read: Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA at Pangong TsoGovernment sources said there were casualties and injuries on both sides. The clash took place at a time efforts were on to resolve the standoff. A limited disengagement of forces had also taken place at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers of both armies, also have been holding discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-chinese-troops-face-off-at-galwan-valley-army-officer-2-soldiers-die/story-YfVpqhgBgHKAC8RyFTReEJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese army officials discuss Pangong Tso standoff||Army delegations from India and China on Monday held discussions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh to break the stalemate that began with a confrontation between rival patrol parties near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, two senior officers said on the condition of anonymity.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC -- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs -- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff, said the first officer cited above.“The talks were positive and frank. As long as talks are happening, we are moving towards a solution,” said the second officer cited above.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops, the external affairs ministry said last week. Naravane said on Saturday he was hopeful that perceived differences between India and China would be put to rest through the continued dialogue.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met for the fifth time last week in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.Limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, respectively, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-army-officials-discuss-pangong-tso-standoff/story-RL391WQJ6MSoRANgkt0AOI.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China delegations meet at 2 places along LAC to resolve border row||Army delegations from India and China on Monday held discussions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh to break the stalemate that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso lake on the night of May 5-6, two senior officers said on the condition of anonymity.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff, said the first officer cited above.“The talks were positive and frank. As long as talks are happening, we are moving towards a solution,” said the second officer cited above.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops, the external affairs ministry said last week. Naravane said on Saturday he was hopeful that perceived differences between India and China would be put to rest through the continued dialogue.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met for the fifth time last week in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.Limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a faceoff.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, respectively, and took place before the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-delegations-meet-at-2-places-along-lac-to-resolve-border-row/story-miPPW7qulAZ5sBYiCpEIgI.html
17-06-2020||India||Border situation with China under control, says Gen Naravane||Disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces is taking place in a “phased manner” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), where the situation is “under control,” Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.His first comments on the disengagement that began after top Indian and Chinese military commanders met last week came during an interaction with reporters on the sidelines of the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.“I would like to assure everyone that the situation along our border with China is under control,” said Naravane even as India and China continue diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the stand-off between border troops.The army chief said: “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has taken place”. Naravane’s comments are significant as the government has largely been tight-lipped on the ongoing border scrap with China. “It’s good that diplomatic and military engagement is working and things are showing signs of improving,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the LAC in the northern sector.Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-rank officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the stand-off between the border troops. This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.Naravane said: “We have had a series of talks which started on June 6 followed up by a number of meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks. As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place in the region and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue, the perceived differences between us would be put to rest.”The disengagement began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hot spots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off. The army chief, however, didn’t comment on the tense stand-off at Pangong Tso.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the specifics of the Chinese buildup in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in areas across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.Defence minister Rajnath Singh was on Friday briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-situation-with-china-under-control-says-gen-naravane/story-Tw61cjHmGWu4pLZ38Gu60K.html
17-06-2020||India||India and China disengaging in a phased manner along LAC, says Army chief||Disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces is taking place in a “phased manner” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), where the situation is “under control,” Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.Army chief’s first comments on the disengagement that began after top Indian and Chinese military commanders met last week came during an interaction with reporters on the sidelines of the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.“I would like to assure everyone that the situation along our border with China is under control,” said Naravane even as India and China continue diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the stand-off between border troops.The army chief said: “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has taken place”. Naravane’s comments are significant as the government has largely been tight-lipped on the ongoing border scrap with China. “It’s good that diplomatic and military engagement is working and things are showing signs of improving,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the LAC in the northern sector.Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-rank officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the stand-off between the border troops. This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.Naravane said: “We have had a series of talks which started on June 6 followed up by a number of meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks. As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place in the region and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue, the perceived differences between us would be put to rest.”The disengagement began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hot spots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off. The army chief, however, didn’t comment on the tense stand-off at Pangong Tso.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the specifics of the Chinese buildup in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in areas across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.Defence minister Rajnath Singh was on Friday briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-china-disengaging-in-a-phased-manner-along-lac-says-army-chief/story-FmrubIGvZOJETWUdWIp3uL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Situation along our borders with China is under control’: Army chief Naravane||The situation along India’s borders with China is under control, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday in Dehradun. Naravane said that the ongoing series of high delegation-level talks with the Chinese side has been followed up with meetings at the local level between the commanders of equivalent ranks.Chief Naravane said that through the continued dialogue, it is hoped that all perceived differences between India and China will be set to rest.“We are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we’re having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control,” he said. Talking about the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, chief Naravane said that in last 10-15 days alone, more than 15 terrorists have been killed. “All of this has been because of very close cooperation and coordination between all security forces operating in J&K,” he said.“Most of the operations have been based on information provided by the locals themselves which goes to show that they are also absolutely fed up with militancy and terrorism and they want that the situation should return to normal,” the army chief added.General Naravane’s comments came while he speaking to the media on the sidelines of the Passing Out Parade (POP) of Indian Military Academy (IMA) Dehradun. Also read: Chinese diplomat tweets a twist to Ladakh standoff, sees link to Article 370As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we're having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control: Army Chief General MM Naravane https://t.co/dZsaRNT4ONThis comes a day after Indian and Chinese army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh again to resolve the standoff between border troops. This was the fifth round of meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.Friday’s meeting between major general Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart went on for nearly five hours, said an officer.Most of the operations have been based on information provided by the locals themselves which goes to show that they are also absolutely fed up with militancy & terrorism and they want that the situation should return to normal: Army Chief General MM Naravane https://t.co/mrv7HsowsTBesides this, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday reviewed India’s military preparedness in eastern Ladakh and several other sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control in Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. Singh was briefed by Army chief Naravane at a high-level meeting which also saw Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria in attendance. Naravane gave a detailed account of the overall situation in eastern Ladakh. Indian and Chinese military officials are engaged in high delegation-level talks in a bid to resolve the month-long row over the Line of Actual Control. The armies from the two sides are locked in an over five-week standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-along-our-borders-with-china-is-under-control-army-chief-naravane/story-a3qRcQ1tgRSIwG5rWcqPTO.html
17-06-2020||India||India-China Major Generals meet for 5th time to ease border tensions||Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-ranked officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh again to resolve the standoff between border troops as defence minister Rajnath Singh met the military brass here and reviewed the situation along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC), two officers said on condition of anonymity.This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.The two officers last met at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area on Wednesday as part of continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots earlier this week.Friday’s meeting between major general Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart went on for nearly five hours, said one of the officers cited above.In Delhi, the defence minister was briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs, said the second officer cited above.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.Also read | In India’s China policy, a mix of three approaches | OpinionThe limited disengagement happened after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army, in the South Xinjiang region last Saturday.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.Also read | China has fearful leadership, lacks openness like India or US: Nicholas BurnsThe Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. More military talks are planned in the coming days to ease border tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-major-generals-meet-for-5th-time-to-ease-border-tensions/story-7HykdwFj6dVxkj2KyreGiL.html
17-06-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reviews Ladakh situation with CDS Bipin Rawat, service chiefs||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held a meeting with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the services chiefs for reviewing situation in Ladakh.The meeting comes on the heels of repeated dialogue between India and China who have attempted to resolve the border row with continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, according to officials from external affairs ministry. A day earlier, people familiar with developments confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces extended to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-ladakh-situation-with-cds-bipin-rawat-service-chiefs/story-revXac28x5Ai0wuAOHuJBJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China working on ‘early resolution’ of stand-off, says MEA||India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday as people familiar with developments confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces extended to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.Asked about the stand-off at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said both sides continue to be in touch through diplomatic and military channels to work for an “early resolution” of the matter in line with the guidance from the top leadership of India and China.“As you are aware, a meeting was held by the corps commanders of India and China on June 6 in Chushul-Moldo region. This meeting was in continuation of diplomatic and military engagements which both sides have maintained to address the situation in areas along the India-China border,” Srivastava said, referring to the meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region.The two sides had “agreed that an early resolution of the situation would be in keeping with the guidance of the leaders”, he said. Srivastava added, “The two sides are, therefore, maintaining their military and diplomatic engagements to peacefully resolve the situation at the earliest as also to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. This is essential for the further development of India-China bilateral relations.”He didn’t go into the details of further engagements through diplomatic and military channels and whether the two sides had discussed issues such as the reduction of troops and the Chinese side pulling back from the Indian side of the LAC.One of the two senior officers cited above said the Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lt Gen Singh and his Chinese counterpart Maj Gen Liu at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.“We have noticed a Chinese military build-up across the length of the border, from the northern to the eastern sector. This is in their so-called ‘depth areas’ or pockets within the Chinese side of the LAC,” he said.Indian forces matched China’s military moves by sending reinforcements to forward areas, said the second officer cited above.Former Northern Army commander, Lt Gen (retired) BS Jaswal, said: “This season is usually utilised by them for military exercises. China may have also kept forces in reserve to cater for any conflict contingency due to their early aggressive posturing in Ladakh and Sikkim. It’s also for keeping troops acclimatised.”Jaswal said India would have deployed enough solders in forward areas to repel any offensive design by China, which would also encounter “terrain friction” (terrain difficulties) in case of any adventurism.While the specifics of the Chinese build-up in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in “depth areas” across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.In the latest military contact between the two sides, army delegations held talks in eastern Ladakh on Wednesday to ease tensions along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-working-on-early-resolution-of-stand-off-says-mea/story-dqxvHN3OQ64nNPPlmcNaXN.html
17-06-2020||India||Two-star generals meet in eastern Ladakh to ease India, China border tensions||In the latest round of military contact between India and China, army delegations from both sides on Wednesday held talks in eastern Ladakh to ease tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where rival soldiers have been locked in a standoff for more than five weeks, two senior officers familiar with the development said.The Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area as part of continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that has eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots, said one of the two officers, both of whom requested anonymity.The discussions between the military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart were “positive and frank”, said the second officer cited above. It was, however, unclear what progress the border talks made.This was the fourth round of talks between the two-star generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along the LAC, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.More military talks are planned in the coming days to ease border tensions. “Limited military disengagement” has taken place at the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and the Hot Springs area where Chinese soldiers have pulled back two to three km along with their infantry combat vehicles.HT first reported on Monday that activity at the three sites declined after a seven-hour long meeting between the military commanders of the two armies, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the PLA in the South Xinjiang region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the disengagement of forces along the LAC is a positive move, the army remains concerned about the Chinese military build-up in so-called “depth areas” or areas within the Chinese side of the LAC, the officers said, stressing that India had matched China’s military moves.The Chinese build-up involves the deployment of more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars, and full de-escalation would require the soldiers and the weapons systems being pulled back to their original locations, the officers said.Around 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-star-generals-meet-in-eastern-ladakh-to-ease-india-china-border-tensions/story-hc0QyzqZHSvuUeWzRnMJwM.html
17-06-2020||India||Jasleen Bhalla, voice behind Covid-19 caller tune, says it’s important to drill the message in people’s minds||By now you would have heard her voice umpteen number of times, as she cautions you about the measures to be adopted in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in our day-to-day lives. Since March, telecom companies in India replaced ringtones with default caller tunes that spread awareness about the virus. And the voice that delivers you the message in Hindi, is of Delhiite Jasleen Bhalla.“This is just crazy, every Indian is hearing it,” she chuckles, as we ask her how she feels on being heard by millions of people every day. While recording the message, she had no idea it was going to be used this way. “A lot of recordings that we were doing for some time were in some or the other way related to Covid-19. When I got this, I thought it will be like one of those radio spots or something which will be used for a week or so, I didn’t know it will be used to this extent, pan-India,” she says.Bhalla, who graduated from Delhi University’s Khalsa College, first realised the wide reach of her gig when she received messages from her friends. “Initially, within a few days, friends started forwarding memes, telling me ‘We know this is your voice…but ab bus bhi karo yaar’. Funny part is when you are calling someone… you also get to hear that thing. It’s a little out-of-body experience,” says the voice-over artiste.So how does her family, especially her husband react when they hear her voice with every call they make? Bhalla reveals, “Well my husband was pleasantly surprised in the beginning but now he’s used to it, I suppose. I guess I have trained his ears well, being an excessive talker anyway.”While many complain they’re bored hearing the same caller tune all the time, the 40-year-old feels it’s important given that people are still not taking as many precautions as necessary. “It was just an essential step to sort of drill into everyone’s minds that you have to wear a mask, wash your hands etc, use a sanitiser. So at times a bitter pill also does its work,” she adds.Opening up about her first brush with the voice-over world and what made her choose this as a profession, she says, “Shortly after my graduation I started working. I’ve been a sports journalist and producer with different channels. In 2010, I started reaching studios with my voice sample. Then it hit me that this audio world was way bigger than I realised. I started going for auditions and working on my skills because doing voice-over professionally is a different ball game altogether. It is pretty much like acting, as it is voice acting.”Like most of us, Bhalla has spent most of the lockdown doing household chores, learning to cook while completing her professional assignments from home. “I always respected my house help but my respect for her and the whole astonishment about her stamina, given the amount of work she does, has gone notches up. I can’t just even imagine how much physical labour they put in their work,” she says.She also feels thankful for being able to earn her daily bread when a lot of people are not that fortunate. “It’s been a very humbling experience and it’s very difficult for all of us to accept this new normal, it doesn’t feel normal at all,” she shares, adding, “Whatever we have done with Mother Earth, we are just paying for our deeds. I hope we all come out of it by making some changes in our lives.”While her voice has got the nation’s attention at the moment, what’s that one voice she loves the most? “Morgan Freeman’s narration in Shawshank Redemption (1994)…was really something else. I also admire Richard Hammond (presenter of the Science of Stupid), he is very articulate and expressive,” adds Bhalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/important-to-drill-the-message-in-people-s-minds-says-voice-behind-covid-19-caller-tune/story-GxJlp7hJQ16H3po0zKsCFI.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China disengage in three sectors at LAC||China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets as both sides step up efforts to resolve a month-long tense border confrontation, two senior officers familiar with the development said on Tuesday.“Limited military disengagement” has taken place at the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and the Hot Springs area where Chinese soldiers have pulled back two to three km along with their infantry combat vehicles, said one of the two officers, both of whom requested anonymity.“It’s a step towards returning to status quo ante (as of early April). Indian soldiers have also withdrawn from the forward positions held by them in these areas,” said the second officer.Hindustan Times first reported on Monday that activity at the three sites declined after a seven-hour long meeting between the military commanders of the two armies, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the PLA in the South Xinjiang region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.Pangong Tso , where it all began has also started to see “de-escalation” but “it will take time to complete the process here,” said a third army officer who asked not to be namedMore military talks are planned in the coming days to ease tensions along the LAC, including one between major general-ranked officers at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area on Wednesday, said the second officer.This will be the fourth round of talks between major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.“Colonels and brigadiers will also hold a series of meetings with their Chinese counterparts at locations along the LAC to resolve the border situation. Hotlines at the tactical level are also functional,” the officer said.Experts said that the beginning of disengagement at the three hotspots along the border was a positive development.“It’s a good sign if tensions are easing at the three locations where the alignment of the LAC wasn’t disputed. We can now focus on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).Around 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.Specifically, the stand-off was in three locations, marked as the Indian army’s patrolling points 14, 15, and 17. At point 14, the Chinese objected to India building a 60-metre long bridge on a rivulet to give its troops easy access to Daulat Beg Oldi, the last Indian military post south of the Karakoram pass. The Chinese have retreated from point 14, a government official who asked not to be named said. At point 15, Chinese soldiers have been camping in tents for the past month, staring down at Indian soldiers doing the same. ‘Both sides have started reducing their presence here,” the government official added. At point 17, both sides had amassed troops and armour. The armoured vehicles have been moved back, the official said, and the troops will follow. Even in Pangong Tso, the Chinese have moved back the 15 interceptor boats and the 124 vehicles they moved in, the official added. China marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India also sent military reinforcements.India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the standoff, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday. The ministry said that “the two sides will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas.”India has dismissed China’s contention that its soldiers were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hampering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has made it clear it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC, and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint.”India has also told China that it will not halt construction within the Indian boundary, including the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DS-DBO) road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, Daulat Beg Oldi.India is also working on another road from Sasoma to Saser La that could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO near the Karakoram pass, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 9.India was initially surprised by the PLA’s movement, the government official said but reacted quickly to match deployment and started negotiations. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and diplomats in Delhi and Beijing were involved in the process as were army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane , NSA Ajit Doval, and the chiefs of security agencies. HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said the issue had not ended with Tuesday’s developments.“This is a welcome first step towards defusing the situation. They have talked about the easiest places [related to the stand-off] but there are more places along the LAC,” he said.“Even if the situation is defused and the Chinese troops pull back, the question remains – why did they come in such large numbers at so many places? Were they testing our response? Is the plan to pull back and come in again? They know what they are going to do, and the larger agenda is yet to happen,” Ranade added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-disengage-in-three-sectors-at-lac/story-EmSacJaICw7Qv4YjNX3v6L.html
17-06-2020||India||Sizeable number of Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, India has done what it needs to: Rajnath Singh||A “sizeable number” of Chinese troops have moved into eastern Ladakh and India too has taken all necessary steps to deal with the situation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, referring to the nearly month-long high-altitude standoff between the two armies.Singh said a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military leaders has been scheduled for June 6 even as he asserted that India is not going to back off from its position.Asked about the current situation in sensitive areas in eastern Ladakh, he said Chinese have come up to what they claim is their territory while Indians believed it is theirs. “There has been a disagreement over it. A sizeable number of Chinese people have come there. India has done what it needs to do. (Usko lekar ek matbhed hua hain. Aur acchi khasi sankhya mein Cheen ke log bhi aa gaye hain. Lekin Bharat ko bhi apni taraf se jo kuch bhi karna chahiye, Bharat ne bhi kiya hain),” Singh told CNN-News 18. Singh’s comments were seen as first official confirmation of presence of significant number of Chinese troops in the disputed areas which India maintains are on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border between the two countries.According to reports, significant numbers of Chinese troops have been camping in the Indian side of the LAC in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso.The defence minister said China should think about the issue seriously so that it can be resolved soon.Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in mountainous eastern Ladakh for close to a month. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute.“The Doklam dispute was resolved through diplomatic and military talks. We have found solutions to similar situations in the past as well. Talks at the military and diplomatic levels were on to resolve the current issue,” Singh said.“India does not hurt pride of any country and at the same time, it does not tolerate any attempt to hurt its own pride,” he said, taking about India’s long-held policy.The trigger for the face-off was China’s stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley.China was also laying a road in the Finger area which is not acceptable to India.Government sources said military reinforcements including troops, vehicles and artillery guns were sent to eastern Ladakh by the Indian Army to shore up its presence in the areas where Chinese soldiers were resorting to aggressive posturing. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to “disengage”.However, the standoff continued.The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sizeable-number-of-chinese-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-india-has-done-what-it-needs-to-rajnath-singh/story-VBUsMYAvJvWWRaYDrE6g6M.html
17-06-2020||India||Take parties, country into confidence over situation on China border, Cong tells govt||The Congress on Monday asked the government to take political parties, country into confidence over restoration of the status quo ante on the border with China in Ladakh.At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Randep Surjewala also asked the government to come clean on the actual position in Ladakh on reports of Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“While Government has briefly commented upon resolving the crisis diplomatically, Modi Government must take all political parties and the country into confidence on restoring the status quo ante and protecting India’s territorial integrity,” Surjewala said.Surjewala said there can be no compromise on India’s security and territorial integrity and posed a set of questions to the government on the situation at the border in Ladakh.He questioned the “silence” of the government on the “brazen Chinese transgression” into Indian territory.“Why did the Modi government not share the details of the situation with the country and the people on the situation of Line of Actual Control? ,“Surjewala asked.For the past three weeks, Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a stand-off in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. It has turned out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017.On Sunday, the Indian Army dismissed a video purportedly showing a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh describing it as “malafide.”The two-and-a-half minute long video ostensibly shows a brawl between Indian and Chinese troops on the banks of Pangong Tso (lake). The Congress leader also expressed concern over issues raised by Nepal and hoped the government would find a lasting solution to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-parties-country-into-confidence-over-situation-on-china-border-cong-tells-govt/story-mX4QZggEandZRlUKU407MP.html
17-06-2020||India||In 1st comment on Ladakh standoff, Rajnath Singh’s pointed reference to Doklam||India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the Ladakh standoff, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. Singh’s statement is the first from a senior central minister on the standoff with China at four points along the Line of Actual Control.Rajnath Singh told news channel Aaj Tak that both countries had made it clear that they wanted to resolve the problem. In course of the interview, Rajnath Singh also underlined that there was no need for the United States to meditate since the two countries already had a mechanism to resolve problems and it had been set in motion.US President Donald Trump this week told reporters that he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between India and China to help resolve tension at the border.The offer has been rejected by foreign ministries of the two countries.The offer also figured in a conversation between Rajnath Singh and US secretary of state Mark Esper when they spoke last evening.“I told him that India and China already had a mechanism that if there is any problem between the two countries, it is resolved by military and diplomatic dialogue. That mechanism is in place and the dialogue is on,” Rajnath Singh told the news channel. He also pointed to statements from Beijing on similar lines.Also Read: No end to tense Ladakh standoff in sight as India, China hold ground“India’s policy has been very clear that we should have good relations with all neighbours. This has been a long standing effort. But sometimes, circumstances arise with China that things like this happen,” he said.The defence minister also referred to the 2017 Doklam faceoff. “It appeared at that time that the situation was very tense. But we did not step back… Ultimately, we were able to resolve the situation,” he said.China had earlier this month moved a large number of its troops to four points in Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso area in an apparent effort to browbeat the Indian side to stop border construction projects including a 60-metre concrete bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.Also Read: PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in LadakhIn response, India’s military also moved in reinforcements to match the Chinese troops and made it clear that New Delhi would not allow any unilateral attempt by China to alter the status quo along the LAC.“The country should be assured that we will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances,” Rajnath Singh said. To a question on China’s ability to arm twist New Delhi, the minister said there was no question of this happening since the country had a strong leadership and the people knew this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dialogue-with-china-is-on-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-on-ladakh-standoff/story-jIfRLjjGXvJMqVVOxuiCGK.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi had no conversation with Trump over border standoff with China: Officials||There has been no recent contact between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump, people familiar with the developments said.The last time the two leaders spoke was on April 4, when the subject of the conversation was hydroxychloroquine, an official said, hours after US President Donald Trump appeared to suggest that he had spoken with PM Modi in recent days.They reiterated that India is directly in contact with China to address the border stand-off. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In FocusBoth India and China are involved in a stand-off in the Ladakh region along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China was first to adopt an aggressive posturing by sending 6,000 soldiers of its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to the region. The troops have been moved to four locations in eastern Ladakh - three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. Sources said that China wants to stop the infrastructure works being done by India in the remote region.At the heart of the tension is a bridge being built by India near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military outpost south of the Karakram Pass. Once built, it will cut short the delivery time of supplies and weapons thereby helping Indian Army soldiers.India too has moved its soldiers in the region, matching China in terms of troops, capacity and resources. Many security experts and top government sources said that India should not back down from the stand it has taken, and should not bring back its troops.The decision to mobilise the troops was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and foreign minister S Jaishankar was part of that meeting.This is the same team that drafted India’s response during the 73-day Doklam stand-off in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-had-no-conversation-with-donald-trump-over-ladakh-officials/story-dxxH54uTUH7eriJvlm2MnL.html
17-06-2020||India||Ladakh stand-off: India, China continue to stand ground||: India on Thursday said it is engaged with China at the diplomatic and military levels to end a border standoff involving thousands of troops even as it tacitly ruled out any possibility of US mediation to end the face-off.The ground situation remained unchanged and neither side had lowered its guard at the four standoff points n the Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso areas, HT has learnt.Both sides are holding firms and it is not possible to indicate at this time when the status quo ante will be restored, people familiar with the developments said.Since tensions flared along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after violent clashes involving hundreds of soldiers in Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early this month, both sides have deployed additional soldiers, especially in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. India has said it will oppose any unilateral attempts to alter the status quo along the LAC.Faced with a flurry of questions on the standoff and whether India agreed with China’s characterisation of the situation as “stable and controllable”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that both sides are engaged at different levels to address tensions, but New Delhi will make no compromises on sovereignty and national security.Asked specifically about US President Donald Trump’s offer on Wednesday to mediate between India and China and whether New Delhi had sought such arbitration, Srivastava appeared to rule out any role for a third party by saying: “As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue.”India and China, he said, have established mechanisms at military and diplomatic levels to peacefully resolve situations that may arise in border areas through dialogue, and “continue to remain engaged through these channels”.Srivastava reiterated India’s contention that its troops had not violated the LAC, a charge levelled by China soon after the standoff became public.“India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security,” he said.The Indian troops, he added, have a “very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas”.These include five agreements signed by India and China in the past two decades – the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field along the LAC, the 2005 Protocol on Modalities for the implementation of the Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field, the 2012 Agreement on establishment of a working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs, and the 2013 Border Defence Cooperation Agreement.Srivastava did not give a direct response to questions on Chinese troops establishing a presence on the Indian side of the LAC and the level at which diplomatic engagements were underway, and only said: “Our engagement at the diplomatic level also continues between both sides, both in Delhi as well as in Beijing.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the envoys of both countries were playing a key role in these engagements.China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had on Wednesday called for putting ties back on an even keel. Without referring to the standoff, he told a webinar the two sides “pose no threat to each other” and should “never let the differences shadow the overall…bilateral cooperation”. He also said they should seek “understanding through communication”.The seemingly conciliatory approach articulated by the Chinese side has not yet been reflected in the ground situation. Three of the standoff points are located around the Galwan Valley and the fourth, near Pangong lake. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army had moved soldiers to close to these four standoff points that are seen to be an effort to stop India from upgrading its border infrastructure, particularly a 60-metre-long bridge across the Galwan rivulet and an observation post near the Pangong lake.The Indian army has deployed reinforcements at the four standoff points without halting work on the border infrastructure work including the concrete Galwan bridge being built as part of a 255-km road to access Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.“Nobody can question India’s right to build roads, bridges or airfields in its own territory. The infrastructure upgrade is continuing and will not be paused in eastern Ladakh,” an Indian official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reviewed the situation along the LAC at a high-level meeting this week. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, foreign minister S Jaishankar and Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat are overseeing the Indian efforts at multiple levels. On their radar is also the activity on the western border with Islamabad after reports that the Pakistan army had moved troops in the neighbouring Gilgit Baltistan region that it illegally occupies.The army, which has matched the Chinese PLA, in terms of manpower and resources at the standoff points, is prepared for a long haul and has inducted more troops in the theatre. Another set of soldiers are undergoing an acclimatization process to give the soldiers posted at the standoff sites a break before returning.Officials said China on the other hand, has also beefed up its defences in the Aksai Chin area, to handle both ground and aerial adversaries.It has upgraded its dual-use military and civil airfield at Ngari Günsa airport about 60 km from the LAC as part of this exercise where the PLA’s air force has been flying J 11 jets, widely considered to be China’s version of the Russian Sukhoi 27 fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-stand-off-india-china-continue-to-stand-ground/story-q4m6VdZhB2cauDJy3NmFoN.html
17-06-2020||India||India snubs Trump’s offer on China border row, says no compromise on national security||India on Thursday said it is engaged with China at the diplomatic and military levels to end a border standoff involving thousands of troops even as it tacitly ruled out any possibility of US mediation to end the face-off.Since tensions flared along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after violent clashes involving hundreds of soldiers in Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early this month, both sides have deployed additional soldiers, especially in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. India has said it will oppose any unilateral attempts to alter the status quo along the LAC.Faced with a flurry of questions on the standoff and whether India agreed with China’s characterisation of the situation as “stable and controllable”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that both sides are engaged at different levels to address tensions, but New Delhi will make no compromises on sovereignty and national security.ALSO WATCH: India-China tension | Donald Trump’s offer, more troops at LACAlso read | Engaged with China to resolve border row peacefully: India on Trump’s offer to mediateAsked specifically about US President Donald Trump’s offer on Wednesday to mediate between the India and China and whether New Delhi had sought such arbitration, Srivastava appeared to rule out any role for a third party by saying: “As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue.”India and China, he said, have established mechanisms at military and diplomatic levels to peacefully resolve situations that may arise in border areas through dialogue, and “continue to remain engaged through these channels”.Srivastava reiterated India’s contention that its troops had not violated the LAC, a charge levelled by China soon after the standoff became public.“India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security,” he said.The Indian troops, he added, have a “very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas”.These include five agreements signed by India and China in the past two decades – the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field along the LAC, the 2005 Protocol on Modalities for the implementation of the Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field, the 2012 Agreement on establishment of a working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs, and the 2013 Border Defence Cooperation Agreement.Srivastava did not give a direct response to questions on Chinese troops establishing a presence on the Indian side of the LAC and the level at which diplomatic engagements were underway, and only said: “Our engagement at the diplomatic level also continues between both sides, both in Delhi as well as in Beijing.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the envoys of both countries were playing a key role in these engagements.China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had on Wednesday called for putting ties back on an even keel. Without referring to the standoff, he told a webinar the two sides “pose no threat to each other” and should “never let the differences shadow the overall…bilateral cooperation”. He also said they should seek “understanding through communication”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-will-make-no-compromises-on-national-security-mea-on-china-border-row/story-zZnQIblG6zQbAqha1iRnZJ.html
17-06-2020||India||No end to tense Ladakh standoff in sight as India, China hold ground||There has been no change in the ground situation or lowering of guard by either sides at the four standoff points between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh sector’s Galwan valley and Pangong Tso areas.Both sides are holding firm and it is not possible to indicate at this time when the status quo ante will be restored, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Thursday.Yesterday, the Chinese foreign ministry had played down the tense standoff along the Line of Actual Control, insisting that the situation was stable and controllable and the two sides were in touch with each other at different levels.The seemingly conciliatory approach articulated by the Chinese side has not reflected in the ground situation.Three of the standoff points are located around Galwan valley and the fourth, near Pangong lake. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army had moved soldiers to close to these four standoff points that are seen to be an effort to stop India from upgrading its border infrastructure, particularly 60-metre long bridge across the Galwan rivulet or nallah and an observation post near the Pangong lake.The Indian army has deployed reinforcements at the four standoff points without halting work on the border infrastructure work including the concrete Galwan bridge being built as part of a 255-km road to access Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In Focus“Nobody can question India’s right to build roads, bridges or airfields in its own territory. The infrastructure upgrade is continuing and will not be paused in eastern Ladakh,” an Indian official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reviewed the situation along the LAC at a high-level meeting this week.National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat are overseeing the Indian efforts at multiple levels. On their radar is also the activity on the western border with Islamabad after reports that the Pakistan army had moved troops in the neighbouring Gilgit Baltistan region that it illegally occupies.The Indian army, which has matched the Chinese PLA in terms of manpower and resources at the standoff points, has prepped for a long haul and inducted more troops in the theatre. Another set of soldiers are undergoing the acclimatization process to give the soldiers posted at the standoff sites a break before returning.Officials said China on the other hand, has also beefed up its defences in Aksai Chin area, both to handle ground and aerial adversaries.It has upgraded its dual-use military and civil airfield at Ngari Günsa airport about 60 km from the LAC as part of this exercise where the PLA’s air force has been flying J 11 jets, widely considered to be China’s version of the Russian Sukhoi 27 fighters.The other airfields in the vicinity of LAC are Yarkand 320 km from the LAC, Hotan is 240 km, Kashgar is 450 km while Korla is 600 km from the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-end-to-tense-ladakh-standoff-in-sight-as-india-china-hold-ground/story-hyEqc429I68jesxVQ3d0BL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Parties involved to decide’: UN on Trump’s offer to mediate to ease LAC tension||The United Nations has urged restraint from both India and China amid the tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Reacting to US President Donald Trump’s offer, the UN Secretary General’s spokesperson also said that it is for the parties involved to decide who they want to mediate.“It would be for parties involved to decide who they would want to mediate, not for us to opine. We’re looking at the situation and we urge parties to avoid any action that would make the situation even more tense,” the spokesperson said on Thursday.US President Donald Trump on Wednesday waded into the tense border stand-off between India and China, saying he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two Asian neighbours, a statement that could irk Beijing more than New Delhi.Shortly before Trump made his offer through a tweet, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a press conference in Beijing that the situation on the China-India border was “generally stable and controllable.” The sides were communicating through both their front-line military units and their respective embassies to “properly resolve relevant issues through dialogue and consultation,” Zhao said.Both India and China have increased presence along the LAC in Ladakh region. China was the first to adopt the aggressive posture as it moved 6,000 troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to the border area.The troops have been moved to four locations in eastern Ladakh - three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. Sources in the government said that China wants to stop the infrastucture projects launched by India in the Ladakh sector. At the centre of the stand-off is a bridge, which once complete, would give soldiers easy access to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.People aware of the development said that roads and other infrastructure projects will give Indian Army soldiers posted in the border area an advantage, and cut short the time needed to for the supplies and weaponry to reach them.Many security experts and top government sources said that India should not back down from the stand it has taken, and should not bring back its troops. India has matched the China army’s deployment in terms of troops, capacity and resources.The move was approved after a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. The meeting was attended by National Securoty Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Choef of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and foreign minister S Jaishankar.This is the same team that had led India’s response during the 73-day Doklam stand-off in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-involved-to-decide-un-on-trump-s-offer-to-mediate-to-ease-lac-tension/story-BJuInQ2px74aFLonCZnJhK.html
17-06-2020||India||India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled waters||India has matched the China army’s deployment in terms of troops, capacity and resources in eastern Ladakh that is witnessing four simultaneous standoffs between the two armies. Here is everything you need to know about the Ladakh standoff.What is the Ladakh standoff about?China has moved two brigade strength of People’s Liberation Army, over 6000 soldiers and support elements, at four locations in eastern Ladakh, three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. In response, India had also moved an equal number of high-altitude warfare troops to these areas closer to the Line of Actual Control. Have the Chinese soldiers intruded into Indian territory?No. Initial information suggests that the Chinese troops have not expanded the disputed areas of the border either Galwan or Pangong Tso but their presence in large numbers is seen to be adopting an aggressive posture. The troop buildup is China’s response to border projects on the Indian side that would make these areas easily accessible to Indian soldiers and heavy weaponry.ALSO WATCH | India-China tension | Donald Trump’s offer, more troops at LAC: All updatesDo the Chinese attempt to stall projects on our side?India is playing catch up with China that has built an extensive border infrastructure and laid metalled roads to connect all military outposts to their base camps. But there have been ongoing efforts by the Chinese army, now and then, to stall projects at Pangong Tso, Galwan and Depsang Plains.FactsAccording to the western sector maps shared by India and China in 2002 on their respective claim line, there are 12 areas of differences in perception of the Line of Actual Control. The maps were never exchanged due to Chinese objections.These are:Samar Lungpa 176 sq kmTrig heights and Depsang bulge 972 sq kmKonh Ka La (3 pockets) 56 sq kmPangong Tso (Both banks) 83 sq kmSpanggur Gap 24 sq kmMount Sajum 129 sq kmDumchele 40 sq km Demchok 150 sq kmChumar 80 sq kmIndian military records indicate that China is in adverse possession of 33,000 sq km in the western sector through public information is around 38,000 sq km. Apart from this, Pakistan illegally ceded 5,180 sq km in Shaksgam Valley to China in 1963.Source: The Himalayan Face-off: Chinese Assertion Indian RiposteWhat is the latest dispute over?The first standoff between the two sides is happening around the Pangong lake.Overlooking the lake is the Sirijap range, which has several cliffs jutting out. These are numbered 1 to 8 by the military. India’s LAC claim line extends to Finger 8. Chinese PLA’s patrol teams normally come from behind Finger 8 cliff and are intercepted by Indian patrol around Finger 6.Since the Chinese forces are able to spend a considerable amount of time on the Indian side of the claim line before they are detected, the army decided to build a new observation point at Finger 8 that would give Indian soldiers a birds eye view of the area and spot Chinese patrols as soon as they entered the area.This time, a large number of Chinese PLA soldiers reached the area near Finger 6 where they are usually intercepted to put pressure on the Indian side to halt work at the observation post.A scuffle broke out between the Indian and Chinese soldiers near the lake on the night of May 5-6 but a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the stand-off.And the other?The second dispute started over a 60-metre long bridge being built by India in the Depsang Plains across the Galwan rivulet. This point is close to the confluence of the rivulet to the Shyok River. This bridge, once complete, would give soldiers easy access to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass. In the absence of the road, this outpost is supplied via mule trains from Murgo. The PLA beefed up its presence on its side of the LAC at Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17. These locations are about six kilometres to the east to the confluence. The Chinese soldiers have not crossed into Indian territory but their posturing is considered aggressive. Is this similar to the 2013 faceoff between the two sides?Strictly speaking, this time the thousands of soldiers that have been moved by both sides aren’t really face to face as was the case in 2013. But at that time also, the faceoff that took place at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains was aimed at browbeating the Indian side into stopping building roads and an observation post in Himachal Pradesh’s Chumar, a day’s mountainous drive from Depsang.Why do the two sides keep on having border standoffs?One reason is the Chinese attempt to stop construction activities on the Indian side. The second reason is linked to the differing perceptions of the Line of Actual Control, which in eastern Ladakh, generally corresponds to the position reached as a result of the 1962 conflict.Are the two countries making efforts to end the standoff?India responded to the belligerence displayed by the Chinese side by moving reinforcements to the border hotspots but underlined the importance of ensuring peace and tranquillity in the border regions.President Xi Jinping, who is also head of China’s military commission, appeared to amp up the rhetoric this week when he told the military to be prepared for war at the National People’s Congress. But there has been a marked climbdown by Beijing. The people’s congress, an annual meeting of China’s ceremonial parliament, ends tomorrow. On Wednesday, China’s foreign ministry stressed that the China-India border area situation is overall “stable and controllable” and stressed on bilateral negotiations at diplomatic and military levels to de-escalate tension at the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-standoff-explained-bridge-over-troubled-waters/story-mcljIoRC0TUp3UqRjOtbmI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Do not let differences overshadow relations’: China’s India envoy on ties||The two nations pose no threat to each other, stressed Chinese envoy in India Sun Weidong on Wednesday amid face-off between New Delhi and Beijing over the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector recently. The envoy further stressed that any “differences” can be solved through communication. “We should never let differences overshadow our relations. We should resolve differences through communication,” envoy Sun Weidong was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Chinese envoy underlined how the two nations are fighting the scourge of Covid-19 together and urged the youth to view each other favourably.ALSO WATCH | ‘China hindering patrolling’: India slams Beijing after Ladakh, Sikkim fistfights“China and India are fighting together against Covid-19 and we have an important task to consolidate relations. Our youth should realise the relation between China and India, the two countries are opportunities for each other and pose no threat,” Weidong was quoted again by ANI.The external affairs ministry said last week the Indian side remained firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, as this is an essential prerequisite to further development of India-China relations.On Tuesday, India, officials familiar with developments said, won’t allow any alteration of the status quo on the LAC and the build-up of Chinese troops will be faced with “strength and restraint”.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.PM Modi also met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat last evening to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense standoff between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides also clashed near Pangong Lake on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-let-differences-overshadow-relations-china-s-india-envoy-on-ties/story-cz7TkpbXC3FgsguXsJDJyI.html
17-06-2020||India||Top Army commanders begin deliberations on security challenges facing India||Top commanders of the Indian Army on Wednesday began deliberations on key security challenges facing India, including the tense standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in several areas of eastern Ladakh.The three-day conference is being presided over by Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane.The commanders are also expected to delve into the overall situation in Jammu and Kashmir.However, the main focus will be on the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball face-off in sensitive areas like Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie, government sources said.“All aspects of India’s security challenges, including along borders with Pakistan and China, will be discussed at length by the commanders,” said a senior military official on condition of anonymity.Both India and China have significantly increased their presence in all sensitive areas in the region, in an indication that neither side is ready to back off.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to “disengage” following a meeting at the level of local commanders.Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence.The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.The commanders’ conference was originally scheduled to be held from April 13-18, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.The second phase of the conference will take place in the last week of June.On the face-off in eastern Ladakh, India last week said that it has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management but the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops.It is learnt that both India and China are looking at a solution to the issue through talks.On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries.In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries.The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-army-commanders-begin-deliberations-on-security-challenges-facing-india/story-jmDm6Bbx0KzbBIkxIHhZSO.html
17-06-2020||India||India matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram Pass||India has decided to not back down from a standoff with China -- along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh -- that centres around a strategic bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldi, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass, and has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.The idea is to not allow any alteration of Indian territory and to face the Chinese challenge with “strength and restraint”, the people cited above said on Tuesday against the backdrop of a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The PM met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense stand-off between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially in Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh. The CDS briefed PM Modi on the military inputs and suggestions to handle the situation in Ladakh.“The bottom line is that we will not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC. That we will not permit,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “We have faced similar situations in the past, and we will face this situation with strength and restraint,” the person added.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.Indian security officials said that the focus of the Chinese action in the area was to “dominate the region” and “deter India” from completing the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, which, once fully metalled, will give India a major advantage in terms of access and military mobilisation. A key part of this is the construction of a bridge at Daulat Beg Oldi that China wants to stop.“India has decided to stand up to China -- in terms of troops, capacity and resources,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity, adding that this included the induction of specialised forces in the area. China is believed to have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of Ladakh sector. The situation in the Sikkim sector, meanwhile, has eased off, the official added. The people cited in the first instance also reiterated the external affairs ministry’s comment of May 22 that all activities by Indian troops were on the Indian side of the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. They repeated the ministry’s accusation that it was Chinese troops that were hindering normal patrolling by Indian forces on the Indian side of the LAC.“The Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC. The Chinese have raised similar objections and made similar attempts [to hinder the activity of Indian troops] in the past too. Their motives and intentions in the current circumstances are not clear,” one of the persons said.“But we are very firm and very clear – there have no violations by us,” the person added.A second person, who too spoke on condition of anonymity, said India’s construction activities in forward areas will not stop because of the standoff. The issue is being dealt with on the Indian side by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and CDS General Bipin Rawat, a senior official aware of the matter said.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Lake.The standoff is also expected to figure prominently on the agenda of the three-day army commanders’ conference that begins on Wednesday, officials said. Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane will chair the meeting.“The apex level leadership of the Indian Army will brainstorm on current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for the army,” an army spokesperson said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday reviewed the situation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during a meeting with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the border with China by December 2022, officials said. These roads are spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and will allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-back-down-from-stand-off-with-china-at-lac/story-gUeGveAsBgYkyFwMGdDr2J.html
17-06-2020||India||India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control: Officials||India won’t allow any alteration of the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the build-up of Chinese troops will be faced with “strength and restraint”, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday against the backdrop of a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Modi met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense standoff between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh.“The bottomline is that we will not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC. That we will not permit,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity.“We have faced similar situations in the past, and we will face this situation with strength and restraint,” the person added.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.The people reiterated the external affairs ministry’s contention of May 22 that all activities by Indian troops were on the Indian side of the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. They also repeated the ministry’s accusation that it was Chinese troops that were hindering normal patrolling by Indian forces on the Indian side of the LAC.“The Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC. The Chinese have raised similar objections and made similar attempts [to hinder the activity of Indian troops] in the past too. Their motives and intentions in the current circumstances are not clear,” the person said.“But we are very firm and very clear – there have been no violations by us,” the person added.A second person, who too spoke on condition of anonymity, said India’s construction activities in forward areas will not stop because of the standoff.The people said the Indian side is facing the current stand-off with firmness and has deployed appropriate resources, even as it works on peaceful resolutions.Responding to speculation about the efficacy of strategic guidance issued after the informal summits at Wuhan in 2018 and Mammallapuram in 2019 for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border, the people said established mechanisms for dealing with such issues continued to be in place and both sides were in touch at diplomatic and other levels to address the situation.“Normal diplomatic contacts, at various levels, are underway,” the first person said, declining to go into details.The standoff on the LAC is expected to figure prominently on the agenda of the three-day army commanders’ conference that begins on Wednesday, officials said. Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane will chair the meeting.“The apex level leadership of the Indian Army will brainstorm on current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for the army,” an army spokesperson said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday reviewed the situation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during a meeting with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the border with China by December 2022, officials said. These roads are spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and will allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.China is believed to have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen defences amid the growing tensions on the LAC.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Lake.Sending the military reinforcements, including troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, did not require much effort as China diverted resources from an ongoing military exercise in the region, officials said.Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh last week for a security review as tensions grew near Pangong Lake and three pockets in Galwan Valley, where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides also clashed near Pangong Lake on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.The latest standoff is not confined to a small area, and has triggered an increase in troops at multiple locations on both sides and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by local commanders, as reported by HT on Sunday.The external affairs ministry said last week the Indian side remained firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, as this is an essential prerequisite to further development of India-China relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-allow-change-of-status-quo-on-line-of-actual-control-officials/story-omhYvrJnnEn3reFhbfeepL.html
17-06-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews security with top military brass in the backdrop of India-China boundary tensions||Defence minister Rajnath Singh held a security review meeting with the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the three services chiefs on Tuesday in the backdrop of heightened tensions with China over the boundary issue that has manifested in a stand-off between the two sides at four places along the border and the line of actual control (LAC), reported ANI.The meeting follows reports that China may have scaled up the presence of its soldiers to up to 5,000 on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector following incidents of clashes between the two sides. HT reported on May 10 about a flare-up at Naku La in north Sikkim between the two neighbours a day earlier. According to officials, 150 soldiers were reported to be involved in the standoff leading to injuries to four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers.The above incident took place after around 250 soldiers from the two sides clashed near Pangong Tso--a lake in the Himalayas situated at a height of about 4,350 metres that extends from India to the Tibetan autonomous region-- a few days ago on the night of May 5-6, also leading to injuries to scores of troops.India has accused China of blocking patrol by its troops while China has accused India of transgression into its territory. The incident was also taken note of by the US which criticized the ‘Chinese aggression’. The current situation is believed to be the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days and dealt a blow to relations between the two sides.India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as Indian and Chinese soldiers remain locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at four locations along the LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, the latest in the series taking place on Monday, have failed to end the deadlock that began with a violent clash between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Tso.One of the officials told HT that India was tracking all aspects of the Chinese deployments and was maintaining parity in troop numbers.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had visited Ladakh last week for a review of the situation near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures.Also Watch: Rahul Gandhi demands transparency on faceoff with China & ties with NepalThe latest standoff is not confined to a small area like Doklam and has triggered an increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations. Experts suggest the likely presence of a greater design behind it. They have also opined that the stalemate would now require political direction and diplomatic intervention to be resolved.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-security-with-top-military-brass-in-the-backdrop-of-india-china-boundary-tensions/story-WOsYKZp6DpiPnCYL3sv0vI.html
17-06-2020||Editorials||Reset ties with China||With its aggression in the Galwan Valley, Ladakh, China has crossed a threshold and pushed the relationship with India to a dangerous low, with long-lasting consequences. Chinese soldiers used the opportunity of a negotiated withdrawal operation to viciously attack a supervisory Indian contingent. The first Indian military casualties along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 45 years, and the seeming manner of their deaths, are a tragedy. While the present crisis in Ladakh was unusual in terms of the number and size of Chinese intrusions, it appeared to have similarities with past patterns of intimidation. Beijing would intrude; there would be some pushing and shoving; then it would withdraw, feeling a message had been sent. Not this time. Galwan Valley indicates there has been a dramatic shift in Chinese tactics, one that will require an equally drastic re-evaluation of India’s position. First, it is important to diagnose the roots of Beijing’s behaviour. At the macro-level, it is clear that China — under President Xi Jinping — believes the time has come to assert its power on the international stage. This has translated into China violating international norms and law (South China Sea); engaging in predatory, almost colonial, economic practices (Belt and Road Initiative); being brazen, rather than introspective and transparent, about its role in causing crises with global impact (the coronavirus pandemic); encroaching upon the sovereignty and territorial integrity of neighbours (Japan and India); intervening in the politics of democracies (from European nations to Australia); exporting its own ideological worldview to other countries (especially in South Asia); and becoming even more repressive at home (Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong) .In this backdrop, China wants to limit New Delhi’s power and ambition; it wants India to accept Beijing’s primacy in Asia and beyond; it wants to impose costs on India for deepening ties with the United States (US); and it wants to continue using Pakistan, which has now becoming almost its client State with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, to inflict terror on India. Concerned about India’s upgradation of border infrastructure and motivated by a desire to change facts on the ground, with its recent actions, China has violated every border pact signed in the last three decades to maintain peace and tranquillity and engaged in unacceptable aggression.India will have to respond. But it must do so strategically, not emotionally. There have to be two layers of response.The first priority has to be to restore status quo ante at the border as it existed in April. This will require both a display of military strength at the border by standing up to Chinese aggression, and diplomatic work by making it clear to Beijing that its intervention will lead to heavy costs across all spheres of the relationship. The political leadership, while providing strategic guidance, must give all the support the armed forces need at this moment and carefully examine the possibility of inflicting costs on China in other theatres (including business and trade) while keeping the conflict within limits. It must also mobilise international opinion to expose Chinese aggression at a time when a humanitarian, economic and health crisis (originating in China) has engulfed the world.But more fundamentally, India will have to reconsider its entire geopolitical posture. Engagement with China is essential and should continue. But there can be no appeasement. Policymakers need to go back to the drawing board and examine ways to build leverage against Beijing. India should consider taking a stronger position on Tibet. It must double down on its partnership with the US, make Quad (which also includes Japan and Australia) a more permanent arrangement, and be a part of any club that seeks to contain Chinese power. India needs to economically re-examine its trade, technology and investment ties with China, for all these appear to have benefited Beijing more than Delhi. It needs to ramp up its military modernisation, identify vulnerabilities across sectors, and prepare for a two-front situation — which may have seemed unthinkable some years back but will need to be considered now.India will also have to invest more in South Asia, ensure there are friendly governments in neighbouring capitals, and push back on Chinese efforts to encircle Delhi. The government will also, domestically, need to take the Opposition into confidence (an all-party meeting scheduled for Friday is a positive development) and prepare public opinion. As India battles the coronavirus pandemic and a recession, the security threat from China has added to the challenge. But India has to display strength and wisdom and defend itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reset-ties-with-china/story-FIYRUe7QEXcRXfNFSH7shL.html
17-06-2020||Editorials||Crossing the $500-billion mark||India’s foreign exchange reserves passed the half-trillion dollar mark this month, providing some silver lining to an otherwise overcast economic outlook. India has enough foreign exchange to cover a year’s worth of imports. The deterrent effect this has on speculators is one reason the rupee exchange rate has largely held steady during the lockdown. That the country suffered chronic balance of payments crises from Independence to the early 1990s is now a historical footnote to the latest generation of Indians, but the memory of past weakness remains strong in the government. The Reserve Bank of India was buying dollars when the pandemic began to shore up reserves, an act that now looks excessively cautious. The government should instead be asking how it can leverage its reserve cushion to fulfil the goal of making India a global hub for financial services. Foreign exchange reserves dipped in March but have been rising the past several weeks. One reason is that outflows are less. Sharp drops in oil and gold imports and outward remittances have meant demand for foreign exchange has been minimal. But the main reason has been a steady flow of foreign exchange into the country despite the lockdown. Foreign direct investment has continued apace. Portfolio investment has returned. There are reasons for discomfort — the collapse of India’s exports and the fact much of the inflow is a consequence of cash-strapped Indian firms selling stakes to overseas buyers. It is nice to bury a ghost of the past, but important not to forget India continues to have many financial vulnerabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/crossing-the-5-trillion-mark/story-ffjIcbn0USOFxZiOyXY6ZI.html
