18-06-2020||News||How the Galwan tragedy has clarified India’s vision||As India comes to terms with China’s dastardly act on the border, it should be a time for a new resolve in India to craft an open-eyed policy response. This is not going to be as easy as some social media warriors assume. But when it comes to the most serious strategic challenge India has ever faced, easy should be the last thing on our minds. Tragedies such as the one India has had to endure this week often lead to a clarity of vision, a vision that was clouded by the misplaced sense of our ability to manage China. Now, after the loss of precious lives along the border touted as being stable, New Delhi should also lose its innocence when it comes to China. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has underlined that India wants peace but “will give a befitting reply” if provoked. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the Galwan Valley development will have a “serious” impact on the bilateral relationship.In its attempt to unilaterally define the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Beijing has disregarded the central tenets of all pacts it has signed with India since 1993 to keep the border peaceful. And this will significantly alter the trajectory of the Sino-Indian relationship, which has been premised on an understanding that even as the boundary questions remain unresolved, the two nations can move forward on other areas of engagement — global, regional and bilateral. That fundamental assumption has now been seriously undermined. In some ways, China’s assertiveness today is understandable. As long as China was the dominant party along the border, it could continue with the facade of upholding peace and tranquility. After all, that was on its terms. It is India’s assertion of its interests in the last few years that has emerged as the sticking point. The militarisation of LAC is taking place at an unprecedented pace today partly because Indian infrastructure is in much better shape and Indian patrolling is far more effective. A more heated LAC is a result of the Indian military’s presence in areas where the Chinese military is not used to seeing it. That India is ready to take on Chinese aggression head-on is also reflected in the scale of casualties that both sides suffered this week in the Galwan Valley. The Indian military is operationally more nimble and prepared than ever been. Therefore, if a lasting solution to the border problem is not found, we should be prepared for more such action along LAC. China remains a significantly more powerful entity and its infrastructure is still in much better shape. But Indian infrastructure development has reached a critical point. And it is not without reason that the Chinese opposition to the 255 km-long strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road has been so vehement. Connecting Leh to the Karakoram Pass, this all-weather road is India’s frontal challenge to China’s expansionist designs in the region. Despite Chinese objections, India has continued to pursue this project given its strategic importance. China raising the temperature on the border is a pre-emptive move to dissuade India from moving ahead. China’s recent behaviour cannot be delinked from the global situation where Beijing has come under pressure and is facing a global backlash for its mishandling of Covid-19. That India has emerged as a more credible global actor at a time of severe distress is something that China is wary of. The top leadership of the Communist Party of China is facing internal turmoil as its policies on Hong Kong, Taiwan and Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) are not only facing global opprobrium but are also being critically dissected at home. For Chinese President Xi Jinping, an easy answer to managing this turmoil is to create problems abroad to generate a sense of nationalism among a disillusioned populace. Indian foreign policy has been at the front and centre of challenging China’s nefarious global designs. New Delhi was the first country to warn the world of the dangers of BRI at a time when almost every other country was willing to buy into Beijing’s narrative. Today, India’s framing of the BRI problems is widely accepted by most major global powers. Given that BRI is Xi’s key vanity project, India’s role in shaping the global opposition must be particularly jarring. India has also managed to shape the global discourse on the Indo-Pacific and is now working closely with like-minded regional players into giving it operational heft. Despite China’s continued objections to the term, Indo-Pacific maritime geography is now widely accepted. And at a time when the Donald Trump administration is seriously beginning the process of trade and technology “decoupling” with China, Washington and New Delhi are closer today than ever before. Chinese attempts to marginalise India on the global stage have not worked and New Delhi’s cache has only increased. And so in its wisdom, China decided to wield the blunt instrumentality of force, hoping that this would “teach India a lesson”. The reality is Chinese actions will produce exactly the opposite effect of what they probably intended to do. Indian public opinion, which was already negative about China, will now become even more strongly anti-Chinese. Those who have been talking about maintaining an equidistance from China and the United States will find it hard to sustain that position. And New Delhi will now be even freer to make policy choices, both strategic and economic, which will have a strong anti-China orientation. There will be costs for India. But China’s actions have ensured that today India is ready to bear those costs. For this, India should thank Xi’s China. Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-galwan-tragedy-has-clarified-india-s-vision/story-T9gVHpuSSwiDn8O9wJtz4M.html
18-06-2020||News||Covid-19 in India: Time for bold experimentation||To counter the Covid-19 crisis in India, many have recommended raising the annual health expenditure, primarily for testing, tracing, isolation, and universal mask-wearing. This view places financing above governance concerns that lie at the heart of the health care sector in India. The availability of more resources might not be sufficient for the country to implement a Vietnam, Tamil Nadu or Kerala model across all states. While we have been demanding greater health spending for nearly two decades, varying State capacity to implement programmes remains a fundamental constraint. For example, a recent study in The Lancet Global Health, on national, regional, and state-level all-cause and cause-specific under–five mortality (2000–2015), revealed large variations across states, ranging from 9.7 deaths in Goa to 73.1 deaths in Assam (per 1,000 live births). These disparities cannot be explained as being due to the shortage of health funds alone, as the study highlighted that; “…evaluation of health initiatives shows varying programme governance and accountability across states. Therefore, high and consistent commitment from local government is crucial to ensure that programmes work as intended.”In the current pandemic, ubiquitous testing seems logical and necessary. There are, however, several practical considerations which suggest alternative interventions. Research from the previous SARS epidemic has shown that there was wide variability in individual infectiousness; 10% of cases were responsible for 80% of the spread, implying that super-spreader events caused outbreaks. Therefore, we should use the existing contact tracing data to identify if there is dispersion in individual infectiousness, and more important, whether there are identifiable factors that affect the transmission of the disease, such as crowded working conditions, confined locations, age, gender and co-morbidities.We should utilise our existing resources to build relevant local intelligence on transmission, and the testing strategy should be prioritised accordingly. A recent study from Japan also shows how cluster analysis can be used to identify and isolate super-spreaders — thereby containing the overall outbreak. The role of the private sector is critical for India to control this pandemic. If firms are to function under the current uncertain environment, then there is a possibility of a Coasian bargain between an employer and employee to mitigate the risk of infection. Market solutions will emerge with a willingness to pay for testing, masks, and enforcing strict social distancing norms. We must explore alternative mechanisms where the private sector pays to mitigate uncertainty. Moreover, the prevalence elasticity of demand for self-protection also means that demand for self-protection will go up significantly. Government testing should then perhaps focus on areas where market-based solutions will not work.Beyond testing, it is important to put more thought and resources into contact tracing efforts. Research on the Ebola virus has revealed that delayed and ineffective contact tracing was a significant contributor to the outbreak in 2014–2015. Challenges include identification of all contact persons; this requires investigation and probing skills. In Kerala’s Kasaragod, the local police played an essential role in effective contact tracing. Given their training in debriefing and verification, local police personnel are naturally suited to extensive contact tracing. Therefore, what is needed are special personnel with skills in contact tracing that could be hired temporarily at the level of a police station. Another challenge is the logistical issue of physically tracing the identified person, mainly, where addresses are not well-defined. This requires extensive use of technology such as monitoring call and Internet data records, and in some cases, CCTV footage to physically identify persons concerned. After all this, the traced people have to be assessed daily for a significant period, which requires cooperation, willingness and, most important, trust. Management and performance of contact tracers must also be addressed upfront. While there have been suggestions about using additional ASHA workers, this is based on the assumption that optimal tools for contract tracing exist, and what is needed is for ASHA workers to merely learn these tools and implement them on the ground. Our experience with contact tracing in this pandemic suggests that the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has to work closely with the ministry of health. Given the significance of contact tracing, standard operating procedures (SOPs) are required to be developed by MHA. SOPs should be circulated across local police stations and health departments.Most important, this crisis could be an opportunity for policymakers and researchers to work together and exploit insights from epidemiology and other observational studies to design a series of ethical, economic and psychological cost randomised control trials as suggested by Haushofer and Metcalf in Science (May 21) to identify “non-pharmaceutical interventions” that could have a significant impact on human health with low societal and economic costs. Interventions range from encouragement and recommendations to regulations and sanctions — which ones work best in a pandemic? In brief, given that we know so little about what works and what doesn’t, it is time to experiment. We should increase budgetary allocation for research and experimentation and design data-driven policies. In summary, to resolve the uncertainty till a vaccine is discovered and widely available will require several trial-and-error experimentations and a willingness to learn.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-in-india-time-for-bold-experimentation/story-12ZMul6WZM8bEqFOltKtrL.html
18-06-2020||News||A long-term, climate-resilient development pathway should guide India’s development||In May, India faced a double whammy – a super cyclone, Amphan, even as the country struggled with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The cyclone was one of the most powerful to have hit India’s eastern coast in over 20 years. Before losing steam, it achieved sustained wind speeds over 225 kilometres per hour, displaying a peculiar rapid intensification with its wind speeds going up by three times within 48 hours.This is worrisome. Climate crisis will warm the oceans, helping generate and intensify future cyclones.Amphan killed at least 86 in West Bengal, the worst-affected state. Though the financial damages are still being assessed, it’s not likely to be as enormous in terms of fatalities as cyclone Bhola (1970) or the Orissa super cyclone (1999) which killed lakhs and thousands, respectively. The success in limiting the loss of lives is evident from the aftermath of cyclone Phailin (2013) and cyclone Fani (2019) in which, despite their ferocity, the fatalities remained in double digits.The minimisation of loss of lives was made possible by technological as well as institutional interventions. At the technology level, India has invested heavily over the last decade in strengthening its ocean observational network, radar technology, and storm-forecasting abilities to enable a timely assessment of the genesis and physiology of cyclones. Forecasting the tracks and landfall areas in advance helps take precautionary measures. In the case of Amphan, the information on its genesis, its probable track, its advancement, its inherent characteristics such as wind speeds and areas of possible landfall was made available to the authorities and the public at least a week before the actual landfall.At the institutional level, India has learnt the complex setup to manage disaster relief. While the country faced severe natural calamities in the late-1990s – such as the Orissa super cyclone (1999), Gujarat earthquake (2001) and Indian Ocean tsunami (2004) – the world witnessed much debate and discussion around disaster response and preparedness. It highlighted the need for a comprehensive disaster management plan. This led to the enactment of the Disaster Management Act under the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), that lay down policies, plans, guidelines and response measures in the event of a disaster.These successes notwithstanding, India still faces a challenge in minimising economic losses. Regardless of early warnings, agriculture and infrastructure continue to bear the brunt of the calamities. A United Nations (UN) report on economic losses and disasters estimates that in the last 20 years India has suffered $ 79.5 billion due to climate-related disasters. The economic damage from Amphan can easily run into millions of dollars. The preparedness to reduce the loss of lives must be extended to reduce the loss of livelihoods, basic amenities and infrastructure.How does India achieve this? How does it replicate the lessons learnt from minimising the loss of lives and infrastructure?India urgently needs to develop a long-term vision on climate-resilient development built on social needs, environmental sustainability, and economic viability. Investing in infrastructure on an ad-hoc basis poses the risk of “lock-ins” that are almost impossible to reverse. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has aptly referred to infrastructure as a key pillar under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. It was at the 2019 UN Climate Action Summit that he launched the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. With the physical infrastructure underpinning the achievement of all 17 Sustainable Development Goals, and, as highlighted by the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR), the role of improved disaster resilience, especially of infrastructure, forms a cornerstone in long-term sustainable development.A long-term climate-resilient development pathway that incorporates the socio-economic prerequisites of revamping infrastructure will help plan a strategy to save infrastructure, livelihoods and millions of lives. It will further enable efficient allocation of resources into climate-smart initiatives to help maximise the gains. With basic infrastructure and alternative sources of livelihoods in place, both the central and state institutions will be better equipped to cope with disasters and recovery.As we move towards transformative action from an incremental change, it is essential that a long-term climate-resilient development pathway leads the way. It should look at strengthening institutions, both at the national and sub-national levels, along with providing smart incentives to promote state-of-the-art climate-resilient infrastructure. Addressing the compounding vulnerabilities in areas such as agriculture, water resources, urban and rural built environs, and human capital is key to a sustainable, resilient, and self-reliant India.Karan Mangotra is associate director of Growth, Diversification & Commercialization, TERI. Saurabh Bhardwaj is fellow and area convener at the Centre for Climate Modelling, TERI The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-long-term-climate-resilient-development-pathway-should-lead-india-s-development/story-m7f3Mf6nntsQkaOVBx84UM.html
18-06-2020||City||Most Covid victims in Gzb in 41-60 years age group, says govt data||With the number of Covid-19 related deaths in Ghaziabad spiking in the month of June — 28 of the 32 deaths so far in the district have been reported since June 1 — officials are planning strategies to deal with the rising fatality rate. A review of the death cases revealed that about 34% deaths have taken place in the densely populated localities of Vijay Nagar and Khoda.According to records, as on Thursday, Ghaziabad has a total of 757 Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths. The period since June 1, when the Union and the state governments started lifting lockdown rules, has been the most challenging as 32 deaths and 452 Covid-19 cases have been added to the district’s tally till June 18.  The fatality rate in the district now stands at 4.45% of total cases.“A number of patients who succumbed to the disease were 21 years or above. Most deaths took place in the age group between 41 and 60 years. Patients having comorbid conditions suffered the most. Currently, we are reviewing all death cases, as directed by the nodal officers appointed by the Uttar Pradesh government.The review will help us better manage the treatment of patients,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.“Our prime focus at present is to take up effective surveillance in order to detect patients with severe or acute respiratory illnesses and influenza-like illness (ILI) and immediately send such persons for treatment. In many cases, the deceased had symptoms of fever and breathlessness, besides other comorbid conditions,” the CMO said.According to official records, about 15 of the 32 deaths had one symptom in common -- breathlessness. Fever was also present in 21 fatal cases coupled with other complications.According to the officials, the age group 0 to 20 years is the least affected by the virus with no deaths. The age group of 21-40 years had eight deaths, while 14 deaths were reported in the age group of 41-60 years. Those aged over 60 years accounted for 10 deaths.A majority of these deaths were from the densely populated localities such as Khoda, which reported five deaths. Six deaths were reported from Vijay Nagar zone which also comprise localities such as Pratap Vihar and Behrampur. Of the 32 deaths, 12 are women. The youngest deceased was aged 27 years while the oldest was aged 75 years.According to official estimates, the age group 0-20 years is also least affected in terms of Covid-19 positive cases and accounts for only 9% of all cases. The age group of 21-40 years accounts for 49% of cases, while those aged 41-60 years make up 31%, and those over 60 years of age account for 11% of all cases.Three deaths have been reported from Indirapuram while two deaths each were reported from Rajendra Nagar and Jhandapur in Sahibabad. Only three of the 32 deaths have taken place in rural areas, officials said.They said as part of the surveillance activities to identify cases of SARI and ILI, they are also taking up sampling exercises in densely populated localities. “The sampling activities are being taken up as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols. Apart from SARI and ILI cases, we are also sampling vulnerable groups such as vendors, drivers, delivery persons and those lodged in orphanages, old age homes, etc to detect Covid-19 cases quicker,” Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), Uttar Pradesh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-covid-victims-in-gzb-in-41-60-years-age-group-says-govt-data/story-fxd2WLzeIGrJ85FdLT4wcK.html
18-06-2020||City||Gurugram: Reticent families, unreachable patients make Covid contact tracing challenging||Gurugram: As the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases continue to rise in the city, the rapid response team and the ground teams at urban primary health centres (PHC) find it difficult to trace people who might have come in contact with positive cases. According to the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), the nodal agency for contact tracing, on-ground teams are not able to reach the contacts either because families are reluctant to share information or are not responding to telephone calls.“Contacts of many Covid-19 patients go untraced or unattended. If 200 positive cases are reported in a day, we are able to reach out to only 160-170 people,” Jitender Kumar, administrator, HSVP. “Earlier, the problems were incorrect addresses or contact numbers of the patients taken at the time of sample collection, which has been resolved to an extent. But now, many patients don’t respond to the calls by our teams while some don’t share correct information. It affects the overall contact tracing process,” he said.According to him, this issue has been continuing since early June when cases began to surge drastically, with more than 200 Covid-19 cases reported in a day. “The process has been improved now and made systematic,” said Kumar, adding that the number of teams will also be increased for proper surveillance. Currently, there are 99 rapid response teams, each comprising two members.For this, the health department will be helping the HSVP with volunteers. District chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, who held a meeting with HSVP officials Wednesday, said volunteers as well as Anganwadi workers are being roped in for contact tracing.“To break the chain of transmission, it is crucial to identify contacts of Covid-positive patients. To not to miss out on this, we are deploying volunteers and Anganwadi workers as well. The work will be divided between different groups. For example, in the first shift which is before lunch, volunteers and the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife will do contact tracing, while in the second half, ASHA and Anganwadi workers will visit Covid-19 positive families to collect details.”Dr Yadav said that the focus is on increasing contact tracing in seven affected areas of the city.On June 1, there were 1,000 Covid cases in the district. This number has now become almost threefold, with a total of 3991 cases by June 18, an increase of almost 3,000 in 17 days. There have been a total of 52 deaths so far in Gurugram due to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-reticent-families-unreachable-patients-make-covid-contact-tracing-challenging/story-pGPraFE0PAB5dktFZjpX6O.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Advani gang member, wanted in 28 cases, arrested||The Sector 17 crime branch on Wednesday arrested a 30-year-old alleged gangster, accused of being involved in at least 28 cases of thefts in the city.According to the police, the suspect, identified as Shahid alias Polo, who is from Dhulawat village in Tauru, is a member of ‘Advani’ gang, which specialises in uprooting ATMs. The suspect was arrested from Nuh, they added.As per his crime sheet, 28 FIRs have been registered against him, most of which involving ATM thefts, at 11 police stations in the city, the police said. He was declared a “bad character “ at IMT Manesar police station, where he was booked in 11 cases of theft in a span of five months in 2017. In police records, a bad character is a person who has a history of crime; one whose activities have to be monitored to ensure that there is no law and order problem in the area. The police had also announced a reward of ₹50,000 for information leading to his arrest.In 2019, Irshad, a key associate of the suspect, was arrested by the city police from Sohna. Irshad was wanted in 33 criminal cases, including 29 cases of theft. After Irshad’s arrest, Shahid alias Polo had been controlling the gang and its operations, the police said. The gang is named after an alleged criminal named Shahid alias Advani, who is also from Tauru and is accused in over 200 criminal cases, including 60 cases of ATM thefts, in several states. He was arrested in 2018 but had escaped the custody of Bilaspur crime branch. In June 2019, he was arrested by the city police. Most of the gang members hail from Mewat.“The gang members conduct a recce of the area before targeting an ATM. They use a truck and tie one end of a strong rope to the ATM machine and the other end to their truck. They then pull the machine out of the ATM booth. After driving for some distance, they dismantle the ATM and loot the cash. Another modus operandi of the gang is to use gas cutters to cut open the ATM,” Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said.A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said the suspect and his gang were operational in Manesar, Rajendra Park, Farrukhnagar, Sadar, Bajghera, Badshahpur, Shivaji Nagar and Rajendra Park areas.The police said Shahid alias Polo was produced in a district court on Wednesday and sent to police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/advani-gang-member-wanted-in-28-cases-arrested/story-x2xThyJ6rcMeFL8euuNJcJ.html
18-06-2020||City||Nine arrested for running a sex racket||The police on Thursday said they arrested nine persons, including six women, from a spa in Sector 14 for their alleged involvement in a sex racket. A case has been registered against the suspects under the immoral trafficking (prevention) Act at Sector 14 police station.Two teams of the Gurugram police from Sector 14 and the women’s police station had raided the spa Wednesday evening after a policeman posing as a decoy customer was sent into the establishment, the police said.“The raid was conducted after we sent a police officer, posing as a decoy customer, to the spa. After he signaled us, we conducted a raid and caught the suspects red-handed,” Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime) said.The ACP said the spa was raided after a deal was stuck with the decoy customer and the payment was made.Sangwan said the spas’ manager revealed told the police that his sister owned the spa, which had been operational for the last two years. “The owner of the spa is on the run and teams have been formed to arrest her,” he said.The suspects were produced before the duty magistrate and were sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-arrested-for-running-a-sex-racket/story-FusNXT0i2f728pLdjClPlI.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||DTCP carries out demolition drive in Bilaspur and Binola||A team of officials from the department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Thursday carried out demolition of illegal structures in two unauthorised colonies at Bilaspur and Binola in Manesar on the outskirts of the city. The action was taken after complaints were received by the department from concerned residents of Bilaspur regarding construction being carried out by developers during the lockdown period without any permission from the department.Officials said that four shops and a large hall-like structure were demolished in Bilaspur village. Prior warning was given to the plot owners not to construct structures as they were liable to be demolished. In Binola, the team demolished one showroom, an office, one warehouse, a sweet shop, a paying guest accommodation and a long wall with a room, they added. The DTCP team comprised three junior engineers, one assistant town planner and the district town planner (enforcement). The team was accompanied by 60 police officials of Gurugram Police. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that a large police team accompanied the enforcement department officials, who carried out the demolition drive. “We are surveying the colonies and also acting on complaints regarding illegal construction,” he said. As per a DTCP survey there are around 100 unauthorised colonies that have come up in the city in both Gurugram and Manesar in last one year. In a related development, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Thursday cancelled the allotment of a plot in Sector 10A to an allottee for obtaining more than one plot, which, it said, was against the rules. The action was initiated based on the complaint of RTI activist SK Sharma, who, in his complaint to the HSVP, had alleged that the allottee had submitted a false affidavit to obtain a plot under reserved quota. The plot was alloted in 2005, said HSVP officials. The cancellation order issued by estate officer 2, HSVP, stated that although a show-cause notice was given to the allottee nearly 15 days ago to justify as to why the allotment of the said plot should not be cancelled but no reply has been submitted. As such, the HSVP cancelled the allotment of the plot under question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-bilaspur-and-binola/story-VaAul6Cc9C52fczaxFd2WN.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to prepare draft for common NCR strategy in 3 days||The Gurugram administration on Thursday said that the district will put together a plan for a common strategy and send it to the Haryana government in the next three days.The move comes after Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday emphasised the need to have a unified strategy in Delhi-National Capital Region (Delhi-NCR) to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that suburbs such as Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad can’t be separated from the Capital in the public health emergency.Shah held a meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior officials of the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi-NCR amid a surge in the number of cases of the infectious disease. The deadly virus so far has infected at least 49,979 people in Delhi, 1,173 in Noida (another 85 cross-notified), 757 in Ghaziabad and 3,991 in Gurugram. “The Centre has asked us to provide the data related to bed capacity and testing facility for the common Delhi-NCR strategy. Gurugram will hit its peak number of Covid cases in June-July for which we have to prepared. Also, patients from Delhi are even admitted in Gurugram’s hospital. Those details have to be collected,” said a state government official. “In view of the structure of Delhi-NCR region, all concerned bodies need to unite and work on a common strategy against the coronavirus pandemic. In this context, I met with Delhi Chief Minister and senior officials of Center and Delhi-NCR today to discuss how to evolve a strategy as soon as possible,” Shah tweeted.During the meeting, the state government was appreciated for the Covid-19 management in Gurugram. The health secretary, union ministry of health and family welfare, said that the district’s Covid-19 helpline number is user- friendly, while isolation centres set up residents’ welfare association (RWA) for Covid-19 is a unique model which Delhi should also consider.As reported by the HT earlier, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana —which together make NCR — have failed to share or pool healthcare infrastructure and not tried to evolve a common strategy, even as cases in all the three regions continue to spike. During Thursday’s review meeting, officials from Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts of Haryana were present. Officials from Meerut, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Gautam Budh Nagar also attended the meeting.To prepare a collective strategy, a proforma has been shared with the districts adjoining Delhi to provide the information regarding testing, hospital infrastructure and ambulances. Gurugram has to also share details like isolation and hospital capacity, which includes number of ambulances and beds in Covid Care centres for asymptomatic patients. Also, details regarding existing and utilised capacity of isolation beds, beds with oxygen equipment, and beds with or without ventilators was being collated. Officials said that all the required details were shared with the state government on Thursday evening and will be further sent to the Central government. Currently, 1,428 beds are allocated for confirmed Covid cases with symptoms, 190 beds in ICU for serious patients and 92 beds with ventilator facility in 35 hospitals of the city.The focus now, officials said, will be augmentation of the number of beds by June end and July 15. Data regarding the same has been sought from government and private hospitals. In the first week of May, Randeep Gulleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had said that the Covid-19 cases are likely to increase in June-July. Likewise, data regarding testing labs in government and private set ups has to be submitted to the Centre. Another video conference meet between the Centre and the administrators of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will be held before finalizing the shared strategy, said the district administration statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-prepare-draft-for-common-ncr-strategy-in-3-days/story-FW0JGkZ9xufxoAmZo0L9qO.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Kherki Daula toll plaza attack: Two more suspects arrested||A day after two employees of Kherki Daula toll plaza on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway were injured after being attacked allegedly by a group of men during a tiff over a Rs 5 coin, the police arrested two more suspects in the cases. The police had arrested two suspects Wednesday night near the toll while they were trying to escape.The police on Thursday said after the alleged incident, the injured — the toll plaza manager and a special duty officer — were rushed to a private hospital for treatment, where their condition is stated to be stable.The suspects, Jeetu alias Jatin, Nikhil, Mohit, and Deepak, all from Ballabgarh in Faridabad, were sent to judicial custody. A knife used in the attack and a car have been seized, the police said. According to police officers, Jeetu was arrested from a crossing near the Kherki Daula toll plaza, and Deepak was arrested from his house in Ballabgarh on Thursday morning. Nikhil and Mohit were arrested near the toll plaza on Wednesday night. All four are unemployed, they added.According to the police, the alleged incident took place around 9pm when a car going towards Manesar side entered lane 14 of the toll plaza and was parked before the boom barrier. The police said one of the suspects paid Rs 100 to the toll collector, who charged Rs 65 as the toll and returned Rs 35. While returning the change, a Rs 5 coin fell on the ground. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said the car driver, who appeared to be inebriated, asked the toll collector to hand him the coin. “The collector told him that he would hand him a different coin and would pick the dropped coin later and asked him to move along as several cars were lining up behind. The car driver and his friends started arguing and threatened to kill the toll collector. When the toll manager intervened, the man sitting on co-driver’s seat alighted from the car and tried to stab him in the stomach. The toll manager pushed him and was stabbed in his arm in the alleged attack,” said the ACP. A special duty officer also intervened and he was also injured in the attack. Both the injured were rushed to a hospital on Wednesday night.ACP Sangwan said that the suspects did not have a criminal history and were on their way to Rewari when the incident took place. A case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Kherki Daula police station on Wednesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/kherki-daula-toll-plaza-attack-two-more-suspects-arrested/story-1KcUNWmJi5nzAvg6bDO3iO.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Low traffic helps speed up Sirhaul U-turn underpass project; likely to be completed by July 31||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is likely to complete the U-turn underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza and the flyover at Shankar Chowk by July 31, ahead of the schedule, said officials on Thursday. Once complete, the underpass will allow motorists to take a U-turn at Rajokri to reach Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3 without having to go all the way to Delhi. The work on the underpass had started on March 5, 2019 while September 4, 2020 was fixed as the deadline. However, a ban on construction last November due to air pollution and the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 24 to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease had stalled the work on the project twice. Construction resumed on April 30 after the government had announced certain relaxations in the lockdown.NHAI officials said that low traffic volume due to the lockdown helped in construction work as workers did not have keep one eye on vehicular movement or making traffic diversions. On an average, around four lakh vehicles crossed the Sirhaul border on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway daily before the imposition of lockdown, said NHAI officials. Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI, said that almost 80% of the work on the underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza and the flyover at Shankar Chowk is complete. “The work on the underpass and the flyover project has been on an upswing as the lack of heavy traffic has helped us to singularly focus on construction work. Nearly 75% to 80% of the work has been completed. We are confident of completing the project by July 31,” he said. Sharma also said that while work on a couple of other NHAI projects in the city had suffered due to the exodus of migrant workers to other states, the contractors at the Sirhaul U-turn underpass and flyover project site were able to retain the construction workers and also get new workers hired. “The retention of workers and the low traffic flow have helped speed up work. This underpass and flyover are going to significantly reduce traffic congestion at this busy junction”, he said. The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres. It has a 559-metre-long and 7-metre-wide service road. The designated speed in this underpass is set at 40kmph, said Sharma.The flyover at Shankar Chowk, on the other hand, will help traffic coming from the Cyber City to cross the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and turn towards Delhi. This grade-separated flyover has been designed for a motorable speed of 30kmph. It will be 455 metre-long with three lanes on each side. The total cost of the project is estimated at ₹161 crore and it is being built as a part of the plan to reduce congestion on highways across the National Capital Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/low-traffic-helps-speed-up-sirhaul-u-turn-underpass-project-likely-to-be-completed-by-july-31/story-fNnOBKFkxeQc9o1afsBo5O.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt-govt plans ₹25 cr development push for each assembly constituency||The Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab is planning a big development push for all 117 assembly constituencies of the state, which is scheduled to go to the polls in 2022.As per the plan, ₹25 crore would be reserved for each constituency and the works would be supervised by the deputy commissioner of district in which the constituency falls and the MLA concerned.The ruling party’s MLAs have already started sending proposals for development works, which are being forwarded to the local bodies and other departments for approval and technical examination.“The first installment of the funds is expected to be rolled out within a fortnight and works are expected to start by September,” said a senior government functionary.As per the state government’s plan, a three-member fiscal management committee, led by the chief minister and comprising two cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Manpreet Badal, is working on the programme and is looking at the financial aspects. The total funds outlay entails ₹2,925 crore.Expressing concern of the possibility of the pandemic posing a hurdle to the plan, local bodies minister Brahm Mohndra said, “The government is already spending a huge amount in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is to be seen how much fund is to be given to each constituency. There are suggestions that not all constituencies need the same amount, so discussions are on to fix upper limit of expenditure to Rs. 25 crore.”The state finance department has been asked to make arrangements for funds. “It is to be seen how much funds are available and how loans would be raised,” said a state functionary. The state has received ₹2,800 crore as GST reimbursement from the Centre and a portion of these funds are expected to go for development. “Development is the main agenda of our government and people also expect that development should take place. It is the government’s responsibility to muster funds whatever the situation is,” said state congress chief Sunil Jakhar. WHO’S INCHARGE IN NON-CONG CONSTITUENCIES The ruling party has 80 MLAs and all of them have been involved in the development exercise. However, in case of 37 constituencies with non-Congress MLAs, the government is yet to decide on the points-person. Informed sources said that the CM and state congress party chief would take a call. “I think it has to be someone from the party as opposition MLAs would not let the work go smoothly,” said a government functionary.Other than Congress MLAs, there are 19 of the Aam Aadmi Party, 14 of the Shiromani Akali Dal and two each of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Lok Insaaf Party.The Akali-BJP government had launched a similar programme in 2008 and 2016 before the state polls, setting aside ₹25 crore for each constituency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-govt-plans-25-cr-development-push-for-each-assembly-constituency/story-Fwgzwjdvt3snZm1BHJmebL.html
18-06-2020||City||Containment zones in Noida district double in two weeks||Noida: With increase in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases on a daily basis, the number of containment zones in the district has almost doubled since the month began. Two more deaths were reported on Thursday in the district while 74 fresh cases were reported. As of now, there are 236 containment zones in the district, as compared to 134 on June 2. Health officials, asking not to be named, believe this number will go on increasing.“For now the number of containment zones is higher in urban areas rather than in rural belts in the district. This figure will keep on going up as we progress further with the transmission of the coronavirus,” said a senior official of the health department, requesting anonymity.The official cited above, however, clarified that we are not in the community transmission stage at the moment in the district.Officials from the district administration and the health department, meanwhile, are continuing with sanitisation exercises and random sampling method of testing in containment zones while ensuring a strict adherence to regulations. Health camps are also being organised across the district.Till Thursday, there were 1,173 cases of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar. Of this, 606 people have been cured while a total of 16 people have succumbed to the disease, leaving 551 active cases. The total sampling count for the district stands at 14,103 till June 17. The death audit for at least two more patients is awaited.The figure for cross-notified patients stood at 85. Sources said containment zones include highrises as well as sectors with plotted houses. Even though most of them are in urban belts, there is no pattern to them.According to the current guidelines by the administration for urban areas, if there is even a single case in a residential locality, a 250 metre-radius is sealed, while in other cases the radius can be 500 metre with a 250 metre buffer. For highrise societies, only that tower from which cases have come up will be sealed. In case positive patients are from different towers, public spaces like parks, swimming pools, gyms, etc. will also be closed.If cases are found in offices, operations will have to be shut for at least 24 hours and thorough sanitisation is required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-in-noida-district-double-in-two-weeks/story-58CJefq3Xf6r1f8SIU7oOP.html
18-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Magisterial inquiry ordered into death of 66-year-old Covid patient||Ghaziabad: The district magistrate has directed for a magisterial inquiry into the death of a 66-year-old coronavirus (Covid-19)-positive woman who was allegedly referred from a private hospital to an L3-category Covid hospital in an ambulance which was without any life support equipment. The woman was declared dead upon arrival by doctors who examined her in the ambulance when it reached the L3 facility late on June 16.The woman, who lived at New Gandhi Nagar in Ghaziabad, had been admitted to Sarvodaya Hospital located in Kavi Nagar Industrial Area on June 13. According to her family members, doctors at the hospital allegedly showed undue haste to refer her to an L3 facility, in an ordinary ambulance without any life support equipment.“She had diabetes and had fever for a couple of days before that. Her oxygen saturation was also low. After a lot of deliberation we got her admitted to Sarvodaya Hospital, after which she was admitted to an ICU and immediately put on a ventilator, even though she did have respiratory issues at the time. Her sample was taken on June 14 and her reports arrived June 15, confirming her to be Covid-positive,” the sister-in-law of the patient alleged.“On June 16 around 10.30pm, the hospital informed us that she needs to be shifted to an L3 Covid hospital. They had also arranged for an ambulance but it was a normal ambulance which only had a stretcher. They told us the patient will be brought downstairs to the ambulance with the aid of an air pump for oxygen supply. We repeatedly denied that she should not be shifted at night but they insisted. In the ambulance, there were only two men,” she added.The district magistrate has assigned the inquiry to city magistrate Shiv Prakash Shukl.“The inquiry has been directed and is to be completed in seven days. We will now seek replies from all concerned parties and a report will be submitted to the district magistrate,” the city magistrate said.The L3 Covid facility, Santosh Medical hospital, is a government acquired facility. Its medical superintendent Dr Manish Sabharwal did not take calls.The son of the deceased woman alleged laxity on part of the staff members of Sarvodaya Hospital.“During discussions with the officials of L3 hospital, it was decided that an ambulance with a ventilator will be arranged for shifting her in the morning of June 17. However, on the night of June 16, I got a call from Sarvodaya Hospital informing us that shifting is to take place that night itself. We suspect that something happened to my mother at the hospital which is why they were bent on shifting her the same evening. They made us sign the discharge papers. We didn’t realise what was happening. My mother was brought down and taken to an L3 hospital in an ordinary ambulance,” he added.The distance between the two hospitals is about seven to eight kilometres.When contacted, Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said, “All the issues pertaining to the case will be taken up during the magisterial inquiry.”Dr Amit Goel, the administration in-charge of Sarvodaya Hospital denied all allegations.“The shifting of the patient took place after we received an email from the office of the chief medical officer’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) unit for shifting the patient, around 8.43pm on June 16. Before shifting, we also took written consent of the family and the final bill was also given. Three of our staff members, including one doctor, went with her in the ambulance. For about 30 minutes, the guard of L3 hospital did not allow the ambulance to enter the hospital. After the issue was resolved, the ambulance was let in,” Dr Goel said.He added that the patient was in a gasping state with heavy diabetes, and had low oxygen saturation of about 30-31% when she was admitted on June 13.“She was on ventilator since the night of June 13 and tested positive on June 15. We had also told the family that we did not have any ventilator fitted ambulance. The family had also given us written consent for treatment on June 13,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-magisterial-inquiry-ordered-into-death-of-66-year-old-covid-patient/story-zLPXkTxozdZsTccETDaRwK.html
18-06-2020||City||BMC must boycott Chinese machinery, firms, says Congress corporator||Amid ongoing tensions between India and China, Congress corporator Ravi Raja who is also the leader of opposition in BMC on Thursday demanded that BMC should boycott China by ending ties with Chinese technology and such firms.In a tweet Raja said, “Considering the atrocities & violations in Galwan valley, I propose that BMC should ban Chinese machinery or technology in all their projects. Also they should sever ties with Consultants or firms if involved in any which way with any projects BMC has undertaken.#BoycottChina.”Currently BMC is taking aid from Chinese manufacturer for tunneling project of Coastal Road and has also shortlisted a Chinese contractor for construction of sewage water tunnels projects in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bmc-must-boycott-chinese-machinery-firms-says-congress-corporator/story-9Yx6MSOX3x1W8blWKyLGGN.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab crosses 2-lakh test count, half conducted in last fortnight||Punjab has completed 2 lakh Covid-19 tests of which half were conducted in the last fortnight, in what is being seen as an outcome of the state health department’s efforts at having ramped up the testing capacity to detect infections, particularly cases of community transmission. On Wednesday (June 17), the state’s tally of total tests done was 2,08,408 against the June 3 figure of 1, 01,036 as the state’s daily has gone up significantly. Nearly 10,000 tests have been conducted daily in the past few days as compared to 4,000-4,500 a day in the first week of the month.SURPASSES HARYANAPunjab on Thursday surpassed Haryana in total number of tests done, with the neighouring state’s tally reaching 1,97,703 on Wednesday. On June 3, Haryana with a total of 1,26,222 tests was far ahead of Punjab which had conducted 1,01,036 tests by then. As per claims by health department officials, after Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, Punjab was the only state to have conducted more than 1 lakh tests in the last 15 days.The health officials claim that while testing in most states decreased with the surge in cases, Punjab kept increasing its capacity. “Testing in the worst-hit states like Delhi and Gujarat has decreased whereas we have increased the same,” said a senior health official. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said Punjab’s testing per million increased to 6,867 on Wednesday (June 17) while the number was 4,644 on June 13, and 3,096 on June 3. “There is no data of other states available as of now but I am sure we have surpassed Haryana and we are among top four in testing per million,” Dr Bhaskar added.Figures also suggest that the state is not relying much on private laboratories for sample testing as 98% of the testing was done in government facilities.Of the private players, only PathLabs conducted tests in Punjab at a time when state witnessed a sudden surge in positive cases with the return of Sikh pilgrims from Maharshtra’s Nanded. WHO ALL ARE BEING TESTED?Besides contacts of those found positive and people coming from outside the state, all frontline workers of the health and police departments, pregnant women, high-risk patients and patients reporting to the flu corners are being tested.“Our next objective is to test vegetable vendors and others involved in providing essential services to people during the lockdown,” said the nodal officer. Health and family welfare minister Balbir Sidhu said the department is planning to increase testing it further in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-crosses-2-lakh-test-count-half-conducted-in-last-fortnight/story-GjfdiVCaJYbhcmHxdCkN8I.html
18-06-2020||City||Man found dead in car a day after taking test for Covid-19||New DelhiA 38-year-old man was found dead inside his car in West Delhi’s Moti Nagar on Thursday afternoon, a day after he was tested for Covid-19, the police said. Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (West), said the man’s test result was awaited. He lived in Moti Nagar, close to where he was found dead around 3.30 pm on Thursday. The DCP said when the police reached the spot, they found him dead in his car that was locked from the inside and the air-conditioning was turned on. The man was also found to have vomited on himself inside the vehicle. “At this moment, we feel he either died of Covid-19 or cardiac arrest,” said a senior police officer. Simultaneously, the point are also probing the possibility of foul play as well as suicide. “We’ll know more once we receive the autopsy report,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-found-dead-in-car-a-day-after-taking-test-for-covid-19/story-HrezL4Gqr2AbuvNvd6zWcJ.html
18-06-2020||City||Man killed, relatives injured in group clash||New DelhiA 23-year-old man was killed and his three relatives, including a couple, were seriously injured after they were attacked with iron rods, sticks, and knives, allegedly by members of a family living in their neighbourhood in south Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur on Monday, police said on Thursday.Three alleged attackers have been arrested while two others are still absconding in connection with the murder case that was registered on Tuesday, the day the 23-year-old man, identified by his first name Najeem, succumbed to his injuries at a government hospital, police said.The arrested men were identified as Nazar,22, Zakir,30, and Aftab,19, all residents of Pul Prahladpur. All of them are daily wagers. Raids are on to nab the two absconding suspects, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena.“The two families often quarrelled over petty issues and fought over one issue or the other. One such fight led to the death of Najeem,” said Meena.On Monday around 6 pm, the DCP said, Najeem’s relatives – Dilshad,35, and his 30-year-old wife Nagma – were outside their home when their neighbours started quarrelling with them. Dilshad told the police that his neighbour, Zakir, began hurling abuses at them. When Dilshad’s brother-in-law Mujeeb protested, Sakir called his associate Shahid and they assaulted him with iron rods and sticks.“The altercation and clash continued for more than two hours and during that period Zakir and his four associates attacked Dilshad, Nagma, Mujeeb and Najeem, who was also stabbed in his abdomen,” said a police officer, associated with the case.The four injured persons were admitted to a government hospital where Najeeb died during treatment on Tuesday. The prime suspect, Zakir, along with Aftab and Nazar, were caught from Tughlaqabad area on Wednesday, the DCP said, adding that the knife and two sticks used in the crime were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-relatives-injured-in-group-clash/story-rfiBy7wgwA87AKQboqgZ2I.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid patient commits suicide at Mullana hospital||A 55-year-old coronavirus patient from Yamunanagar, who was undergoing treatment at the designated Covid hospital in Ambala’s Mullana, committed suicide by hanging himself inside a bathroom, police said on Thursday. Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “The man, a cloth merchant, had tested positive on June 13. He was undergoing treatment at ESI hospital in Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri, but referred to Mullana the next day after he experienced difficulty in breathing. He was on oxygen support in Mullana, where his condition considerably improved, but he committed suicide.”Ambala police said his body was handed over to the Yamunanagar administration following due procedures. “We received a call from the hospital authorities in the morning and the family was informed. We suspect that as he was isolated in the ICU due to his severe condition, it might have led to some mental trauma and he took the extreme step,” Mullana station in-charge Narender Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-patient-commits-suicide-at-mullana-hospital/story-2LlCDM40pMB29b0LCy7NjO.html
18-06-2020||City||Delhi HC asks visually impaired students of DU to try and sit for open book online exam||New Delhi: The Delhi High has asked final-year undergraduate and postgraduate visually impaired students of Delhi University (DU) to endeavour to sit for the open book online exam, while staing that the cost of any book or assistive device they buy for the examination will be reimbursed up to Rs 2 lakh.A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon directed that as and when a second round of open book exam is held, which according to DU would be in September, the visually impaired students would be entitled to appear in them to improve their score even if they have taken the first round of exams that will start from July 2.A slew of directions were issued by the high court while hearing a plea by the National Federation of the Blind filed through senior advocate SK Rugnta, challenging DU’s decision to hold open book examinations on the grounds that it violated rights of students with visual impairments and other disabilities.The Federation had wanted DU to assess performance of the final-year disabled students on the basis of their performance in previous semesters and internal assessment. In the alternative, it had suggested holding offline exams for such students after colleges reopen.Listing the matter for further hearing on July 13, the bench in its order of June 17 directed the DU, UGC and the Centre to file their replies to the petition before the next date.The court directed that “the visually impaired students may approach their respective institutes/colleges for any assistance required, including reading material/text books in accessible form and assistive devices.“Upon any student so approaching the institute/college of DU, the said institute and/or college is directed to supply the reading material/ text books in accessible form and the assistive devices.”The high court said that if any visually impaired student approaches DU for assistance in arranging a scribe to take their examination, the varsity has to “make best efforts” for arranging it.The bench made it clear that merely because the visually impaired students participated in the open book examination scheduled to commence from July 2, it would not disentitle them to the relief, if ultimately granted, of assessment on the basis of performance in the earlier semester and /or on the basis of internal assessment. “The DU and all its affiliate institutes/colleges are directed to, notwithstanding the aforesaid, as and when approached by any visually impaired students for any assistance, to render all such assistance and in the event of any such assistance being denied, such visually impaired students may contact Prof. Vinay Gupta, Dean (Examination) of DU in that respect,” the high court said. The high court had earlier said it was not going to interfere with DU’s decision to hold open book exams as the varsity has also decided to hold offline physical exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-asks-visually-impaired-students-of-du-to-try-and-sit-for-open-book-online-exam/story-B8iInAp0m6SMlQt6kid9pN.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||One-fourth learning in the upcoming academic year must go online, suggests council||The Advisory Council of the University of Mumbai met for their first meeting on Thursday, and have suggested that one-fourth of the learning in the upcoming academic year go online. Members present for the meeting included chairman emeritus of Tata Sons and Chairman of Tata Trusts, Ratan Tata, along with veteran scientist Anil Kakodkar, a nuclear physicist and mechanical engineer as well as IAS officer and additional chief secretary, state of Maharashtra, Sujata Saunik. The meeting was also attended by MU vice chancellor Suhas Pednekar and pro VC Ravindra Kulkarni.“Most members suggested that at least one fourth of the curriculum be taught online. Everyone unanimously also said that regular classroom cannot be done away with, so as to maintain a mentor-student relationship,” said Kulkarni.The provision for a seven-member advisory council was proposed in the Maharashtra State Public Universities Act, 2016 and this is the first time that members have been appointed on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-fourth-learning-in-the-upcoming-academic-year-must-go-online-suggests-council/story-jbbH4fGVO0U6FXDmGls41I.html
18-06-2020||City||Delhi high court tells north MCD to clear teachers’ salaries||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the North Delhi Municipal to clear within a week the arrears of salaries of teachers who have not been paid since lockdown started in March, stating that “they cannot be made to run from pillar to post for their lawful dues”. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also rejected the contention of the civic body that it was not being able to give salaries due to the paucity of funds and termed it “most unacceptable”.“We are of the opinion that the teachers cannot be made to run from pillar to post only to demand their lawful dues from the North DMC. Admittedly, the North DMC appears to be in default and has not released the salaries to the appellants/teachers since the lockdown was declared,” the bench said.The court was hearing a plea filed by the Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, representing the teachers who are teaching in North DMC schools, through its counsel Ranjit Sharma. In their plea, the teachers have contended that they have not got salaries since March. They said they were forced to approach the Delhi High Court because the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) was not functional.Appearing for the North DMC, its counsel told the court that the CAT was hearing urgent matters. She said the civic body is facing a paucity of funds and has not been able to disburse the salaries.The court said, “The explanation sought to be offered about the paucity of funds, is most unacceptable, particularly when the counsel for North DMC is not in a position to make a statement that on account of a cash crunch faced by the civic authority, it could not release the salaries of its officers working within the department or that the salaries have been partly released. The axe cannot fall on the appellants/ teachers alone”.The plea had challenged a June 9 order of a single judge dismissing their plea to direct North DMC to release their salaries that have not been paid since March 2020, when a nationwide lockdown was declared by the Central Government on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sangh told the high court that the teachers had been discharging their duties with responsibility in schools being run by the North DMC, but they have not received their salaries ever since March.The bench listed the matter for June 26 and asked the North DMC to file a compliance report of its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-tells-north-mcd-to-clear-teachers-salaries/story-PzK2E1azuxscuOHieiJiEI.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Report pending Covid deaths within 48 hours or face action: BMC to hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday issued a warning to all hospitals in its jurisdiction to report any pending Covid-19 deaths within the next 48 hours or face action. The directive was issued two days after the Maharashtra government added 862 Covid-19 deaths, which were previously not counted, to Mumbai’s cumulative death toll. The official communication to hospitals issued on Friday, read, “… one last and final chance is given to all hospitals under the jurisdiction of MCGM to come out clean and report any Covid-positive deaths if still pending for reporting for more than 48 hours.” BMC also stated that these instructions apply to all cases henceforth. The warning was meant for all civic and state-run hospitals as well as private ones.The document further said, “In case of failure to follow these instructions, a serious note will be taken by MCGM, and action under the Epidemic Act will be initiated.”The warning comes a day after municipal commissioner IS Chahal told Hindustan Times that BMC would not take any action in the form of a show-cause notice or FIR against its staff, hospitals, or their deans for the late reportage of these 862 deaths.“How can I blame my officers? They did not lie. Action will not be taken against hospitals and deans either, because the hospitals will collapse. Whatever said, I will not take action against BMC officials,” Chahal had said on Wednesday.BMC also issued an official clarification on Thursday regarding the reconciliation of Covid death figures in Mumbai that added 862 deaths to its cumulative figure. It claimed the late reportage of deaths was due to a shortage of staff and limitations in means of communication.The clarification further said that on June 6, the municipal commissioner carried out a thorough investigation after a private hospital reported 17 deaths to BMC in a single day. When it was observed that only one death had taken place that day and 16 deaths were from earlier, all private and public hospitals were instructed on June 8 to reconcile pending death figures and submit them within 48 hours.Responding to the Opposition’s accusations of hiding these numbers, BMC’s clarification said, “Another important point to be stressed here is that even before some people started expressing doubts about the concealment of this information, the municipal corporation had already collected the information, verified it, corrected the errors, and submitted it to the government. There were great proactive efforts on the part of the municipal corporation to bring these facts before the people in a transparent and spontaneous manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/report-pending-covid-deaths-within-48-hours-or-face-action-bmc-to-hospitals/story-jFjRzBY7ehOXg2D9gjKTBM.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||70% JNU teachers feel online education cannot replicate classroom learning: Report||Even as digital education gains prominence during the Covid-19 lockdown, over 70% of 131 teachers who participated in a survey at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said online education cannot replicate classroom learning. The findings were published in a report prepared by two former JNU teachers’ association (JNUTA) presidents, Ayesha Kidwai and Atul Sood.“More than 70% of teachers do not think online education successfully replicates the offline in-person classroom in terms of students’ needs and attainments or creates the conditions for a particularly smooth or fair exercise for the instructor,” the report said. Out of 576 teachers in the varsity, the report states that 310 faculty members were involved in online education, according to the administration. Kidwai said that the online form was circulated in the university and 131 teachers responded to the survey designed to assess the shortcomings of the online education system and problems faced by students.According to data submitted by the varsity to MHRD in April, only 35.6% male students and 29.7% female students participated in online education due to a lack of access to the internet, stable bandwidth and requisite devices, the report states.JNU V-C Jagadesh Kumar did not respond to calls and messages sent by HT seeking his response on the matter.“Teachers can only conduct exams after teaching has been done. If a student doesn’t have a laptop or internet and cannot receive what I am sending, it is not fair to conduct their examinations online or offline,” said Kidwai, who teaches at the Centre for Linguistics, School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies. Atul Sood teaches at JNU’s School of Social Sciences. Kidwai also pointed out that several students staying in hostels were sent back to their homes where they don’t have the necessary infrastructure to access online education.“We are not asking students to come back to the campus risking their health. But institutional practices have to be put in place to facilitate learning. Sending a paper or email is not just online teaching. This is not viable in the long run,” she added.The recommendations listed in the report include procurement of an institutional licence for online meetings and instructions for the use of teachers and students, a reformulated programme curriculum at Centres and Schools approved by statutory bodies, and allocation of special funds to students from socially and economically disadvantaged sections for digital devices and internet connectivity. The report calls for limiting the scope of ongoing PhDs since Covid-19 pandemic has made fieldwork-based research difficult.The report recommended a prolonged academic session and delayed admissions. “About two-thirds of the teachers (66.2%) agree admissions for the academic year 2020-21 should be delayed until January 2021 ... An overwhelming percentage of teachers (above 70%) were in support of extending the semester from 45 to 60 days after the date of reopening and conducting in-class evaluations both for continuing and final-year students,” it said.The report also called for immediate discussion at both informal levels as well as in official statutory bodies including student-faculty committee members, board of studies, and academic council, with the full involvement of student representatives. “It is important that these meetings be held on a video-conferencing platform so that colleagues may actually converse and debate in real-time,” the report said.JNU students’ union vice-president Saket Moon said, “Online learning or exams cannot be made mandatory due to the digital divide and lack of access to internet. Students who don’t have access should also be accommodated in some way. Administration should facilitate access before pushing for online education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-jnu-teachers-feel-online-education-cannot-replicate-classroom-survey-report/story-fnccAN0Atmuctg5K7MPkOK.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi to use school auditoriums to add beds||As a part of its plan to augment the bed count in the face of the Covid-19 crisis, the Delhi government will make use of its school auditoriums.Earlier this month, the government had asked its schools to submit data on whether they have auditoriums or not. They were also asked to provide details such as existing air conditioning facilities, whether the auditorium had fixed chairs, among other things.On Wednesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the government planned to use auditoriums in nearly 242 schools to set up beds for Covid-19 patients.There are a total of 8,872 isolation beds in the city’s hospitals. Sisodia had earlier estimated that Delhi will need at least 15,000 beds by June-end and 80,000 by the end of July. The government also plans to use 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls as makeshift hospitals, a move that is expected to add over 15,800 beds.“This is not an ideal scenario but if the need arises, we have to work together to fight the pandemic and provide the required space to accommodate presidents,” said the principal of a government school in south Delhi, requesting anonymity.Sisodia requested the Union minister to cancel the remaining CBSE board exams for classes 10 and 12 slated in July and promote all students based on their internal assessment citing rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital.“Holding exams in the same building where there are hundreds of Covid-19 patients will be a serious risk,” the Delhi education minister had written in a letter to Union human resource minister on Wednesday.So far, around 251 government schools in Delhi are currently being used as dry ration distribution centres, 33 schools have been converted into hunger relief centres, 39 as shelter homes, 10 as migrant camps and another 10 as quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-use-school-auditoriums-to-add-beds/story-fvUuAFNx5bO03owJPpWFdL.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Melghat Tiger Reserve reopens for tourists||The Maharashtra forest department has decided to reopen the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) from today while the buffer area of Pench and Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserves (TATR) will be reopened from July 1.Located across the eastern Vidarbha landscape, spreading across northern Amravati district and etching into Buldhana and Akola districts, the 1,500.49 square kilometre MTR, is home to five wildlife sanctuaries. It will be the first protected area in the state to resume operations since all wildlife sanctuaries, national parks, and tiger reserves were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, since March 18. “The decision was taken as a complete ban on tourism activities had led to serious negative economic impacts during the lockdown on local people and their families depending on tourism,” said MS Reddy, additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and field director, Melghat Tiger Reserve.On June 15, Shiv Sena politician and member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) Prataprao Jadhav had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to resume nature tourism at Melghat, citing financial difficulties for nature guides, drivers, restaurant operators, labourers, and their families due to the reserve being shut. HT has a copy of the letter.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “While there was a demand from local leaders to open up tourism at Melghat, the National Tiger Conservation Authority on June 5 had allowed states to take a call on resuming tourism at reserves where Covid-19 cases are relatively less. However, we have reiterated that restricted tourism will be allowed in the buffer areas of Pench and TATR, and it will increase gradually in a phased manner.”Protected areas across other parts of the state, including Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai, will continue to remain shut for now, added Kakodkar. “I am awaiting a report from local officers as the Covid-19 problem in Mumbai and Pune is much more severe, and therefore we are not in a rush. A decision will be taken next week,” he said.Meanwhile, a list of regulations has been put in place for tourists and staff at MTR to follow during safaris at the park. They include taking note of the travel history of visitors, screening of tourists and forest staff, social distancing norms while being seated in vehicles, limited number of vehicles entering the reserve, recurrent use of sanitisers during the safari, mandatory sanitisation of vehicles before entering the park, all persons to wear masks, gloves, and other personal protective equipment at all times.“We will ensure not more than six vehicles enter the reserve daily. If anyone is found having Covid symptoms, they will be isolated and taken to the local health department for examination,” said a senior forest official from MTR, adding, “Safari reservations are offline to ensure tourists are present in person at the time of making the booking. All staff members have to report any incidents of ill-health.”Three arrested for hunting monitor lizard in MelghatForest officials at the Melghat Tiger Reserve arrested three persons on Wednesday for hunting a monitor lizard, which is protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. All three will be presented before a local court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/melghat-tiger-reserve-reopens-for-tourists/story-dWjeYv18obqphGstcxVOQK.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Registration mandatory for visitors staying in Haryana for over 3 days||Alarmed by the spurt in Covid-19 cases in last few days, the Haryana government on Thursday decided to regulate interstate movement of people coming to Haryana from other states for a stay of more than three days, an official spokesperson said.Now, registration on portal www.saralharyana.gov.in and downloading of Aarogya Setu App is mandatory for all travellers entering Haryana and staying in the state for more than 72 hours. The travellers will have to share their complete details such as name, address and mobile number. The use of same mobile number for multiple registrations will not be allowed, except in the case of a family on this portal. The business visitors will have to give details including name, mobile and address of persons in Haryana they intend to meet and date of return. The hotels/guesthouses/corporate guest houses/government rest houses/dharamshalas will have to register the details of visitors from outside Haryana staying with them on the portal immediately. The transit travellers will have to provide address at which he/she intends to stay and indicate the entry check post in Haryana. The spokesperson said health screening of all such travellers at border check posts, railway stations and bus stands would be done at the entry point of district/city or village, as the case may be, where the person intends to visit. If any traveller is found symptomatic on arrival, he/she will report to the nearest health facility and if found positive, the person will be shifted to home isolation/Covid care centre/ dedicated Covid hospital depending upon the severity.The spokesperson said the people visiting Haryana for a period of three days for business and others who have been commuting to Haryana due to their official duties or business activities on daily basis need not follow the procedure stated above unless they develop symptoms during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/registration-mandatory-for-visitors-staying-in-haryana-for-over-3-days/story-Cvwy8maAWKtmeEKJ1p42wI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three-day curfew in Kurukshetra from today||A three-day curfew will be imposed in Kurukshetra from Friday to avoid gathering of people at the religious places in the city. The decision has been taken to avoid large gatherings of devotees at Brahma Sarovar to take holy dip during the solar eclipse between 10.20am to 1.47 pm on June 21. The curfew will remain in place from 6pm on June 19 till June 21. During the curfew, police will be deployed at all points of Kurukshetra to stop entry of anyone. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dheerender Khadgata said the decision was taken as per the government guidelines and there will be a blanket check on the movement of people and vehicles in the urban and rural areas of the district. The local administration has also written to the deputy commissioners of neighbouring districts to ensure that people from their districts do not leave for Kurukshetra, he added. He urged the people to support the government and avoid coming out during the curfew. The Haryana government has also written to its Punjab, Himachal, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh counterparts to stop the movement of devotees from their states to Kurukshetra. Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi said 750 cops will be deputed during the curfew and 52 nakas will be set up in the district to keep tabs on the movement of vehicles. Citing the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, the Kurukshetra administration had decided that there be will be no grand solar eclipse fair on June 21 due to the pandemic and advised the people to stay at homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-day-curfew-in-kurukshetra-from-today/story-iDYZqWZ5RFyax38GD9QrlM.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man’s beheaded body found in Fatehabad||A man’s beheaded body was found at his house in Fatehabad’s Tohana city on Thursday, police said. The deceased has been identified as Deepak Kumar of the same town. Tohana DSP Viren Singh said, “His wife had divorced him ten years ago and since then he was living alone. His sister claims that Deepak was murdered by her younger brother, who had visited his house the previous day. The complainant suspects that her brother was killed over a property dispute.”The police have registered a case of murder against victim’s brother and launched a manhunt to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-s-beheaded-body-found-in-fatehabad/story-0kWMxVxbK4CQY6B9sqvPRK.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Mob targets police post in Haryana, 6 cops injured||At least six Haryana Police personnel were injured when an angry mob attacked a police post after a youth allegedly committed suicide inside a jail in Faridabad on Thursday.“Five to six of our police personnel were injured as stones were pelted,” a police official told reporters outside the Chandpur police chowki, which was attacked.Twenty-three-year-old Sonu allegedly committed suicide inside the jail on Thursday, ACP, Tigaon, Bhagat Ram said.A magisterial inquiry had been ordered, he said. Following Sonu’s death, his relatives and villagers gathered outside the police post, which comes under the Chhainsa police station, and raised slogans.They claimed that Sonu, who was arrested on June 14, was innocent. He was apprehended after a fight between two groups, during which a police vehicle was damaged.Sonu’s brother told reporters that he suspected foul play behind his death.Police said the road, which was blocked by the villagers, has been cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mob-targets-police-post-in-haryana-6-cops-injured/story-4QDMhkHgoKJGZS1RcvTPVL.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Couple hacked to death in Rohtak; 21 murders reported in district since May 1||Haryana’s Rohtak has witnessed a sharp rise in murder cases since May 1. With a couple being hacked to death, the tally rose to 21 on Thursday. A 19-year-old woman and her husband from Rohtak’s Farmana village were murdered in what police claimed to be a case honour killing. “The victims had married last year against the wishes of their families. They lived at a safe house in Rohtak for some time as well. On Thursday, the woman, who was severely injured, approached the government hospital in Meham and told the doctors that her family members had attacked them. She said her brother had stabbed her. She died on the way to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. In the evening, her husband’s body was also found,” assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh said. THREE PERSONS ARRESTEDRohtak superintendent of police Rahul Sharma said they have arrested three persons — woman’s brother Ajay Kumar and his two friends Sahil and Bablu — in connection with the case.“We have formed a special investigation team to be led by Meham DSP. During questioning, Ajay confessed that he had brought his sister Pooja and her husband Surender from Rohtak, where they were living in a rented accommodation, to Meham. From there, he and his two aides took the couple to Bhiwani’s Badesra village on Wednesday evening. They first attacked Pooja with a knife, but she managed to escape while her husband was stabbed to death on the spot. We will interrogate the accused further to ascertain involvement of other persons,” he added.‘MOST KILLINGS RESULT OF FAMILY DISPUTES, PERSONAL ENMITY’Among the murders reported in past almost 50 days are those of a woman who was stabbed by her husband in Bhani Maharajpur village, a man who was shot in Bhali village, another man who was killed in a similar manner by his friends in Bhani Bheron village, a convict out on bail who was gunned down and a woman and her daughter who were burnt alive by her husband in Salara Mohalla. SP Rahul Sharma said most of these murders were the result of either family dispute or personal enmity. “We have arrested the perpetrators in 15 murder cases so far. We are working hard to prevent contract killings and planned murders. Our main job is to detect crime and we have been doing that efficiently,” the SP added. Reacting sharply to the surge in murder cases, leader of opposition in the Haryana assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said criminals were roaming freely not only in Rohtak, but all across the state. “The citizens are living under constant fear. Haryana’s law and order situation has deteriorated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/couple-hacked-to-death-in-rohtak-21-murders-reported-in-district-since-may-1/story-qryFUFrDqmOLaie24E2XKJ.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Payment of property tax for commercial properties deferred in 13 Chandigarh villages||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday gave in-principle approval for deferring payment of property tax by commercial establishments in 13 newly included villages under the municipal corporation. UT officials said the duration and period for deferment of the payment of tax is under consideration.This comes as a relief to residents of the villages had been demanding property tax deferment in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and the consequent lockdown.The 13 villages include Kishangarh, Mauli Jagran, Dadwa, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Dhanas, Sarangpur, Khuda Alisher, Khuda Jasu, Khuda Lahora and Kaimbwala.Significantly, a BJP delegation recently met UT administrator VPS Badnore and requested him to exempt property tax in these villages.Significantly, these 13 villages were transferred by the administration to the MC last year. So far, no major development has been done in these villages by the MC. But, in April, property tax was imposed. The owners of commercial buildings in these 13 villages will be charged property tax at the rate of Rs 6.60 per square feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/payment-of-property-tax-for-commercial-properties-deferred-in-13-chandigarh-villages/story-EkK4L4BcPqW1gPYp49dHYJ.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Racial words in official record to invite disciplinary action: Punjab Police to HC||Chandigarh Punjab Police has told the high court that the cops found using words with racial connotation in the official records would face disciplinary action as it amounts to misconduct under the disciplinary rules.The statement was made following high court rebuking the police for using the term ‘Negro’ while referring to an African person in police documents. The high court had termed the use of derogatory terms like “kala” or “Negro” to address black people of African-origin as highly offensive and unacceptable and asked the state’s director general of police (DGP) to issue instructions and sensitise cops against it. The court had taken note of police using term ‘Negro’ while referring to an African person in the challan papers presented before the trial court in a drugs seizure case. The court was told that the DGP has issued instructions to all investigating officers and other officers in the field to never use offensive or racial words in FIRs and challans etc.The police also told the court that the word in question was neither used by policemen nor was it part of proceedings prepared by them, but was a disclosure statement of an accused, which was part of the challan. The police officials, while recording the statement of complainant/witnesses/accused persons cannot make any changes in the language or narrative version being dictated either by the complainant/witnesses/accused persons, on their own as per the apex court order on recording of evidence, the court was informed. “This aspect needs to be corrected by sanction of the law by ordering strict action against the policemen who indulge in this character assassination based on physical features,” the bench of justice RN Raina had said in its June 12 order as it found that “the term ‘Negro’ (was) used while referring to an African national in the challan papers”.The police told the court that all field heads have been asked to sensitise the SHOs and other policemen. It will also be made part of the training programme undertaken at Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/racial-words-in-official-record-to-invite-disciplinary-action-punjab-police-to-hc/story-33SohVKySASnkLw5hYqXkN.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||PPE makers fail to get orders, Capt urges PM to allow export||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to permit the manufacturers of personal protection equipment (PPE) to export their surplus stock. In a letter to the PM, Amarinder said the PPE manufacturers rose to the occasion in the wake of the Covid outbreak to make Punjab self-reliant in the production of this critical equipment needed by frontline warriors to fight the pandemic. “Permitting them to export the PPE body coveralls will also give an impetus to the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan recently launched by the Centre,” he said. A total of 128 firms in Punjab have been given approval for production of PPE.Citing the surplus capacity, the CM said there was not enough domestic demand of PPE at present. “The manufacturers are finding it difficult to obtain orders. Of the 128 approved manufacturers, only 18 units have received orders from the Centre,” he said. The approved manufacturers have a cumulative current capacity to make 5.21 lakh PPE coveralls daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ppe-makers-fail-to-get-orders-capt-urges-pm-to-allow-export/story-iNzuj6ae255Y46sPZvkOjI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP holds protest over hefty power bills across Punjab||CHANDIGARH The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday held state-wide protests against hefty electricity bills imposed on the consumers during the lockdown.The protests were staged in 11 districts, including Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Mansa, Bathinda, Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Patiala, Barnala, Faridkot and Moga, where memos were handed over to the government through deputy commissioners (DCs) seeking relief from the hefty bills.In a joint statement, AAP MLA and state convener of ‘bijli morcha’ Meet Hayer and state trade wing president Nina Mittal said the Congress government had not only hiked the prices of electricity but was also charging hefty bills from business establishments, including shopping malls, shops, marriage palaces, restaurants, hotels, gyms and even schools, for the period during which most of them remained closed. They also questioned the fixed charges from the commercial power consumers and others, seeking a complete waiver on the electricity bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-holds-state-wide-protest-over-hefty-power-bills/story-zhVJvWAbo4ZXhEFtdoUjAI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD slams govt’s move to hand over heritage memorials to pvt parties||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday condemned the Congress government for deciding to hand over heritage memorials, including the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur memorial and the Chhota and Vadda Ghallugharna monuments, to private players under public-private partnership model.In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said he was shocked to see the government equate its circuit houses with heritage memorials while deciding to hand them over to private agencies to avoid the maintenance cost. “You can commercialise circuit houses but not heritage memorials. This decision is against the sentiments of the Sikh community and should be withdrawn immediately,” he said.The Akali leader said hundreds of crores had been spent to establish these memorials which came up during the SAD-BJP tenure. It is shocking that the Congress government is not even ready to maintain them now and is handing them over to private parties for exploitation at will. The SAD will not allow this to happen under any cost. The sanctity of the memorials, which are associated with events of particular historic significance for Sikhs worldwide, should be respected. I urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene and ensure this decision is reversed at the earliest”.Cheema said this was not the first time that the Congress government had tried to forsake its responsibility towards heritage memorials. He said former tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had referred to the Virasat-e-Khalsa museum as a white elephant. The government should understand that it had a social and moral obligation to maintain the heritage memorials for future generations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-slams-govt-s-move-to-hand-over-heritage-memorials-to-pvt-parties/story-VOfbnzFzyl8orDQbTf7jVO.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to install CCTVs, sound systems in 5,456 schools; seeks funds from Centre||The Punjab government has decided to install closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras and public address systems in all its schools to ensure children’s safety.The school education department, which started releasing funds for having this apparatus in some schools a few weeks before the coronavirus-induced national lockdown was imposed in the start three months ago, has sought Rs 7.5 crore from the Centre for installation of CCTVs and public address systems in 5,456 schools across the state.The installation of CCTVs and public address systems has been proposed in the annual work plan and budget (AWP&B) for the financial year 2020-21 submitted to the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) about 10 days ago under the centrally- sponsored ‘Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan’. The proposal will come up for discussion before the project approval board headed by the Union school education and literacy secretary Anita Karwal in about 10 days.As per the proposal, CCTV cameras will be installed in 1,796 government schools across the state under the ‘Safe School-Safe Child’ programme. “The need of the hour is to ensure our children are secure and feel safe. Vigilance and keeping an eye out for any anomaly or deviations in their behaviour is something that we can all do to fortify ourselves in this fight,” reads the proposal.A school education department official said that CCTV cameras will be installed in all 19,000-odd government schools in stages, starting with girls’ schools, sensitive schools from where complaints have been received, and then all co-educational schools. “Some schools have installed CCTV cameras with their funds. We also released funds a few months ago, but the installation process got delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak,” he said.The CCTV cameras will be installed at school gates, corridors and spots that need to be monitored, but not in classrooms. In Delhi, the Kejriwal government’s move to install CCTV cameras in classrooms last year had sparked off a controversy with some parents and teachers raising objections. In addition to CCTVs, the Punjab school education department also plans to install a public address system in 3,660 high and senior secondary schools this year for emergency broadcasting and other announcements.FOCUS ON ENGLISH DICTION, VOCABULARYThe department, in its annual plan proposal, has also laid emphasis on new initiatives to improve the English reading, listening, and pronunciation skills of students of government schools across the state. It plans to establish listening labs in primary schools to begin with and then have more for higher classes to foster their listening skills and improve pronunciation. Another proposal sent to the HRD ministry is for the distribution of student edition of English newspapers free of cost to students of 3,660 high and senior secondary schools to inculcate the reading skills among them, besides improving their knowledge of current affairs. The state authorities have proposed a budget of Rs 12.6 crore for this activity during the current academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-install-cctvs-sound-systems-in-5-456-schools-seeks-funds-from-centre/story-1i3IgJi7x9ty3WGNVQRW8H.html
18-06-2020||City||GADVASU issues advisory to prevent degradation of milk||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) on Thursday issued an advisory for dairy farmers to prevent the degradation of milk during the summer and rainy season.Dr Amandeep Sharma of College of Dairy Science and Technology, said, “To prevent the degradation of milk quality during the summers and rainy days, the dairy owners and milk handlers must keep themselves ready for better handling of milk so that best quality can be provided to the consumers. A veterinary doctor should be consulted immediately if the animal shows any symptom of some disease.” He added that personal hygiene of the person handling the animal should be maintained. The milking area should be properly cleaned. The udder and teats of the animal should be properly washed before milking. The utensils or milking machine should be properly washed before milking. The after-milking guidelines of the doctor should be followed. The milk storage vat/utensil must be washed thoroughly. Use only hot water to wash the milking equipment. The milk must be chilled immediately after the milking and the persons involved in milking must wash their hands thoroughly.Dr Sharma also advised that a person having communicable diseases must not milk the animal. Do not keep the milk at room temperature and do not use any steriliser to wash the milking equipment. Do not follow any animal health-related advice of any person other than the veterinary doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-issues-advisory-to-prevent-degradation-of-milk/story-MckIxrp0Vn67byRnwKCqtN.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab finalises ‘City Preparedness Plan’ to curtail Covid-19 spread||The Punjab government has chalked out a ‘City Preparedness Plan’ to ramp up its efforts to curtail the spread of Covid-19 in urban slums of five districts where maximum cases of the disease have been reported. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said more than 54% of Covid-19 cases were reported in Amritsar, Ludhiana Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala districts. “To take quick action to control the virus in specific areas, a sub-panel of the district disaster management committee will now include the community medicine faculty from medical colleges, World Health Organisation (WHO), National Polio Surveillance Project (NPSP) staff and a prominent NGO,” he said. The minister said the committee would assist the city administration to come up with epidemic preparedness plans, implementation, monitoring and reporting in consultation with the help of the health department. “After getting inputs from these committees, a state-level committee will take the decision regarding sample collection, testing and reporting with a view to reducing the turnaround time to less than 24 hours,” he said.The house-to-house surveillance campaign and testing process would be reviewed daily in the urban slums, especially in the containment and micro containment zones, the minister said. Frontline workers and volunteers will be deputed to motivate people with symptoms such as headache, body ache, sore throat, fever etc for consulting doctors at the flu-corners, he said. More than 2.15 lakh samples were collected so far and special training was imparted to the technical staff to enhance the collection capacity, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-finalises-city-preparedness-plan-to-curtail-covid-19-spread/story-mBgIbKMCZqfhnxHpOp0gYL.html
18-06-2020||City||Virinder Pal Singh Saini takes charge as chief engineer of Ludhiana central zone||Virinder Pal Singh Saini took charge as chief engineer (operations) in the central zone of Punjab State Electricity Corporation on Thursday.Saini has served in various capacities during his 33 years of service.He completed his engineering degree from Thapar University, Patiala in 1985 and joined the Punjab State Electricity Board on 29 April 1987 as an assistant engineer.Since then he has joined various positions of power department such as operations, enforcement, grid construction, technical audit and after 33 years of service as chief engineer, Punjab State Electricity Corporation at Central Zone, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virinder-pal-singh-saini-takes-charge-as-chief-engineer-of-ludhiana-central-zone/story-Yq6ngLUXdigUZBDxXqmXFP.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||JULY SEMESTER: Three-fourths of PTU students not in favour of online exams||Nearly three-fourths of students of the Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKG-PTU) are not in favour of appearing online for the upcoming semester examinations in July as they want them to be conducted in the conventional mode.This was revealed in a survey wherein the varsity sought feedback of the students in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. In May-end, the university had decided to conduct online examination starting with the final-semester students, a varsity official said.The survey, prepared by the varsity’s controller of examinations, was divided into two parts. In the first, feedback of the final-semester students was sought while the rest of the pupils were asked to share their views in the second. All students were to submit their response by June 10.As many as 9,936 final-semester students participated in the survey. Of these, 6,462 (65%) gave their consent to appear in the traditional mode of examination while 3,494 (34.96%) said they were in favour of appearing in the online exam. In the second part, a total of 30,697 students of other semesters submitted their response. Of these, 24,323 (79%) wanted to appear in the traditional mode of examination while only 6,374 (21%) said the July semester exams be held in January 2021 in the traditional format.Also, the varsity has sought feedback from parents on starting classes from August 1.A PTU official said they have received a revised academic calendar from the University Grants Commission (UGC) which recommended starting of classes from August but the decision will be taken only after consulting the parents and getting approval from the Punjab government.Majority of the nearly 300 parents whose feedback was received said they were ready to send their wards to the colleges only if proper Covid-19 protocol is followed, it is learnt.The state government has announced that it will take the final decision on conducting examinations after June 30.PTU vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “The students have to understand that they are pursuing professional courses which are industry-oriented. Promotion to the next semester or passing exams without appearing in the ones can become roadblocks during their placements.”“We will take a decision after the UGC and the state government take a call on the issue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/july-semester-three-fourths-of-ptu-students-not-in-favour-of-online-exams/story-O755i4SiG0EvbQ2jMjJTQP.html
18-06-2020||City||Delhi minorities panel chief questioned for six hours in sedition case||New Delhi: Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan was questioned for six hours on Thursday by the Delhi Police’s special cell in the sedition case filed against him on April 30 for allegedly making “provocative” remarks in social media posts.This is the second time since Tuesday that Khan has been questioned by the investigating team. During Tuesday’s two and a half hours questioning, the investigators had asked Khan questions about his personal life, family background, educational qualifications, professional life and foreign visits.However, Thursday’s questioning was focused on Khan’s “controversial social media posts”, his intent behind posting his views in the public domain and his alleged association with the people and countries mentioned in his social media posts, said a senior police officer associated with the case.Khan confirmed that the questions on Thursday revolved around his social media posts. “They (the investigators) asked me about my Tweets and whether I had posted them. I replied in affirmative. They asked many questions related to my social media posts. I cannot share all information related to the probe. I was not harassed during the six-hour-long questioning,” said the Delhi minorities commission chairperson.Khan said that he reached the special cell office at noon and left the place at 6 pm after the questioning. “They told me that I may be called for questioning again. I assured them my physical presence and cooperation in their probe,” he added.The first information report (FIR) was registered on April 30 against Khan under Indian Penal Code sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony). The FIR was filed on the complaint of a Vasant Kunj resident.Khan’s posts had sparked controversy and criticism against him. Khan had clarified through his social media accounts, that his tweet was ill-timed and insensitive and that it had “pained some people” but it was never his intention.On May 12, the Delhi High Court granted interim protection from arrest to Khan till June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-minorities-panel-chief-questioned-for-six-hours-in-sedition-case/story-3XPXkHVaksgZHZKLkxiK8O.html
18-06-2020||City||Ten more cases take Himachal Covid-19 count to 595||Ten more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 595, officials said.Four cases were reported from Shimla, three from Kangra, two from Solan and one from Chamba.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a couple is among three cases reported from the district. The 55-year-old man and his 47-year-old wife, both residents of Lahad village in Jaisingpur sub-division, returned from Delhi on June 7 in their car. “The husband-wife duo have co-morbidities and are being shifted to the Dedicated Covid-Hospital in Dharamshala,” the DC said.Besides, a 27-year-old man who returned from south Delhi on June 11 in a taxi and was under home quarantine has tested positive. He is asymptomatic with no co-morbidity and was shifted to Covid-Care Centre, Baijnath.The DC said the district has 56 active cases as one patient has recovered.The fresh cases in Shimla include a husband-wife duo aged 38 and 36 from Jubbal tehsil, who returned from Delhi. Besides, a 23-year-old youth who returned to Delhi from Canada a few days back and then travelled to Shimla has tested positive. He was under institutional quarantine. Another Delhi-returnee, a 29-year-old man is also among the new patients.Among the two cases reported in Solan, one is the primary contact of a former panchayat representative. One case was reported from Chamba.So far, Himachal has recorded 595 cases, of which 373 have recovered while six people, three men and three women, have succumbed to the disease. Eleven patients have migrated to other states.203 ACTIVE CASESThere are 203 active cases in the state as five patients were discharged on Thursday. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 158 cases followed by Hamirpur with 141 cases. Una has recorded a total of 77 cases; Solan has 63 cases, Chamba 43, Bilaspur 29, Sirmaur 28, Shimla 26, Mandi 23, Kullu four and Kinnaur three cases.Eleven of the 12 districts of Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only Covid-free district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ten-more-cases-take-himachal-covid-19-count-to-595/story-vHdxAJf9sJWcaD9RWEjijK.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cop accidentally shoots himself dead in Chandigarh||A head constable, posted in the security f a former Punjab DGP, was killed after he accidentally shot himself while cleaning a weapon on Thursday.The deceased, Raj Singh, 45, hailed from Sangrur, and was posted in the security of former Punjab DGP Mohammad Izhar Alam at his house in Sector 42. The security team includes 27 cops.Police said on Thursday afternoon, Raj Singh of IRB First Battalion was cleaning weapons for the ammunition inspection scheduled on Friday. He had cleaned three rifles before he started cleaning his own self-loading rifle when it accidentally fired. The bullet hit his head, piercing through the skull. He was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. The body has been kept in the hospital mortuary and will be handed over to the family after autopsy. His family in Sangrur have been informed. The deceased leaves behind his wife and two children.Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cop-accidentally-shoots-himself-dead-in-chandigarh/story-hUgXwgh7yKaoKd98cQl61O.html
18-06-2020||City||Decision on security cover to Simarjit Bains in 4-5 weeks: Centre to HC||Chandigarh The Centre on Thursday told Punjab and Haryana high court that it will take a decision on providing security cover to Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains within next 4-5 weeks.The statement in this regard was made by additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain during hearing of a plea from Bains alleging security threat. The matter stands adjourned for August 8, by when Punjab and Centre are to respond on the issues with regard to threat to his life.He had told court that as he often raise issues against the present government in Punjab and he does not feel ‘secure’ from the protection of Punjab Police provided by the state government. He had also produced some threat letters issued to him and further told court that in 2018, he had written to Centre to consider providing security cover to him, but his representation on the same is yet to be decided by the ministry of home affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decision-on-security-cover-to-simarjit-bains-in-4-5-weeks-centre-to-hc/story-pg0fQqCl95BRuLlFm4THOO.html
18-06-2020||City||J&K records 149 fresh Covid-19 infections, tally rises to 5,555||Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 149 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 5,555, officials said.Of the new cases, 49 are from Jammu division and 100 from Kashmir. Among these, 44 patients have a travel history.Four more patients have also died due to the virus—two each in Jammu division and Kashmir. With this, the death toll in the UT has risen to 71. In Kashmir, an 80-year-old patient from Srinagar and another 65-year-old from Shopian succumbed to the disease. So far, 62 people have died in Kashmir and nine in Jammu division.The active cases in UT now stands at 2,340 after 230 more patients recovered on Thursday. “72 people were discharged from Jammu division and 158 from Kashmir,” as per the official statement.An official of Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), Bemina, said 10 more Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospital were discharged on Thursday. “With this, the number of recovered patients is 379 out of the total 481 admitted till date. The recovery rate at present is more than 78.79% with four fatalities and the mortality rate is 0.83%. The treated patients include positive patients admitted for maternity care. Till date, 32 deliveries of Covid-19 positive pregnant woman, including 16 major surgeries for childbirth have been done,” the official said.So far, 3,144 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 56.59%. The highest jump in Kashmir was witnessed in Budgam where 25 more people tested positive for the disease. Pulwama, Baramulla, Srinagar and Shopian recorded 21, 20, 11 and 10 cases respectively. The other districts saw single digit increase. In Jammu division, Udhampur recorded 16 cases followed by 12 cases in Kathua and 11 in Jammu district.Till date, 2.46 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 40,067 in home quarantine, 29 in hospital quarantine and 46,346 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.57 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.On Wednesday, Jammu and Kashmir had recorded 108 fresh infections while four people had succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-records-149-fresh-covid-19-infections-tally-rises-to-5-555/story-ZY1Govlxsgt9nqM3gRwyOI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Online training in two courses to start under Punjab Skill Development Mission: Mohali ADC||: The Punjab Skill Development Mission will start online training in two short-term courses, customer care executive-telecom and supply chain management-logistics, Mohali additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said on Thursday.Jain said any candidate from urban BPL families can avail of this training. The training will be for 50 days and pass outs will receive certificates from the sector skill council and assistance in procuring jobs, Jain added. She added that interested candidates can register themselves before June 20 and contact 8872488853 or 9216788884 for any further information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-training-in-two-courses-to-start-under-punjab-skill-development-mission-mohali-adc/story-8erR7K48EBi9FJpFM62AgK.html
18-06-2020||City||Lockdown halts Mohali MC’s animal birth control programme||Indifference of the municipal corporation of Mohali has blown the stray dog menace in the city out of proportions. In the wake of the lockdown, not a single dog was sterilised between March 21 and now, leading to an increase in the population of canines.On a rough estimate, the number of stray dogs increased by 1,000 in the past year. In June last year, the number was around 9,000, which is now around 10,000.On the other hand, Mohali has witnessed 2,010 dog bite cases in the past five months. The maximum number of cases, 350, were reported in May this year. The worst affected areas include Sectors 76 to 80, Phases 9, 10, 4, 3B1, 3B2 and 5. In 2017, the dog bite cases were 1,970, in 2018 the figure was 2,340 and last year, the figure was 3,532.Sham Lal, MC sanitary inspector, said sterilisation was stopped due to the lockdown and will be restarted within a week.In October last year, the then chairman of the animal birth control (ABC) committee, Kuljeet Singh Bedi, in a report had stated that the sterilisation process was only on papers. It has been observed that in the last two years, the previous company had not been operating upon the stray dogs, but performing dummy operations, the report said.CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali Resident Welfare Association, an apex body of 65 RWAs, said, “It has been more than three weeks since the lockdown was opened, but the MC has not resumed the sterilisation programme. Some dogs are quiet, while others can be ferocious or infected. Even when MC officials do come, they merely perform a formality.”Nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar at civil hospital, Phase 6, said, “Dog bite patients have to undergo physical torture. Sometimes it can cause Rabies which can be a horror for the patient’s as they become hydrophobic to an extent that even injecting Glucose drip on them is difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-halts-mohali-mc-s-animal-birth-control-programme/story-MEm9O67SyLaDLyvM7gPfyJ.html
18-06-2020||City||Punjab’s panchayati raj institutions bag 13 national awards for good performance||Chandigarh The panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) of Punjab have brought laurels to the state by bagging 13 national awards for good performance. The awards, including the Deendayal Upadhyay Panchayat Shastikaran Award, Nana Ji Deshmukh award, gram panchayat development plan (GPDP) award and child-friendly gram panchayat award, for the year 2018-19 were announced by the Union ministry of panchayati raj.Disclosing this, financial commissioner of the rural development department Seema Jain said that nine gram panchayats, two block panchayats and one zila parishad of Punjab have been selected for the awards. These include Muktsar zila parishad, which will receive an award of ₹50 lakh, and block samitis of Machhiwara (Ludhiana) and Nawanshahr (SBS Nagar), which will receive ₹25 lakh each.Apart from this, the gram panchayats of Ranshih Kalan (Moga), Bara village (Rupnagar), Bhadalwad village (Sangrur), Dhakora Kalan village (SAS Nagar), Rurewal village (Ludhiana), Seechewal village (Jalandhar) and Tehna village (Faridkot) will be given ₹5 lakh to ₹10 lakh each.Ransih Kalan village of Nihal Singh Wala block of Moga district has been awarded the coveted Nana Ji Deshmukh National Gaurav Award.The village will be given ₹10 lakh prize money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-panchayati-raj-institutions-bag-13-national-awards-for-good-performance/story-Xbk6u8jSfO3UejPR3TFgrJ.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||Enthusiasts line up as life returns to parks||A modicum of normalcy seems to be returning to city parks. Morning-evening walkers, joggers, yoga enthusiasts, recreational footballers or cricketers have begun resuming their chosen activity at parks they used to frequent before the March 24 lockdown.Though the footfall at the parks – like Janeshwar Mishra Park or Lohia Park – is just minuscule compared to pre-lockdown times, the turnout is slowly and steadily rising with each passing day.Most parks threw open their gates to people June 1 onwards although only for four hours each in the morning and evening: from 5 am to 8 am and then 5 pm to 8 pm.Right at the gate, long banners with a longer set of instructions, dos and don’ts greeted visitors, but one trip inside the parks makes it clear that not all visitors stick to those guidelines. One can easily spot many senior citizens returning to their park routines. However, the very first instruction says ‘Those above the age of 65, those with comorbidities, and children below 10, not allowed’.“No Sir, we do not ask them to go back. If they have come back to their routines, we let them in. In fact, the entry for senior citizens is free, while we charge Rs 10 from others for a visit. Incidentally, if you notice, most senior citizens who come, walk solo, or not more than two together. They always have their masks on. They don’t even talk. They walk, do their exercises and go back. So why should we be harsh to them?” said the ticket seller at the Ram Manohar Lohia Park in Gomti Nagar.Unlike the Lohia Park, the Janeshwar Mishra Park has not resumed ticketing yet. A gatekeeper there said: “We are not stopping anyone. Anyway, the footfall is drastically less than what it was before.”None of the parks has introduced any documents check, thermal scanning etc.“If you notice, you will see that only those who were die-hard park visitors are returning to parks. Parks are open areas that are not known as conducive to the spread of Covid-19. Most people walk or exercise solo and some also in groups, while maintaining a distance. It cannot be that hazardous. I am 70, and I have resumed. I am a retired IAS officer and one of the gates of the CSI Towers open into Lohia Park. I use this gate and not the main one. If you notice, even couples dating, generally, sit apart if they sit on a bench,” said a Lohia Park regular.In the morning slot, the majority of people are walkers, joggers, yoga enthusiasts, and such bands of young boys who play recreational football or cricket. But the evenings also have a sizable number of dating couples - considering most other rendezvous like restaurants, malls, multiplexes continue to be locked down. Even such couples were not spotted cuddling. Instead, on benches, they sit separately at far ends and chat.However, one instruction requests people not to sit on park benches. Most people enter and leave the parks with masks on, and some take them off while exercising.On the whole, it looks livelier in the parks than in other parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/enthusiasts-line-up-as-life-returns-to-parks/story-izUFfgwVfrJXWhEx0NzRcM.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate to take call on new guidelines for admitting NRI students at June 25 meeting||Panjab University has proposed new guidelines for admission of NRI students for the 2020-21 academic session.The proposal was submitted by dean international students regarding implementation of NRI guidelines which will be effective from the next academic session. The proposal was taken up by a committee in its meeting on March 4.The proposed guidelines will be tabled in the upcoming meeting of Panjab University syndicate scheduled on June 25 along with the fee structure for NRI students in courses offered at the university. In the syndicate meeting, nine items will be tabled for consideration.A foreign national may seek admission through the international students’ office under categories including candidates with nominations/sponsorship from any foreign state, embassy or authority.It also includes foreign nationals or their wards who are self-financed students and NRIs or their wards.According to the proposed guidelines, NRI candidates seeking admission to undergraduate courses are required to produce test scores of Scholastic Aptitude Test-II (SAT-II) with permissible combination of subjects, conducted by education testing service, Princeton, USA. For admission in to postgraduate courses, candidates need to produce test scores for Graduate Record Examination (GRE) from Princeton, USA, or GMAT. Those who have passed the qualifying examination from India will also meet the eligibility for admission.Admission to all engineering courses through NRI quota in UIET, UICET, and PU’s regional centre in Hoshiarpur will be admissible through direct admissions students abroad (DASA). As per the guidelines, NRI candidates will compete amongst themselves for admission to various courses. The syndicate will also take a decision on the fee structure for NRI students for various courses for the upcoming academic session.Syndicate to take call on concession in admission to wards of Kashmiri migrants, Pandits The PU syndicate will also take a decision regarding concession for wards of Kashmiri migrants and Pandits living in the Valley for admission, in its meeting on June 25.The syndicate will decide on adopting a circular of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) that was issued on November, 11, 2019, regarding the concession in higher educational institutions.MHRD’s circular was tabled in a meeting of PU’s admission facilitation committee on March 4. The committee recommended that the circular be accepted and placed before the syndicate for its approval so necessary amendments/changes can be incorporated for the 2020-21 academic session.The syndicate will also take a decision on the appointment of a new dean students’ welfare (DSW).A memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Panjab University and Purdue University, USA, which will provide an exchange of faculty and students and other collaborations, will also be tabled in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-to-take-call-on-new-guidelines-for-admitting-nri-students-at-june-25-meeting/story-OZ6w7lcp5dRNxa73SvU3LM.html
18-06-2020||City||Ludhiana labourer held for abetment to suicide after wife ends life||The Salem Tabri police have arrested a labourer for abetment to suicide after his 22-year-old wife ended her life by hanging herself in Gagandeep Colony on Wednesday.According to the victim’s uncle, the accused has been mentally and physically harassing her for dowry. He told the police that his niece had married the accused two years ago. Soon after their marriage, her husband started harassing her for more dowry. As her parents were unable to fulfil his demand, the relatives had intervened in the matter several times and the accused would promise to not harass her again. But he did not relent.Depressed by the treatment meted out to her, his niece hanged herself from the ceiling fan on June 16.ASI Jagdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-held-for-abetment-to-suicide-after-wife-ends-life/story-lmSIKQOuJlmvb20xMrhCIP.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||UP rolls out plan for BC Sakhis in gram panchayats||The Uttar Pradesh government has begun the process for the appointment of a ‘banking correspondent sakhi’ (BC sakhi) each in all the 58,000 gram panchayats in the state.In these corona times, the selection process for the BC sakhis would be technology-driven, using a mobile app and video conferencing interviews. Never before has the government used such a method for statewide selection and appointment procedure in rural UP.The government would hire the National Institute of Fashion Technology or some similar institute to design a uniform for them.The banking correspondent sakhis would act as a link between the self-help groups in villages and banks and they would help villagers get the benefit from government schemes (the role that was traditionally of banks). “BC Sakhis will be the pivot of the State Rural Livelihood Mission’s financial inclusion programmes in the rural area. They will also encourage digital transactions in villages,” said principal secretary, UP rural development department, Manoj Kumar Singh in a letter issued to the director of UP Livelihood Mission.Last month, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a plan that these women would realise the government’s dream of taking ‘banking to the doorstep’ in rural UP.“The government will soon release a mobile app for the appointment. A candidate will have to feed relevant details on the app, answer some questions there, upload documents, photographs and Aadhar card image etc. Based on the number of applications, candidates will be shortlisted and then interviewed through electronic communication. The interview will be a direct dialogue with the candidate and non-mediated. The app will be rolled out on Google Playstore,” said Manoj Kumar Singh in the detailed guidelines for the process. For an appointment as the BC Sakhi in a gram panchayat, the candidate will have to be a resident of the same gram panchayat.A member of a self-help group (SHG) in a village who was among the first one to join it and played a vital role in the running of the SHG would be given preference. Others may also apply according to various criteria.Once appointed, the sakhis would undergo training as they will have to use technology in their work. The government aims to select candidates who would be inclined to learn new techniques, apart from having leadership quality.Once selected, a Sakhi would get Rs 4,000 per month as honorarium and one time Rs 75,000 easy installment loan for tech hardware and installation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-rolls-out-plan-for-bc-sakhis-in-gram-panchayats/story-ImGgCVxiPB6i1rX3iIxSmO.html
18-06-2020||City||Bootlegger held, 75 litres of illicit liquor seized in Ludhiana||The anti-smuggling wing of Ludhiana police commissionrate on Thursday arrested a bootlegger with 75 litres of country-made illicit liquor in Rajapur village. The police have also destroyed 15,000 litres of liquor (lahan), which was recovered from banks of the Sutlej near the village. The accused has been identified as Ajaib Singh, a resident of Makhu, a rural town in Ferozepur, while his accomplice who managed to flee the spot was identified as Gurnam Singh, a resident of Rajapur village.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, who is investigating the case, said that the police conducted a raid following a tip-off and arrested the accused from the village.A hunt is on for the arrest of his accomplice. A case under Sections 61,1,14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused.The police have seized and destroyed more than 2 lakh litres of illicit countrymade liquor recovered from banks of the Sutlej on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar border.Meeting held to rein in illegal liquor businessTo curb illicit liquor sale in the district, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma directed the officials of the excise and police departments to tighten noose against such liquor contractors who are involved in this illegal business. He directed that such persons should be arrested without fail. A meeting in this regard was held in the office of Ludhiana DC, where Sharma categorically mentioned that no person would be allowed to run this illegal business in the district.DC said that some liquor contractors hide actual record related to sale and purchase of liquor, that not only causes loss to the public exchequer, but even the numbers related to actual consumption are not known. He directed that from now on, the excise inspectors would personally visit all liquor vends and would check their records on a daily basis.He said that he has been receiving complaints that desi lahan is manufactured in some areas along the Sutlej river in Ludhiana, which should be stopped immediately. He directed the Excise officials to prepare a list of habitual persons and hand it over to the police department so that they can keep a close watch on the activities of such persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootlegger-held-75-litres-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-ludhiana/story-CbQ9H8tAyr2ri0BExBfq9L.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rain relief likely in Chandigarh on Saturday||With the mercury soaring to 40.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the weather department has forecast some rain relief on Saturday.Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh, said, “While Friday will see cloudy skies, a western disturbance from Saturday onwards may bring in rain over the weekend.”This is likely to cause a drop in the temperature. On Thursday, the maximum temperature went up to 40.2 degrees from Wednesday’s 39.3 degrees. The minimum temperature, however, decreased slightly from 30.4 degrees to 29.6 degrees. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperatures will remain around 38 degrees and 30 degrees, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-relief-likely-in-chandigarh-on-saturday/story-1eGw5PFLCJ6IXhvrtoqBNO.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police cop among four test positive in Chandigarh, tally goes up to 374||A 43-year-old Punjab Police constable was among the four fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday, taking Chandigarh’s tally to 374. As many as 62 of these cases are active.Health officials said the cop, who lives in Sector 43, tested positive after he was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, with severe acute respiratory infection. The source of infection is unknown. “He last attended work a week ago. All his four family contacts are asymptomatic, but have been sampled. He has seven workplace contacts too,” UT’s media bulletin said, without stating whether the workplace contacts will also be tested. However, officials said they had been quarantined. Two more family contacts of the couple, who returned from Uttar Pradesh and were found infected, have also tested positive. They are a 32-year-old woman and a one-year-old girl from Sector 31. The fourth patient is a 30-year-old man from Manimajra. He has travelled to Amritsar on June 9 and returned to Chandigarh on June 11. He developed fever on June 13 and was hospitalised on June 16.Officials said his 12 community contacts had been shifted to institutional quarantine.Of the 374 cases confirmed in the city, 306 have been discharged, a recovery rate of 81.8%. The city has recorded six deaths due to Covid-19, a fatality rate of 1.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-cop-among-four-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tally-goes-up-to-374/story-TZ84llSUOHj1x55Bo10p6M.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 3,752 new Covid-19 cases; total tally at 1,20,504||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally increased by 3,752 cases to 1,20,504 on Thursday, while 100 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official.The state reported death of 100 people due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 5,751, he said here.The state today also saw discharge of 1,672 patients after recovery, taking their number to 60,838. There are 53,901 people who are active Covid-19 patients and being treated in hospitals, the official said.Maharashtra Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,20,504, new cases 3,752, deaths 5,751, discharged 60,838, active cases 53,901, people tested so far 7,17,683.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-3-752-new-covid-19-cases-total-tally-at-1-20-504/story-tet1FfYC5HjkbdF4e2GVEO.html
18-06-2020||City||Anticipatory bail of former Punjab DGP Saini extended till June 25||Mohali The court of additional district and sessions judge, Mohali, on Thursday extended the anticipatory bail of former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini till June 25 in a case pertaining to the disappearance of one Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year.Special public persecutor advocate Sartej Singh Narula on Thursday made proprietary demand against hearing of the case as an application to transfer the case is pending before the court of district and sessions judge.District and sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai had deferred to June 23 the hearing on an application filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh to transfer the case from the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal . Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case against Saini and others was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Palwinder.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anticipatory-bail-of-former-punjab-dgp-saini-extended-till-june-25/story-N4tiUYa9bP25C7dc7s5GDO.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Muddy water problem persists for Chandigarh residents||Many Chandigarh residents have been receiving muddy water in their supply for over a month now. Some resident welfare associations (RWAs) have approached the authorities to get the issue resolved.Colonel Gursewak Singh (retired), president of Modern Housing Complex (MHC) in Sector 13 (Manimajra) said, “Our underground water distribution system is over 30-years-old and needs to be replaced. As per MC bylaws, authorities are asking residents to fix the supply pipes themselves. However, for the 2,000 odd houses here, the MC needs to step up or small faults and pipe bursts will continue.”Singh has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida and said that as Covid-19 cases have cropped up in Manimajra, residents need to keep their immunity up and drinking muddy water will put them at risk. Speaking on the issue, local area councillor, Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “We are using a super suction machine to refresh pipes and free them from any contamination. The work is about 70% complete and will be finished in a couple of days. Further, Manimajra will soon have new pipes installed under the 24x7 water supply scheme for which we have received Rs 162 crore under the Smart City Project. This issue will be resolved within a few months.”MC officials said the water supply from their end is fine, but pipes going from the main supply to the complex will have to be changed by residents, as per MC bylaws. Residents of other sectors are also suffering due to muddy water in their supply.Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder SIngh Bittu said, “In almost all sectors, when we open the tap, the initial supply of water is muddy. In some sectors, it improves fast, while in others, it takes time.” Bittu, a resident of Sector 21, added that many citizens in Sectors 21 and 20 were receiving muddy water as well and he had complained to MC authorities regarding this.President of the Sector 38 West RWA, Pankaj Gupta added, “Around 10 days back, only a few pockets of EWS houses near Dadu Majra village were receiving muddy water. But now, it has spread to other parts of the sector. We can see dust particles in the water whenever we have fill a bucket.”MC councillor Anil Kumar Dubey, chairman of the MC’s water supply committee said he will look into the matter. “Due to usage of tullu pumps, the water supply can get muddy. But, there is no large scale fault on the MC’s part,” Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/muddy-water-problem-persists-for-chandigarh-residents/story-MWFydteX3qqsCnLqlSA5pI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s fashion technology department launches website for students to sell products online||The University Institute of Fashion Technology and Vocational Development (UIFT&VD) of Panjab University on Thursday launched a website for products created by the students.The website Startups.com provides startup founders with self-guided online entrepreneurship courses, a community of expert advisors, and small business software tools.Startup.com will be used as a platform to provide business opportunities to showcase, promote and sell the fashion and lifestyle products created by the students of the department. The website was inaugurated by the university’s vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar.Chairperson of UIFT&VD Prabhdip Brar said, “In these critical times, it is the need of the hour for the students to start their entrepreneurial ventures in order to stay relevant to consumer needs. The students have developed multitasking capabilities, are working from home and becoming self-reliant.”Meanwhile, on Thursday, Professor Raj Kumar held an online interactive session with the PhD scholars of science departments of the university. During the interaction, he addressed a number of issues and challenges arising due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and assured them every possible help from the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-fashion-technology-department-launches-website-for-students-to-sell-products-online/story-yVlL5mjsBadmyfivSlq0FO.html
18-06-2020||City||Himachal guv asks state varsities to defer fee hike||Himachal governor Bandaru Dattatreya, on Thursday, directed state universities to defer admission fee and other fees hike keeping in view of coronavirus pandemic so that students don’t face any difficulties.The governor wrote to Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) Shimla, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF) Nauni, Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Agriculture University (HPAU) Palampur, HP Technical University Hamirpur, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Cluster University Mandi, and Atal Medical and Research University Mandi regarding different issues and asked them to submit a response within 15 days.The governor directed Atal Medical and Research University Mandi to submit a report regarding reconstitution of medical facilities that will be helpful in providing quality health services to people in state.He also instructed the universities to prepare an exit plan for lockdown, employment creation, and start-ups, besides submitting at least three innovative ideas focusing on special work plan for difficult areas in state.The governor directed the universities to submit another report on their work plan for streamlining online education system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-guv-asks-state-varsities-to-defer-fee-hike/story-JyFJF6EHFeEnWhIHwzbiDM.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder terms Galwan attack barbaric, demands befitting response from govt||Terming as horrendous and barbaric the brutality with which 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese in Galwan Valley, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday demanded accountability for the loss of precious lives in the violent clash.In a statement, Amarinder said the whole nation was expecting a befitting response from the government to this horrific attack on its men. “Our soldiers at the front should be clearly told that if they kill one of ours, you kill three of theirs,” he said.Questioning why no orders to fire at the Chinese were given in the face of the brutal attack on the Indian soldiers, Amarinder said somebody failed to do his job out there. “If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to the Chinese treachery,” he said.The chief minister said he felt very strongly about this entire incident, which also exposed a “gross intelligence failure”. He also took strong exception to reports of riot gear being sent out to the soldiers at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The Indian Army is trained to handle arms and stones or nail studded rods and lathis,” he said, adding, “If the Government of India wants fist or lathi fights with the Chinese, then it should send RSS cadres to the battleground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-terms-galwan-attack-barbaric-demands-befitting-response-from-govt/story-1e9OZNW7gwZvlFm1X8r2tJ.html
18-06-2020||City||SAD, BJP submit memo to DCs seeking restoration of blue cards||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) combine on Thursday submitted memo to deputy commissioners across the state to demand immediate restoration of all blue cards to the underprivileged sections of society, besides an independent inquiry into the alleged misappropriation of central ration by Congress leaders.In identical memos addressed to governor VP Singh Badnore, SAD and BJP leaders, including district presidents, MPs, former MPs and legislators, said that though the high court had taken notice of the issue on a petition filed by the SAD workers from Sangrur and asked the Congress government not to discriminate against anyone, it would not relent till all blue cards which had been withdrawn were restored.The joint SAD-BJP delegations also demanded an independent probe into the “ration scam”, alleging that a large part of the central relief sent to the state had been misappropriated. Meanwhile, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon on Thursday refused to accept memorandum from SAD-BJP delegation after noticing that they were violating social distancing norms. It was only after the delegation comprising prominent SAD and BJP leaders made course corrections that the DC relented. Akali leader Gulzar Singh Ranike said instead of giving any relief to the poor and underprivileged sections, the Congress government was denying ration to the poor under the ‘atta-dal’ scheme. BJP leader Shwait Malik said the state government should use the ₹6,000 crore available with it under the Disaster Management Fund to give relief to needy people. SAD spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema also demanded an independent probe by the CBI or the high court into the ration scam, besides separate probes into liquor and seed scams.In Bathinda, the protest was attended by SAD core committee members Sikandar Singh Maluka, Janmeja Singh Sekhon and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla and BJP district president Vinod Kumar Binta. (With inputs from Amritsar and Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-bjp-submit-memo-to-dcs-seeking-restoration-of-blue-cards/story-nr4k7G3fI1pnhX2XEVVNeN.html
18-06-2020||City||Supporters of Referendum 2020 lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail announce hunger strike||Supporters of the pro-Khalistan event, Referendum 2020, who are lodged in the Ludhiana Central Jail, have announced a hunger strike while putting in their demands of a television set, separate cooked food and certain things from outside the jail.The inmates who have initiated the strike are Malkit Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Jagdev Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Dharminder Singh and Ravinder Singh.For the time being, the accused are housed in a separate barrack, but they have been told that they will be treated according to the jail manual. The inmates were shifted to Ludhiana from Amritsar jail 15 days ago. They are facing trial under various charges including unlawful activities.The jail officials said the demands put up by the inmates are unrealistic as per the jail manual and cannot be fulfilled. Rajiv Arora, superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail, said these are tactics used to pressurise the jail authorities.“The strike began on Wednesday. They are demanding a separate barrack, along with a television set, separate food, and certain other things to be procured from outside the jail,” said Arora.“The inmates have claimed that they were allowed to bring things from outside when they were lodged in Amritsar jail. We have told them that they will get the same food that other inmates are consuming,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/supporters-of-referendum-2020-lodged-in-ludhiana-central-jail-announce-hunger-strike/story-GVOwcW9YuTTEr7BB17le3H.html
18-06-2020||City||Covid victim’s kin die at cremation site, probe ordered||A magisterial probe has been ordered after two relatives of a covid victim died before the latter’s cremation in Jammu on Thursday.The victim’s family alleged that amid scorching heat, the two men in their 40s, were made to shuttle in an ambulance for a suitable cremation site near Tawi riverbed for hours. Both the relatives were declared brought dead at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu on Thursday evening.On Thursday, Jammu recorded maximum temperature of 40°C.A senior GMCH doctor said, “Three relatives of the deceased fell unconscious. Two of them were brought dead to the hospital. The cause of deaths will be known only after autopsy. We will also test them for Covid-19.”PLEADED FOR WATER, WERE ABUSED: NEPHEWAmit Jadoo, victim’s nephew, who was present at the cremation, said: “Our uncle died late Wednesday and this morning we got a call from the tehsildar who asked us to reach GMCH.”“At 11am, we went to the hospital but no health staff accompanied us. We were taken to Sidhra on the bank of Tawi river. As no proper cremation site was identified, they kept moving ambulance from one spot to another. After a while, they asked us to take the body to the riverbed. While wearing PPE kits, we started moving towards the riverbed --- that was at least at a distance of 500m --- with the body. Halfway there, we felt dehydrated and pleaded the cops for water. They, however, abused us. The ADC was there but did not help us,” alleged Jadoo.“Three of my relatives fainted. I took one of them to the hospital and gave him CPR on the way. He revived but the other two died. Though the ambulance driver helped us, officials were just giving us orders sitting 200m away. We were treated like untouchables,” said Jadoo.“The GMCH administration had provided 10 PPE kits for family members and four relatives to attend the cremation,” said a doctor. “It is the job of the administration to ensure quick and hassle-free cremation of Covid-19 victims. Our job is to provide ambulance, driver, health staff, and PPE kits,” he added.DC RUBBISHES CHARGESJammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan has denied the charges that the ambulance kept moving from one place to another to look for a suitable place for cremation. “The cause of deaths can be established only after the autopsy. There was no inordinate delay in the cremation of the covid victim. The two relatives had fainted there and nobody had anticipated this situation,” she said. “I have ordered a magisterial probe to look into the circumstances of the death of the two people. The ADC is to submit his report by June 22,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/relative-dies-during-cremation-of-68-yr-old-covid-victim-in-jammu/story-1Yt9TAW0oTnJJKd17uoCQP.html
18-06-2020||City||2 Covid positive patients under quarantine run away, officials bring them back||Two patients, who were ordered home quarantine after they tested positive for Covid-19, ran away from their homes when they were visited by the civic health authorities to check their status. Both have been booked by the Tulinj and Waliv police, respectively.A 25-year-old woman who stays in Gala Nagar area, in Nalla Sopara, had tested positive and was under home quarantine. The Vasai civic health authorities, on Tuesday, visited the woman to check her health status, but after seeing the workers, she escaped. After a chase, the woman patient was brought back to her flat.In the second case, a 24-year-old man from Wakanpada, in Waliv, who was ordered home quarantine, was found roaming on the streets of Vasai. When the health authorities visited him to warn him, he ran away. However, the officials caught him and warned him to not venture out.Both have been booked by the police under sections 188 (disobedience), 269 ((Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act,1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-covid-positive-patients-under-quarantine-run-away-officials-bring-them-back/story-l2mAJjyiOiZxMsqZYyVqVP.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi clocks peak power demand of 5,985 MW, season’s highest yet||Delhi’s peak power demand clocked 5,985 MW on Wednesday night, the season’s highest so far, said officials of electricity distribution companies on Thursday.They attributed the rise in demand to soaring temperatures. On Wednesday, the mercury in most places in the city was recorded above the 40 degrees Celsius-mark.The peak power demand clocked 5,985 MW at 11.12 pm on Wednesday, pipping the season’s previous high of 5,899 MW recorded on June 16, the officials said, adding that the peak demand was 5,925 MW at 3.34 pm on Thursday.   BSES distribution companies (discoms) BRPL and BYPL successfully met peak power demands of 2,720 MW and 1,341 MW in their respective areas.  Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) met a peak power demand of 1,713 MW, said a TPDDL spokesperson.“Soaring temperature is the main reason behind the spurt in demand. We expect peak demand to touch 1,930 MW in the coming days, and TPDDL has made adequate arrangements of up to 2,500 MW of power to successfully meet the summer demand,” he said.Apart from long term power purchase agreements, BSES has made a banking arrangement for up to 800 MW during summers, said a spokesperson of the discom.Delhi’s peak power demand was 7,409 MW last year. It is expected to surpass 7500 MW this year, he said. PTI VIT http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you” Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-clocks-peak-power-demand-of-5-985-mw-season-s-highest-yet/story-oovOVJDcksBezhI5u2XohL.html
18-06-2020||City||AAP workers stage protest outside DC office seeking waiver off power bills||Accusing the state government of looting the consumers during the Covid-19 lockdown by serving hefty power bills, the district unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest at the mini secretariat on Thursday. The AAP leaders led by Jagraon MLA Sarvjt Kaur Manuke submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma seeking a waiver of power bills for three months.Manuke said, “Rather than providing relief to the public during this pandemic, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is serving hefty power bills to the residents. Also, the government is collecting fixed charges from hotels, gyms and restaurants even when the gyms are closed and other sectors are not being run at full capacity. The government had announced a fixed charge waiver for two months but no relief has been provided till now.”Manuke said that rather than serving hefty power bills, the state government should waive off the bills for the last three months and relief should also be announced in terms of the property tax, water-sewer bills, etc.If no relief is announced by the state government in the coming days, then the AAP would intensify protests across the state, said Manuke. Social distancing goes for a tossSocial distancing went for a toss at DC office as the AAP leaders gathered there to protest. Many of them were seen without masks during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-workers-stage-protest-outside-dc-office-seeking-waiver-off-power-bills/story-YaMIUgQj6MgiL1Jr9abAGL.html
18-06-2020||City||Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh cremated with full military honours||The mortal remains of 39-year-old Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, who was killed in a clash with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh earlier this week, were consigned to flames with full military honours at his native village, Seel, in Patiala district on Thursday evening.The body had been airlifted from Leh to Chandigarh, from where it was taken to Patiala before finally being brought to his native village in an army truck.Heart-rending scenes were witnessed as his 11-year-old son, Jobanpreet Singh, gave him a final salute before lighting the pyre. The sole breadwinner of the family, Mandeep is survived by his mother Shakuntala Devi, 70, wife Gurdeep Kaur, 37, and daughter Mehakpreet Kaur, 17, and son. He was a firearms instructor with the Army’s 3-Medium artillery unit and was posted at Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-subedar-mandeep-singh-cremated-with-full-military-honours/story-JKmmLFWd8oiGJTxaLAsWyJ.html
18-06-2020||City||PPCB mulls biological treatment to check water contamination in Fazilka||BATHINDA Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has decided to introduce in-situ bioremediation (biological treatment to clean up hazardous compounds) to check groundwater contamination in Fazilka. Two such projects in Kapurthala and Patiala are nearing completion.PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said on Thursday that a field study conducted in Fazilka by a high-level team led by board chairperson SS Marwaha found that urban local bodies have failed to make any headway in containing discharge of untreated sewage into drains.He said the level of total dissolved solids (TDS) in various villages around Fazilka district headquarters was about 3,000 mg/litre, attributing high levels to untreated sewage being flushed into the drains. As per the World Health Organisation, TDS value above 1,200 mg/litre is unacceptable.Garg said samples from various places in Fazilka were collected yesterday for further analysis.“In-situ bioremediation projects at Bhulana drain in Kapurthala and Bhadson drain in Patiala are expected to be operational by June 30. The same concept of bioremediation where naturally-occurring or deliberately-introduced microorganisms are used to consume and break down environmental pollutants will be used to improve the water quality situation in Fazilka. But work on bioremediation will be possible only after the monsoon season when drains are not swollen,” said the official.Both projects are being set up under the guidance of PPCB.Vikram Ahuja, a farm rights activist from Fazilka, had filed a petition in the NGT in July last year, stating that untreated sewage of 21 municipalities of Punjab’s Malwa belt was contaminating groundwater. The NGT had directed the urban local bodies (ULBs) to start bioremediation till sewage treatment plants are not constructed.Ahuja said 18 ULBs of the five Malwa districts of Fazilka, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga and Faridkot were directed by the green panel to adopt bioremediation of sewage by March 31 this year but there has been no progress. PPCB officials said the ULBs in Malwa have a deadline to commission STPs by March 31, 2021, or face fine. They said coronavirus outbreak led to delay in implementing bioremediation projects in the affected parts of south Malwa districts.“PPCB is concerned about various issues related to effluent and deteriorating groundwater quality in the region. Our team of experts is exploring options to make drain water fit for irrigation,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppcb-mulls-biological-treatment-to-check-water-contamination-in-fazilka/story-DXF10sTeuldudWW2LJubeK.html
18-06-2020||City||PSA detention of PDP leader Naeem Akhtar, NC’s Hilal Lone revoked||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday revoked the Public Safety Act (PSA) detention of senior Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Naeem Akhtar and National Conference (NC) leader Hilal Akbar Lone.The order was issued by principal secretary, home, Shaleen Kabra.Akhtar and Lone were under detention since August 5 last year and were jailed under the PSA which was extended in May for three months.On the orders of Srinagar district magistrate Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, Akhtar was slapped with the PSA on February 8, which was extended for another three months on May 5. He was booked under the act for instigating disgruntled elements to indulge in violence and illegal activities like stone pelting and disturbing peace. In his PSA dossier, he was blamed for leaning towards radical elements and advising people to read separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s book ‘Wullar Kinarey when he was the education minister during PDP-BJP coalition government.Hilal Akbar, son of Baramulla NC MP, Akbar Lone, was booked under the stringent act on February 9 on the orders of Bandipore district magistrate and later it was extended for three more months on May 7.However, it is not clear if both the leaders will be put under house arrest after their release like many others including Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone. On Tuesday, J&K high court had quashed the PSA of NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar, who was released after 10 months of detention on Wednesday.Sagar and Akhtar had served as ministers in J&K assembly and both spent 10 months in three temporary sub-jails—Centaur Hotel, MLA Hostel and finally at M5 government quarters on Gupkar Road.Now, only former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti is detained under the PSA. However, she was shifted to her Gupkar residence two months ago which was declared as a sub-jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/psa-detention-of-pdp-leader-naeem-akhtar-nc-s-hilal-lone-revoked/story-bTmWjFJTmupqTYVpe26ZkI.html
18-06-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh University PG exams to be held in August||The Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla, will conduct its postgraduate (PG) examination in August this year.In a notification issued by the university administration, 43 centres have been selected for around 40,000 students who will be appearing in the examinations.Keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, one-time centres for regular and reappear exams are created in some colleges.Deputy/assistant registrar (exam-II) has been requested to allot examination centre keeping in view the need to maintain social distancing. In case the strength exceeds in any examination centre, they may intimate the conduct branch in due time so that additional exam centre can be created.All college principals have been asked to make necessary seating arrangements while maintaining social distance, and in case strength is increased, principals are authorised to create sub-centres in nearby colleges or schools as per convenience. Intimation in this regard should be sent to the varsity.Deputy/assistant registrar (exams) will ensure that students are allocated in different centres as per capacity so that examinations are conducted smoothly. The exam centres in private colleges have been created subject to realisation of centre creation fee of Rs 50,000. The fee is payable as bank draft drawn in favour of the finance officer, HPU Shimla before the start of examinations.Issues tentative datesheet for UG exam HPU has also issued a tentative datesheet for the undergraduate (UG) examinations to be held in July.A notification issued by the university mentioned that exam dates may vary as per instructions from the government in light of coronavirus pandemic but pattern of the datesheet will remain the same.All principals and students have been directed to submit their objections through email or other electronic means only.All principals and directors are to go through the datesheet and the same may be brought to notice of students so that there is no subject clash. However, in case of any clash of dates or subjects, the same is to be intimated to the assistant registrar (conduct) on or before June 27, through email at conduct.hpu@gmail.com or tele-fax at 0177-2633474.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-university-pg-exams-to-be-held-in-august/story-7zNVecgCqmUbhTLbSPzUZL.html
18-06-2020||City||Galwan valley faceoff: Five Tibetan NGOs hold anti-China protests in McLeod Ganj||Five Tibetan NGOs in McLeod Ganj on Thursday held a protest against China’s aggression on the Indian territory in Ladakh’s Galwan valley earlier this week.In a joint statement, the representatives of the NGOs, including Tibetan Youth Congress (TYC) and Students for a Free Tibet-India (SFT), said the Tibetan community stands with India and strongly condemns China’s aggression in Ladakh. “As we pay tribute to the courage of the Indian soldiers and offer our condolences to the bereaved families, we call on world leaders and the governments to stand with India against this illegal aggression by Chinese troops on Indian soil and work together to counter China’s expansionism,” said TYC president Gonpo Dhundup.He said for centuries, the independent Tibet and India enjoyed peace and China never had a border with India until Tibet was occupied by the so-called ‘People’s Liberation Amy’ in 1949. “It is high time for India to recognise Tibet as an independent country and an occupied nation by inviting Tibet’s legitimate representation on Indo-Tibet border agreement,” he said.SFT national director said befriending China and ignoring Tibet’s issue has been the biggest mistake of India in the past and it will be an unwise strategy for the national security in the future.“Independent Tibet is the only solution for the Indo-China conflict,” he added. The Tibetan activists stressed that China’s greed stretches far beyond Tibet, to the whole Himalayan region and the world at large as part of their aggressive expansionist policy. “Therefore, India has an incredible duty to lead the neighboring countries to challenge the illegal and aggressive invasion of China in such critical times,” they said.The activists said the international community must support Tibetans, Uyghurs, Hong Kongers, Southern Mongolians, and Taiwanese people in their fight against the Chinese Communist Party’s colonial practices and expansionism. They also called for boycotting Chinese products.Tibetan writer and activist Tenzin Tsudue said, “India has been obliged into a de-escalation agreement. China won on this psychological war as every Indian and Chinese know the damage India suffered but China withheld their numbers.” “India has to lick the wounds not knowing how to trust China anymore,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/galwan-valley-faceoff-five-tibetan-ngos-hold-anti-china-protests-in-mcleod-ganj/story-NMYJGGdUYdn6fFHHBEfP0N.html
18-06-2020||City||Heavy vehicles prohibited to ply on Kalyan-Shilphata stretch||Three days after the unsafe Nilje rail overbridge (ROB) over Diva-Panvel railway route, part of the busy Kalyan-Shilphata stretch was shut; the Thane traffic police have prohibited all types of heavy vehicles from taking this stretch in order to divert the load on the stretch.After the closure of the bridge, the vehicles ply on the parallel bridge which had led to slow traffic movement on the entire stretch during peak hours, as per the traffic police. Instead of taking the usual busy Kalyan- Shilphata stretch, the heavy vehicles will be diverted to the Taloja road- Khoni village road as per the notification by the Thane traffic police.“In order to ease the congestion and allow free flow of traffic on this stretch, we have decided to divert the heavy vehicles. Heavy vehicles will be prohibited on this stretch from 11pm onwards on Thursday,” said Surendra Shirsat, senior traffic Kalyan“Currently, the traffic movement of the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch is slow, as 25% of the vehicles are on road since lockdown 5.0. When all the vehicles will start plying, the condition on this stretch will get worse,” added Shirsat.A safety audit of the 50-year-old bridge was carried out by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), which stated the structure of the bridge is unsafe and should be closed immediately. It was said that in view of the safety of the railway, as well as road traffic, it is suggested that the ROB be immediately shut for road traffic.Central Railway (CR) had in May decided to shut the bridge and informed the concerned officials of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the traffic police. On June 5, the traffic police released a notification on closing the bridge and mentioned that the traffic would be diverted to the parallel new bridge.As per the traffic police notification, the heavy vehicles coming all the way from Kalyan- Dombivli and moving towards Kalyan phata, Shilphata, Navi Mumbai, JNPT will face no entry at Katai naka and be diverted to Khoni village road to further destinations.Similarly, vehicles coming from Kalyan phata , Shilphaat ta and moving towards Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar will face no entry at Kalyan phata and will be diverted to Taloja road- Khoni village- to further destinations.The 21-km-long Kalyan-Shilphata route, which connects Kalyan-Dombivli-Bhiwandi-Thane to Navi Mumbai, is a vital link and sees a major congestion during peak hours.The CR and MSRDC is yet to finalise the plan for repairing the closed bridge or building a new ROB.“There have been demands to repair the existing bridge and open it soon in order to ease the congestion. The authority is checking on the requirements and will soon decide on it,” said an officer of MSRDC, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-vehicles-prohibited-to-ply-on-kalyan-shilphata-stretch/story-hQMiOYoXKHtUtH8wiEiQsL.html
18-06-2020||City||Naib tehsildar held for accepting Rs 3,000 bribe in Himachal||The State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (SV&ACB) sleuths on Thursday arrested a naib tehsildar for accepting Rs 3,000 bribe in lieu of correcting names in revenue records, officials said.The accused Devender Kumar is posted at Bhawarna tehsil office in Kangra district. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP vigilance) Balbir Jaswal said one Sanjay Guleria and other person Pankaj of Haldra village in Bhawarna filed a complaint at the bureau’s Dharamshala police station alleging that Kumar was demanding bribe in lieu of correcting names in revenue records.“Guleria wanted his name to be corrected while Pankaj required correction in his father’s name in the revenue records. They alleged that Kumar had taken Rs1,000 each from them when they went to the tehsil office,” the DSP said.“He wanted Rs 1,500 more each and had asked them to come with the money on Thursday,” he added.After receiving the complaint, an FIR was registered and a trap was laid to catch him red-handed. “Kumar was caught red handed in his office while accepting the bribe. Search for incriminating documents is being conducted,” he said.The accused will be produced before a court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-tehsildar-held-for-accepting-rs-3-000-bribe-in-himachal/story-12xy1pRSuiB2qlqPom2p9O.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fugitive wanted in ₹36 crore fraud case nabbed from Solan||A proclaimed offender wanted in a Rs 36.56-crore cheating case was arrested from Solan in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday.The accused, Vikas Walia, of Sector 125, Mohali, was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) by the court of judicial magistrate, Chandigarh, Mannu Mitthu, in two cases in January this year.Officials of the PO cell of UT Police arrested Walia after receiving a tip-off that he was hiding in Solan. While at large, he kept changing his locus between Rishikesh, Haridwar, Solan and Mumbai.Walia is accused of cheating a man named Ashok Mittal to the tune of Rs 36.56 crore on the pretext of setting up a factory and showroom for a diamond business.He is also wanted by the New Delhi and Mumbai CBI units for embezzlement of Rs 20 crore with the Chandigarh and Mumbai branches of Canara Bank. Besides, he is also accused of cheating banks and individuals of Rs 56.60 crore.While two cases are registered against him by CBI in Mumbai and Delhi, two more are registered in Sector 36, Chandigarh. He is also facing trial in four cases of cheque bounce in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fugitive-wanted-in-36-crore-fraud-case-nabbed-from-solan/story-Lnpoa2R59jEke5benjJ65N.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Mercury crosses 46 degrees Celsius mark in parts of Delhi||The national capital sweltered under the stifling heat with the mercury crossing the 46 degrees Celsius-mark in some parts on Thursday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 42.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. At 46.4 degrees Celsius, the weather stations at Ayanagar recorded the maximum temperature in the city. The Pusa Observatory recorded a high of 45.1 degrees Celsius. Humidity levels oscillated between 38 and 81 per cent in the city. The MeT department has predicted a partly cloudy sky on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 43 degrees and 30 degrees Celsius, respectively. On Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said monsoon is likely to reach the national capital three to four days earlier than the usual date of June 27. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said a cyclonic circulation over West Bengal and the neighborhood will move towards southwest Uttar Pradesh by June 19 and June 20. “It will help in further advancement of the monsoon in western Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Uttarakhand, northeast Rajasthan and eastern Haryana between June 22 and June 24,” he said. This means the wind system will reach the national capital by June 22-23, which is three to four days earlier, he said. The IMD has predicted normal rainfall (103 per cent) for northwest India this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mercury-crosses-46-degrees-celsius-mark-in-parts-of-delhi/story-IoZFopzejV11AIhPmzq2JK.html
18-06-2020||City||Sangrur man ends life; female friend, three others booked||Two days after a 24-year-old man allegedly ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance, police booked four persons, including his female friend, for abetment to suicide. As per the FIR registered on Wednesday, the deceased had been in a relationship with the girl for almost four years but her family members were against it and were threatening him. The girl refused his marriage proposal following which he took the extreme step. Based on the victim’s father’s complaint, the girl, along with her father, uncle and a resident of Jalan village, have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Chhajali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-man-ends-life-female-friend-three-others-booked/story-LxlSI0oWLWuvU2gx5nsHBL.html
18-06-2020||City||Over 2,000 from Jalandhar dist registered online for job in a month||Jalandhar Amid dearth of employment opportunities due to Covid-induced lockdown, nearly 2,000 people have registered themselves for jobs with the local administration since May 23.Job-seekers are registering themselves online (www.pgrkam.com) with the district bureau of employment and enterprises (DBEE). The department managed to provide jobs to 450 people, including labourers. Deputy director, employment generation, Sunita Kalyan, said 450 people were provided jobs in factories and other places in Jalandhar district in the past one month. “They will be earning between ₹7,000 to 10,000 monthly wages,” she said. “Currently, we are focusing to provide jobs to all registered people and are contacting private firms, offices and educational institutes according to a candidate’s qualification,” she said, adding that in past three months, 150 people also got placements in GooglePay, Amazon and other e-commerce companies for good annual packages.An official said in normal times, they would receive around 1,000 applications per month and the number has gone up as many daily-wagers, drivers and other professionals lost their employment during the lockdown.Surinder Kumar, a driver from Goraya town, who was laid-off by his employer last month, said he had applied for a job after being told by a friend and was hoping to get a job soon. He said he worked with the firm for five years before being asked to leave.Bureau of employment CEO and additional deputy commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said administration was in touch with private companies and educational institutes to adjust all job-seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-2-000-from-jalandhar-dist-registered-online-for-job-in-a-month/story-dukuc5knlyTTIHNULIKWHK.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi commences Covid-19 rapid antigen tests||The Delhi government commenced Covid-19 testing through the rapid antigen methodology at 169 centres in and around containment zones of the city on Thursday.A total of 341 teams are involved in the rapid-antigen testing which makes results available within 30 minutes, an official said.  According to Union minister G Kishan Reddy, the Centre plans to conduct six lakh rapid antigen tests at these 169 facilities.An official said around 50,000 tests were expected to be conducted on Thursday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “Two important things happened today. Covid-19 testing rates in Delhi have been reduced to Rs 2,400 and rapid-antigen testing has started. I hope people won’t face any problem in getting themselves tested now.” At many centres, testing began as early as 9 am. People, having mild symptoms or no symptoms at all can get themselves tested, another official said.Those who came to get themselves tested at a centre in Sunlight Colony in southeast Delhi said the entire process took only about an hour. The centre started operating at 10 am by around 5 pm as many as 125 swab samples were collected, a healthcare worker said.“After arriving here, we went to the registration desk. After waiting for about half-an-hour, we were for testing. The testing process took only five to seven minutes,” Alex Samuel, 20, said, adding, “The authorities told us the results will be sent via SMSes on Friday.” A healthcare worker at the testing centre said each testing kit costs Rs 450 and can provide results within 30 minutes as compared to RT-PCR test that takes three to four hours.The kits, called Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen.If a person has antibodies associated with novel coronavirus, it means the person is either Covid-19 positive or has recovered.“It is an easy and cheaper method to detect asymptomatic cases,” another healthcare worker said.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, suspected individuals who test negative for Covid-19 by rapid-antigen test should undergo RT-PCR test to rule out the infection. While positive test results should be considered as true positive and do not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test, it said.The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday said that testing will be tripled by Saturday.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 2,414 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike here, taking the tally in the city over the 47,000-mark, while the number of deaths from the disease climbed to 1,904.Last week, the Delhi government, which is scrambling to find beds for coronavirus patients, warned that there could be 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July - something it is not prepared to deal with. Hospitals will need at least 80,000 more beds, the government cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-commences-covid-19-rapid-antigen-tests/story-GjlWPiES499ptRiDWhyRcK.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||HC orders Mumbai customs to release feeding tubes imported by cancer survivor from US||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed Mumbai customs to handover a consignment of feeding tubes imported by a cancer survivor from the United States of America (US) to his lawyers.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice NR Borkar ordered DHL Express (India), which brought in the consignment, to file the bill of entry with the assistant commissioner of customs at Air Cargo Complex in Andheri on Wednesday itself. The customs department was directed to process the documents and ensure that the consignment containing the feeding tubes is handed over to the petitioner’s lawyers, Crawford Bayley & Co, or their representative, within 24 hours thereafter.The petitioner, an overseas citizen of India, had moved HC, stating that in December 2016 he was diagnosed with oral cancer, and due to remedial surgical operations, his intake of food was only possible through a feeding tube.He said the feeding tubes are not available in India and are required to be imported from the US, and there is no alternative available. He added that since his stock had depleted, he had ordered four boxes of the feeding tubes labelled ‘Osmolite Nutrio N-Food for Tube Feeding Patient’ from the US through DHL Express. However, the assistant commissioner of customs at Air Cargo Complex had withheld the packets.His counsel, advocate Prashant Asher on Tuesday, moved for urgent orders contending that the petitioner had a limited stock available with him, which will last only a few days. Acting on his plea, the bench had on Tuesday issued a notice to the customs authorities in Mumbai and had asked them to explain the difficulty in releasing the consignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-orders-mumbai-customs-to-release-feeding-tubes-imported-by-cancer-survivor-from-us/story-nJqw1FzcK10e6L7PdwtmdM.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||36-year-old tailor injured after man opens fire||A 35-year-old man fired two rounds at a 36-year-old tailor outside his residence at Amir Baug area, in Kurla (East), on Thursday morning. The tailor, Sadiq Khan sustained two bullet injuries, one to his back and another on his hand, and is currently undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital.According to the police, the accused, Navneet Rana banged the door of Khan’s house at 4am on Thursday. When Khan opened the door, Rana fired two rounds at him, injuring him. Neighbours who heard Khan scream, rushed him to Sion Hospital and also informed the police. Tilak Nagar police officers said that Khan was out of danger.Shashi Meena, deputy commissioner of police Zone-7 said, “The accused fled the crime scene after firing. Police team have been formed to arrest the accused.”A police officer said Rana had enmity with Khan’s brother-in-law, Salim, because he had assaulted Rana’s brother in the past. Salim who was arrested in an assault case was released on bail two days ago.“It looks like Rana wanted to avenge the assault on his brother. But it is still unclear why he fired at Sadiq,” said a crime branch officer. Mumbai crime branch is also conducting a parallel inquiry into the firing incident.Rana has a history of assault cases against him and was also externed from Mumbai city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/36-year-old-tailor-injured-after-man-opens-fire/story-rBEDg97IJHmX2OYPSi8bTJ.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Amit Shah favours unified Delhi-NCR strategy for Covid-19, says capital can’t be separated from suburbs||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday favoured a unified strategy for Delhi and NCR to tackle the coronavirus pandemic and said the suburbs like Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad can’t be separated from the national capital in this battle.Shah conveyed this message at a meeting with officials he chaired to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), amidst increasing number of Covid-19 cases.“In view of the structure of Delhi-NCR region, all concerned bodies need to unite and work on a common strategy against the coronavirus pandemic. In this context, I met with Delhi Chief Minister and senior officials of Center and Delhi-NCR today to discuss how to evolve a strategy as soon as possible,” Shah tweeted.Authorities of Haryana, UP and Delhi have imposed restrictions at different times during the Covid-19 lockdown over movement of people between the states, leading to inconvenience to many. According to a home ministry source Shah said all authorities concerned in the NCR need to come together given how closely Delhi and NCR cities are linked.“The home minister favoured a unified strategy for Delhi-NCR to tackle the coronavirus,” the source said. Shah said there is a need to scale-up testing for Covid-19 and provide treatment to those found positive.The home minister also suggested that the NCR districts can consider adopting the price of Rs 2,400 fixed for Covid-19 test in Delhi, besides the new rapid antigen methodology being implemented in the national capital from Thursday.Shah assured the NCR districts that the central government will provide all support to them in their fight against the coronavirus pandemic, another source said.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, senior officials of NCR districts and Ministries of Home and Health and ICMR attended the meeting.The NCR comprises districts belonging to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The prominent ones being Gurgaon, Faridabad (both in Haryana), Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) and Ghaziabad (both Uttar Pradesh).The home minister had a series of meetings with Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Kejriwal and senior officials in last four days to strengthen the health infrastructure in Delhi.Shah had also visited the national capital’s LNJP Hospital on Monday and took stock of its healthcare facilities and gave necessary instructions for improvement.On Wednesday, the home ministry announced that the price for the Covid-19 test in Delhi has been fixed at Rs 2,400 as suggested by a high-level committee set up by the home minister and tests will be done via rapid antigen methodology.The Central government is also targeting to conduct six lakh Covid-19 test in Delhi through the new rapid antigen methodology in 169 new facilities being set up in the capital for which 50,000 kits have been made available.On June 12, the Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain the guidelines issued by the Noida administration on institutional quarantine, observing they are not in “conformity” with the national guidelines.“There cannot be a guideline contrary to the national guidelines,” the court said, adding, that any directive contrary to the national or state guidelines might lead to chaos.On June 4, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the NCR.It also observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard for the NCR.The Centre informed the apex court that the union home secretary had convened a joint meeting on June 9 with chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to deal with the issue of restriction on movement in the NCR and now there was no barrier on the borders of Delhi and Haryana but Uttar Pradesh.India’s total COVID-19 cases reached 3,66,946 on Thursday morning while the death toll has climbed to 12,237.The number of active cases stands at 1,60,384 while 1,94,324 people have recovered, thus, around 52.95 per cent patients have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amit-shah-favours-unified-delhi-ncr-strategy-for-covid-19-says-capital-can-t-be-separated-from-suburbs/story-QQDzZVn2QDMReieBAamuaI.html
18-06-2020||City||Not paid since February, anganwadi workers protest in Ludhiana||Flouting social distancing norms, over 100 members of the Anganwari Mulazam Union, Ludhiana, protested against the state government and the district women and child welfare department for not releasing the salaries of the workers of three blocks at the Child Development Project Office, Gill Road, on Thursday.Protesters said 1,125 workers of Dehlon 1, Mangat 1 and Rural 1 blocks had not been paid since February. The workers raised slogans against the government for over three hours and lifted the protest only after receiving assurance from the child development project officers that the pending salaries will be released by June 24.Union’s state general secretary Subhash Rani said, “The workers and helpers received their salary last in February. All of them have been working tirelessly during the Covid outbreak, but the government takes no responsibility when it comes to paying them. The workers also have to run their household, and have to dip into their savings to buy face masks for work.”She said, “We, along with auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), have not just been involved in awareness activities, but also in tracing non-resident Indians. The helpers also delivered cooked food to households with children below the age of six until March 20 on the directions of the women and child development department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-paid-since-february-anganwadi-workers-protest-in-ludhiana/story-rdu9e5prJDBi86TkGARNeN.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sees highest single-day spike in Covid-19 tally with 604 cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, with 604 people testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, officials said as the total number of coronavirus cases rose to 15,785 in the state. The death toll from the novel coronavirus also increased to 488 after 23 fresh fatalities were reported from different districts of Uttar Pradesh, they said.The previous highest single-day spike in cases was on Wednesday when the state recorded 583 cases. Of the total infected people, 9,638 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. There number of active cases in the state stands at 5,659 , Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.He said 16,546 tests were done on Wednesday. On an average, over 16,000 tests are being done in Uttar Pradesh everyday, Prasad said.The officer also said that the health department has started random sampling.“We have selected 72 districts where migrants have come and 1,682 samples were collected from there, and none of them were found positive,” he said.The principal secretary said in the days to come, people working in medicine shops and dhabas and those involved in home delivery services will be randomly tested.Prasad appealed to the people to follow social-distancing norms, use face covers and take proper care of the aged, pregnant women, children and those suffering from comorbidities. More Covid-19 testing machines are being purchased using the Chief Minister’s Covid Relief Fund, Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said.He said the health department and medical colleges have been asked to send Covid-19 reports in time and ensure there is no backlog. “The CM has directed (officials) to create a permanent structure for testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-tally-with-604-cases/story-7lSRRyDEQdCr0zAVi25gLJ.html
18-06-2020||City||Traffic cop assaulted for clicking pictures of illegally parked car near Mumbai||A 48-year-old traffic constable was allegedly assaulted in Parnaka, Arnala, by a Virar resident late on Wednesday evening because he clicked pictures of the accused’s car which was parked illegally on the road. The accused, 41-year-old Dashrath Patil, was arrested, and later granted bail by a Vasai court on Thursday.Patil, a resident of Chandansar, was out shopping with his wife. “His car was parked on the road, obstructing traffic. Constable Dinesh Mhatre, on seeing the car illegally parked, took a photograph of the vehicle. While he was making a challan, Patil, who was at a nearby shop, reached the spot and began abusing Mhatre. The accused also punched and kicked Mhatre and threatened to get him suspended from the police force, said Vijay Bhalerao, an officer from Arnala police station.Patil was later arrested under sections 353 (obstructing government servant on duty), 427 (mischief) and 332 (causing hurt to a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-cop-assaulted-for-clicking-pictures-of-illegally-parked-car-near-mumbai/story-t45WxGrtChrc47XOptw33I.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Seven employees of Chinese firm in Pune contract Covid-19||Seven persons, including a Chinese national, employed at a Chinese firm in Chakan town of Maharashtra’s Pune district, have tested positive for coronavirus, a health officer said on Thursday.Following the detection of these cases, 130 employees, including nine Chinese nationals, have been quarantined, Dr Baliram Gadawe, a health officer from Khed tehsil said.The employees belong to a Chinese firm that manufactures machinery and mining equipment and has a unit in Chakan, he said.“Last week, one of the personnel tested positive, following which we traced his high-risk contacts and on testing them, we found that six persons, including a Chinese national, had also contracted the infection,” he said.The infected employees were undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the official said. The Chinese employees of the firm had come to the Chakan plant before the coronavirus-induced lockdown was enforced and were stuck here, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-employees-of-chinese-firm-in-pune-contract-covid-19/story-hQKjZRoQERa485ZSM7h7gM.html
18-06-2020||City||Worried over finances, shopkeeper commits suicide in Himachal’s Kullu||A 36-year-old shopkeeper committed suicide by hanging himself in Kullu district on Thursday.The deceased, a resident of Bharwari village, had been going through financial trouble as his cloth shop in Bhuntar had been closed amid the ongoing pandemic, police said. He had borrowed money from a bank and a person. The man was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room by his family members. He was rushed to the regional hospital where he was declared brought dead. His body has been handed over to his brother for cremation after conducting a postmortem.Superintendent of police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said the police were conducting an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/worried-over-finances-shopkeeper-commits-suicide-in-himachal-s-kullu/story-uxgH0WnZ9SRafUBlXWuWWN.html
18-06-2020||City||Three dead, two hurt as vehicle falls into gorge in Kinnaur district||Three people were killed and two others got injured after the vehicle they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell into a gorge in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, police said.The accident took place on national highway 5 near Nigulsari, 61km from Reckong Peo. Prima facie the driver lost control of the vehicle.The deceased were identified as Surjeet,34, Suraj Krishna, 64, Shakuntala,57 and the injured are Tenzin, 27, and Vaishali,7, all residents of Sangla in Kinnaur district. They were on their way to Rampur Bushahr from Sangla.Kinnaur superintendent of police SR Rana said the injured were taken to the Primary Healthcare Centre in Bhabhanagar from where they were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri in Rampur Bushahr. The postmortem of the deceased will be conducted at the Primary Healthcare Centre in Bhabhanagar after which their bodies will be handed over to their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-dead-two-hurt-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-in-kinnaur-district/story-Bus16rKkpcnCSNs1bLVQJM.html
18-06-2020||Pune||53 newborns by Covid-19 positive mothers at Pune’s Sassoon hospital; not all free of virus||Pune Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Pune has seen Covid-19 positive mothers give birth to 55 babies.Sassoon General hospital has seen the birth of 53 such deliveries, while the PMC’s Covid-19 dedicated Chandumama Sonawane Hospital has seen two such births.Doctors at Sassoon are non-committal on the exact number of new-borns who contracted the Covid-19 infection, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, though confirming that the babies who tested positive never came in physical contact with the mother after the birth.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head, paediatric ward, Sassoon General Hospital said, “We have had 53 deliveries since we started a dedicated Covid-19 maternity ward, which also includes four pairs of twins. While most of the babies did taste negative, we have also reported a few cases wherein the babies tested positive for the virus. We test the baby immediately after delivery and on the fifth day. During the delivery the woman wears an N-95 mask and everyone in the operation theatre wears a PPE kit to avoid any possible transmission. However, positive cases suggest a possible trans-placental transmission of the virus, which means that the virus was transferred from the mother’s womb to the baby before the delivery. There have been certain cases across the globe that suggest this possibility, which needs to be inspected further.” While the WHO had initially stated that the virus is not transmitted from the mothers to the babies inside the womb, in April, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stated that there is emerging evidence that transmission of virus is possible from mother to baby before, or during birth. The first baby to be delivered from a Covid-19 positive mother at Sassoon hospital was a male child delivered on April 19. The child was born through a C-section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/53-newborns-by-covid-19-positive-mothers-at-pune-s-sassoon-hospital-not-all-free-of-virus/story-W6X3cZLTAPC6ULclKUXWaI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Former state health minister’s PA among three booked for illegal liquor trade in Ferozepur||The private assistant of former state health minister and BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani is among three persons booked for carrying out illegal trade of liquor on Thursday. The police accompanied by a team of the excise and taxation department recovered 16 boxes of liquor from a farmhouse owned by owned by Jyani’s PA Rakesh Sehgal in Ghallu village, which is 18km away from Fazilka, on the Fazilka-Abohar Road.Senior superintendent of police Harjit Singh said the police had booked Sehgal, his brother-in-law Rohit and one Gurpreet Singh under sections of the Excise Act.“Gurpreet had been arrested and the others will be arrested soon,” said the SSP“I had given the farmhouse to my brother-in-law Rohit and have nothing to do with the matter,” said Sehgal, adding that he will contest the charges.“Rakesh had no role in the case and has been staying away from the farmhouse in question for a long time,” said Jyani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-state-health-minister-s-pa-among-three-booked-for-illegal-liquor-trade-in-ferozepur/story-aXuau7oWQO14Cpd46Sdb2J.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||HP tribal villages tense after Indo-China border buildup||The hum of Chinese choppers is growing louder and more and more Indian Army vehicles are passing by. The border villages in tribal Lahaul Spiti and Kinnaur districts in Himachal Pradesh are now tense over the last few days after the buildup of Indian and Chinese forces on the Line of Actual Control. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in violent clashes in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on the night of June 15-16.The Army and the Indo Tibetan Border police have restricted the movement of shepherds in the high hills even as additional Army units are being moved to the mountainous terrain along the international border, say local villagers. Armoured vehicles can be seen now at Sumdo, the junction between Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur.China’s People’s Liberation Army is also reportedly increasing its activities along the villages bordering HP. Units have been deployed at Shipki La village and in Tunzuk, a small town on the border . Old timers say this is the first time since the 1962 Indo-China war that they have seen such a buildup of the armies of the two nations, reveals Norbu Shoiya, former panchayat pradhan of Namgia village, located just 10 km from the Chinese border. “We are scared. It’s a war like situation . We hope it does not happen and that both countries resolve their issues. In case war breaks out we will have to vacate the villages,” he adds.People here are struggling for normalcy after the Covid-19 outbreak too. “Villagers in the border areas have already suffered because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The local business community has been dealt a hard blow. We are only praying that there should not be a war,” says Hishey Negi, president, Kinnaur Indo-China Trade Association.Namgia is also a trading point for cross-border trade with China through the Shipki La pass. The annual trade that usually commences in mid -June this year has been put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops.There are nearly half a dozen villages including Shalkar, Tashigang, Pooh, and Dubling located within 10 kilometers of the China border. The villagers say that they can hear Chinese helicopters across the border. “ We have heard that Chinese troops have put up more tents just below our village” says Karma Nyima, pradhan of Shipki La village . Police have also put its state unit on the alert. Local villagers have been asked to share information on the Chinese buildup.Himachal shares about 260 km of a porous border with China, of which 180 km is in Kinnaur while 80 km is in Lahaul and Spiti districts .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-tribal-villages-tense-after-indo-china-border-buildup/story-e5AHMDYctQq76EnVbMFyFJ.html
18-06-2020||Ranchi||Maoist killed in encounter with security forces in Jharkhand’s Koderma district||A Maoist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jharkhand’s Koderma district on Thursday, officials said.The gunbattle took place in the Patro Fall-Satgawan forests area of the district at about 2:30 PM, they said.The body of the Maoist, a .303 calibre rifle and a magazine of AK series has been recovered, they said.The encounter was led by the 22nd battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force along with state police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/maoist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jharkhand-s-koderma-district/story-jBqp2fRy2cjlV4SsmCOVeM.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Emergency ward at Govt Rajindra Hospital in Patiala closed after 11 staffers test Covid-19 positive||Patiala: A day after 11 staffers of the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala tested positive for Covid-19, the emergency ward of the hospital was shut on Thursday in a bid to control the spread of coronavirus. A patient and a nurse had been diagnosed with the virus a week ago but the ward was made functional after sanitisation till its closure on Thursday.The district health department asked the authorities to ensure strict compliance of precautionary measures. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, said, “We have asked Rajindra Hospital authorities to follow all guidelines and provide details of the doctor and staff nurse duty roster.”On Wednesday evening, a doctor, five nurses, four ward attendants and a security guard were found Covid-19 positive.The hospital has about 1,200 employees in 25 departments. It sees around 5,000 patients daily, including 50 in the emergency ward.When contacted, Government Rajindra Hospital medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove said, “We are providing safety kits to all staffers when needed. We have asked everyone to follow guidelines and take precautionary measures. However, if someone is not doing so, it is their personal responsibility. However, we are again issuing directions in this regard.”“A week ago when a staffer was found positive, we sanitised the emergency ward and resumed work. Now that more staffers have been found to be positive, we have closed the ward,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/emergency-ward-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-in-patiala-closed-after-11-staffers-test-covid-19-positive/story-P3gAkXBEgj6I5BnNlO2LrK.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Urban warkaris redraw wari plans due to Covid-19 pandemic, go online||Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the historic wari (pilgrimage) tradition in Maharashtra has been dramatically curtailed this year.Annually two lakh pilgrims walk from Dehu to Pandharpur, all devotees of Tukaram and/or Dnyaneshwar.This year, 50 warkaris kicked off the pilgrimage and the paduka (footprints) of both the saints will either be flown into Pandharpur or driven by road, to meet the Ashadhi Ekadashi festival of July 1.In Pune, the urban warkari (pilgrim) tradition of two organisations has also had to alter the planned ‘urban wari’ participation.Students of the National Service Scheme (NSS) at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in 2019 undertook a tree-planting drive to express their support to and participation in the wari.This year, the NSS has had to move online.Under the virtual wari campaign, 40,000 students from SPPU and affiliated colleges will participate in various social activities wherever they currently are, locked down or otherwise, keeping all social distancing rules and safety measures in place. A website is being set up, where students will upload photos and videos to share their virtual wari with the general public.“This year under the virtual wari initiative we will appeal to our students who are based across the state to participate in various initiatives, which will include cleanliness drives, tree planting, and blood donation camps. All these drives will be taken by following social distancing rules and guidelines will be given to students about safety measures. For this, a portal is going to be made where students will upload their photos and videos under the initiative,” said Rajesh Pande, SPPU’s management council member. Ashadhi Ekadashi is on July 1, this is when the wari normally reaches Pandharpur. SPPU has planned its virtual wari initiative eight days before July 1. A formal inauguration will be done at SPPU next week.“This year due to the pandemic situation it was not possible to conduct the wari. It was decided to create a virtual wari in which students will give a solution dimension to the wari tradition, from where they are now,” Pande said.The preparations for this initiative have already begun and SPPU’s NSS wari committee is working on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/urban-warkaris-redraw-wari-plans-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-go-online/story-bekElxRRiP92ZzNDod69hL.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM calls for low-key Ganpati celebration this year amid Covid outbreak||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday called for a simple and low-key Ganpati festival celebration this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and asked Ganesh mandals to undertake social welfare programmes.Thackeray said the threat of coronavirus is not yet over and therefore, it will not be possible to celebrate the Ganesh festival with the usual pomp and gaiety.He said there should be no crowding or processions during the festival.The 10-day festival begins on ‘Ganesh Chaturthi’, which falls on August 22 this year.Ganeshotsav is the most popular festival in Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals in Mumbai and other places in the state attract thousands of devotees during the 10-day festivities.During a video conference with various Ganesh mandals on Thursday, Thackeray asked them to set an example before the world about celebrating the festival in a simple way while keeping in mind their social responsibility.The meeting was held to discuss law and order strategies during the Ganpati festival.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Ministers of State for Home Satej Patil and Shambhuraje Desai and other government and police officials as well as representatives of various Ganesh mandals joined the meeting from the state secretariat.“We need to decide how we can celebrate the festival in a simple way. Under the ‘Mission Begin Again’, we have to take every step cautiously. Our culture and traditions should not be affected, but we should also remember our social responsibility. We need to chalk out programmes accordingly,” Thackeray said.He appealed to all the Ganesh mandals to cooperate with the government in view of the present situation.Till Wednesday, Maharashtra 1,16,752 Covid-19 cases and 5,651 deaths due to the disease.Last week, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh also held a meeting with representatives of various Ganesh mandals from the city and sought their views on how they plan to organise the Ganpati festival celebration this year.In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the GSB Ganeshotsav Samiti in Wadala area of Mumbai has already postponed the celebration to ‘Magh Shudh Chaturthi’ in February next year, a samiti official said last month.The decision was taken in view of the health and safety of the public, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-calls-for-low-key-ganpati-celebration-this-year-amid-covid-outbreak/story-p0GXi0Vts0oUgNVMkq4KFK.html
18-06-2020||Pune||App to help Pune police keep track of externed criminals||The Pune police have launched Externees Monitoring and Tracking System (Extra) to monitor criminals who have been externed from the city limits.The platform, which is currently tracking one criminal on record, sends an automated alert if a criminal enters the area of externment, according to police officials.In the first six months of 2020, externed violators have committed 30 crimes like murder, attempted murder, assault with a weapon, physical assault, and possession or sale of drugs among others. In the same time, 54 others have violated externment orders.“Every criminal has a smartphone now. The application will be installed on the phone of the externee. Once in a day at least, and whenever he/she is randomly asked for it, the person will have to upload a selfie which will be geo-tagged,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.Externment orders can be issued under Section 55, Section 56 or Section 57 of the Maharashtra Police Act. Externment can also be initiated under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act.The order can be issued by a deputy commissioner of police (DCP)-rank officer. The externment order in city-structures is issued by zonal DCPs.In case of failure to mark daily attendance, the externee can face police action.“First thing we will check why the attendance was not marked. If a satisfactory answer is not received, action will be initiated under Section 141 of Maharashtra Police Act,” said Suhas Bawache, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone-5.The alerts will be monitored by the surveillance team of the police station which recommended the externment action, the office of DCP crime, and the zonal DCP office. The alert of a geo-barrier breach that is, if the externee enters the region he or she is externed from, will also be sent to these three offices.At the outset of the implementation of extra platform, a man from zone-5 of Pune police was externed.Viraj Jagdish Yadav, 24, a resident of, Handewadi area near Anandnagar road, Hadapsar, was externed on June 13 for a period of one year. He has been sending selfies from the designated location since the day he reached, according to DCP Bawache.“Every morning he has to send, and he has been sending, a selfie at a designated time. So far, it is working out well,” said Bawache.He has a history of four cases of physical violence, including a case under Section 324 and 326 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) - since 2014. One of the four cases is registered in 2014, second in 2016, third in 2018 and fourth in 2019, according to information provided by the office of senior police inspector Ramesh Sathe of Hadapsar police station.He was sent to a relative’s place in Kurduwadi area, Solapur.The externment actions initiated by the city police henceforth will be monitored through this application. There are 32 other applications pending in the city, according to DCP Singh. It remains to be seen whether the monitoring system will make externment an effective method of prevention of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/app-to-help-pune-police-keep-track-of-externed-criminals/story-tZBuJfdiPuJML0u2GNhdfK.html
18-06-2020||Patna||Grief blends with anger in Bihar which lost five sons of the soil in Ladakh face-off||Bihar reacted with a blend of grief, anger and the spirit to make sacrifices in national interest, as news reached that the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh has killed 20 soldiers of the country, five of them hailing from the state.Political rivalries were set aside for the moment as Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and other ministers stood beside Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and Jan Adhikar Party founder Pappu Yadav at the airport here when the mortal remains of Havildar Sunil Kumar were brought by a special aircraft. Floral wreaths were placed on the Army man’s body by the leaders and relatives who had arrived from his ancestral home in Bihta, about 30 km away, as his bereaved parents, wife and children sobbed uncontrollably. BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav, under whose Lok Sabha constituency Pataliputra, the home of the deceased Havildar falls, was seen driving behind the decked up vehicle in which the body was taken for the last rites. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who offered his condolences no sooner than the news of the killing of jawans from the state was received the previous night, could not come to the airport as he was attending Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference on the Covid-19 pandemic, sources said. In Samastipur district, family members of Sepoy Aman Kumar Singh were crestfallen when they learnt that the jawan, who got married only last year, had laid down his life. Bhai Randhir, a resident of the village said, “We are all proud of the sacrifice Aman has made but his family members are, naturally, shattered. We are looking forward to the arrival of his body. His family members are hoping against hope that the news they received late last night might turn out to be false.” RJD MLA Ejya Yadav, under whose Rajnagar assembly segment the deceased jawan’s village falls, also visited the house and tried to console the grief-stricken family members. In Chakfatah village of Vaishali district, the mother of Jai Kishor Singh has been crying ever since she learnt that her younger son, who joined the Army two years ago and whose marriage was being planned, has been killed in Ladakh. His father Raj Kishor Singh, a farmer, said, “He got inspired by his elder brother Nand Kishor Singh who was the first in the family to join the Army. We have suffered an unbearable loss but we have the satisfaction that our son will be remembered as a martyr.” Similar sentiments were expressed by Nimindra Yadav of Saharsa who lost his son Kundan Kumar in the clash. Survived by wife and two sons aged eight and four years, Kundan Kumar had joined the Army in 2012. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav also contacted Kundan’s bereaved family through video conference and assured them of all support. The bereaved father said, “We feel devastated. But mark my words, I would like both my grandsons to serve the country like their father by joining the Army.” Arrah, the district headquarters of Bhojpur which takes pride in its martial character, has been reverberating with anti-China slogans ever since Chandan Yadav’s family learnt that the young sepoy has been slain. The bereaved father Hridayanand Singh, a retired Home Guard, sought to bear the loss stoically pointing out that his two elder sons are also in the Army, posted in other parts of the country. Youngest among five siblings, Chandan was supposed to get married in May but the wedding had to be put on hold because of the lockdown. In the state capital, several students’ and citizens’ groups took out processions hailing the Army’s valour and denouncing China’s “aggression”. They raised slogans declaring that Bihar has made sacrifices in all wars the country has fought and was ready for more if the situation so demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/grief-blends-with-anger-in-bihar-which-lost-five-sons-of-the-soil-in-ladakh-face-off/story-LTR1IEHZdLH8rkIvVw3M8K.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||Committee formed in Uttar Pradesh to probe for fake appointments of teachers||A committee has been formed under the Department of Basic Education, Uttar Pradesh to investigate for the appointment of teachers based upon the fake certificates in educational institutions of the state.The move is taken after Anamika Shukla case came to light which pertains to the appointment of teachers allegedly using fake documents in schools across the state.Recently, three more persons have been arrested by the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh on Monday in connection with Anamika Shukla case.Notably, Shukla on June 10 appeared before Gonda basic education officer and alleged that her educational certificates were “misused” to take up jobs at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Schools. The case came to light after an FIR was lodged against Shukla for allegedly withdrawing over Rs 1 crore in salary for over a year from 25 different schools.Further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/committee-formed-in-uttar-pradesh-to-probe-for-fake-appointments-of-teachers/story-rr0TiujM4zJ5w5A2yZaMJO.html
18-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal Covid-19 death toll crosses 500-mark; total tally of cases 12,300||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal reached 506 on Wednesday with 11 more fatalities, while the total number of cases reported in the state so far crossed the 12,000-mark, according to a health department bulletin.It stated that in all the 11 fresh fatalities, the causes were comorbid conditions and novel coronavirus infection was incidental.Seven of the fresh deaths were reported from the eastern metropolis and one each from Hooghly, Howrah, Purba Medinipur and Nadia districts, the bulletin stated.Since Tuesday, the number of confirmed cases in the state rose to 12,300 with 391 new instances of the infection.In this period, 505 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from different hospitals, the bulletin stated, adding 6,533 people have recovered from the disease so far.The current rate of discharge of Covid-19 patients in West Bengal stood at 53.11 per cent.There are currently 5,261 active cases in the state.Meanwhile, Siliguri civic body chief and veteran CPI (M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, sources said.Bhattacharya, 71, was visiting the coronavirus- affected areas of the city regularly to take stock of the situation and party leaders suspect he might have got the infection from there.However, Kolkata witnessed 143 new cases, while 72 people tested positive for the contagion in Howrah and 46 in North 24 Parganas, 28 in Alipurduar and 23 in South 24 Parganas districts, the bulletin said.Hooghly district recorded 21 fresh cases, followed by 16 in Jalpaiguri, eight in Nadia, seven each from Malda and Paschim Medinipur and five each from Paschim Burdwan and Birbhum, it added.Three cases were reported from Murshidabad, two each from Darjeeling and Purba Medinipur and one each from Coochbehar, Bakura and Purba Burdwan, according to the bulletin.Since Tuesday, 9,222 samples have been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-500-mark-total-tally-of-cases-12-300/story-hUHx2YAeO5CIjEoOqmY0RK.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||In photos: After 2 days of moderate showers, Mumbai finally witnesses heavy rain||Heavy rains lashed Mumbai on Thursday after the weather bureau had on Wednesday downgraded its forecast to light to moderate showers in the city over the next two days.Mumbai is expected to witness a cloudy sky with intermittent rain while isolated places in the city will experience heavy rainfall, according to India Meteorological Department’s latest bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-photos-after-2-days-of-moderate-showers-mumbai-finally-witnesses-heavy-rain/story-pUnINCoeXm66bDb14RnuiN.html
18-06-2020||Bangalore||Two Toyota Kirloskar employees at Bidadi plant test positive for Covid-19||Two employees at Toyota Kirloskar Motor’s Bidadi plant in Karnataka have tested positive for Covid-19, the auto major said in a notification. The automaker, which had resumed production at the plant on May 26 after weeks coronavirus-led lockdown, has again temporarily suspended operations at the facility due to the confirmed cases. Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) said it had partially restarted operations with a reduced workforce at its plants while all the strategic business units (SBU) office staff at Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata still continue to work from home. “However, despite all such measures, two employees at the company’s Bidadi plant tested positive for Covid-19 on June 16,” it said. The said employees had last attended work on June 7 and June 16, respectively, it added. As a first step and through appropriate contact tracing, the company has started identifying all those employees who may have had primary or secondary contact with the infected employees for necessary treatment and quarantine wherever necessary, and is in contact with the local government authorities, it said. “Operations at TKM plant has already been temporarily suspended so that required disinfection can be carried out at the plant,” it added. The company said it has also extended all necessary support to the infected employees for medical treatment as well as quarantine procedures. “The company is in touch with the families of the infected employees so as to support them to handle this situation carefully without further complications,” TKM said. Considering the safety and security of its employees and all of its stakeholders as its first priority, the auto major said it will continue to take all possible preventive and remedial measures to deal with the developing situation and closely work with various stakeholders including the relevant statutory authorities. Last month, Hyundai Motor India and Maruti Suzuki had reported Covid-19 cases at their respective plants. Hyundai had reported three cases at its Chennai plant, while Maruti had confirmed one case at its Manesar facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/two-toyota-kirloskar-employees-at-bidadi-plant-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Me7rxNvQIrxqOEaTnFm0MO.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two succumb to Covid-19 in Jammu, UT’s death toll climbs to 66||Two men succumbed to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Wednesday, taking the UTs death toll to 66. The two men, aged 65 and 68, had been hospitalised in the isolation ward of GMCH.GMCH medical superintendent Dr Dara Singh said, “One of the patients, a resident of Talab Tillo, had travelled to Delhi and had been suffering from a fever and respiratory infection. The second patient was a resident of Akhnoor.”Singh said the victims were cremated in Jammu and Akhnoor, respectively, on Thursday in the presence of government officials and policemen.The Akhnoor resident had visited two private clinics and the sub-district hospital (SDH) before he tested positive.Authorities have started tracing his contacts. With the two deaths, the death toll in Jammu region has risen to nine. As many as 57 people have died due to Covid-19 in the Valley since March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-succumb-to-covid-19-in-jammu-ut-s-death-toll-climbs-to-66/story-KlTH8s3MjcKeFUl8y9qMeM.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||Needed policy on movement between Delhi and bordering districts: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to PM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make a policy for peoples’ movement between Delhi and various districts bordering it, with a provision for their screening to curb the Covid-19 spread. “The CM has requested the PM for making a policy for districts bordering Delhi as there is regular transport between these cities. There should be an arrangement for the screening of asymptomatic persons to check the spread of Covid-19,” the chief minister requested the prime minister during a video conference with him. CM Adityanath also expressed his gratitude to PM Modi for helping the state in strengthening its medical infrastructure, an official statement said, adding there are over one lakh beds available in 503 Covid hospitals in the state at present. “Over five lakh tests have been done so far in UP and 16,000 tests are being done per day presently. We are going to increase the capacity to 20,000 tests per day by June 20,” the CM said in the statement. Adityanath also said “to break the chain of the virus, permission should be given to keep asymptomatic corona patients in Covid-19 hospitals”.“In home-quarantine, there is a possibility of spread of the virus from asymptomatic corona patients and it is difficult to maintain necessary discipline for them,” he said, adding that ventilator facility is available in all 75 districts of the state.The emphasis has been given in the state for training medical staffers for community surveillance, he said, adding over 35 lakh migrants arrived in the state and after proper screening, they were given ration kits and were sent on home quarantine.The CM said in UP over 1,650 ‘Shramik Special’ trains arrived with migrants and the state’s transport service buses too were used for the purpose.CM Adityanath also apprised the PM of the constitution of a labour employment exchange and a job commission in the state to provide job opportunities to migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/needed-policy-on-movement-between-delhi-and-bordering-districts-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-pm/story-HTnUxO2jeqDNgalA6nlr1K.html
18-06-2020||Lifestyle||World Autistic Pride Day: Tough times for caregivers to provide an inclusive life amid the pandemic||For most parents, one of the hardest jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown has been to deal with their children and their limitless energy. But, for autistic children, the closure of schools has not only disturbed their vital routine but even posed newer challenges for their caregivers. From making them comfortable wearing a mask to instilling the habit of using sanitisers, parents and caregivers have had a herculean task to keep those with autism safe from coronavirus. On Autistic Pride Day (June 18), here’s what caregivers of people with autism have to share about the unique difficulties they have to face because of the neurodiversity of people with autism, who are unable to easily communicate, socialise or adapt to a change in the environment. “Many individuals with autism aren’t comfortable wearing a mask as their sensory needs are different,” says Shreya Jain, founder and CEO of Reservoir, a Mumbai-based platform that has been connecting families of people who are differently-abled. Shreya’s younger brother Suvrat is autistic, and stays with his parents. “To guide my brother, I used social stories, visual boards, and kept unnecessary information out of the way. The simplest way is to gamify the experience. Since Suvrat does not like wearing masks, so we asked him to wear it in small slots during his favourite activity, which includes walking in our lawn. We have also prepared a small backpack with basic essentials like a mask, ID, help cards, that he has been taught to carry whenever he goes out. Such small steps can help prepare an autistic individual for lifestyle changes post lockdown,’’ she opines. Seema, a Delhiite, is making efforts to keep her eight-and-a-half-year-old daughter engaged in activities such as drawing, so as to keep anxiety at bay. It’s also a feat for her to explain the concept of social distancing when out for a walk with her young one. “My daughter has autism and associated learning disabilities, alongside issues with speech, and therefore prefers gestures. Because of limited access during lockdown, her autism therapist couldn’t tend to her needs, and we fear it has affected her development... I have also listed my neighbour as my emergency contact in case I have to self isolate. I have also made ensured that my neighbour is informed of my daughter’s routine,” adds Seema. Sangeeta Jain, a parent to a child with neurodiverse needs, and a vice principal of SOREM, a special school in Chandigarh, says one of the primary ways of ensuring post lockdown stability is to teach the child interdependence skills. “For our students, we have organised online classes to keep them engaged, but we have also done so for the parents who are now keenly vested in the education of their children. Our aim has been to teach kids with autism, simple household chores. This has enabled parents to work from home independently without being overburdened or stressed,” says Jain, who is of the opinion that to prepare kids with special needs, “it’s imperative that different members of the family are involved in the education process so that the child is used to different modes of teaching, and does not slip out of a schedule. My son is used to waking up at 7am, so even during the lockdown, we were wake him up at 7am.’’Jain agrees that following social distancing can be difficult for families with special needs. “For regular families, forced isolation has been hard, but it also opens up a conversation on how societal exclusion is an everyday reality for people with neurodiverse needs,” she adds. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/world-autistic-pride-day-tough-times-for-caregivers-to-provide-an-inclusive-life-amid-the-pandemic/story-VksqCg7MsEpwDaIdXgVrWJ.html
18-06-2020||Lucknow||Over 5 lakh Covid-19 tests carried out in UP, govt aiming to increase daily testing to 20,000||With approximately 18,000 thousand tests being carried out per day, the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in Uttar Pradesh have crossed the five lakh mark, according to the Chief Minister’s Office.A tweet by the official handle of the Chief Minister’s Office, UP added that the government is aiming to increase the testing limit to 20,000 per day.“There are 503 Covid hospitals active in the state right now, there are 1,01,235 beds available in them,” the tweet added.As per the Union Health Ministry on Thursday, Uttar Pradesh has 14,598 confirmed Covid-19 cases. This includes 5,259 active cases while 8,904 patients have been cured and discharged so far. 435 deaths have been reported due to the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-5-lakh-covid-19-tests-carried-out-in-up-govt-aiming-to-increase-daily-testing-to-20-000/story-tuFNrYfFFtSlGauH4RTxUL.html
18-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid-19 death toll rises to 10; total tally climbs to 1,895||Jharkhand reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the state to 10, a government bulletin said.Fifty-six fresh cases of the viral infection were detected during the day taking the total caseload of the state to 1,895, it stated.With 30 more people recovering from the disease, the total number of patients cured stood at 1,151. The state now has 734 active cases.Of the total cases reported in Jharkhand so far, 1,536 were migrant workers.The East Singhbhum district has 220 active Covid-19 cases followed by Simdega with 108, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-10-total-tally-climbs-to-1-895/story-HjhDaJa2W3ziIlbQx2PrQN.html
18-06-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 claims 10 more lives in Rajasthan, state death toll reaches 323||Rajasthan registered 10 Covid-19 deaths and 84 positive cases of coronavirus on Thursday, according to an official report.With this, the number of fatalities due to coronavirus in the state has gone up to 323, while 13,626 patients have tested positive.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile six patients died in Bharatpur, 2 died in Bikaner. Barmer and Chittorgarh also reported one death each.As many as 31 coronavirus positive cases were reported from Bharatpur, 28 from Jaipur, 7 from Sirohi, 6 from Jhunjhunu, 5 from Jhalawar, 3 from Churu and 2 each from Dungarpur and Rajsamand, the report said.Of the total 13626 Covid-19 patients, 10582 have recovered and 10328 of them have been discharged. There are 2721 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-claims-10-more-lives-in-rajasthan-state-death-toll-reaches-323/story-TXkNq2TrRSr4i2oCsqi4ZI.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||New gecko species discovered in Western Ghats after 6-year study||A new lizard species has been identified from the Western Ghats in Karnataka after a six-year study. It is one of the largest of its species reported from India.The large-bodied dwarf gecko was discovered near Hongadahalla village, Sakleshpur, Hassan district in Karnataka, by researchers from the Thackeray Wildlife Foundation Mumbai, National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bangalore, and the Bombay Natural History Society.The findings were published in the international taxonomic journal, Zootaxa on Wednesday.Named ‘Magnificent dwarf gecko’ (Cnemaspis magnifica), the species is endemic to rocky regions and was found on vertical rock faces around Sakleshpur. With a maximum length of 58 millimetres, the new species can be identified as having a light brown tail and limbs with numerous light patches on its slightly darker brown-coloured head. Its eyes have a black outline with a thin brick red iris.The species is distinguished from others in its genus due to its size, round pupils (other gecko species from other genus have vertical pupils), and minimal differences on its body. “When we first saw this gecko in 2014 near Sakleshpur, we thought it could be a new species to science but owing lack of comparative research material from already identified geckos of this genus, we needed to conduct more studies,” said Akshay Khandekar, lead and corresponding author, who documented the findings along with Tejas Thackeray, Saunak Pal, and Ishan Agarwal.In June 2018, the team conducted fieldwork to assess the exact locality where the species has been documented from across the Western Ghats and collected specimen for comparative studies. “When we finished our lab work which includes morphological and genetic studies, we realised that the gecko species was in fact new to science,” said Khandekar.Dwarf geckos belong to the genus Cnemaspis, and are one of the oldest Indian squamates (largest in the order of snakes and lizards), that originated around 50 million years ago from the Western Ghats. There are about 50 species reported from the Western Ghats, Mysore plateau, Eastern Ghats, Assam, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Experts said these discoveries were crucial from the point of view of protecting the Western Ghats. “These discoveries are an indicator that we are losing species faster without even knowing we are losing them. Rather than giving away more areas to industries and mining, it is essential to protect the Western Ghats not only for the rich biodiversity but a critical source of water,” said Romulus Whitaker, veteran herpetologist and wildlife conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-gecko-species-discovered-from-western-ghats/story-eJWS0ktuj0PJV8NawwKEDI.html
18-06-2020||Patna||Former Union Minister and senior RJD leader tests positive for Covid-19 in Bihar||A former Union Minister and senior RJD leader, who is admitted in AIIMS Patna, has tested positive for Covid-19.He was admitted at the hospital on Tuesday after he complained of cough and fever.India’s Covid-19 tally on Wednesday reached 3,54,065, including 1,55,227 active cases, 1,86,935 cured/discharged/migrated and 11,903 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/former-union-minister-and-senior-rjd-leader-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar/story-50lvujiazEc4DgBJnoXWLL.html
18-06-2020||Patna||India-China border tension: Mortal remains of slain Havaldar Sunil Kumar brought to Patna||The mortal remains of Havaldar Sunil Kumar who lost his life in the violent face-off with China in Galwan Valley, was brought to his residence in Patna on Thursday morning.At least 20 Indian Army personnel, including a Colonel rank officer, had lost their lives in the violent face-off in the Galwan valley area of Ladakh on June 15.Indian intercepts revealed that the Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured in the violent clash. The commanding officer of the Chinese Unit is among those killed, sources confirmed to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/india-china-border-tension-mortal-remains-of-slain-havaldar-sunil-kumar-brought-to-patna/story-Vm5iLR9eoqyZret7f4O4PK.html
18-06-2020||Noida||Gautam Buddh Nagar: Woman dies of Covid-19, death toll rises to 14||A 57-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19 succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll due to coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar to 14, officials said on Wednesday.Also, 59 more people tested positive for Covid-19 as the number of cases grew to 1,097, the officials said.Fifty-one patients were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease, even as the number of active patients reached 507, District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The female patient who passed away had tested positive for Covid-19. She was a resident of Noida’s Sector 22. She was admitted at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial hospital in Meerut, he said.“She was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The cause of death was pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome,” Dohare said.This is the first female fatality due to the novel coronavirus in the district, which previously recorded 13 deaths, all men aged between 29 and 90 years, according to official tally.“On Wednesday, 59 people were found positive for Covid-19 and the total positive cases till date stands at 1,097. A total 576 patients have recovered so far. There are 507 active cases now,” Dohare said.    He said 14,103 samples have been collected so far for Covid-19 testing in the district.The recovery rate of patients stood at 52.52 per cent, according to official statistics. Among the 59 new patients on Wednesday, 36 were tested by private laboratories and 23 by government facilities, according to a statement.  Also, 33 of the new patients are ILI (which means they have influenza-like illness), it said. One of the new patients, one is a health care worker, while 25 are contacts of people who have previously tested positive for Covid-19, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-buddh-nagar-woman-dies-of-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-14/story-n986OceskvePQLB2Hv65CK.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||30-year-old man shot dead in Amritsar’s Jandiala Guru town||A 30-year-old man was shot dead in Jyotisar locality of Jandiala Guru town, 20 km from the district headquarters, police said on Thursday. The victim, Baljinder Singh, alias Billu, of Shekhupur locality in Jandiala Guru, was shot three times, twice in the head and once in the waist, said station house officer (SHO) Upkar Singh. The incident took place around 10.30pm, police said. “On Wednesday night, we got information about a firing incident. When we reached there, we saw the victim lying in a pool of blood. Baljinder was identified by checking the registration papers of his scooter,” the SHO said.He said, “We believe a quarrel took place between the victim and the accused before he was shot dead.”A pistol was recovered from Baljinder’s scooter. He had been booked twice under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, police said. Baljinder was addicted to drugs and had been booked for peddling narcotics, the SHO said.A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-amritsar-s-jandiala-guru-town/story-Ozt1Ep6WGjpKqPstjC4pZI.html
18-06-2020||Jaipur||Venus spotted during day time in Jaipur: Expert||Planet Venus was spotted during day time in Jaipur on Wednesday, the assistant director of BM Birla Planetarium said.Sandeep Bhattacharya, the assistant director of the planetarium here, said he was preparing for the observation of solar eclipse, which is on June 21, when he spotted planet Venus near the sun at around 2 pm.“I was excited to spot Venus at such a time. It was wonderful and lovely. In a long period of study about constellations and celestial bodies, this was the first time when I spotted planet Venus in the day,” he said.Generally, this planet can be seen during day time from the Himalayan region and that too when the weather is very clear, Bhattacharya said.Venus, the second planet from the Sun, shines bright and is called morning star and evening star.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/venus-spotted-during-day-time-in-jaipur-expert/story-Ph0Un6Af1aE1bC1vOkRUGN.html
18-06-2020||Jaipur||Disappointed over discussion on coronavirus with PM: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said he was disappointed as the challenges and limitations faced by the Centre and state were not discussed in the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the coronavirus issue. Gehlot’s remarks came after he attended the second day of the discussions held by the PM with chief ministers over the issue. “All states by now know the best practices to deal with Covid-19. Disappointed to see that in today’s VC with PM, challenges and limitations of Centre and state have not been discussed,” Gehlot tweeted. The chief minister said how the Centre will help states overcome hardships after the lockdown should have been discussed at the video conference. The Rajasthan chief minister attended the second day of the PM’s VC on Wednesday. Gehlot, in a letter to the prime minister, said the country’s economy is going through a deep crisis and most industrial and commercial units are able to produce much less than their capacity. In such a situation, the central government should focus on measures to increase demand. For this, he said, direct funds should be transferred to the needy families, which would increase their purchasing power and at the same time provide financial assistance to the industries suffering from recession for payment of wages of workers. Gehlot stated this in his suggestions sent via the letter after a video conference with Prime Minister Modi on Wednesday. He said that in order to combat the coronavirus pandemic, states have to spend extra for medical resources. The central government should provide additional support for this, he said. The chief minister said in the letter that more than 53 lakh workers are currently employed in the MGNREGA scheme in Rajasthan. The eligibility for 100 days of employment of most of these rural families will be fulfilled in the coming month. In such a situation, an additional 100 man days should be created to save them from unemployment. This will benefit 70 lakh rural families of the state. Gehlot has said that due to adverse impact on revenue receipts, the states are not able to provide financial resources for the schemes run by them. In such a situation, it is very difficult for them to arrange the state’s share amount for centrally-sponsored schemes. In such a situation, the Government of India should bear 100 per cent contribution for the financial year 2020-21 for the operation of centrally-sponsored schemes. He said additional expenditure is being incurred by the states to meet the challenge of Covid-19 so central assistance is also necessary for it. The chief minister said the outstanding GST compensation payment of about Rs 961 crore for the financial year 2019-20 should be released soon. He said the industrial and business activities remained closed due to the pandemic in April and May of this financial year. Due to this, the GST compensation payment for these two months will be around Rs 4,500 crore. The Centre should also make this amount available soon, Gehlot said. He also reiterated the demand for Rs 1 lakh crore as a one-time grant to the states to revive the economic activities of the coronavirus-affected cottage, small and large scale industries as well as service sector. He said about 1 lakh 90 thousand hectares of agricultural area in 29 districts has been affected by locusts this year. According to the latest report of the World Food and Agriculture Organization, there may be a large number of locust attacks from Iran and Africa in June and July. In view of this, the central government should make proper arrangements to protect the farmers from crop loss, the chief minister said. At the beginning of the VC, the prime minister and the chief ministers observed a two-minute silence to pay tributes to the Indian soldiers who were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night. PTI AG SDA CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/disappointed-over-discussion-on-coronavirus-with-pm-ashok-gehlot/story-9k8zYDEvFE3s4y96ax07fK.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out on third floor of Delhi’s Rohini court, 10 fire tenders at spot||A fire broke out in the record room on the third floor of Rohini court on Thursday morning, a Delhi Fire Service official said.No injury or casualty was reported so far, the official said.A call about the fire was received around 9.41 am after which 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service.The fire has been brought under control, he said.The cause of fire is being ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-on-third-floor-of-district-court-in-delhi-s-rohini-9-fire-tenders-at-spot/story-woheQ1DB53U1nFnoKy6iLI.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Fuel prices hit new high, petrol hiked by 53 paise, diesel by 64 paise for 12th consecutive day||For the 12th consecutive day, state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) has increased the price of fuel on Thursday.The price of petrol is increased by 53 paise a litre while that of diesel by 64 paise a litre.Petrol and diesel will now cost Rs 77.81/litre and Rs 76.43/litre respectively in Delhi.Notably, oil marketing companies have been adjusting retail rates in line with costs after an 82 day break from rate revision amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. These firms on June 7 restarted revising prices in line with costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fuel-prices-hit-new-high-petrol-hiked-by-53-paise-diesel-by-64-paise-for-12th-consecutive-day/story-OPRqZN6ydPnV3uEdELox7J.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||India-China standoff in Ladakh: Mansa family loses a son 2 days after another’s marriage||It was on Monday when the elder brother of Gurtej Singh (23), who along with 19 soldiers lost his life in a face-off with the Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, got married.The family from Birewala Dogran village in Budhlada sub-division of Mansa district was shattered when the news of his death reached on Wednesday. His parents, Virsa Singh and Parkash Kaur, were inconsolable.Even as Gurtej, a sepoy in the army’s 3 Punjab Battalion, could not attend the wedding function he had announced to throw a party for the newlywed couple on his return to the village. “Their is a close-knitted family. But the eldest son Tarlok Singh, who works in a private firm in Rajasthan, could not attend marriage due to the lockdown restrictions. Gurtej was very excited over Gurpreet’s marriage,” said Sukhwinder Kaur, a village resident.Boota Singh, a family friend and neighbor, said Gurtej spoke to the family about 15 days ago to know about the preparations for the marriage.“Being the youngest of three brothers, he was a pampered child. The news of his loss has shattered us all,” said Boota.“But the entire village is in a state of shock. The grieving family members are unable to speak much,” said another villager.The district administration said Gurtej’s mortal remains was likely to arrive in the village by Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/india-china-standoff-in-ladakh-mansa-family-loses-a-son-2-days-after-another-s-marriage/story-gINmsI9Q1wCJZ7Vht8uHPJ.html
18-06-2020||Football||The ‘Flick’ behind Bayern Munich’s resurgence and record eighth||Few football clubs have an array of former stars as bosses and influencers as Bayern Munich. There’s Uli Hoeness, who stepped down as president last November but continues his 50-year association with the Bavarian giants as board member. Karl Heinz Rummenigge is CEO (he will be replaced by Oliver Kahn in 2022) and Franz Beckenbauer, who has been coach and president, is always a 90-minute drive away in Salzburg.At Bayern’s headquarters in Munich’s Saebener Strasse, it isn’t unusual to have Paul Breitner or Gerd Mueller holding forth on matters football. In 2011, journalists from India found that even their stationery supplier is a Bayern legend and former World Cup and European champion --- Hans-Georg Schwarzenbeck.Also known as FC Hollywood, Bayern’s current squad isn’t short on star dust. Thomas Mueller, Jerome Boateng, Manuel Neuer, Benjamin Pavard and Lucas Hernandez have won World Cups; Robert Lewandowski is the fastest foreigner to 100 Bundesliga goals --- the 2019-20 Bundesliga top-scorer (31 goals) has 319 including the goal in Tuesday’s 1-0 win away to Werder Bremen ---- and Ivan Perisic has played a World Cup final. So deep are Bayern’s resources that former coach Carlo Ancelotti once said they could win the Bundesliga with hands in their pockets. On Tuesday, when Bayern got a record eighth successive Bundesliga title and 29th overall staying unbeaten in their last 23 games (22 wins, one draw), it had a lot to with a man who wasn’t supposed to be in the forefront at all --- Hans-Dieter ‘Hansi’ Flick.Despite a league and cup double in 2018-19 under coach Niko Kovac, Bayern began the season with 66% of those polled by the German football magazine ‘Kicker’ saying an eighth wouldn’t be possible. Roster rebuilding meant Franck Ribery, Arjen Robben, Mats Hummels and Rafinha were off-loaded. Hernandez and Pavard were bought but during the pre-season tour of USA, Lewandowski asked the board “to strengthen us as a team.”Before his departure, Rafinha said many players weren’t happy with Kovac, a point later borne out by Hoeness. “The greatest pressure came from the team,” Hoeness told ‘Kicker’ last November after Bayern sacked Kovac. This was after a 1-5 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt.His stress on counter-attacks and blaming players for poor performances showed that Kovac wasn’t in sync with the locker room. If Kovac, a former Croatia captain and coach, was out of step in a team which had had Pep Guardiola, Jupp Heynckes, Louis van Gaal and Ottmar Hitzfeld as coaches, imagine what it would be like for Flick to step up from assistant-coach to caretaker manager? Flick had no experience of coaching a Bundesliga team and Bayern were seventh in the standings when he took charge.Flick wasn’t a flake as a player --- he had 104 games for Bayern as a hard-working midfielder. He was someone Eric Cantona would call a ‘water carrier’ but there must be something about their industry which makes them good coaches. Didier Deschamps, anyone?Flick, 55, hadn’t managed a top team before but was Bundestrainer Joachim Loew’s assistant from 2006 to 2014. That meant he oversaw much of Germany’s project restart which began under Juergen Klinsmann before the 2006 World Cup and had them win the 2014 edition. In his first two games in charge, Bayern beat Borussia Dortmund 4-0 and Olympiakos 2-0. Used to being caught on the break, Bayern looked defensively solid in both. Soon after, they stopped looking for a famous name to replace Kovac and Flick was given a contract till 2023.From offering an arm and a shoulder to midfielder Javi Martinez to brainstorming with players about how Bayern should play, Flick was everything Kovac was not. The players told Flick that Bayern were too defensive under Kovac. Bayern’s resurgence has a lot to do with a return to front-third pressing, defensive high line and better organisation at the back. Just as it has in restoring Mueller and Boateng to their position of eminence.Mueller has been a handful in attack, providing 20 assists --- the most in Bundesliga this term --- in 24 starts. “I see myself in a position of responsibility,” Mueller has said. Central defender Boateng had 21 starts with 91.8% successful passes from open play. One of them, a measured chip in the rain in Bremen, Lewandowski chested and volleyed to take 10-man Bayern to an invincible 76 points from 32 games.“Hansi has really done well in promoting the team’s strengths of playing attacking football and keeping a well-balanced defence at the same time,” sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic --- another former Bayern player --- was quoted as saying by the sports website ‘The Athletic’. “Hansi is hungry for success, and, so are the players. It’s a great fit.”“It is sensational the kind of football we have played in the past few months,” Flick said on Tuesday. “You could feel the passion the joy for the game and the team spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/the-flick-behind-bayern-munich-s-resurgence-and-record-eighth/story-2Hx9jnGdX5ntpECEOq3yKJ.html
18-06-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka to observe ‘Mask Day’ today||With Karnataka observing ‘Mask Day’ today, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state has organised a walk from Vidhana Soudha to Cubbon Park to create awareness about the importance of wearing a mask as a preventive measure against Covid-19.“We are celebrating ‘Mask Day’ at all district headquarters today. We have organised a walk from Vidhana Soudha (to Cubbon Park) to create awareness about the importance of wearing a mask as a preventive measure against Covid-19,” Yediyurappa told media persons here. Earlier, the Chief Minister has said that film actors and sports personalities will take part in the event and it will be celebrated in all taluks as well.”We will take strict action against those who are not maintaining social distancing. A fine of Rs 200 will be imposed on those for not wearing a mask in public places,” he had said.As many as 7,530 people have detected positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka, of which 94 people have succumbed to the infection till date, as per the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-to-observe-mask-day-today/story-ZaPaDsciK9RrsygqjN2qHJ.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Rahul’s morning routine||He appears every morning on this central Delhi street. And sits on the pavement, watching the passersby go by.“I’m a beggar, why to hide,” he mumbles jovially but without showing any smile.He is wearing a black kurta atop a black salwar—the only bright shades about him are coming from his scraggly white beard and orange chappals. He is perched on a brown plastic mat, spread out in front of an artificially jewellery shop whose shutters are yet to open.And what can be his name?The man at last turns his head towards his interlocutor, but his gaze is curiously directed, as if it were more interested in examining something invisible that exists out there in the infinity.He draws a deep breath, slips his left hand into the deep pocket of his kurta and languidly draws out a beedi. Showing no hurry, he lights the beedi with great gravity of manners, and starts to smoke. Looking intensely at the smouldering end of the beedi, he finally opens his mouth to speak. “Rahul, my name.”He raises both his arms and mutters resignedly, “You can see.... I don’t earn... I’m a beggar.”Next moment, his fingers start to play with the folds of his salwar as if he were a sceptical shopper feeling the fabrics of a sari, the quality of which he is not sure of. Responding to a query, he says, “I have been living alone in this city for many years.” He sleeps at night near a “shaadi ghar “ (banquet house) nearby.Soon enough, another bearded man comes over and sits beside him. They do not exchange any greeting but the friendly way they silently acknowledge each other indicates that they know each other.Rahul goes on to inform that he is from the mountain state of Himachal Pradesh “but I haven’t been home in a long time.”He was not always a beggar, he clarifies without a prompt. He used to work in a mela in a hill town, and was in charge of operating a jhoola. “One day I I fell down from the jhoola and broke my arm.”At this point, he readjusts his seating posture, straightens his back, and pulls down the kurta sleeves to show the affected shoulder, saying, “My right arm doesn’t work... that’s why I could no longer do labour.”His family left him, he says, including his wife and three children.Now a municipal sweeper appears. Rahul gets up as if on cue, and swiftly moves away, leaving behind his plastic mat and bag. As the sweeper goes away and the dust cloud settles, he returns to his spot and sits down again. He fiddles into his bag and takes out a mask, tying it about his face with as much gravity as he had shown while lighting up his beedi a few minutes ago.Soon, a nearby chai seller sends him a cup of chai, his daily free treat to the man.Rahul says that he will get up only after the artificially jewellery shop owner arrives to roll up the shutters of his store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-rahul-s-morning-routine/story-7pbfbZXOK37RjEGT4xvKxL.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi health ministry orders Covid -ve staffers to return to work||The Delhi health department has asked the members of its staff who quarantined themselves without testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to return to work by Thursday. Those who don’t do so will face disciplinary action and a salary suspension.Only those with a positive Covid-19 test may stay isolated, according to a circular by the department on Wednesday.“It has been observed that most of the staff working in Department of Health and Family Welfare are not reporting for their duties and are absenting themselves unauthorisedly without any reason or intimation. All staff are directed to report for duties immediately by tomorrow failing which their salaries will be stopped and disciplinary action as deemed fit shall be initiated without further notice,” read the June 17 order from the special secretary (Health) SM Ali.“Only those officials will be considered for home quarantine who will furnish the test report of having tested positive for Covid-19,” the order further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-ministry-orders-covid-ve-staffers-to-return-to-work/story-7XLbEZTLeo2zYlPxpnfY5N.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department decides to change nomenclature for nurses||The UT health department has decided to change the nomenclature for staff nurses and nursing sisters to nursing officers and senior nursing officers.The new protocol will be applicable to the employees working under the UT health department at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and allied hospitals. Meanwhile, the administration is also considering implementing the same for nurses working under the department of medical education and research at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that the decision had no financial implications. “The decision is in favour of employees (nurses) under the health department and we will examine the medical education department of GMCH-32 separately as per Punjab government provisions and our recruitment rules.”Shobhna Pathania, nursing sister at GMSH-16, said they were happy with the decision and that the administration had given them the reward for dedication shown during the pandemic. “I am happy and want to extend gratitude to the seniors in the health department for their sincere efforts,” she said.Parminderjit Kaur Thind, president of the nurses association, said, “I am extremely grateful to the officials including Dr Dewan for recognising our efforts and giving us the respect we deserve. I feel our hard work has finally paid off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-decides-to-change-nomenclature-for-nurses/story-egc7NFsCXIyIMYRejA5ZJP.html
18-06-2020||City||Teen among three commit suicide in Mohali, Panchkula||Three suicides were reported in the tricity on Wednesday, the police said.In the first case, a 16-year-old boy of Dashmesh Nagar in Nayagoan committed suicide at his residence on Wednesday by hanging himself from the ceiling fan. The boy was a student of Class 11 in a private school of Chandigarh.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gursher Singh said, as per parents, the boy had been upset since learning about Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide on June 14. “He was a die heart fan of Rajput. He committed suicide when parents were not home.”The parents have, however, said no to any investigation, the DSP added.Meanwhile, a 28-year-old woman living in Lohgarh of Zirakpur was found hanging at her rented accommodation on Wednesday. Station house officer Gurwant Singh said, “We got information that a foul smell was emanating from a room in Lohgarh. When we reached, we found a woman hanging from the ceiling fan on Tuesday afternoon.”No suicide note was found, the police said. The woman was divorced and was working in a private firm in Sector 34. The victim is survived by a baby girl, who lives with her grandmother nearby in Zirakpur, said the SHO.The body has been kept in the mortuary of civil hospital. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.KALKA YOUTH FOUND HANGING A 20-year-old resident of Kalka was found hanging at his house, the police said on Wednesday. The victim’s brother told the police that on Tuesday night, just after 25 minutes of his brother going to his room to sleep after dinner, he found him hanging from the ceiling. Police said they did not find any suicide note in the room. The deceased is survived by his mother and brother. The family told the police that the victim had sustained burn injuries in an accident last year and had slipped into depression. Police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-among-three-commit-suicide-in-mohali-panchkula/story-6YBDFfJaNI2Nc1up6xpjGK.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools not keen on hosting entrance exams||In the absence of any clear directions from the government, various private schools of Chandigarh have said no to functioning as examination centres for the entrance exams that are just weeks away.Fearing an influx of students from various states amid rising cases of coronavirus, schools have expressed their reluctance in holding the examinations.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct the pending board exams for 29 subjects between July 1 and 15, whereas the National Testing Agency will conduct the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on July 26. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for engineering will be conducted from July 18 to July 23, and the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) will be held on July 5.HS Mamik, president of Independent Schools Association (ISA), Chandigarh, said, “We are skeptical about conducting exams like NEET and CTET. There should be some sort of regulation with respect to doing that, but there are no instructions by the government. Centres for NEET have already been decided, most of the schools are not in a position to refuse. But my school, Vivek High School, has said we are not ready at the moment.”St John’s High School, Sector 26, is a centre for both CTET and NEET. Principal Kavita Das said, “We are worried. There is no communication from the government regarding the standard operating procedures. Our teachers are supposed to be invigilators, but most of them fall under vulnerable categories, are elderly and/or have comorbidities. We can’t refuse but I am worried.”“Many people from Punjab, Haryana and other states will be coming to give exams. Many of them will be asymptomatic. We won’t get to know about their condition by virtue of screening alone. This puts all teachers as well as children at risk,” she added. “No communication has been received regarding the material required for conducting these tests. Right now schools are already short on money as only the tuition fees is being charged. Will the government pay for the added expenses?” she asked.The principal of a government school said, “The CBSE has asked schools to be centers for their own children, but at many of those centres will host private candidates as well. How can we ensure that there is no infection?”Officials of the CBSE couldn’t be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-not-keen-on-hosting-entrance-exams/story-YLhI2U1Bvh91ezuyxUQqhN.html
18-06-2020||City||GMADA extends land acquisition process for Aerotropolis till November||Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has extended the acquisition process for its seventh independent township, Aerotropolis, by November, owing to the Covi lockdown. Earlier, the acquisition was to be done by May this year.The project is spread over 5,400 acres. GMADA had already issued a notification under section 11 of the Land acquisition Act to acquire 737 acres of land. The Act pertains to preliminary notification for acquiring the land and calling objections from landowners.The township is an expansion of GMADA’s Aerocity and will comprise both residential and commercial spaces. Situated in the vicinity of Chandigarh international airport, it will come up on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road. In the first phase, land will be acquired in Chau Majra, Saini Majra, Patton, Manauli, Siaun and Matran of Mohali district.Sanjeev Kumar, GMADA estate officer, said, “We have extended the acquisition process till November and for the announcement of award under the Land Acquisition Act, we have sent the file to authorities concerned for approval. Once it is done, we will begin the process.”He further said the announcement of award for payment of compensation to land owners and other affected persons was practically the last step towards acquisition of land after the department of housing and urban development, Punjab, issues a notification under sections 19 and 21 (1) of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.Another senior official of GMADA said that the development authority has to purchase the said land under land pooling policy 2013. Recently, GMADA had also increased compensation for land owners opting for its land pooling scheme for various residential projects. Instead of 121 square yards, the authority will now offer the land owners a commercial plot of 200 square yards, he said.Under the land pooling scheme, farmers are offered housing and commercial sites in lieu of their land. Under the scheme, land is taken from farmers to develop big housing and commercial projects. In lieu of the land, farmers are offered housing and commercial sites.Though GMADA is yet to calculate the compensation, as per sources, the compensation will be between ₹2.5-3 crore for those who do not opt for land pooling. While acquiring land for Aerocity in 2008, GMADA had given ₹1.5 crore per acre to farmers.ABOUT THE PROJECTSpread over 5,400 acres, the township is an expansion of Aerocity.It will be built on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road, in the vicinity of Chandigarh international airport.The project will comprise both residential and commercial spaces.In the first phase, 737 acre land will be acquired in Chau Majra, Saini Majra, Patton, Manauli, Siaun and Matran.The remaining land will be acquired in Badi, Kurdi, Kishanpur, Safipur and Kishanpura villages.OTHER GMADA TOWNSHIPSAerocity, Knowledge City and IT City, all in the vicinity of Chandigarh airportEco City, Edu City and Medi City in New Chandigarh, Mullanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-extends-land-acquisition-process-for-aerotropolis-till-november/story-8nADNMV5WwEZPTCMVEOHkM.html
18-06-2020||City||Heat stress during summer reduces milk production in livestock, say experts at Ludhiana’s GADVASU||Talking about the effect of increasing temperature on livestock, director, extension education, at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, Dr Harish Kumar Verma, has said that high temperature lowers the milk production in animals.Dr Verma said that due to lower feed intake and added heat load on the animals during summers, the milk production decreases. “Proper shelter and housing management, water application, changes in feeding regime, preventive health management etc, are some of the techniques to minimise the effect of thermal stress. Well-ventilated sheds with proper standing and resting space must be provided to dairy animals,” said Dr Verma.Open end of the shed should be covered with thatched bamboo or jute curtains. Sheet roof may also be covered with a thatch or the top of the roof may be painted white and the under surface black. Shady trees should be planted around the sheds especially at the southern wall/boundary for further cooling.Water splashing, showering, sprinkling and fogging of water on animals inside the shed 3-4 times during the hottest part of the day (11am to 4om) reduces heat load and enhances productivity due to evaporative cooling. These methods are more effective in buffaloes as they have sparse sweat glands compared to other kinds of cattle.MAKE ARRANGEMENTS FOR WALLOWINGAnimals should be allowed to wallow in clean water ponds during extreme hot weather (between 11am to 4pm). Arrangements should be made at the farm itself as taking the animals to a pond in hot sun neutralises the benefits of wallowing.On large/commercial dairy farms, cooling devices such as fans, wet curtains or panels, air-coolers or air conditioners may be used. Provision of ample fresh, cooled potable drinking water (in earthen pitchers commonly used in villages) also helps in reducing the heat load. Shaded water troughs in sufficient numbers should be provided at convenient places.Heat detection should be done 2-3 times a day when the animals are stress-free and relaxing during the early or late hours of the day. Never detect heat when animals are hungry, or under any type of stress.Dr RS Grewal, professor at the department of animal nutrition, advises that concentrate mixture containing more than 18% digestible protein and 70% energy contents along with palatable, digestible and laxative fodders should be fed to the animals.Proportion of green fodder should be increased. Long fodders must be chopped before feeding. If grazing is practised, animals shouldn’t be let to graze between 10am and 5pm.SUPPLEMENT DIET WITH EXTRA NUTRIENTSSoaking of concentrate in equal amount water for 20-30 minutes will increase nutrient utilization. Dietary mineral and vitamin supplementation should be increased during summer as its excretion under the effect of heat stress is increased.Supplementing dietary sodium and potassium increases milk yield during the period of heat stress.Dr LD Singla, head of the department of veterinary parasitology, informs that proper deworming and vaccination schedules must be followed for maintaining the health of animals.Ecto-parasites, whose infestation increases during summer, should be controlled properly by using suitable acaricidal spray on animals as well as in the shed, especially in corners and crevices.Biosecurity is the key during this time and no visitor/outsider should be allowed to enter the farm premises and at the entry disinfectant should be dusted.Proper care and management techniques during the summer season will help farmers to maintain healthy animals, produce more milk and assure profit from dairy farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heat-stress-during-summer-reduces-milk-production-in-livestock-say-experts-at-ludhiana-s-gadvasu/story-GyF4TO3OHdACQpTJRhX8SJ.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC mulls converting fish market into general market||A municipal corporation (MC) committee on Wednesday recommended conversion of the AC Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41 to a general trade market.At the meeting of the gaushala committee, held under the chairpersonship of Heera Negi, the members directed the officials to check illegal sale of chicken and meat, especially in residential areas. “They should be issued a notice initially, followed by a challan. Why would they take a booth, when they can sell meat on the roadside under unhygienic conditions?” the members said.They also raised the issue of stray dog menace in the city and asked the officials concerned to monitor the dog management system minutely. They also directed the officials to challan pet owners for releasing their dogs loose in parks.In the meeting of the sanitation committee, chaired by Rajesh Kumar, members asked the officials of sanitation wing to maintain proper logbook of night sweeping by Lions firm, seek weekly attendance from them and maintain proper record of the sanitation works done by them.The members discussed the complaints regarding waste collection charges from households in various areas and asked the officials to keep check on it. Rates approved and notified by the competent authority should be publicised through mass awareness, they said.The committee also decided that proper guidelines regarding keeping cattle in villages be implemented at the villages merged with MC last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-mulls-converting-fish-market-into-general-market/story-bPoaYwaZEKs1duPRFQkPoI.html
18-06-2020||City||Violation of social distancing norms leads to confrontation between DMCH principal’s wife and neighbours in Ludhiana||The violation of social distancing norm is leading to confrontations even among residents in the city. Heated arguments were witnessed between Dr Suman Puri, wife of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) principal Dr Sandeep Puri, and residents of A-Block of Kitchlu Nagar on Tuesday night, after she tore the badminton net, removed the poles and allegedly tried to stop a resident from recording the video of the incident.Dr Suman Puri and residents have lodged counter-complaints with the police.However, the video of Dr Suman confronting the residents, largely men, was circulated on the social media. Defending his wife, Dr Sandeep Puri said his wife was being targeted and harassed for being a responsible citizen.“Residents were harassing her after she had lodged a complaint with the police they were not observing social distancing in the Kitchlu Nagar park,” said Dr Puri.Dr Puri added, “It all started on June 3 when they lodged a police complaint about a huge gathering of people in the park in violation of lockdown guidelines. Since then, his wife is being targeted.”Ashok Chawla, president of the Kitchlu Nagar A-Block Residents Welfare Association, said, “During lockdown, children of the locality decided to play badminton in the park to which Dr Suman Puri had objected. They, however, sought Dr Sandeep Puri’s permission and it was decided that children could play after 8pm.”However, Dr Suman did not agree to this arrangement and called the police six times and, finally, she tore the badminton net on Tuesday night.Area councillor Sunny Bhalla said, “It was an unfortunate incident and efforts are on to amicably settle the matter.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-3) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal said complaints have been received and the matter was being looked into. Both the parties have been asked to record their statements, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violation-of-social-distancing-norms-leads-to-confrontation-between-dmch-principal-s-wife-and-neighbours-in-ludhiana/story-6YTc1BWRG8YCwZkAEofhPM.html
18-06-2020||City||Ludhiana woman concocted robbery to help her parents: Police||The cash and jewellery robbery at a Heera Nagar house on June 15 was concocted by the complainant to help out her parents, police said on Wednesday.The woman, Rashmeet Kaur, 31, had claimed that two women, impersonating as employees of a survey company, had taken away Rs 8 lakh and 300gm gold jewellery from her house after drugging her.Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal the incident had turned out to be a made-up story, and the “stolen” cash and jewellery has been recovered from Rashmeet.Agrawal said the special investigation team (SIT) found that the woman’s statement did not corroborate with the circumstantial evidence.During the probe, the police also did not spot any women, as described by Rashmeet, in the CCTV footage of the area. On being grilled by the police, she confessed to have orchestrated the robbery. She was planning to give the money and jewellery to her parents to help them tide over a financial crisis, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-concocted-robbery-to-help-her-parents-police/story-73OTiE14SVjPapn31HDdqN.html
18-06-2020||Dehradun||Out on mission, 4 contract-killers from Punjab held in U’khand||Four sharp-shooters from Punjab were among seven people arrested on Tuesday by the Uttarakhand Police in Bajpur area of US Nagar district, police said on Wednesday. The sharp-shooters were allegedly hired by a history-sheeter, Kuldeep Singh Kedi, to kill a prominent trader, police said.The accused were presented before a local court which sent them to judicial custody.Bajpur circle officer Deepshikha Agrawal said, “The incident came to light after the four sharp-shooters from Punjab, identified as Harpal Singh, Princepal Singh, Sukhraj Singh, all from Gurdaspur, and Yuddhavir Singh of Amritsar, were nabbed from a hotel in Bajpur after receiving inputs that some suspicious men are staying in a hotel since June 10.”“When questioned, they said that they had come to visit Nainital but failed to show any e-pass for entering the state. Meanwhile, a prominent trader of the town Kulvinder Singh Kinda came to know about the development and lodged a police complaint, claiming that the four were hired by Kedi to kill him,” said Agrawal, adding “When we interrogated them strictly, they spilled the beans and confessed to the plan to kill Kinda.” The police also seized five country-made pistols and 15 cartridges.The police officer said the suspects confessed that they were hired by Kedi to kill Kinda and were waiting for the right moment to strike.“All four have a criminal background in Punjab including cases of murder and attempt to murder. During the interrogation, they also named three more accused identified as Harshdeep Singh, Harcharan Singh and Jagjit Singh, all residents of US Nagar district. They were also then nabbed by police who also confessed to their role in the conspiracy. The three were Kedi’s men and were coordinating with the four sharp-shooters on his behalf,” said Agrawal, adding the four were given an advance payment of ₹50,000 but refused to reveal the total amount of contract.She said the main accused and mastermind behind the murder plan, Kedi, was on the run.“He is a history-sheeter and had jumped parole in 2017. Since then he is on the run. He would be nabbed soon,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/out-on-mission-4-contract-killers-from-punjab-held-in-u-khand/story-NfIQjjjsgavYPs9H8C5lZI.html
18-06-2020||City||Vigilance nabs Ludhiana advocate for graft||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) arrested a city-based advocate for accepting Rs 14,5000 as bribe from a city resident.The accused, Sukhmani Singh, allegedly demanded the money to help the complainant, Amandeep Singh, execute the registry of his shop with the help of a tehsildar. In his complaint, Amandeep said he approached the advocate for the registry of his 26 square yards shop that he had recently purchased.In response, Sukhmani demanded Rs 15,000 of which, he said, Rs 5,000 will be paid as bribe to a tehsildar.The deal was eventually struck at Rs 14,500 and Amandeep paid him Rs 6,000 as advance. The date of registry was fixed as June 17.Later, Sukhmani started demanding more money, which prompted Amandeep to approach the VB.A trap was laid and a vigilance team nabbed the advocate red-handed while receiving the remaining amount. The accused was booked under Section 7-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The bureau is probing the role of the tehsildar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-nabs-ludhiana-advocate-for-graft/story-b7wHkd2sXXarVfWT31mZCL.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Hotspots see dip in Covid cases, 3 wards in Mumbai see sharp rise in a week||While hotspots such as Worli and Dharavi saw a decline, administrative wards of Andheri (K-East), Bhandup (S) and Dahisar (R-North) witnessed a spike in the number of cases reported in the past one week. The three wards have also seen a dip in doubling rate, indicating faster spread of infection. Doubling rate is the time taken for doubling of cases. Meanwhile, the city’s average doubling rate went up to 29 days as of Tuesday.Dahisar has recorded 324 cases in the past seven days, bringing its total to 1,046. The ward had 197 cases as of June 3. Among all 24 administrative wards, Dahisar has the lowest doubling rate of 13 days and the highest growth rate of 5.5%. Bhandup has recorded 793 cases during the past seven days, which brought the total to 3,166 and doubling rate to 19 days. It had 604 cases on June 3.Areas closer to the airport in Andheri have reported 859 cases in the past seven days, with a doubling rate of 21 days. Its case count is now 4,223. From May 28 to June 3, the area had 696 cases and a doubling rate of 15 days. Officials attributed the rise in numbers in certain areas to various reasons, including citizens flouting social distancing norms. Prashant Sapkale, assistant municipal commissioner of K-East ward (Andheri), said, “There has been a spike in cases in the past 15 days. Although airport operations were discontinued, cargo operations were still on. I got a lot of patients from there. These gave index cases. They live in other areas, but they brought the infection to the ward.”Sandhya Nandedkar, assistant municipal commissioner of R-North ward (Dahisar), said, “More than 50% of the cases are from buildings and very few cases are from slums. Citizens are not following social distancing norms and we are trying our best to maintain it. Several of the cases are from containment zones, however, we have also increased testings in the ward.”BJP councillor from Dahisar Jagdish Oza said, “People are not following social distancing strictly. The spike in cases is because of lockdown relaxations.” Sarika Pawar, corporator from Bhandup, said, “A majority of the ward comprises slum pockets that have community toilets. The local ward office lacks in spreading awareness about social distancing among people. There is a huge crowd at vegetable markets even now.”Dharavi, meanwhile, has seen its daily cases dip to 27 this month, from 47 in May. In Worli, the average number of daily cases in May was 60, which has now come down to 35-40. Worli witnessed a decline in numbers since mid-May, while the numbers in Dharavi started plunging since June 1. The authorities have attributed the improvement in Dharavi and Worli to screening maximum people, isolating and testing people. Dharavi reported 17 cases on Wednesday, and one new death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hotspots-see-dip-in-covid-cases-3-wards-in-mumbai-see-sharp-rise-in-a-week/story-N6BG85cxHbOWgqxwX1n7RK.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Coming next week: App to check availability of beds||By next week, citizens will be able to check real-time availability of beds in intensive care units (ICU) and ventilators for patients suffering from Covid-19 and other ailments. On Wednesday, mayor Kishori Pednekar launched the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) mobile application, Air venti, which shows the availability of hospital beds at private, government and BMC-run hospitals. The app is available for citizens to download.According to BMC officials, the app will have real-time information and be linked to the disaster management control room and control rooms of each ward. “The mobile application will be linked with the dashboard of the BMC’s ward helpline, and will give real-time status of the situation of the ICU beds and ventilators in the city,” said Pednekar on Wednesday.At a later stage, information about rainfall, waterlogging and other alerts will also be sent by this app along with availability of beds for other ailments, including dengue and malaria.Meanwhile, on Wednesday a senior officer from BMC’s disaster control cell tested positive for Covid-19. The official is asymptomatic and has been quarantined in a hotel. So far, over 20 staff members from the disaster control cell have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coming-next-week-app-to-check-availability-of-beds/story-d1j2ZRu67OIfrnDhh8JD6H.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Jakhar to clarify on changes in ‘anti-farmer’ APMC Act||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar to do a ‘jan andolan’ against chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who had amended the State Agriculture Produce Markets Committee (APMC) Act in 2017 to include all the provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance-2020 which was passed by the Centre recently.Asking the PPCC chief to tell why he was trying to befool the farmers, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema asked him to explain why he was hiding the fact that the Congress government had amended the State APMC Act in August 2017 to allow creation of private yards, e-trading and direct marketing.“The Congress government is also party to passing of the farming produce ordinance. It participated in the consultative process and also gave feedback to the Centre that it had already amended the State APMC Act to enable implementation of the proposed ordinance,” he said.Cheema said Jakhar should clarify if the amendment to the State APMC Act by his government was right or wrong. “If he feels it was an anti-farmer step, he should start his jan andolan from the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh and force the government to take it back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-asks-jakhar-to-clarify-on-changes-in-anti-farmer-apmc-act/story-7O6poaBYeTtigH2VSzjpaM.html
18-06-2020||City||Bogus billing: ₹1.37 crore recovered from seven firms during raids in Punjab||Continuing the search operation in the Rs 350-crore bogus billing scam in Mandi Gobindgarh, the Punjab goods and services tax (GST) department conducted raids on seven firms in Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Malerkotla and recovered Rs 1.37 crore, according to a statement issued on Tuesday evening.The statement said the department also attached payments to be made by the seven firms to some Mandi Gobindgarh companies, which were raided by the department earlier on June 12.Four of the seven firms, which were raided, are situated in Ludhiana, two in Fatehgarh Sahib and one in Malerkotla.The inspections were conducted under the supervision of deputy excise and taxation commissioner Pawan Garg and GST additional commissioner Showkat Ahmad Parray. The statement said the department had conducted raids on 10 firms in Mandi Gobindgarh on June 12. Three persons were arrested on that day and sent to judicial custody. It had come to light that owners of the 10 firms had issued forged sale bills to seven firms in Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Malerkotla. Following this, owners of these seven firms availed input tax credit (ITC) worth crores.The officials said an investigation was going on and the list of other beneficiaries was also being scrutinised and tax would be recovered from every single person, who claimed ITC on bogus purchases.The All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tighten noose around the firms involved in bogus billing and those evading tax in connivance with the alleged corrupt officials and politicians.National president of the AITF Badish Jindal said, “Tax worth crores is evaded in the county, but the government has failed to check it as some officials and politicians are involved in the practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bogus-billing-1-37-crore-recovered-from-seven-firms-during-raids-in-punjab/story-wvdA4hDpA1nSLapRs2mcpO.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Covid test price capped at ₹2,400 in Delhi||In a major decision, a high-powered committee formed by union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday under the chairmanship of Niti Aayog member VK Paul has decided that the rate for the RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 in Delhi should be fixed at ₹2,400 “to provide relief to the common man”.The committee’s report, given to the union health ministry on Wednesday, has been sent to the Delhi government to implement the decision, which will bring down the rate of testing by ₹2,100, from the current ₹4,500. “The report has been sent to Delhi government for necessary action,” a ministry of home affairs (MHA) spokesperson said.In a meeting chaired by Shah on Sunday morning, which was attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, it was decided that the VK Paul-led committee will look into both—thethe rates of testing and the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in private hospitals, who are being charged huge amounts.It has also been decided that from Thursday, Covid-19 tests will be done via new the Rapid Antigen methodology approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Delhi would receive these kits on “priority”; 169 centres have been set up across the national Capital for this purpose. The MHA spokesperson said this is in line with Shah’s directive to increase testing and deliver test results quickly in Delhi.It was decided in the Sunday meeting that testing will be increased three-fold in the national Capital.The home ministry said on Wednesday that following Shah’s intervention, Covid-19 testing has increased at least four times in Delhi. It said that on June 15 and 16 alone, 16,618 samples were collected in Delhi for testing. This number varied between 4,000 and 4,500 before the Sunday meeting (June 14). The MHA spokesperson said that reports of 6,510 tests of the 16,618 have already been received, while the rest will be received by Thursday.The decision to lower the price of RT-PCR tests in the Capital was based on the report of AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul. The committee had submitted its report on Monday after meeting with three private laboratories and four private hospitals where Covid-19 patients are treated on Sunday.One of the representatives of a laboratory present in the meeting said, “This is unexpected. The committee had heard us out and was receptive to our suggestions. This rate is just not enough for a sample that we collect from home. There is so much ancillary cost involved and ₹2,400 just does not cover it.”The representative of another lab present at the meeting with the committee said, “The government has to look at a differential pricing like the one currently in place in Delhi. The cost for testing a sample collected by Delhi government is low, but for the ones that we collect from homes, we charge ₹4,500. If the government reduces the cost of the samples provided by it to ₹2,400, we will be able to manage somehow, now that the cost of the kits and PPE has gone down. But, if this is the cost for the samples that are collected at homes as well, we will not be able to survive for long. Plus, if the government wants us to expand our testing capacity, we need to be able to recover money for the additional machines and manpower.”The Delhi government has so far paid ₹2,200 for providing samples and kits to private labs, ₹3,500 for just the samples, and ₹4,500 for the samples that were collected by the private labs while they used their own kits.Delhi begins rapid testing in containment zones on Thursday, results in 30 minutesDelhi will ramp up testing on Thursday by using rapid testing kits to detect Covid-19 infection in the 242 containment areas of the city to quickly diagnose and contain cases in the community, according to officials from Delhi’s health department.This antigen diagnostic test, which costs ₹450 and takes 30 minutes to produce results, was approved for use in India on Monday.The RT-PCR tests take six hours to produce results in lab settings, which meant district authorities had to send samples to laboratories and wait for 24-48 hours to get the results. The government has already received 50,000 of the 6 lakh kits ordered, which will be sent to the district teams by Wednesday evening. The district teams in the city have been asked to identify testing centres within or around containment areas. So far, 169 such centres have been identified for testing. “The testing centres will be set up in community halls, dispensaries or mohalla clinics where the people from the community will be brought in for testing. We will know the report then and there,” said one district official, on condition of anonymity.Four-member teams have been formed to collect the samples. “A nasal swab has to be collected for the antigen test as well, just like the samples collected for RT-PCR test. The test is quite simple, but it cannot be done door to door because a cold-chain has to be maintained for the kits,” said another district official. The kits have to be kept between 2 and 30 degrees Celsius.The test can be interpreted between 15 and 30 minutes.The ICMR on Monday gave a go-ahead to the point-of-care test kit of a South Korean company (manufactured in Manesar) to be used in containment zones and hospitals for speedier diagnosis.In its evaluation, the ICMR said that the test has a high specificity (ability to detect tur negatives) but the sensitivity (or ability to detect true positives) is between 50.6% to 84%, depending on the viral load of the patient. So, those who test negative need to undergo a second confirmatory RT-PCR test, but those who test positive will be considered to be “true positive”.ICMR recommends the test be used in containment areas for those with influenza-like symptoms or asymptomatic people who came in contact with a positive case between 5 and 10 days of exposure. In hospital settings, the test can be used for those who have influenza-like symptoms or on asymptomatic patients undergoing chemotherapy, who are immune-compromised, have cancer, are transplant patients, or the elderly. It can also be used for patients undergoing surgeries and procedures.“At the community level, whatever test we do has to be highly sensitive, false positives are okay. The sensitivity of this test and that of RT-PCR is almost similar; the sensitivity of RT-PCR is about 67%. But, the antigen test is faster and cheaper, so we can test more people. This means that we will be able to detect more cases at an early stage and ask them to remain in isolation, thereby preventing further spread in the community,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-test-price-capped-at-2-400-in-delhi/story-Bnv0bmdSR9flLEf8RJPECI.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings delegation meets Union minister of state over delay in payment to PPE kit manufacturers||Raising concern over slow distribution of loans by public sector banks and delay in releasing payment to PPE manufacturers by HLL Lifecare Ltd- a government of India owned corporation, a delegation from Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) met Union minister of state for commerce and industry, Som Parkash, on Wednesday. Members of the delegations said micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) are finding it difficult to manage their finances as there is no inflow. They demanded that public sector banks speed up the process of distributing loans for providing relief to the industries during this time of crisis.President, CICU, Upkar Singh Ahuja said general secretary Pankaj Sharma said,”HLL Lifecare Ltd should immediately release pending payments to PPE manufacturers as the industry is facing shortage of funds. Further, we have demanded that PPE quality standards be issued by the government. Also fresh instructions should be issued for inspection of inventories in warehouses as the sample might fail there due to humidity or other reasons.”Ahuja said that HLL Lifecare Ltd is not releasing payments to PPE kit manufacturers, even when it was stated that payment would be released in five days. The minister has assured that he will take up the matter with the Union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chamber-of-industrial-and-commercial-undertakings-delegation-meets-union-minister-of-state-over-delay-in-payment-to-ppe-kit-manufacturers/story-bI9uzkey0OE6hl2buuJJWO.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Investment from Chinese firms: State to seek advice from Centre||In light of the tension between India and China, the Maharashtra government will seek advice from the Centre on the recently inked deals with Chinese manufacturing companies, state industries minister Subhash Desai said. He said the state would take the “country first” approach if the Centre decided to hold investment from Chinese companies.The state government inked 12 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) on Monday, of which three were with Chinese companies, including Great Wall Motors, that would collectively bring in investment of ₹5,020 crore to Maharashtra. The Chinese automobile company, according to officials from the industries department, is expected to invest ₹3,770 crore in Talegaon, Pune. Besides, engineering firm Hengli has also signed a pact to invest ₹1,000 crore in Pune district, while PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton China, is expected to invest ₹250 crore in Talegaon.“If the Government of India takes any policy decision on not allowing Chinese investments, it would be applicable to us as well. Till now, there was no ban or an advisory stating that Chinese companies should not be allowed [to invest], so we went ahead [with the deals]. We will ask the Centre on how to go ahead. We will proceed as they say. The country comes first, everything else is secondary,” Desai said.The deals were inked on June 15. It has come at a time when anti-China sentiments are high in the country in light of the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh that killed 20 Indian soldiers.However, senior industries department officials point out there would not be any official stand to not allow Chinese investment. They, however, expect a delay in the launch of the projects. “Public sentiment aside, the government functions on a policy. So far, there is no advisory (against Chinese investments) and it is unlikely that there will be one. We expect the MoUs to be honoured, only it might take some time for them to actually come in, if tensions continue,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity.“If Great Wall Motors come to the state, it would be the biggest Chinese investment in Maharashtra. The Maharashtra government has signed the MoU, but the Foreign Investment Promotion Board has to clear it for foreign investment to come in. The Central government cannot directly disallow investment due to the World Trade Organisation rules, however, it can do so indirectly through non-tariff barriers, including delaying clearances, etc,” said Ram Bhogale, former president of Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture.Santosh Mandlecha, president of Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, said, “Post Covid-19, Chinese companies are not welcome for investment in many countries, including Australia, US, etc. At a time when we are talking about ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, we can use the opportunity to build industries. Currently, India and China do a business of ₹7.5 lakh crore annually, which we cannot immediately shut and shift. We will require two years if we start today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/investment-from-chinese-firms-state-to-seek-advice-from-centre/story-TFhACjkpYrsXGHgYc2fVPM.html
18-06-2020||City||Only 15% Covid-19 surveillance coverage so far, nodal officers ask health department to increase teams||The Uttar Pradesh government’s nodal officers to oversee Covid-19 containment measures in Ghaziabad have asked the district health department to increase the number of surveillance teams to increase sample collection.According to officials, there are 260 surveillance teams deployed to monitor around 600,000 of the district’s 4.2 million people. One official said that if the district had to target every household, they would need over 1,200 such teams. The teams comprising three members -- comprising volunteers, and two trained health workers -- go to hot spot and other areas to find patients with symptoms of the coronavirus disease or other health complications. Ghaziabad on Wednesday had a total of 718 cases.“The teams comprise of volunteers, besides auxillary nurse midwife and accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers. These teams also help in contact tracing. The nodal officers said that we need to rope in more teams for taking up more active surveillance,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer.Surveillance teams, which have a major role to play in containing the spread of Covide-19, visit households and put up questionnaire to residents in order to find out if anyone suffers symptoms or affected by severe acute respiratory infection (SARI)-- when a patient presents with history of fever, cough and requires hospitalisation. In case they find people with symptoms, their samples are collected to test for the coronavirus disease.According to officials, the cases that emerged in June (378 case) was SARI and those who tested positive for Covid-19 often suffered critical illness.The 260 surveillance teams were able to find around a quarter of the total Covid-19 positive cases that have emerged so far in Ghaziabad.According to state health department officials, 18,458 areas in the state, including 5980 hot spots, are under surveillance. About 9.4 million households were surveyed.“It is required that every household is surveyed. For the purpose of catering to all households we need about 1200-1500 teams. One team is assigned to take up survey of 50 households in a day. The number of members in team has also declined as many of them have been tasked with vaccination, deliveries and other activities. We are trying to ascertain the human resource needs and will draw out more workers,” said GK Mishra, district malaria officer. “As far as sampling is concerned, we have about 300 sampling done by the health department and about 50 samples as an average per day by private laboratories. Once the surveillance teams are increased, more sampling can be taken up.”At present, total of 13879 samples have been taken up so far from across the district. The officials said that they have the capacity to hike sampling to about 700-750 per day.The UP government has sent IAS Senthil Pandian C and Dr Anil Chandra, professor of neurosurgery from King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, to look after infrastructure and healthcare arrangements in Ghaziabad.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has identified Ghaziabad as one of the 11 sensitive districts in the state where incidence of Covid-19 cases is on rise. “The western UP districts pose a major challenge and we have sent senior IAS and health department officials to these districts for review. We are also working on a plan for Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Bulandshahr districts on directions of the chief minister. The CM has also directed for increase in Covid beds to ensure, in accordance with the policy, that symptomatic and asymptomatic patients are admitted to Covid hospitals,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-15-covid-19-surveillance-coverage-so-far-nodal-officers-ask-health-department-to-increase-teams/story-hByzJ1B0bzLLH9PWnx2LWN.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||Police book TV news anchor for insulting Sufi saint||The police have registered a criminal case against an anchor of a Hindi news channel for hurting the religious sentiments of Muslims by allegedly insulting a renowned Sufi saint.The Pydhonie police on Wednesday registered an FIR against Amish Devgan of News 18 India channel under sections 295A, 153A and 505 (2) of the IPC.The complainant, Mohammed Imran, joint secretary in the Mumbai office of Raza Academy, said in his complaint that the anchor, during a debate aired on June 15, passed derogatory a remark against the Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti and has hurt the sentiments of Muslims. “His deliberate and malicious acts were intended to outrage religious feelings of a community by insulting its religion or religious beliefs,” said Imran.In his defense, Devgan on Wednesday tweeted an apology, “In 1 of my debates, I inadvertently referred to ‘Khilji’ as Chishti. I sincerely apologise for this grave error and the anguish it may have caused to followers of the Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti, whom I revere. I have in the past sought blessings at his dargah. I regret this error.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-book-tv-news-anchor-for-insulting-sufi-saint/story-KGuotZkys3lFcMQRnkvQGM.html
18-06-2020||Mumbai||State estimates ₹1,300-crore aid for families hit by cyclone Nisarga||The Maharashtra government estimates that the relief package for families hit by cyclone Nisarga will be around ₹1,300 crore, said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Wednesday. The cyclone that made landfall in Raigad district on June 4 caused considerable damage in Raigad and adjoining districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who chaired a review meeting on the damage assessment along with deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar, said that additional relief would be given to cyclone-hit families in the region at the earliest.Wadettiwar, who was present in the meeting held via video-conference, said the state government is assessing the total damage in the belt on a war footing. “We estimate that the compensation amount to be around ₹1,200 crore to ₹1,300 crore. The overall damage assessment is still going on,” he said. He added that the relief package amount has been increased to more than double of what was announced earlier. The government has made slabs for damages to properties and fixed an amount.“We have created different slabs. For homes that are damaged up to 15%, earlier it was ₹6,000 plus ₹5,000 for loss of material, including clothes and utensils. Now, this has been increased to ₹15,000 and additional ₹10,000 for loss of material items. Similarly, for 25% damage to homes, its ₹25,000 and ₹10,000, and for 50% damage, the relief package is ₹50,000 and ₹10,000,” he said. He added cyclone-hit families, whose houses have fully collapsed, will be given ₹1.5 lakh instead of ₹95,100 as per the existing National Disaster Response Fund norms.A statement from the chief minister’s office said that the relief will reach the last person. “A government resolution (GR) to provide additional relief to cyclone-hit families will be issued at the earliest and the disbursal of the compensation will commence immediately.”Wadettiwar added that the department has sanctioned an additional ₹370 crore to the Konkan Divisional commissioner to start the distribution of the compensation. The state has already announced an immediate relief of ₹100 crore for Raigad, Rs75 crore for Ratnagiri and Rs25 crore for Sindhudurg.The minister said that ₹24 crore has been earmarked for the 1,470 government schools that are damaged in the cyclone in the meeting held on Wednesday. For private schools in the area, the state government would provide up to Rs2 lakh, Wadettiwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-estimates-1-300-crore-aid-for-families-hit-by-cyclone-nisarga/story-RIhNbSEHe2OJ4K74LtvqOJ.html
18-06-2020||Noida||Entry into containment zone strictly prohibited||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration and police have formed dedicated team to prohibit the entry of outsiders into containment zones and other green areas. On June 15, the total Covid-19 cases crossed the 1000-mark. On Wednesday, there were a total of 1097 cases, with 59 fresh cases, and 14 deaths, with one recorded in the last 24 hours. Residents say that many people are now not following rules with the easing of lockdown restrictions. “The number of containment zones is increasing daily. People do not wear mask, they play on streets and gather in containment zones. We have requested to police commissioner to take strict action,” said Sanjiv Kumar sector 51 residents’ welfare association general secretary and vice-president of federation of Noida RWAs .The administration said that they have directed the staff to enforce the rules strictly.“We have directed the staff engaged in handling the Covid 19 pandemic to ensure all rules are followed strictly and inspect all containment zones ,” said Suhas LY district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar. Alok Singh police commissioner directed the team deployed at the containment zones that they will not allow entry to anyone without proper screening.“If any person, who is not allowed entry into a containment zone found roaming then strong legal action as per law will be initiated,” said Alok Singh police commissioner Gautam Budh Nagar district. The Gautam Budh Nagar district has 51 category I containment zones and 31 containment zones fall into category II as defined by the UP government. In category I is one case is positive, the containment zone is 250 metre radius of entire ‘Mohalla’ or tower incase it’s a society. In case there are more than one positive cases, the containment zone is 500 metre with 250 metre buffer zone. To make sure the rules are enforced strictly the administration has formed five dedicated teams, which will manage crisis and work in tandem with the incident commanders. Dadri Sub-divisional magistrate Rajeev Rai, Noida city magistrate Uma Shankar Singh, Sadar SDM Prasoon Dwivedi, Jewar SDM Gunja Singh and Greater Noida city magistrate Sanjay Mishra are incident commanders. And at least 5 other staff members will work under these five incident commanders to handle any crisis that may be arised in any containment zone or other areas.“Our motive is that the spread is prevented in the containment zone with strict enforcement and other areas too. The strict enforcement will help in discipline among people that will help in fighting the outbreak effectively,” said another administration official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/entry-into-containment-zone-strictly-prohibited/story-mCnbOj9l1C2L0cOSN9jwYN.html
18-06-2020||Noida||Noida: 711 fined for not wearing masks||The district police on Tuesday launched a special drive to book people venturing out without masks or those flouting norms of social distancing and booked at least 711 culprits in three zones under its jurisdictionGautam Budh Nagar police have been cracking down on offenders who broke rules ever since the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 started. More than 7,300 people have been booked for flouting various norms in the district ever since the lockdown was first implemented in March.In Thursday’s special drive, the police force specifically focused on people who are not wearing masks while out in public places. In Zone 1, at least 319 people were challaned, 168 in Zone 2 and 224 in Zone 3.“A total of 711 people were challaned in the district, 1193 masks were distributed to the public while Rs 77,200 was collected in fines,” said a police spokesperson.Officers involved in the drive said that the drive will continue. The first two offences, they said, will earn you a fine of Rs 100 each. the third offence will attract a penalty of Rs 500 . Any subsequent offence will draw stricter action, including a possible jail term. “We will continue our drive in the coming days as well. The drive is in addition to the one we are conducting to check Section 188 violations,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Residents have time and again alleged that lockdown rules and those related to social distancing were being openly flouted by individuals .“People are moving around freely without wearing masks or taking precautions. We had a video conference meeting with the commissioner of police on Tuesday evening and we have highlighted this fact. He has assured us that the police are working on ensuring that people follow regulations. Other problems of law and order and traffic across the border were also highlighted,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.A police spokesperson said that following the meeting, the commissioner has instructed to increase police presence in containment zones, challan people without masks and to ensure social distancing of people in parks.UP had mandated the compulsory use of face masks in public places in April. The district has so far reported 1,038 Covid-19 cases, while 23 police personnel have also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-711-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/story-rZNqV5H2OHJ8rOhJyxL2CN.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt launches tele-counselling services for frontline workers||To help them deal with anxiety and stress, the Delhi government has launched a tele-consultation and counselling service for all doctors, nurses, healthcare and frontline workers in collaboration with the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), Delhi’s only stand-alone psychiatric hospital. The Delhi Psychiatric Society, Delhi Medical Council, and Delhi Medical Association will also collaborate for the service.The counselling services would be available at 9868396802 or 9868396859 from 8am to 8pm Monday through Saturday. The request can be made through a WhatsApp or text message with essential details. The resource person will direct the call to an expert, the caller can avail themselves of a telephonic conversation or video conferencing.While registering for the service, the frontline workers will be asked for their profession, address, number of their kin and that of their employer.Senior psychiatrists from the government and private sectors have volunteered for the service called “Samarthan” wherein counselling will be provided. Apart from the counselling provided on phone, if need be, the resource person can schedule an in-person consultation for treatment.The treatment can be provided at IHBAS in Dilshad Garden or the psychiatry departments of the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients or linked hospitals. The frontline workers can also seek round-the-clock treatment at IHBAS hospital’s emergency department.The programme document also mentions that in a “rare instance” that the resource person is not able to convince a client that treatment is needed and the risk to self or others is significant, the resource person will pass on the information about the risk to the next of kin or the employer.The programme directors include health secretary Padmini Singla, Dr NK Bohra from Delhi Psychiatric Society, president of Delhi Medical Council Dr Arun Gupta, president-elect of Delhi Medical Association Dr BB Wadhwa. The principal coordinator will be Dr Nimesh Desai, director, IHBAS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-tele-counselling-services-for-frontline-workers/story-NHU6UieS6igLR4utTRa1uJ.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||177k people in Delhi’s 242 containment zones screened, antigen tests from Thursday||More than 177,000 people in Delhi’s 242 containment zones were screened for Covid-like symptoms by the 11 district administrations in the Capital between Sunday and Tuesday, senior government officials said.The survey was initiated by all district magistrates (DMs) immediately after Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday directed the Delhi government to start house-to-house screening in all the containment zones to ensure proper contact tracing. The screenings will also help administrations identify more symptomatic persons in these hotspots, and avoid fresh Covid clusters emerging.  While the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday gave the city’s 11 DMs a week to finish the process, Delhi government reports accessed by HT revealed that the survey is likely to be completed by Thursday.As per the reports, on Sunday, when the directions were issued, around 20,000 people were screened. On Monday, this was scaled up to cover around 75,000 more persons in containment zones and, on Tuesday, over 82,000 more people were surveyed. The aim of the survey is to cover 230,466 people living in the 247 containment zones of Delhi currently. The survey report for Wednesday was not submitted to the government till this report was filed. For the survey, DMs roped in Asha [Accredited Social Health Activist] workers, auxiliary nurse midwife, and government school teachers aged below 50, among others, an official said.As per the Delhi government, as of Wednesday, Delhi has 47,102 cases of Covid-19, including 17,457 recoveries and 1,904 deaths.The Delhi government on Wednesday evening updated the number of containment zones in the city to 247.In a first, Delhi will also start using rapid antigen detection kits in every district from Thursday, a senior government official said. The screenings will now help district authorities determine who needs an RT-PCR test, and who should get an antigen detection tests. “The rapid tests will be conducted in a mixed manner — some symptomatic patients, some mild and some asymptomatic — depending on the proximity of the person to a Covid-positive patient,” said the senior government official, choosing to stay anonymous. The 11 districts will start with 50,000 antigen tests across the city from Thursday. As many as 169 centres have been set up in and around the containment zones, for people to get themselves tested, the above quoted government official said.The scaling up of testing across the city comes after the MHA on Monday said testing would be tripled in Delhi by Saturday. Accordingly, the government directed all 11 districts to collect a minimum of 1,000 samples a day. Despite the order, on Tuesday, 8,856 samples were collected across all districts and the DMs were once again asked to ramp up testing. With the start of the rapid antigen testing from Thursday, the scale is projected to go up manifold. The Capital’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting on Wednesday, where he asked the Delhi government’s advisory committee for measures to make containment strategies more effective, and to recommend more mitigation strategies. Baijal also suggested the panel come up with measures for psycho-social care of front line workers, strategies to ramp up intensive medical care expeditiously, and review projections for Delhi based on worldwide trends.To ensure all containment strategies are enforced through a single chain of command, the Delhi government also issued an order designating all DMs the administrative heads of their respective districts. This means that now everyone from deputy commissioners of police (DCPs), deputy commissioners of the civic bodies, and heads of all hospitals will have to report to the DM, irrespective of their seniority and position. Following the move, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava issued an order asking all police officers “to ensure strict lockdown within the containment zones”. “The perimeter security/access control be strictly enforced. The entry/exit be completely sealed except for essential commodities/services. There should be regular mobile patrolling. Drone surveillance and announcement be done,” the order read. Southwest DM Rahul Singh said he held a meeting with all departments under his jurisdiction on Wednesday.“It has been decided that all dispensaries in the district shall function as single point of contact for all Covid-related issues. Tests will be conducted at all dispensaries. Thursday onwards, antigen and RT-PCR tests will both be available at all dispensaries for everyone. Sample will be collected at these dispensaries, and a report will be conveyed as soon as it is received from labs,” Singh said.West DM Neha Bansal said: “In adherence to directions issued by the Union home minister, a screening drive was initiated, and that has covered all households in the containment zones. We shall start conducting rapid tests from Thursday on residents using the new antigen kits. Other than that, we have also scaled up RT-PCR tests in the district. More than 1,800 RT-PCR tests were conducted under the district’s jurisdiction on Wednesday.”Of the 247 containment zones in the city, North Delhi revenue district has the most with 36, followed by 34 in the South district. Northeast Delhi, despite being the district with the highest population density in the city, has just three containment zones, government records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/177k-people-in-delhi-s-242-containment-zones-screened-antigen-tests-from-thursday/story-cb0KoomNTohdRJZdxbBI8H.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Covid-free certificates after recovery in Delhi||The Delhi government has directed hospitals to issue Covid-free certificates to patients while discharging them, which experts said would help reduce the stigma around the disease and allow recovered people to go back to their normal lives with ease.Patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are presently being discharged without confirmatory tests after resolution of the symptoms.The certificate must mention, “This is to certify hat I have examined …. He/She has recovered from Covid and does not pose a risk to the community. He/ She is asymptomatic at the time of discharge”, the government said. This was one of the measures recommended by union home minister Amit Shah during his visit to the city’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility – Lok Nayak hospital.The government hopes the step would reduce stigma against those who have recovered.“Now that we are discharging patients without a Covid-19 test, the patients and others in their society were anxious about whether they could spread the infection. This certificate will give assurance to the patients that they are free from the infection,” the administrator of one of Delhi government’s Covid-19 hospitals said on condition of anonymity.The certificate would ease travel issues– railway and flight, according to another administrator.“People living in the same society and the resident welfare associations are apprehensive after a person is discharged from hospital. Now, that they no longer have a negative Covid-19 test, the certificate will help ease their situation. Apart from that, screening is being done at airports and railway stations to check people for symptoms before they travel. This certificate will ensure ease in travelling,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.“There have been requests from people about similar certificates to join back work,” Dr Kumar said.The Covid-free certificate is along the lines of the immunity certificate, which the World Health Organisation had warned against in April-end, saying there was no evidence to show people who had recovered were protected from a second infection. Allowing immunity certificates for easing out of strict social distancing norms might fuel the continued spread of the infection, WHO had warned.The same month, Chile announced that it would start issuing “release certificates”. Similar immunity certificates had also been considered by Germany, Italy and the US.A ‘comment’ published in the Lancet in May about ethics of immunity certificates says, “Vaccination certificates incentivise individuals to obtain vaccination against a virus, which is a social good. By contrast, immunity certificates incentivise infection.”However, Dr Kumar said, “This should not be seen as an immunity certificate. It is a certificate of recovery.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said this will certainly ease the minds of residents when someone returns home after treatment. “I have been asked for such certificates by many for returning to work. However, even if it is considered to be immunity certificate, there is no evidence from India at least to show reinfection. A sizeable population already recovered in India as well as the US must have been exposed to the infection again, but no such cases have been reported. So far, only South Korea has reported a few reinfections. The studies so far show good antibody levels even at six weeks. We have to wait to see how long the immunity lasts,” he said.Dr Kishore, however, warned people against being lax about social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-free-certificates-after-recovery-in-delhi/story-opOFUwxQSyWWegztKzlNrI.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Cancel pending CBSE board exams, Manish Sisodia writes to HRD minister||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote to union Human Resources Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ requesting him to cancel the plan of conducting the remaining CBSE board exams for Class 10 and 12 — slated to take place in July — owing to surge of Covid-19 in the city and instead promote all students based on their internal assessment records.Earlier on April 28, Sisodia had made a similar request with the HRD minister during a virtual meeting. However, the ministry on May 8 had announced that it will conduct the pending 29 papers of Class 10 and 12 between July 1 and July 15.In his letter addressed to Pokhriyal, Sisodia on Monday said, “I am writing to draw your attention towards my concern regarding the plan of CBSE to conduct the remaining exams of class 10 and 12 in July. I hope you would agree with me that the board exams, particularly those of class 12 are high stake exams for children. Hence, subjecting them to take this exam in such an uncertain and anxiety-prone situation would not be fair to them.”Sisodia said that it will be extremely difficult to conduct exams in Delhi due to the rising Covid-19 positive cases on a daily basis. “During the last one week, the daily number of Covid-19 positive cases has been rising and the total number of confirmed cases stands at 44, 688 (as of June 16). This is likely to rise to 5.5 lakh by July 31. In such a situation, if a candidate or someone in the family tests positive, he or she will have to skip the exam causing further distress,” he said in the letter.The education minister said that there are 242 containment zones in the capital presently and the number will rise in future. “As per the current CBSE plan, a school in these zones will not be used as an exam centre but there is no clarity on how children from these zones will come out to take their exams,” he said.Mentioning that as many as 251 government schools in Delhi are currently being used as dry ration distribution centres, 33 schools have been converted into hunger relief centres, 39 as shelter homes, 10 as migrant camps and another 10 as quarantine centres, Sisodia said, “These schools will not be in a position of conducting exams from July 1, 2020.”He said that the Delhi government is planning to use auditoriums in nearly 242 schools to set up beds for Covid-19 patients to meet the requirement of additional beds, which is estimated to shoot up to around 80,000 by the end of July.“Conducting exams in the same building where there are hundreds of Covid-19 patients will be a serious risk. In such a situation, using school buildings between July 1 and July 15 and ensuring that all eligible students take their exams may be extremely difficult.”“Therefore, I once again request you to remove any further uncertainty and declare that exams for 29 subjects proposed to be conducted in July will not be conducted at all. For the results in these subjects, the CBSE may rely upon the previous school-based internal assessments which include project work, periodic tests, term exams, etc,” he said.The maximum number of pending papers are in north-east Delhi, where exams were curtailed due to the communal riots in the last week of February. Exams for the entire country were postponed on March 19, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the exams for subjects of Class 12 will be held across the country, the exams for class 10 will be held only in north-east Delhi.Principals of both government and private schools backed Sisodia’s demand. AK Jha, Principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed School in Rohini, said, “It’s going to be really difficult to conduct exams amid the pandemic while maintaining social distance. It will not only be dangerous for students but also for the teachers.They will have to collect question papers from bank, distribute among students and then collect it and pack them. There will be a lot of human contact. The students should be promoted based on practicals, since it’s taken in presence of externals appointed by the CBSE.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School, agreed. “Although schools are preparing for the exams but it will be very difficult to conduct exams amid the pandemic. The government should take the decision considering the safety and security of the students,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cancel-pending-cbse-board-exams-manish-sisodia-writes-to-hrd-minister/story-8NrZCCuetkXV1eFjJNCx7H.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Going the extra mile, citizens come together in time of pandemic||On June 9, South Extension resident Mohit Kumar (28) made frantic calls to arrange a bed when the condition of his 62-year-old father, who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease a few days earlier, had deteriorated.He checked for the beds in the intensive care units (ICUs) of hospitals as listed on the state government’s “Delhi Corona” mobile application that gives the availability of beds in realtime, and called private hospitals to confirm a bed. However, that was in vain.A friend told him to approach Charity Beds, a non-profit organisation.“Once I told them about my father’s condition, I didn’t have to do anything. They helped me find an ICU bed,” said Kumar, whose father is now recuperating in a south Delhi hospital.Kapil Chopra, founder of the The Postcard Hotel chain of hotels and chairman of the board of EasyDiner, started Charity Beds in 2011. At the time it helped the underprivileged get admission in private hospitals in the city reserved under the economically weaker section. For the past two weeks, Chopra and his team at Charity Beds have been posting information about the availability of beds in various hospitals along with contact details almost on an hourly basis on Twitter and Facebook. They were also helping individuals like Kumar who reached out directly. .“We decided to switch our focus to helping Covid-19 patients after there were several videos doing the rounds on social media about families struggling to get people admitted to hospitals,” said Chopra. “We realised that information was not being disseminated properly about the availability of beds in various hospitals. Due to this, people have to run from one hospital to another.”Chopra says that they are able to get accurate information as his team had reliable contacts in all hospitals. “Information dissemination is very important at this time of the crisis. We have been working with hospitals for over eight years. We know people in hospitals. We are able to get realtime information from them,” said Chopra, who recently posted information about how Charity Beds works after he got a few queries from other cities.A Delhi government official said that the government has been working with such organisations and individuals during the Covid-19 crisis. “It is good that individuals and non-profit firms are doing their bit to help in this time of crisis. All these efforts really matter. For ration distribution and management of hunger centres etc, we have got support of several such individuals and organisations,” said the official.Like Charity Beds, several organisations and individuals have come forward to help people in their time of need. Some help find a plasma donor, others provide free ambulance service, and still others arrange for blood donors.DhoondhConvalescent plasma therapy has emerged as a promising treatment for serious Covid patients. It uses a blood component called plasma -- which forms 55% of the blood and contains virus-fighting antibodies – from people who have recovered from the infection to treat other patients. It is still in the clinical trial phase and only a few hospitals are authorised to administer it under guidelines prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) . Doctors, however, have warned people from considering the treatment as a “silver bullet” against Covid-19.But it is hard to find a suitable plasma donor. Delhi-based businessman Adwitiya Mal’s 69-year-old father-in-law, a Covid-19 patient admitted to a private hospital was critical and in need of plasma.“It took us about four days to find a donor for my father-in-law. The process is unwieldy ,” said Mal. “It was then that my friend, US-based Mukul Pahwa, and I decided to launch Dhoondh.” Dhoondh is a website dedicated to connect patients with donors. Both are asked to fill in accurate details such as blood type, underlying medical conditions, when they contracted the infection, among others. The website has had over 14,000 visitors, 110 patients and 63 plasma donors listed on it.Pankhuri Dudani, a 25-year-old doctor, is one of the youngest donors registered with Dhoondh.“I came across the website through a post on my school alumni group on social media. I recovered from Covid-19 earlier this month. It’s a very good initiative that was much needed at this time,” said Dudani, who is posted at the Covid-19 screening wing of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and is now back to work. She said that she got a call from the family of a patient in need of plasma two days ago. “I am yet to hear from them again. I will encourage people to donate plasma, which is no different from donating blood.”“I’m looking for more volunteers so that they can make follow-up calls,” said Mal.Ambulance man of IndiaHimanshu Kalia (41), better known as the “Ambulance Man of India”, along with wife (37) Twinkle have been on their toes driving patients from hospital to hospital, as well as ferrying bodies to crematoriums. They charge nothing from their clients. Kalia has been providing this service since 2002. But the pandemic has changed the nature of the service he provides. While on ordinary days he attends to five to six calls a day, now he gets up to 60, including from people who wanted to know of plasma donors and funeral services. During the 68-day lockdown that ended on May 31, he ferried 210 Covid-19 patients to hospitals, and 45 bodies to crematoriums. “I would get calls from people saying that a private ambulance was charging ₹8000-10,000 for a distance of just 6 kms. There were patients who could not find an ambulance to take their dead to crematoriums. We have been working without rest even as two of my drivers as well as my wife tested positive for Covid-19,” said Kalia. Simply BloodKiran Verma and his team at Simply Blood, a non-profit organisation which connects blood donors with recipients, have been working with blood banks to maintain their stock.Blood banks in the Capital were unable to organise large-scale blood donation camps during the lockdown when travel was restricted, and now fewer people volunteer to donate blood due to the fear of contracting the disease. Verma said that his team has been trying to inform people about the blood donation camps in their areas, and persuade registered donors to donate. “The focus is now on Covid-19. But non-Covid patients such as those with thalassemia also need adequate attention and care. These patients need blood for transfusion on a monthly basis. But due to the lockdown and people being scared to go to the hospital to donate has resulted in a problem. Though our Twitter handle, we are trying to inform people about those who are in urgent need of blood. We are also working with blood banks to ensure that more and more people come and donate blood,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/going-the-extra-mile-citizens-come-together-in-time-of-pandemic/story-yWepXUSpKBEGxuLY2vXmQO.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia visits railway coaches turned isolation centres at Shakur Basti||As the railways gears up to deploy 500 train coaches across nine stations in Delhi as isolation centres for Covid-19 patients, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday inspected the first 50 coaches, deployed at Shakur Basti railway station. The remodelled railway coaches will function as Covid Care Centres for patients with mild or very mild symptoms of the infection. Sisodia’s visit comes a day after nearly 270 isolation coaches were deployed at the platform and washing area of Anand Vihar railway station. While train services at Shakur Basti have not been disrupted, five pairs of trains travelling to and from Anand Vihar have been asked to operate from Old Delhi Railway Station until further orders.“The soaring temperatures and the heat will make it problematic for our medical staff to operate while wearing heavy personal protective equipment. We are trying our best to improve the infrastructure and come up with a solution to this so that we can begin deploying staff and admitting patients at these isolation centres,” Sisodia said. Railway officials had on Tuesday said that they were considering using “bubble sheeting” on the roof of the coaches which could bring down temperatures “by three-four degrees.” While addressing the problem of soaring temperatures, Northern Railway general manager Rajiv Chaudhry on Wednesday said during a press conference they were considering multiple options to tackle the issue. Last week, Centre had promised around 500 such coaches to Delhi to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. While 317 coaches have been fitted at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti railway stations, the remaining will be deployed by Thursday in the following manner: Sarai Rohilla (50), Safdarjung (21), Adarsh Nagar (30) Shahdara (13), Delhi Cantt (33), Patel Nagar (26) and Tughlakabad (13).Food, electricity, cleaning, charging, and water will be provided by the railways while the state government is tasked with deciding upon the hospital which will be connected to these Covid care centres. “We are in touch with Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) for the food since they are used to managing bulk order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-visits-railway-coaches-turned-isolation-centres-at-shakur-basti/story-wjhXVXH8C4nwBZd6b6gnyM.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Two toll plaza employees attacked in tiff over Rs 5||Two employees of Kherki Daula toll plaza were injured after being attacked by a group of men allegedly during a tiff over Rs 5 on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway on Wednesday. Police said that the men had initially also refused to pay the toll, citing that they were from a nearby village. Residents of certain villages are exempted from paying toll if they produce valid documents.Two people have been rounded up while two more are at large.The injured — the toll plaza manager and a special duty officer — were rushed to a private hospital for treatment, where their condition is stated to be critical.According to the police, the incident took place around 9.15 pm when a Swift car, in which four men were seated, entered lane 14 and one of them approached the counter to pay for the toll. Police said while returning the change, a Rs 5 coin fell on the ground.Sunil Kumar, station house officer, (SHO), Kherki Daula police station, said that the toll plaza manager asked the men in the car to move along quickly as cars were starting to pile up behind him.“The man asked the toll staffers to pick up the coin and started arguing with the manager. The argument escalated and he pulled out a knife and attacked the manager. Another staffer tried to intervene, but he was also assaulted by the suspects. As they were about to escape, a police team, stationed near the toll plaza, rounded up two of the suspects. The others managed to flee,” said SHO Kumar.The two accused men, Nikhil and Rohit, both from Ballabgarh, were taken into custody. Police said preliminary probe suggests that they were inebriated and police is checking their criminal record.Police said the toll plaza manager, identified by only his first name, Sukhbir, was stabbed in the arm and waist while a special duty officer, identified as Pankaj, suffered a stab wound in his hand.RS Bhaati, Kherki Daula toll plaza manager, said, “Two of our staffers were attacked after a scuffle over paying toll. Sukhbir and Pankaj were rushed to a private hospital. Sukhbir suffered two cut wounds on his left arm and is undergoing a surgery. Pankaj has also sustained injuries. We are lodging a police case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-toll-plaza-employees-attacked-in-tiff-over-rs-5/story-9gmxCnX6V9sBLh9SDMzmiI.html
18-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram plans to cap Covid-19 treatment cost in private hospitals||The district health department is planning to put a ceiling on the treatment cost of Covid-19 in private hospitals. The rates are likely to be fixed in the range of ₹10,000 to ₹23,000 per Covid-19 bed for a single day, officials said, adding that it will help the district administration tackle the rapid surge in the number of Covid-19 patients. The officials said that they are considering to adopt Ahmedabad model for the purpose, while also studying various states’ models. Explaining the Ahmedabad model, a senior official in the health department privy to the matter said, “As per their model, private hospitals cannot charge more than ₹10,000 per bed for a day in a general ward. For the High Dependency Unit (HDU), which is for patients who do not need intensive care but can’t be kept in general ward as well, the per day charges are ₹14,000.” “While for the isolation and intensive care unit (ICU), the prices are capped at ₹19,000. In case, a patient requires critical care support like ventilator, the cost cannot exceed ₹23,000 per day,” said the official. The health officials also said that they are studying price models of Telangana and Maharashtra too.In Gurugram, hospitals are charging up to ₹80,000 per day for providing critical care to patients who require ventilator support for breathing, said the official quoted above. Currently, 67 Covid-19 patients in the district are on ventilator support in 35 private hospitals, the officials said. On Monday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had constituted a committee, comprising the divisional commissioner, MCG commissioner and chief medical officer (CMO), to look into the issue. The committee is likely to submit its suggestions on capping the Covid treatment cost by Friday. V S Kundu, chief executive officer of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, who is also in-charge of Covid-19 preparations in the district, said, “Under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner, the recommendations have almost been finalised.” The nodal officer for hospital management in Gurugram, Vivek Kalia, who is also the estate officer at Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), said, “We are ensuring that the multi-specialty hospitals stringently follow the directions issued by the district administration. In order to ensure that patients are properly attended to and are not overcharged, regular visits of our officials have started.”According to him, nodal medical officers have been deputed hospital-wise who would be looking into any grievances related to Covid-19 treatment cost.The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in May issued an order for requisition of 50% of the total number of beds in 42 hospitals. The AMC also defined the prices for a government hospital. The ventilator facility charges were around Rs 11,250 per day. For isolation and the ICU, the charges were fixed at Rs 9,000, while Rs 6,750 for HDU and Rs 4,500 for general ward . The rates per day for private beds did not include the cost of medicines, doctors visit fee, lab tests and dialysis. But the rates included two meals, breakfast, evening tea and snacks. Mukesh Kumar, commissioner, AMC, was unavailable for a comment. Earlier this week, a private hospital chain in Delhi was under the lens for charging Rs 53,000 per day in the ICU without a ventilator, and with the ventilator prices spiked to Rs 72,000 per day.The hospital on June 14 issued a statement that the charges included most treatment packages for the very critical Covid-19 patients who alone are treated at our facility. “The costs shown on that poster include not only the room rent but also visits by RMO / intensivists / senior consultants; nebulization and oxygen charges; all medicines and supplements needed for Covid treatment; all medical consumables; all routine pathology and radiology investigations such as X-ray, Ultrasound and ECG as well as diet and related charges,” read the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-plans-to-cap-covid-19-treatment-cost-in-private-hospitals/story-s55zsjw4T1AWt4XJw4xrfP.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Minister Satyendar Jain, MLA Atishi and two other AAP leaders test Covid positive||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday tweeted that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (covid-19). “Today my covid test found to be positive,” said the minister, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on Tuesday after he developed high fever and his oxygen saturation levels dropped. His first covid-19 test, conducted on Tuesday, had shown a negative result, senior government officials said. Officials in the hospital said that he is still on oxygen support.Besides Jain, AAP MLA Atishi and two other leaders of the party -- Akshay Marathe, an advisor to CM Arvind Kejriwal and Anindita Mathur, an advisor to deputy CM Manish Sisodia -- also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday. Party functionaries said swab samples of all three of them were collected on Tuesday after they developed mild symptoms.All three have been recommended home isolation by doctors and contact tracing have been initiated, said a health department official, adding that their offices have been sanitised too. Delhi government officials said that the health department is yet to initiate tracing contacts of Jain.According to the Union health ministry’s recently issued revised protocols on Covid-19 management, the precise interval during which an individual with Covid-19 is infectious is uncertain. “As per the current evidence, the period of infectivity starts 2 days prior to onset of symptoms and lasts up to 8 days.” as for testing, Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines say that for asympotmatic close contatcs, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test should be done on the fifth day and repeated on the 10 day in case it was negative.Experts in the field also say that before the fifth day chances of getting a false negative result are high.“Before the 5th day chances of getting a false negative in RT-PCR test is high, more so in an asymptomatic person, as the viral load is not enough. Basically, RT-PCR is a test to detect the presence of viral RNA in the body, but if the viral load is not enough then this test wouldn’t come positive,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. On Sunday morning, Jain had attended the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. “Social distancing was strictly adhered to in the meeting but whether others present in the meeting should get tested would depend on what the health officials recommend after the contact tracing exercise,” said a senior government official.On Tuesday, soon after being admitted to the hospital, Jain had said that he developed the symptoms the previous night. Till Monday, Jain also chaired several meetings and frequented healthcare centres to take stock of covid healthcare management, a senior functionary said.Kejriwal wished Atishi speedy recovery in a tweet. “Atishi ji has played an important role in the fight against corona. I hope that she will get healthy soon and again get involved in serving the people,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Last week, Kejriwal tested negative for Covid-19. His swab samples were collected after he developed mild fever and a sore throat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minister-satyendar-jain-mla-atishi-and-two-other-aap-leaders-test-covid-positive/story-MveK3XyYip2ToSUz5IyymO.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Court to pronounce verdict on FIR against Ganga Ram hospital on June 22||The Delhi High Court has put “in abeyance” (on hold) an FIR registered against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on a complaint by the city government for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms and reserved its judgment for June 22.Justice C Harishankar said the interim directions are being passed only to ensure that the status quo is not disturbed and nothing happens before the court passes any order.A senior official at Ganga Ram Hospital said, “The matter is still subjudice and we will wait for the directions from the hon’ble Delhi High Court.” Govt officials refused to comment on the issue, saying the matter was subjudice.The Delhi government has filed a first information report (FIR) against the medical superintendent of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajendra Nagar for not following protocols for testing patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The FIR was filed on June 5 on the basis of a complaint by the deputy secretary of Delhi’s department of health and family welfare, Amit Kumar Pamasi.The FIR has been filed under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) that mandates a punishment of one month’s simple imprisonment and/or ₹200 fine or six months imprisonment and/ or ₹1,000 fine if the offence puts human life at risk. The section of the IPC can be invoked under the Epidemic Diseases Act that has been in force in Delhi since mid-March as the city is battling the Covid-19 pandemic.The hospital authorities had moved the high court, seeking a stay on the case. Appearing for the hospital, advocate Rohit Aggarwal told the court that they were seeking quashing of the FIR and the proceedings initiated thereafter.He contended that the FIR registered against his client is “vague” and does not show that any offence is being committed under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said that the FIR is silent on how disobedience, as alleged by the Delhi government, is causing obstruction, annoyance or injury to any person.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel (criminal) for the Delhi government, told the court that if prima facie, an offence has been committed, the law permits them to register an FIR and investigate it. He said that the hospital had violated the norms.On June 3, the Delhi government had asked the hospital to stop testing patients for Covid. However, on June 13 it allowed the hospital to resume testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-to-pronounce-verdict-on-fir-against-ganga-ram-hospital-on-june-22/story-6sxgCvdXt4qKeqfScrf8CK.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Prudent for medicos, patients to defer elective surgeries: Govt to HC||The Delhi government has informed the Delhi High Court that it would be prudent for both patients and medical professionals to defer elective surgeries to a stage where the spread of pandemic is manageable and under better control, after a plea was filed seeking testing of asymptomatic patients going for surgeries.Advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told Justice Najmi Waziri, told the court that special measures had been undertaken and the government needed to be extra cautious of not exposing its already constrained resources for further tests for elective procedures.He submitted that nevertheless, in the last few days, the facility of testing labs/centres had been augmented and private hospitals too had been permitted to carry out Covid-19 test.The counsel for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said that at the moment, the capacity of the state to undertake Covid-19 tests is already stretched and therefore it would be prudent for all parties, including medical professionals, to defer elective procedures.The court was hearing a plea filed by an ENT doctor Manni Hingorani, through her counsel Aman Hingorani, contending that non-testing of the asymptomatic patients going for surgery would not only increase the risk to the patient but also expose the doctors, nurses and other hospital staff to the danger of contracting the virus.“For emergency and elective surgery, the procedure has already been duly defined in the circular issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, on June 3,” the counsels for both the Delhi government and AIIMS submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prudent-for-medicos-patients-to-defer-elective-surgeries-govt-to-hc/story-M5HSkY6zoU2RvR1ddgwFMP.html
18-06-2020||Delhi||Migrants stuck at screening centre after wrong info on Shramik special||Bijay Tudu, 25, changed the position of his mat at least four times within an hour on Wednesday afternoon. He was trying to stay away from the hot summer in the long and wide-open corridor of the Chhatarpur screening centre, where a group of at least 70 migrants have been stranded for a week.The group was to board a Shramik Special train that would ferry around 1,300 migrants to West Bengal’s Howrah and Malda on Thursday (June 18), but due to a miscommunication between the coordinating agencies, they landed here a week earlier, on June 11. Having vacated their rented accommodations, they said they could not go back with their belongings as they did not have any other place to stay. The migrants had decided to go back amid rumours of another lockdown.This is one of the last few Shramik Specials, being run under a special arrangement between state governments to send stranded migrants to their home states, as most workers had already left. Until June 15, of the 450,000 migrants who had applied, around 315,568 had been sent back free of cost to 16 states in 243 special trains.The 70 are part of the over 300 migrants from south district who had reached the screening centre on June 11. While they get food and other essentials, they say the heat is unbearable during the day. “We reached here at 9 am on June 11. Around 2 pm, we were told that the train was not scheduled for the day and rather for a week later. Our landlord told us that he would give the room to someone else if we vacate. Though we had rented a cooler at the room, there was no point in going back,” said Tudu, who and his two siblings used to live in Okhla. They paid Rs 250 to an auto-rickshaw that dropped them at the centre.He said his grandmother died on June 10 and he had told his family in Malda that he will reach in two days. “I had hoped to join my family during this time. We have to leave, as we could not have survived another lockdown,” said Tudu, who used to do plastering work but had not got any job even though the lockdown eased on May 31.Last week, with a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, speculation was rife that Delhi could have another lockdown. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Monday clarified that there were no lockdown plans for Delhi.Some of the children slept with a piece of wet cloth on their faces to tackle the heat. Yasmin Begum, 34, fanned her two children, as the ceiling fan blew warm air. She said though food and even cold drinking water was available, it has been tough for the children. “On June 10, we got a message that we should pack and be ready to reach the centre the next morning. It is only people like us who have to suffer at the end,” said Begum, who used to live on rent near Azadpur Mandi.District officials said around 300 people reached here last week after an NGO wrongly informed them. “We told them there was no train on that day. Most people left but some said they cannot go back. We gave them an option to shift them to night shelters, but they did not want to move again with the entire luggage. We arranged for their stay and meals. The train will leave on Thursday at 6 pm,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.According to Sunil Kumar Aledia, an activist who works for the homeless and has been coordinating with the government to send migrants home said, “I had given a list of people to the nodal officer for West Bengal and I was told that the train leaves on June 11. They should have clarified in time to save them from the suffering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-stuck-at-screening-centre-after-wrong-info-on-shramik-special/story-0hzTAOGtTRqN5YxIgu1axL.html
18-06-2020||Chandigarh||With borders reopened, Chandigarh sees rise in cases with travel history||With around 50% of the Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days being those of people who have recent travel history or are their contacts, UT’s nod to open the city’s borders has come under scrutiny.Of the 45 cases reported since June 8, when inter-state travel had resumed, 22 patients had recently travelled or were contacts of those who had travelled, said Anil Kumar Garg, MC additional commissioner-cum-nodal officer, MC contact tracing team.“There is marked shift in the cases being reported now. While earlier most cases were coming from the containment zone of Bapu Dham Colony, now nearly half of them are of travellers, their family members and even workplace contacts. Such cases are scattered, which makes it imperative to contain infection in those areas,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.Under central government’s Unlock-1 guidelines, people’s movement was allowed without e-pass or permits. There is no restriction on people entering Chandigarh via road. Though the administration had directed random screening at entry points, it remains limited.Questioning the move to open city borders, Dr RS Bedi, former president of Chandigarh’s Indian Medical Association and adviser, World Medical Association, said, “People from Delhi and even Mumbai are coming to Chandigarh. Firstly, there are relatively fewer cases in Chandigarh compared to these cities. Secondly, people from places like Delhi, where the health infrastructure is under severe strain, are banking on the health facilities here.”A doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “Even women were arriving from Delhi for deliveries. We cannot stop them or deny treatment. But, it is a disconcerting situation.”Stating that the administration’s hands were tied in the matter, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “We cannot stop the inter-state movement of people. Central government guidelines are very clear that there should be no border restrictions. No passes are needed. We are a union territory and have to follow central guidelines.”“The administration is prepared for any eventuality. We are undertaking random screening of people entering the city by road. But, as per ICMR guidelines, we cannot test them if they have no symptoms,” he added.18 CASES IN MOHALIEven Mohali is seeing a similar pattern in cases. Since June 8, of the 61 Covid-19 cases reported in the district, 18 are travelers and 27 are their contacts. The 18 patients had returned from Delhi, Kashmir, Hyderabad, Uttar Pradesh, Faridabad, Ahmedabad and Mumbai.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said although all these patients had come from outside the state, they were being counted as patients of Mohali. 31 OUTSIDERS TESTED POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula, that has the lowest number of cases in the tricity at 55, has recorded 31 outstation patients since June 8. Among the 31 cases, 15 are from Delhi-NCR, five from Gujarat and four from Mumbai. These are not included in the district tally.“We are seeing people from different states testing positive here, but most are from Delhi, Mumbai and Gujarat,” said civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur.Considering the spike in outstation cases, local MLA and speaker of the Haryana Assembly, Gian Chand Gupta has asked the district administration to involve the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to track travellers.“Trace travellers with the help of RWAs and ensure all of them are tested. Residents should also proactively inform the authorities about visitors in their neighbourhood,” he told the district administration officials during a meeting on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “We cannot turn down anyone approaching the flu centre for testing. We are maintaining a database of the hotspots in the country, and anyone travelling from these places to Panchkula is tracked and their testing is ensured.” (With inputs from Hillary Victor and Shailee Dogra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/borders-reopened-chandigarh-sees-rise-in-cases-with-travel-history/story-7De2R8hP9YVimvHYCIliZN.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Reconciled figure put Pune’s total fatalities at 545||The city on Wednesday counted 76 deaths related to the Covid-19 infection, including a reconciliation of 70 fatalities, taking the city’s total to 545, according to the Maharashtra health department.While the state health department reported 545 Covid deaths in Pune, with the addition of 18 fatalities on Wednesday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 481 deaths – a discrepancy of 64 between the two data sets.“This difference in statistics is probably because some labs may have not have reported Covid-positive deaths. However, I have sought all the latest data and will reissue the figures by Thursday,” said Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner, Pune division.The Maharashtra health department’s office in its daily report on Tuesday, June 16, reported 527 deaths in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).In addition to the difference in the Covid-19 death toll between the state health department and the PMC, there is also a difference in the number of progressive positives reported. While the state reported 11,121 progressive positive in PMC, the Pune civic body claims the number is 10,643. The state health department reconciled death figures across the state on Tuesday, and following this exercise, 1,328 deaths were added for Maharashtra.As of Wednesday, as per the state, there are 941 progressive positive cases and 33 deaths in Pune rural; 1,1121 progressive positives and 545 deaths in PMC; and 1,188 progressive positives and 32 deaths in PCMC. Rubal Aggarwal, PMC’s additional commissioner said, “We only include those who are residents within PMC limits. Last week we had deaths of those from Pune rural too, reported from Pune hospitals. We are not hiding any deaths and our reports are updated and transparent.”District collector Naval Kishore Ram said that he will have to look into the issue before commenting on it.Even though the city reported its first fatality on March 30 from a private hospital, the death is not counted among the Pune numbers since the deceased was a Thane resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reconciled-figures-put-pune-s-total-fatalities-at-545/story-fMKiwhhXCWQrIhrJ5dJGPP.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Housing societies in Pune contain virus spread under safety cover||Many housing societies whose residents were Covid-19 patients have successfully taken preventive steps and brought down the figure of positives.Civic authorities have confirmed that the number of cases reported from residential areas is less as compared to slums. Sanjay Rawal, chairperson, Mahadev Vihar housing society located on Satara road near Rawat Brothers, said, “Our society reported two Covid-19 positive cases and one of them passed away. The residents were concerned about health issues, but with the help of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) we fumigated the premises, open spaces and vehicles. We followed strict guidelines and no fresh case has been detected from our society since then. A register is kept that logs residents’ movement outside the premises. We have a total of 39 units.”Rawal said that as housing societies need regular supply of vegetables and groceries, government should make it mandatory for vendors handling vegetables and fruits to wear gloves and masks.Ram Khutwad, a resident of Panchwati housing society, said, “Our society has only one case and we are following all preventive measures.”Anant Wagh of Yashtara Housing Society located near Aryaneshwar said, “The four residents who were detected positive in our housing society have recovered. PMC and corporators have taken efforts to ensure residents undergo tests. I also gave my test that came negative.”Bhimale complex which is a residential scheme near Salisbury Park reported 110 positive cases. All the 110 patients living in the 500-flat society recovered.Bibvewadi regional ward officer Ganesh Sonune said, “When the first 11 positive cases were reported in Bhimale complex, we concentrated on increasing testing, besides giving immunity boosting medicines to residents. Rapid testing helped in early detection and now all the positive people are cured and at homes.”Sonune said that PMC also contained the virus spread in Meenatai Thackeray slum, a hotspot located at Maharshinagar. The slum now has no positive case as on June 17.Smart City public relations officer Sangram Jagtap said that PMC and Smart City did not maintain data of residents living in housing societies or slums. Hence, it is difficult to tell how many housing societies are affected in the city. Meanwhile, praising the preventive steps taken by housing societies, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham tweeted: More than 105 societies have seen arrival of corona in their society since 30th May. Lessons from this society’s #successstoriespune may make a difference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-societies-in-pune-contain-virus-spread-under-safety-cover/story-6CyF5QnYXKOElMFa0byjZN.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Unlock 1.0 sees 4,426 vehicle registrations at Pune RTO, car sales higher compared to two-wheeler||Even as Covid-19 situation has caused the auto sector to bleed with a decline in vehicle sale, Pune regional transport office (RTO) has witnessed higher car sales in comparison to two-wheelers.The RTO closed its operations after the lockdown was imposed in the city on March 25 and resumed vehicle registration process on May 18. From May 18 to June 8, the office has collected a revenue of Rs 10,59,72,962 as 1,684 vehicles were registered, as per the statistics shared by RTO. Interestingly, for every three two wheelers, there was one car registered, in the RTO. Previously, for every five two-wheelers, one car used to be sold and get registered, according to officials.According to data, overall 904 motorcycles were registered at RTO between May 18 to June 8. There were 58 auto rickshaws, 27 commercial vehicles and five other vehicles registered.The lockdown period saw two auspicious occasions - Gudi Padwa and Akshay Tritiya - when the vehicle registration normally witnesses surge. While this year, there was no sale on Akshay Tritiya as dealers and RTO was shut, during Gudi Padwa in March, 2019, 4,426 vehicles were registered as compared to 7,196 registered last year during this period.Total vehicles registered during 2019 Akshay Tritiya was 5,187 and the figure this year was zero, according to RTO officials.“Pune RTO closed its all operations when the lockdown was announced. From May 18, we appointed five RTO inspectors who would visit dealers’ showroom, check vehicles and complete the registration process. We took the initiative to avoid the crowd at our offices. We are working according to the instructions given by the state government and staff is called on a rotational basis,” said deputy regional transport officer Sanjeev Bhor.Several customers who had bought new vehicles during February and March were unable to get their deliveries. Vehicle dealers restarted deliveries after June 1. Girish Karpe, who had booked a car in February got delivery in May- end, said, “I had booked the car in February and all documentation, including initial payment, loan and vehicle registration was completed. I was waiting for Gudi Padwa to take the delivery before the lockdown changed my vehicle buying plan. Finally, I got my car in the last week of May.”Vaijayanati Shewade, general manager (sales) at BU Bhandari cars, said, “We have started delivering vehicles to customers who had booked before the lockdown. All precautions are been taken while handing over vehicles. We sanitise the vehicle in front of the customer from inside out. Buyers are requested to bring along only two people to take the delivery and follow the virus precaution norms. The delivery of vehicles is also done in a simple manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-1-0-sees-4-426-vehicle-registrations-at-pune-rto-car-sales-higher-compared-to-two-wheeler/story-OaFDZKA8o2WcQH5muBxRVO.html
18-06-2020||Pune||PMC revokes order to reopen public gardens after residents seen without masks, flouting social distancing norms||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday revoked its June 3 order to reopen public gardens after residents failed to follow social distancing norms and regulations prescribed by the state government to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. As part of the Unlock phase 1 plan, of the 196 public gardens in the PMC, 33 had been reopened for morning and evening walks, including Chittaranjan Vatika in Model colony and Sambhaji garden on JM road. The civic body allowed public gardens to operate from 6am to 8am and 5pm to 7pm. The PMC garden department head Ashok Ghorpade said that the public gardens will be closed, starting Wednesday (June 17). “The PMC had allowed the use of 33 gardens which were in the non-containment zones. Permission was only given for walking and jogging, but residents started raising more demands like usage of benches and the lawn. Some of them even started using the open gym equipment at the gardens. Many residents were not wearing masks and senior citizens and kids below the age of 10 were seen at the garden,” Ghorpade added.Considering all these complaints, mayor Mohol wrote a letter to the garden department as well as the municipal commissioner to close the public gardens to stop the spread of Covid infection.“The civic body noticed many high-risk age groups visiting public gardens, including senior citizens. Residents had been seen without masks and flouting social distancing norms. The number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city (10,183 as of June 16) and hence, I instructed the municipal administration to rethink the decision of reopening public gardens. The gardens should not become the next source of spreading the virus,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol.Senior citizens and children below the age of 10 have been asked to stay at home, according to state government orders as they are high-risk groups for the Covid-19 infection. Shridhar Joshi, a resident of Kothrud, said, “I use to visit public gardens regularly. It is true that some people are not following rules, but because of them why should we suffer the consequences. PMC should ensure that people without masks do not enter the garden.”Neeta Bokil, a resident of Sinhgad road, said, “A garden is the best place to take in fresh air. It is true that people are using the open gym equipment and even talk to each other in a group. It was the only time I stepped out of my home, but precaution is necessary.”Ranjan Joy from Vimannagar said, “I went for a jog everyday before the lockdown, however, I avoided going to the gardens even after they were reopened because I did not want to go to an area which is crowded. Residents do not listen to the security personnel at the gardens and even senior citizens were seen violating government norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-revokes-order-to-reopen-public-gardens-after-residents-seen-without-masks-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-BL5Uv1uEwKctMOgKcKFeYO.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Pune’s Iucaa to organise online programmes for awareness, viewing of annular solar eclipse||The Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (Iucaa) is organising a series of online talks, presentations and interactive sessions on the annular solar eclipse, which can be witnessed in some regions of north India on June 21.Due to travel restrictions in the country most enthusiasts will not be able to witness the event and hence, Iucaa’s scientific public outreach programme (SciPOP) will host these events on their YouTube channel. “In Pune, the eclipse will begin at 10:02am and is expected to reach its maximum phase around 11:40am on June 21. It will end at 1:30pm here. Across India, however, different phases of it should be visible anytime between 10am and 2pm depending on your longitude. To pass on such information, to discuss the real facts behind eclipses as well as to inform people how to see the eclipse safely, Iucaa SciPOP will host two sessions on June 18 and 19. These hour-long sessions will have some activities suggested as well that can be relevant to teachers. Those attending may also get their queries answered by the Iucaa SciPOP team,” said Iucaa director professor Somak Raychaudhury. On Sunday (June 21), the live online session will combine feeds from all over the country and will host an array of experts from Iucaa and the scientific community on the subject of eclipses, astronomy and related careers. The event is being undertaken in collaboration with the Public Outreach and Education Committee of the Astronomical Society of India (ASI-POEC). For more infoLink of the talks : https://www.youtube.com/user/IUCAASciPOP Resources: https://bit.ly/ase2020india For registration: https://bit.ly/ase2020ama Date- Time- Platform- Programme- Subject June 18- 10:30 to 11:30am- YouTube Live ASE 2020- Discussion session 1- Solar eclipse and activities (English)June 19- 10:30 to 11:30am- YouTube Live ASE 2020- Discussion session 2- Solar eclipse and activities (English)June 21- 10am onwards- YouTube Live LIVE webcast session with scientists- Solar eclipses and viewing them, solar astronomy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/iucaa-to-organise-online-programmes-for-awareness-viewing-of-annular-solar-eclipse/story-j2uY5eR7acFRmjcSE1lEJI.html
18-06-2020||Pune||Fitness wari ‘pedals’ the healthy option to keep tradition alive||The Indo Athletic Society (IAS)¸ a Pune-based social and sports NGO, has held a bicycle wari accompanying the pilgrimage from Dehu to Pandharpur, undertaken by devotees of Tukaram and Dnyaneshwar.The Covid-19 pandemic altered the warkari tradition this year and there is no public pilgrimage, or cycling event possible.The cycle wari built over the last years in terms of participation, beginning with five participants in 2016, cycling 12 hours a day to cover the 245km from Pune to Pandharpur.In 2019 the cycle wari had 690 participants.“Most of us are at home. We are either doing some sort of indoor workouts or outdoor run-walk with Covid-19 safety measures and physical distancing. We had to abandon the cycle wari, but instead came up with this concept of a ‘fitness wari,” said Giriraj Umrikar (39), co-ordinator for the fitness wari.“Health is the key and we are encouraging people to keep their tradition intact by remotely being part of the wari, which began on June 14 and will end on Ashadi Ekadashi on July 1,” said Umrikar.To be part of the fitness wari, a participant needs to register and then undertake daily indoor/in-house/home workout activity.Yoga, climbing of stair cases and stationary cycling, all count, as long as there is no group activity, IAS clarifies.Sushil More (36), an investment analyst, said, “This year because of Covid-19, we will not able to go on the cycle wari, hence, when team IAS came up with the fitness wari, I immediately signed up for it. I am also teaching my son Kanishk how to do indoor exercise.”Kapil Patil, a 38-year-old software engineer, who is also participating in the fitness wari, said, “I will do a fitness routine to support the wari. I will be walking, running, and doing yoga.”Join the Fitness WariRegister (free) on link below. https://www.townscript.com/e/ias-fitness-wari-2020-400222||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fitness-wari-pedals-the-healthy-option-to-keep-tradition-alive/story-f3VPsiNmBF5GBEYox7uthJ.html
18-06-2020||World||‘Taking the knee’ seems to be from Game of Thrones, says UK foreign minister||British foreign minister Dominic Raab said on Thursday that “taking the knee” seems to have come from the fantasy TV drama series “Game of Thrones” and felt like a symbol of subjugation and subordination.The death in Minneapolis of a black man, George Floyd, after a white police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes has sparked protests around the world, with many demonstrators kneeling in streets and squares to protest against racism.The position was first taken by National Football League player Colin Kaepernick during the playing of the U.S. national anthem to call attention to racial injustice, and has been adopted by many sports players since. In England, Premier League soccer players including champions Manchester City took a knee before kickoff in support of the “Black Lives Matter” movement when the season restarted on Wednesday.Raab, asked if he would adopt the position during a TalkRadio interview on Thursday, said he understood the sense of frustration and restlessness driving the Black Lives Matter movement. He added: “I’ve got to say on this ‘taking the knee’ thing, which I don’t know, maybe it’s got a broader history but it seems to be taken from the Game of Thrones. “It feels to me like a symbol of subjugation and subordination rather than one of liberation and emancipation. But I understand people feel differently about it so it’s a matter of personal choice.” Asked again if he would take a knee to protest, he said: “I take the knee for two people, the queen and the missus when I asked her to marry me.”In “Game of Thrones”, the phrase “bending the knee” is used when someone pledges fealty to a monarch or lord.Raab later tried to clarify his remarks, saying he had “full respect” for the Black Lives Matter movement.“If people wish to take a knee, that’s their choice and I respect it. We all need to come together to tackle any discrimination and social injustice,” he said on Twitter. A clip of Raab’s interview attracted 1.5 million views on Twitter within hours of it being posted and opposition lawmakers were highly critical of his words.“This is not just insulting to the Black Lives Matter movement, it is deeply embarrassing for Dominic Raab,” David Lammy, the justice spokesman for the Labour Party and a longtime black rights campaigner, said on Twitter.“He is supposed to be the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taking-the-knee-seems-to-be-from-game-of-thrones-says-uk-foreign-minister/story-hmBB1b3pP5bDq6LlBaQurL.html
18-06-2020||World||US Supreme Court blocks order to end DACA, many Indians among beneficiaries||The US Supreme Court on Thursday blocked a Trump administration order rescinding a popular Obama-era protection from deportation for hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants, including many from India, who had been brought to this country as children.Chief Justice John Roberts, who wrote the 5-4 majority opinion, called the decision of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which has overarching jurisdiction on immigration issues, to rescind the 2012 order as “arbitrary and capricious”. The order does not prevent future attempts though.“We do not decide whether DACA or its rescission are sound policies,” Roberts said. “We address only whether the agency complied with the procedural requirement that it provide a reasoned explanation for its action. Here the agency failed to consider the conspicuous issues of whether to retain forbearance and what if anything to do about the hardship to DACA recipients.”President Barack Obama had issued the protection through an executive order in 2012 barring the deportation of undocumented immigrants who came here as children. Called the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the Trump administration rescinded it in November 2017. But it was blocked from going into effect by lower courts, and now by the highest court in the country.The US citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has said there are an estimated 699,350 DACA recipients, also called Dreamers, protected by DACA. The United States has told India at least 2,550 of them are from India.India raised the issue of DACA Indians with the Trump administration along with the tightening of rules for H-1B non-immigrant visa for specialized professionals.There is broad bipartisan support for DACA recipients among lawmakers and and Republican have worked closely with Democrats to try to finds a long-term solution, to find a clear path from them to stay on become citizens. Polls have also found widespread support for them among Americans.This was a second ruling in a week by the conservative court that has gone against the Trump administration. On Monday, Neil Gorsuch, aTrump appointee, joined the chief justice, also a conservative, and the bench’s four liberal justices to extend workplace protections from discrimination under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to the LGBTQ community.President Donald Trump lashed out at the court in an angry tweet. “These horrible & politically charged decisions coming out of the Supreme Court are shotgun blasts into the face of people that are proud to call themselves Republicans or Conservatives.” “Do you get the impression that the Supreme Court doesn’t like me?” he asked in a a follow-up tweet.Two of the nine justices are his appointees; the second is Brett Kavanaugh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-blocks-order-to-end-daca-many-indians-among-beneficiaries/story-5QnRMIwg5IipL4jupJFV3K.html
18-06-2020||World||‘Lot of asymptomatic cases’: Top China infection expert on Covid-19 cluster||The new cluster of Covid-19 infections in Beijing could have begun a month earlier than thought, a top infection expert has said as the capital on Thursday recorded 21 new cases, increasing the caseload to 158 in a week with nearly all the infections linked to a sprawling fresh food market in the southwestern Fengtai district.Gao Fu, the director of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), said the outbreak probably did not occur in early June or late May, but probably a month earlier.“A lot of asymptomatic or mild cases were detected in this outbreak and that is why the environment has such a large amount of virus,” Gao said at a seminar in Shanghai this week.According to Gao, who has been at the forefront of China’s fight against the coronavirus outbreak since it emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan, added that it will “…lurk in some dark, humid, polluted environments, which may be unexpected”.“After that, it will suddenly be exposed to many people within a certain period of time,” Gao said, adding this possibility needs further investigation.Since last week, Beijing, a city of around 21 million residents, has been gradually rolling out more restrictions after a cluster infection emerged from the Xinfadi wholesale market.The new cluster has again brought into focus hygiene levels in China’s food markets – it was to a seafood and meat market in Wuhan that the emergence of the pandemic was linked.“The epidemic is a mirror that not only reflects the dirty and messy aspects of wholesale markets but also their low-level management conditions,” the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection said on Thursday.Local authorities have conducted more than 3.5 lakh nucleic acid tests since Saturday, have suspended flights, schools and gatherings in the capital city and fenced off dozens of residential communities to contain the new surge in infections, which are causing worry across the world about difficulties in tackling the pandemic.On Thursday, city authorities shut all hotels and restaurants in high-risk zones of Beijing.More than a thousand flights from two airports in Beijing were cancelled on Wednesday.The Beijing government has described the situation in the city as “grim”.The Beijing Municipal Bureau of Sports issued an urgent notice on Wednesday, suspending sports events as well as closing certain gyms as the capital city.According to the notice, all kinds of sports events will be suspended. Underground swimming pools and gyms will have to be closed.“Basketball, volleyball, football and other group sports are forbidden,” the official news agency, Xinhua, reported quoting the notice.The national health commission (NHC) has deployed in Beijing a team of experts with experience in fighting the outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan where the coronavirus first emerged late last year.The team will guide the local authorities in community management, tracing contacts and preventing the spread of the infection in hospitals.Overall, 28 confirmed cases were detected in the mainland on Wednesday, including four imported ones.North China’s Hebei province, bordering Beijing, reported two new Covid-19 cases and three asymptomatic patients on Wednesday, all of whom are related to the Beijing Xinfadi market.Beijing’s neighbouring city Tianjin reported one new covid-19 case on Wednesday night; that of a 22-year-old man working at Tianjin’s Conrad Hotel, according to Chinese state media.“The patient has been responsible for dishwashing since May 30, occasionally cleaning frozen seafood. All 93 close contacts have been quarantined for medical observation,” the state media report said.Following Beijing’s decision to raise its epidemic response to Level II from Level III on Tuesday, and after four provinces reported confirmed cases related to the capital city’s new outbreak, 31 provinces and regions in China have tightened health checks on arrivals from Beijing.At least one city, Harbin in northeast China, said arrivals from Beijing’s risk areas would have to go through a 14-day centralised quarantine, a week of home quarantine and four nucleic acid and one serum test during that period.Overall, China has recorded 83293 cases and 4634 deaths from the infection until Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lot-of-asymptomatic-cases-top-china-infection-expert-on-covid-19-cluster/story-zhU27u9xUy6Z4WfZ330zYJ.html
18-06-2020||World||Oxford college now wants Cecil Rhodes statue to go||After years of mounting protest, the governing body of Oriel College in the University of Oxford has now backed the demand that the statue of imperialist Cecil Rhodes on its building is removed, but launched an inquiry to go into the issues involved. The ‘Rhodes Must Fall’ demand was raised in 2016 as part of similar campaigns on campuses in various countries to de-colonise curriculum and remove symbols of racism, imperialism and slave trade. It got a fillip with the Black Lives Matter (BLM) campaign.A wire mesh was put around the statue to prevent damage to it during the campaign in 2016, when a large number of students demonstrated to remove it. Rhodes and his background in colonialism and imperialism are seen as an unwelcome symbol in the modern era.Rhodes donated large sums of money to Oxford that includes the Rhodes Scholarship awarded to many bright students from across the world, including India.The college said that the governing body voted to launch an independent commission of inquiry into the key issues surrounding the Rhodes statue, and expressed their wish to remove the statue and the King Edward Street Plaque.“Both of these decisions were reached after a thoughtful period of debate and reflection and with the full awareness of the impact these decisions are likely to have in Britain and around the world”, the college said in a statement.The development comes in the context of recent demonstrations in Oxford, London, Bristol and elsewhere as part of the BLM campaign. The statue of 17th century slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down in Bristol.The college added: “The commission will deal with the issue of the Rhodes legacy and how to improve access and attendance of BAME (Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic) undergraduate, graduate students and faculty, together with a review of how the college’s 21st Century commitment to diversity can sit more easily with its past”.The commission, it said, will invite submissions from a broad range of stakeholders from Oxford and the UK; from representatives of the ‘Rhodes Must Fall’ campaign and the Oxford City Council, besides alumni and citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-college-now-wants-cecil-rhodes-statue-to-go/story-VIRTdGJLeCKkppDQAtukEL.html
18-06-2020||World||Singer Vera Lynn, who entertained troops before battle of Kohima, dies at 103||Vera Lynn, British singer who entertained troops before the 1944 Battle of Kohima and travelled across Bengal and the north-east over nine weeks, staging over 100 shows and comforting injured soldiers in hospitals at the time, has died aged 103, her family said on Thursday.Born in 1917, Lynn, better known as ‘The Forces’ Sweetheart’, performed hits such as ‘We’ll Meet Again’ to troops during World War II in various countries, including India, Egypt and Myanmar as part of the Entertainments National Service Association (ENSA) set up to lift spirits of soldiers on the frontline.Reports in April 1944 mention her arrival in India with her accompanist Len Edwards for the entertainment of troops when they were fighting the Japanese advance, particularly in the north-east. She was in colonial Calcutta for a week before going to the north-east.Over nine weeks in India, Lynn, considered the ‘voice of ENSA’, performed in over 100 shows, visited hospitals and autographed a large number of rupee-notes, scraps of paper and photographs of soldiers. In 1975, she was awarded the royal honour of ‘Dame’: the women’s equivalent of knighthood.Prime Minister Boris Johnson led tributes to Lynn: “Dame Vera Lynn’s charm and magical voice entranced and uplifted our country in some of our darkest hours. Her voice will live on to lift and hearts of generations to come”.Lynn recounted her experience of travelling in Myanmar in 1944 to The Guardian in 2017, when she turned 100: “Singing in the jungle was very hot and very sticky, which was a bit hard going. I had a little piano, which they trudged around on the back of a lorry, hoping it would survive the journeys”.“It wasn’t surprising that when I started singing, the piano had suffered and was slightly out of tune. To see the boys as they were brought into the casualty tents was very emotional. It cheered the parents up when they heard that I had been there. They thought it couldn’t be so bad.”Her records sold in the millions and for decades her songs remained on top of the charts, particularly The White Cliffs Of Dover, There’ll Always Be An England, I’ll Be Seeing You, Wishing and If Only I Had Wings.Lynn’s last public performance was in Trafalgar Square in 2005 during the 60th anniversary celebrations for VE Day (Victory in Europe Day), when she performed We’ll Meet Again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/war-time-singer-vera-lynn-who-visited-india-in-1944-dies-aged-103/story-OlO9Q4Zh2RCDDHUzHYpoXJ.html
18-06-2020||World||WHO official says malaria drug won’t stop coronavirus deaths||The World Health Organisation’s top scientist says it’s now been definitively proven that the cheap malaria drug hydroxychloroquine the drug favoured by President Donald Trump doesn’t work in stopping deaths among people hospitalized with the new coronavirus.But Dr. Soumya Swaminathan said there could still be a role for the drug in preventing people from catching Covid-19 in the first place and noted that clinical trials testing hydroxychloroquine’s role in this are ongoing.Swaminathan said in a press briefing on Thursday that there is still a gap in determining whether hydroxychloroquine has a role at all in prevention or minimizing the severity of the illness in early infection or even in preventing it.She says: “We don’t know that as yet. And we need to complete those large trials and get the data,” she said, referring to several other trials not being conducted by WHO. The UN health agency announced this week that it is suspending the hydroxychloroquine arm of its own trial testing various experimental therapies for Covid-19, referring to previous results from a large UK trial and a separate analysis of evidence on the drug.The other drugs being tested by WHO, including treatments used in the past for Ebola and AIDS, are still being pursued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-official-says-malaria-drug-won-t-stop-coronavirus-deaths/story-VYVZZAWsZqMQ1REsoyo7BM.html
18-06-2020||World||G-7, EU urge China to reconsider Hong Kong security law||Members of G-7 and the European Union on Thursday joined the United Kingdom’s earlier call to “strongly urge” China to reconsider its decision to impose a national security law in Hong Kong that, according to them, violates the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984.The legally-binding declaration set out arrangements for the former British colony after its handover to China in 1997. The new China law also goes against Hong Kong Basic Law, G-7’s foreign ministers and the high representative of the EU said in a statement.The Boris Johnson government has responded strongly to Beijing’s move by announcing that if the law seen to curtail rights of Hong Kong citizens were implemented, it would offer holders of British National (Overseas) statue there a path to British citizenship.The statement said: “The proposed national security law would risk seriously undermining the ‘One Country, Two Systems’ principle and the territory’s high degree of autonomy. It would jeopardize the system which has allowed Hong Kong to flourish and made it a success over many years”.“We are also extremely concerned that this action would curtail and threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of all the population protected by the rule of law and the existence of an independent justice system”, it added.Britain’s foreign secretary Dominic Raab said that statement showed the strength of international concern over the law. The G7 is calling on China to adhere to its legally binding international commitments and respect the autonomy and the freedom of the people of Hong Kong, he added.The statement was issued by the foreign ministers of the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the high representative of the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g-7-eu-urge-china-to-reconsider-hong-kong-security-law/story-KxLM0fMYV4KmuMy7yqaC8M.html
18-06-2020||World||Covid-19 patients without disease symptoms may have weaker immune response: Study||Covid-19 patients who do not show any symptoms of the disease may have a weaker immune response to the virus, according to a new study which highlights the risks of using ‘immunity passports’ to certify that a person has recovered from Covid-19, and is fit for travel and work. The research, published in the journal Nature Medicine, presents an analysis of the clinical and immunological manifestations of 37 asymptomatic patients infected with the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. It found that these patients had an average duration of viral shedding of 19 days, compared with 14 days in another group of 37 patients who showed symptoms of the disease. According to the scientists from the Chongqing Medical University in China, most people infected with SARS-CoV-2 experience a mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms that include fever, cough, and shortness of breath that may appear 2–14 days after exposure. However, they said several who test positive for the infection may either experience minor symptoms or be asymptomatic. In the study, the researchers studied 37 asymptomatic people diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection from the Wanzhou district in China, before 10 April 2020. Of these asymptomatic patients from a group of 178 people with SARS-CoV-2 infection, 22 were female and 15 male, with ages ranging from 8 to 75 years, the scientists said. “In comparison to symptomatic patients, the asymptomatic group had a significantly longer duration of viral shedding, with a viral shedding time of 19 days,” they wrote in the study. According to the study, the levels of virus-specific immune system molecules called IgG antibodies were significantly lower in the asymptomatic group than in the symptomatic group during the acute phase of infection when the virus could be detected in the respiratory tract. Eight weeks after the patients were discharged from the hospital, the researchers said the levels of neutralising antibodies decreased in more than 8o per cent of asymptomatic patients, compared with about 62 per cent of symptomatic patients. They added that the asymptomatic patients also had lower levels of 18 pro- and anti-inflammatory cell-cell signalling proteins called cytokines. Based on these observations, the scientists believe that the asymptomatic patients may have had a weaker immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The IgG antibody levels in the patients also began to diminish within three months of infection in a large proportion of the asymptomatic patients, the study noted. This finding, along with previous analyses of neutralising antibodies in patients recovering from COVID-19, highlights the potential risks of using ‘immunity passports,’ and supports the continuation of public-health interventions and widespread testing, the researchers said. They believe that further research in larger groups of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients is urgently needed to determine the duration of antibody-based immunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-patients-without-disease-symptoms-may-have-weaker-immune-response-study/story-Oxw1nHMFMSZ5x9KicMk2DL.html
18-06-2020||World||Donald Trump accuses John Bolton of breaking the law with his memoir||President Donald Trump accused former National Security Advisor John Bolton of breaking the law by trying to publish a book on his time in the White House, as his administration was seeking an emergency restraining order to halt its publication.“He broke the law, very simple. As much as it’s going to be broken,” Trump told Sean Hannity in an interview on Fox News Wednesday night. “This is highly classified.”According to an excerpt of Bolton’s memoir published by the Wall Street Journal, Trump asked China’s leader, Xi Jinping, during the G-20 summit in Japan last year to help him win re-election by buying more US farm products.That accusation is one of many that paint a devastating portrait of the Trump presidency. Bolton, the most senior official in this White House to publish an account of his experience, also claimed that Trump encouraged Xi to build detention camps in the Xinjiang region to imprison hundreds of thousands of Uighur Muslims.In the Fox News interview, Trump retorted that Bolton had been a “washed up guy” when he brought him into the administration.“I gave him a chance, he couldn’t get Senate-confirmed, so I gave him a non-Senate confirmed position, where I could just put him there, see how he worked. And I wasn’t very enamored,” Trump said.Speaking to Hannity by telephone, the president said that “nobody has been tough on China and nobody has been tough on Russia like I have. And that’s in the record books and it’s not even close. The last administration did nothing on either.”The president lashed out at his former advisor in a tweet early Thursday morning, saying that the book “is made up of lies & fake stories” and that Bolton said “all good about me, in print, until the day I fired him.” Bolton has insisted that his departure last September was a resignation.On Wednesday evening, the Trump administration sought an emergency injunction from a federal court in Washington to stop publication of the book.The government argued that Bolton included classified information in the book and had failed to get approval. Administration lawyers asked for a preliminary injunction to block sales.“Disclosure of the manuscript will damage the national security of the United States,” the government said in the complaint.The injunction should “instruct his publisher to take any and all available steps to retrieve and destroy any copies of the book that may be in the possession of any third party,” the government said.Bolton’s explosive charges have already become an issue in the 2020 presidential campaign. Former Vice President Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee, said in a statement earlier Wednesday that “if these accounts are true, it’s not only morally repugnant, it’s a violation of Donald Trump’s sacred duty to the American people to protect America’s interests and defend our values.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-accuses-john-bolton-of-breaking-law-with-his-memoir/story-NW7co6bpL37pvXZlxCW6CL.html
18-06-2020||World||WHO testing interim data from Covid-19 trial on HIV drugs||The World Health Organization is looking at interim data from its large multi-country trial of the combination of HIV drugs Lopinavir and Ritonavir to treat Covid-19 patients, the UN agency’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Thursday.Her comments come after the WHO on Wednesday stopped testing of the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine in the trial of treatments for COVID-19 patients, after studies indicated it showed no benefit in those who have the disease. She said more study was needed to see whether hydroxchloroquine could prevent infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-testing-interim-data-from-covid-19-trial-on-hiv-drugs/story-GpKd8HUcgejhl7NSe4ct6L.html
18-06-2020||World||Look forward to working with India for more stable world: US on UNSC election||The US on Thursday congratulated India on the successful election to the UN Security Council and said it looks forward to working with New Delhi for a more stable, secure, and prosperous world.“Hearty congratulations to India’s successful election to the @UN Security Council.  The United States looks forward to working with India for a more stable, secure, and prosperous world,” US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster tweeted.His remarks came hours after India’s overwhelming election as a non-permanent member for a two-year term, beginning January 1, 2021.In an unprecedented election where envoys from the 192 member-states voted wearing masks and in adherence to the strict social-distancing norms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the election for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council, the world organisation’s most powerful organ.In 2021, India, Norway, Ireland and Mexico will sit in the most powerful UN organ along with the five permanent members -- China, France, Russia, the UK and the US -- as well as non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam.The two-year terms of Belgium, Dominican Republic, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa are ending this year.This is the eighth time India will sit at the UN high-table.Previously, India was elected for 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985, 1991-1992 and most recently in 2011-2012, when Hardeep Singh Puri, now India’s Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs and Civil Aviation, was India’s Permanent Representative to the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/look-forward-to-working-with-india-for-more-stable-world-us-on-unsc-election/story-3NzdaXuASvAJ31zrK80nRL.html
18-06-2020||World||International Yoga Day: Dutch Army, police to showcase yoga asanas online||The Dutch Army and police personnel will showcase yoga asanas during the International Yoga Day to be commemorated virtually in the Netherlands on Sunday in view of the Covid-19 restrictions. This will be the second time the Dutch Armed Forces will participate in the International Yoga Day celebrations organised by the Embassy of India in The Hague, according to an official statement. The Dutch Ministry of Defence has introduced yoga for armed forces to enrich their training programme and reduce stress with yoga sessions being held weekly at various barracks. Yoga instructors have been recruited to strengthen the physical and mental fitness and agility of the soldiers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Yoga Day message and 3D animated images of him doing yoga will also be part of the celebrations. The International Yoga Day programme will be opened by Venu Rajamony, India’s Ambassador to the Netherlands, the statement said.The representatives of Dutch army and police will demonstrate their yoga skills as part of the online celebrations. Internationally acclaimed flautist Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia, violin maestro L Subramaniam, playback singers Kavita Krishnamurthy and Vijay Prakash will perform on the occasion. Spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar will also participate in the celebrations.Actress Afke Reijenga, extreme sportsman popularly known as “The Iceman” Wim Hof, singers Charlie Dée and Anouk Maas are amongst the Dutch stars who will feature in the celebrations, it said.The celebration on Sunday will include a Kathak recital on ‘Ayush’ choreographed by Dutch choreographer Leo Spreksel and performed by eminent Kathak dancers Hari and Chetna.It will also showcase Hollywood and Bollywood celebrities, who have made yoga a part of their lives.Further, there will be a group yoga session of Ambassadors of various countries based in The Hague and yoga/pranayam and meditation sessions led by Swami Jyotirmayaa, Manish Pole, Mark Dowe, Patty Jongemaets and Marcel van de Vis Heil.The programme will be interactive and viewers will be invited to send their yoga videos on this year’s theme of “Yoga at Home, Yoga with Family” with prizes being given for the best entry.The online celebrations on June 21 will be streamed to over 1,45,000 followers of the Embassy’s Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube channels as well as on the websites of the Embassy and ‘Stichting International Yoga Day’, a non-profit organisation.Free yoga lessons are being offered at The Gandhi Centre which is the cultural wing of the Embassy of India in The Hague. The United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution on December 11, 2014, at the initiative of India, declaring June 21 as the International Day of Yoga.The resolution calls upon governments and people all over the world to observe this day in an appropriate manner and to raise awareness of the benefits of practicing yoga.This is the sixth time the International Day of Yoga is being celebrated in the Netherlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/international-yoga-day-dutch-army-police-to-showcase-yoga-asanas-online/story-FAvybzcOqXSOdrStXpV8NO.html
18-06-2020||World||Iran rejects US sanctions on Syria, vows to boost trade with ally||Iran on Thursday condemned as inhumane a fresh round of U.S. sanctions against its regional ally Syria and said it would expand its trade ties with Damascus.The United States on Wednesday imposed its toughest sanctions targeting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to choke off revenue for his government and force it back to U.N.-led negotiations on ending his country’s war.“As the world is involved with the corona pandemic, the imposition of such inhumane sanctions will only exacerbate the suffering of the Syrian people,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi told state media.“We will continue our economic cooperation with the resilient Syrian nation and Syria’s government, and despite these sanctions, we will strengthen our economic relations with Syria,” Mousavi said.Iran, which itself faces heavy US sanctions, is a close ally of Assad. Tehran has sent thousands of fighters to back the Syrian central government, including Iranian-trained Shi’ite militias whose members are from Afghanistan and other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-rejects-us-sanctions-on-syria-vows-to-boost-trade-with-ally/story-BGdzpDavIsYJdeMcctxVZM.html
18-06-2020||World||Iran says it successfully tests new naval cruise missile||Iran said on Thursday its navy had successfully fired a new locally made cruise missile during war games in the northern Indian Ocean and near the entrance to the Gulf.The test-firing comes as the United States is seeking an extension of a U.N.-imposed arms embargo against Iran, which is due to expire in October under Tehran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers. Washington withdrew from that pact.“During the exercises, short-range and long-range coast-to-sea and sea-to-sea missiles were successfully fired from the coast and from decks of ships, hitting their targets with great precision,” the semi-official Tasnim news agency reported.The new generation cruise missiles, with a range of 280 km (175 miles) were tested during exercises by the Iranian navy in the Gulf of Oman, which lies next to the Strait of Hormuz waterway at the mouth of the Gulf, and the northern Indian Ocean, Tasnim said.In April, Iran said it had increased the range of its naval missiles to 700 km.Western military analysts say Iran often exaggerates its weapons capabilities but concerns about its long-range ballistic missiles programme contributed to the U.S. decision to leave Iran’s 2015 deal to rein in its nuclear ambitions in exchange for an easing of economic sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-it-successfully-tests-new-naval-cruise-missile/story-3HYzDruvlGFJxvs2OXiQGN.html
18-06-2020||World||Ex-president of Kazakhstan infected with coronavirus||The ex-president of Kazakhstan is infected with the new coronavirus.Nursultan Nazarbayev, 79, has tested positive for the virus and remains in isolation, his spokespeople said in a statement. “There are no reasons for concern,” the statement said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNazarbayev, who had ruled Kazakhstan since its independence in 1991, stepped down last year but continues to wield considerable influence as chair of the country’s Security Council and leader of the ruling party Nur Otan.Kazakhstan has reported 15,877 confirmed cases of the virus and 97 deaths among its population of 18 million. The ex-Soviet nation lifted the state of emergency declared on March 16, but various lockdown restrictions remain in place in different regions of the vast country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ex-president-of-kazakhstan-infected-with-coronavirus/story-zfIxwXiOMHEbQkk0OoFTeN.html
18-06-2020||World||Top China parliament body to review Hong Kong security legislation: Report||The top decision-making body of China’s parliament will review a draft of national security legislation for Hong Kong during a session in Beijing that began on Thursday, the official Xinhua news agency reported.The draft legislation specifies the definition of four crimes: separatist activity, state subversion, terrorist activity, and collusion with foreign forces, Xinhua reported.It also sets out punishments for those crimes, it said.The law is expected to bring about the most profound change to the former British colony’s way of life since it returned to Chinese rule in 1997. It is expected to allow mainland security agents to be based in Hong Kong for the first time.The time frame for introducing the law is unclear, although some political analysts expect it will come in July, ahead of key elections in September.The South China Morning Post, quoting a mainland source familiar with Hong Kong affairs, said the law was unlikely to be passed during the parliament session in Beijing.Critics fear the legislation will crush wide-ranging freedoms in Hong Kong denied to people in mainland China that are seen as key to its success as a global financial centre.Authorities in Beijing and Hong Kong have dismissed fears that the law will curb freedoms and say it will only target a minority of “troublemakers” who pose a threat to national security.Despite such assurances, the legislation has triggered some of the strongest exchanges between officials in Beijing and Washington, with U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo calling it a “death knell” for Hong Kong’s freedoms.Pompeo met China’s top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, in Hawaii on Wednesday amid a deep deterioration of ties between the strategic rivals, their first face-to-face meeting since last year.The Chinese foreign ministry said in a statement Yang told Pompeo that the United States needed to respect China’s positions and halt interference in issues such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and the Xinjiang region and work to repair bilateral relations.Pompeo stressed “the need for fully-reciprocal dealings between the two nations across commercial, security, and diplomatic interactions”, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement.On Wednesday, the G7 foreign ministers issued a joint statement calling on China not to follow through with its plans for the legislation.The law will be the biggest step yet by Beijing in a concerted campaign to assert its authority over the city and its 7.5 million people after months of often violent anti-government demonstrations.The legislation was not listed on an earlier agenda of the session of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-china-parliament-body-to-review-hong-kong-security-legislation-report/story-A6iECqvElR3aCDi6edH6YO.html
18-06-2020||World||Tokyo governor seeks 2nd term, says Japan unprepared for pandemic||Japan may have contained its coronavirus outbreaks for now but the country needs better crisis management and a digital transformation to prepare for future shocks, Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike says.“We have to sort out the problems and start preparing now for a possible next wave,” Koike said in an interview with The Associated Press. “I will firmly strengthen the system.” Koike is favored to win a second term in a July 5 election after gaining respect for her proactive approach to controlling coronavirus outbreaks in Japan’s capital.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs the pandemic deepened in the spring, Koike often upstaged fellow conservative Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose popularity has suffered from his handling of the crisis and its devastating impact on the economy, on top of a slew of scandals.Koike is viewed as a potential candidate to succeed Abe when his term ends in September 2021. For now, she says she’s focused on protecting Tokyo, a megacity with a $1 trillion economy.“Tackling coronavirus measures is an extremely big challenge, and it’s more important than anything else,” she said Wednesday on the eve of a 17-day campaign period for the election.Taking care not to criticise Abe directly, Koike said she had to coordinate with him to get things done by requesting help on the national level, implying she would have handled things differently.“There were times when Tokyo had to go ahead, in the spirit of encouraging the national government,” she said. “It is my mission to protect the lives and health of the 14 million people in the city and I was doing everything I could.” Among other things, Koike says Japan should have its own version of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S. to fight infectious diseases.She noted that despite the country’s high-tech image, as the pandemic took hold health centers were using fax machines to transmit medical data, slowing responses and information sharing. Although Japan has universal, relatively affordable health care and local health centers, unlike its neighbors it had not suffered major outbreaks of other infectious viruses such as SARS or MERS and was therefore unprepared to react quickly when cases began surfacing in January.The health ministry set up a nationwide online data sharing system only after Tokyo had to make major corrections of coronavirus cases numbers in May amid mishandling of data transmitted by faxes.Though Koike has not fully delivered on promises to Tokyoites to get rid of packed commuter trains, ensure adequate availability of child and elder care facilities and end overwork, even her critics laud her handling of the pandemic.Until late March, both Abe and Koike were insisting on the Tokyo Olympics would go ahead as planned in July. Once the games were postponed until July 2021, Koike began pushing for urgent measures to fight the pandemic and urged the government to declare a state of emergency. Abe appeared reluctant to do that, and has been accused of doing too little, too late.Koike led a group of local leaders urging Abe to move more aggressively, frequently visiting his office to negotiate over policy. She led the way in arranging for hotels to take in quarantine patients with no or slight symptoms to free up hospital beds to prevent a collapse of the overwhelmed medical system in the capital region.“Ms. Koike seems to have managed the coronavirus situation more smoothly than the national government,” said Ryosuke Nishida, a professor at the Tokyo Institute of Technology, though he noted their roles were different.Koike shares the same nationalist policy stance as Abe, but their relationship has been compared to the tug of war between President Donald Trump and New York’s Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo, whose state was ravaged by the pandemic.A TV newscaster-turned-politician, Koike is stylish and media savvy. A smooth talker who sounds decisive, like Cuomo she is articulate and to the point. She does not stray from facts, and she has one mission: to protect Tokyo.Also like Cuomo, at the height of the outbreaks she held daily updates on YouTube, capturing viewers’ attention with warnings about “explosions” of infections and the risks of the “3 Cs” — closed spaces, crowded places and close conversations.Koike also fought to get requests for a partial shutdown of businesses sooner.“Mr. Abe did not make any big mistakes, but his handling looked inferior” to Ms. Koike’s and some other local leaders,’ said Yu Uchiyama, University of Tokyo professor of political science. “Ms. Koike has high communication skills, but Mr. Abe does not.” Koike was an LDP lawmaker for nearly 20 years and has served in key Cabinet and ruling party posts, helping to crash what she’s described not as a glass ceiling for women in Japan but an “iron plate.” She was Japan’s first female defense minister and has held other Cabinet posts. After failing to win the LDP presidency she set her sights on becoming Tokyo’s first female governor, in July 2016.She earned the nickname “migratory bird” for hopping between parties and forming new alliances — at least seven times — in contrast with other Japanese politicians famous for their loyalty to party factions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-governor-seeks-2nd-term-says-japan-unprepared-for-pandemic/story-fBUaF4TSWilROwxE9U9uEP.html
18-06-2020||World||Covid-19: Venezuelans, other refugees face huge pandemic hardships, says UN||The head of the UN refugee agency says he is “very worried” about the impact of the coronavirus in Latin America, where millions of Venezuelans have fled upheaval at home and could face hardship abroad among lockdowns and other restrictive measures to fight the pandemic.UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said 164 countries have either partially or totally closed their borders to fight Covid-19. Many people who flee abroad rely on the “informal economy” often involving day work with cash wages — economic activities that are at risk as governments ratchet up coronavirus lockdowns.“Of course, it is good that countries are taking these measures of prudence” against the virus, Grandi said. “Unfortunately, Covid-19, which has been able to cause the entire world to grind to a halt, has not been able to stop wars, conflicts, violence, discrimination.”“People are still fleeing their countries to seek refuge, to seek protection. This needs to be considered,” he added, appealing to governments.The impact could be especially stark for 3.7 million Venezuelans abroad, the world’s second-largest refugee group after the 6.6 million Syrians displaced by their country’s war.The Americas right now have become the world’s epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic.“One region about which we’re very worried is, of course, Latin America and South America and in particular where countries host many millions of Venezuelans,” Grandi said in an interview. “They are particularly hit by Covid.”The comments came as UNHCR issued its annual “Global Trends” report, which found that the number of asylum-seekers, internally displaced people and refugees shot up by nearly 9 million people last year — the biggest rise in its records. That created a total of 79.5 million people, accounting for 1% of all humanity, seeking safety amid conflict, repression and upheaval.UNHCR chalked up the surge to a new way of counting people displaced from Venezuela and a “worrying” new displacement in the persistent trouble spots of Congo, the Sahel region of Africa, Yemen and Syria, which alone accounted for more than 13 million people on the move.While the total figure of people facing forced displacement rose from 70.8 million at the end of 2018, some 11 million people were “newly displaced” last year, with poorer countries among those most affected.UNHCR says forced displacement has nearly doubled from 41 million people in 2010, and five countries — Syria, Venezuela, Afghanistan, South Sudan and Myanmar — are the source of nearly two-thirds of people displaced abroad.Grandi also noted about 30% to 40% of the world’s refugee population lives in camps. He said Covid-19 hasn’t affected “in dramatic numbers” camps like those in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh — a country that has taken in nearly a million Rohingya Muslims fleeing from Myanmar — or in Africa.Amid the outbreak, UNHCR has stepped up its “cash transfer” programs that put money directly in the pockets of displaced people. Grandi says 65 countries now benefit from such programs “and we have added 40 countries in just the last few months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-venezuelans-other-refugees-face-huge-pandemic-hardships-says-un/story-LdiDOLYpwvJjAecPI48gcL.html
18-06-2020||World||Panama canal sees 21% drop in crossings amid pandemic||The Panama Canal reported a 21% drop in the number of ships crossing the waterway in May, compared to projections for traffic.Just 937 ships used the canal last month, while there were 260 cancellations of crossings, canal administrator Ricaurte Vásquez said Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe said 119 of the cancellations involved giant LNG and LPG tankers that were to have carried liquified gas, mostly from the United States to Asia. Crossings by cruise ships and car carriers also declined.The coronavirus pandemic has hurt international trade and economic activity around the globe. Vásquez said recovery in traffic might be slow, but some analysts predicted a more rapid rebound.“It will be able to recover rapidly because the world’s reactivation depends on the reactivation of trade,” said analyst José Isabel Blandón Sr. “And in the reactivation of trade, the United States needs Panama, China and South America need Panama, and Europe, too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panama-canal-sees-21-drop-in-crossings-amid-pandemic/story-3XH3ut0XQwm9yRwGrpifiN.html
18-06-2020||World||Race for Covid-19 vaccine could leave some countries behind||As the race for a vaccine against the new coronavirus intensifies, rich countries are rushing to place advance orders for the inevitably limited supply to guarantee their citizens get immunised first - leaving significant questions about whether developing countries will get any vaccine before the pandemic ends.Earlier this month, the UN, International Red Cross and Red Crescent, and others said it was a “moral imperative” that everyone have access to a “people’s vaccine”. But such grand declarations are unenforceable, and without a detailed strategy, the allocation of vaccines could be extremely messy.“We have this beautiful picture of everyone getting the vaccine, but there is no road map on how to do it,” said Yuan Qiong Hu, a senior legal and policy adviser at Medecins Sans Frontieres in Geneva. She said numerous problems must be resolved to manage distribution and that few measures have been taken.In the past, Hu said, companies have often applied for patents for nearly every step of a vaccine’s development and production: from the biological material like cell lines used, to the preservative needed to stretch vaccine doses and even how the shots are administered.“We can’t afford to face these multiple layers of private rights to create a ‘people’s vaccine,’“ she said. Speaking at a vaccine summit earlier this month that addressed the thorny issue of equitable distribution, Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo agreed.“The global spread of Covid-19 has told us in no uncertain terms that disease knows no boundaries and no country can afford to go it alone,” he said. “Only a people’s vaccine with equality and solidarity at its core can protect all of humanity from the virus...A bold international agreement to this end cannot wait.” Worldwide, about a dozen potential Covid-19 vaccines are in early stages of testing. While some could move into late stage testing later this year if all goes well, it’s unlikely any would be licensed before early next year at the earliest. Still, numerous rich countries have already ordered some of these experimental shots and expect delivery even before they are granted marketing approval.Britain and the US have sunk millions of dollars into various vaccine candidates, including one being developed by Oxford University and manufactured by AstraZeneca. In return, both countries are expected to get priority treatment; the British government declared that if the vaccine proves effective, the first 30 million doses would be earmarked for Britons.Separately AstraZeneca signed an agreement to make at least 300 million doses available for the US, with the first batches delivered as early as October. Last week, the European Union moved to ensure its own supply. On Saturday, AstraZeneca struck a deal with a vaccines group forged by Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands to secure 400 million doses by the end of the year.Among several global efforts underway to try to ensure developing countries don’t get left behind is an “advance market commitment” from the vaccines alliance GAVI that aims to persuade manufacturers to make enough for both rich and poor countries.That can “prevent countries from scrambling to try to invest,” said Seth Berkley, CEO of GAVI, which used the approach to secure Ebola and pneumonia vaccines for a global market. “Because if you’re investing in one or two vaccines, of course the ... probability of those vaccines working is quite low. And so yes, you may hit the jackpot and have a vaccine that works. But you also may end up with no vaccine and be left behind.” Two global vaccine groups have inked a $750 million deal with AstraZeneca to supply 400 million doses by the end of 2020. The Anglo-Swedish pharma giant has also agreed to license its vaccine to India’s Serum Institute for the production of 1 billion doses.Johnson & Johnson’s chief scientific officer, Dr Paul Stoffels, said the company plans to make its coronavirus shot for poor countries at a not-for-profit price. Likewise, AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot has pledged to make the vaccine available at no profit during the pandemic.The World Health Organization and others have called for a Covid-19 “patents pool,” where intellectual property rights would be surrendered so pharmaceuticals could freely share data and technical knowledge. Numerous countries including Australia, Brazil, Canada and Germany have already begun revising their licensing laws to allow them to suspend intellectual property rights if authorities decide there is an overwhelming need given the pandemic.But the response from the industry has been lukewarm.Executives at Pfizer and some other major drug makers say they oppose suspending patent rights for potential Covid-19 vaccines.“We can’t just rely on goodwill to ensure access. With HIV/AIDS, it took 10 years for the drugs to reach people in lower-income countries. If that happens with Covid-19, that would be very worrying,” said Arzoo Ahmed of Britain’s Nuffield Council on Bioethics. Dr Soumya Swaminathan, WHO’s chief scientist, said the UN health agency is currently working on developing an “allocation framework” for how coronavirus vaccines should be given out. But this guidance would not be binding.“We don’t want to be in a situation where there are doses of a vaccine but they’re just available to some countries,” she said. “We need to have a consensus on that so we can agree to share the vaccine in a way that protects the most vulnerable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/race-for-covid-19-vaccine-could-leave-some-countries-behind/story-mfFhqQB5Bdf93tsgAlOIRL.html
18-06-2020||World||Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation establishes $12M grant fund||The Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation has established a fund worth more than $12 million to aid organizations fighting institutional racism, in the wake of the George Floyd protests.On Wednesday, the foundation, which has been influential in the emergence of the broader Black Lives Matter movement, said it was setting aside $6 million in donations to support black-led grassroots organising groups. Last week, it unveiled a separate $6.5 million fund for its network of affiliate chapters.Beginning July 1, affiliated chapters can apply for unrestricted funding of up to $500,000 in multi-year grants, the foundation announced. Grants from both funds will be administered through a fiscal sponsor, said Kailee Scales, managing director of the foundation.“In this watershed moment for black power building ... it is critical that we democratize giving to ensure all of us have access to the resources we need to reverse centuries of disinvestment in black communities, and invest in a future where we can all be connected, represented and free,” Scales said in a statement to The Associated Press.According to the network’s website, the organization has more than a dozen active chapters, including Boston, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and Detroit, as well as in Canada. Its newest chapter is in South Bend, Indiana.The foundation told the AP it has received more than 1.1 million individual donations at an average of $33 per gift since the death of Floyd, a black man who died May 25 pleading for air as a white Minneapolis police officer held a knee to his neck for what prosecutors said was nearly nine minutes. The surge of financial support adds to roughly $3.4 million in net assets the BLM Global Network had on hand last year, according to a 2019 financial statement of Thousand Currents, the fiscal sponsor which receives donations on the network’s behalf and then releases money to the group.Creation of the funds signals a growth in infrastructure for the network, which had been at odds with some local chapter organizers, who felt network leaders weren’t providing enough financial support for initiatives such as rapid response to police brutality. Although there are many groups that use Black Lives Matter or BLM in their names, only 16 are considered affiliates of the global network.For Black Lives Matter Los Angeles, the network’s first official chapter, the fund will increase its capacity to support families in need of legal aid, public communications strategy and other services after a loved one is killed by police, said organizer Melina Abdullah, who is a professor in the Pan-African Studies department at California State University, Los Angeles.“We’ve been struggling for seven years now with very limited resources,” Abdullah told the AP. “We’re not paid. But we also have real costs, even if we’re not taking salaries.”Renewed energy in the BLM movement has created a need for more resources, she added. “This fund will allow us to move forward in really strong ways.”Racial justice groups across the U.S. have reported receiving tens of millions of dollars in donations, particularly for community bail funds posting bond for protesters arrested in demonstrations. The wealth is being spread across younger grassroots organizations and legacy institutions, such as the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund and the National Urban League.The Black Lives Matter movement emerged in 2013 amid anger over the acquittal of George Zimmerman, the Florida man who shot and killed 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in 2012. The network of chapters was formed in 2014, following what organizers called Ferguson October, a national mobilization in response to the police shooting death of 18-year-old Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.“I’m really proud of the work we’ve been able to do in the last seven years,” Patrisse Cullors, co-founder and chairwoman of the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation, said in a statement. “What is clear is that Black Lives Matter shares a name with a much larger movement and there are literally hundreds of organizations that do impactful racial and gender justice work who make up the fabric of this broader movement.”The foundation has already identified several movement organizations that it would like to support, said Cullors, who declined to name the groups. The foundation says it will “prioritize mutual aid organizations, direct service and organizations focused on creating sustainable improvements in the material conditions for all black people.” It also looks to support black lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender-led groups.Over its nearly six years of existence, the BLM Global Network had received contributions from high-profile donors, including A-list entertainers such as Jay-Z, Beyoncé and Prince, who contributed to BLM mere weeks before his death in 2016. But unanswered questions of transparency and access to those gifts left some organizers in network affiliate chapters frustrated.In January 2018, a New York City chapter announced its decision to leave the BLM Global Network, citing the need for autonomy to better serve its community. In December 2019, a different group of organizers in New York rejoined the network, Scales said.ALSO READ: It’s your time now: Beyonce pays tribute to Black Lives Matter, calls out sexism and racism is powerful graduation speechIn recent weeks, the BLM Global Network has had to debunk misinformation from conservative activists who claimed the group’s donations were being redirected to the Democratic Party.The network has also been in a tug of war with a California-based organization called the “Black Lives Matter Foundation,” which has accepted donations that do not support the movement. The other group reportedly raised millions of dollars in recent weeks from small individual gifts and from employees of large corporations, such as Apple and Microsoft, who believed they were supporting the Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/black-lives-matter-global-network-foundation-establishes-12m-grant-fund/story-leUh5gBW3CFAQ00EvLEwpM.html
18-06-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Russia begins clinical trials, Gilead to enrol pediatric patients in remdesivir testing||With global coronavirus cases crossing the 8 million-mark, the need for an anti-Covid-19 vaccine becomes more urgent. Drug-makers and experts across the world are ramping up efforts to arrive at the potential vaccine against Covid-19. From experimental drug remdesivir making strides to generic steroid drug dexamethasone emerging as the first Covid-19 drug, the race to developing the antidote to Covid-19 is getting more interesting by the day. Here are some of the latest development around Covid-19 vaccine development: • Drugmaker Gilead Sciences said it will soon begin enrolment of pediatric patients with moderate-to-severe Covid-19 in a late-stage study testing its experimental drug, remdesivir.• Clinical trials of a Russian coronavirus vaccine started on Wednesday, the Health Ministry said in a statement.• The European Union (EU) is planning to accelerate the development of Covid-19 vaccines through advance purchase agreements with promising medical companies, the bloc announced in a statement on Wednesday.Also read: ‘Covid-19 an opportunity, taught India to become self-reliant’ - PM Modi• Israel has signed an agreement with Moderna Inc for the future purchase of its potential Covid-19 vaccine, the Prime Minister said.• The WHO said testing of the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine in its large multi-country trial of treatments for Covid-19 patients had been halted after results from other trials showed no benefit.• China National Pharmaceutical Group Corp. known as Sinopharm on Tuesday said that an inactivated Covid-19 vaccine developed by its subsidiary China National Biotec Group’s (CNBG) Wuhan Institute of Biological Products has triggered a strong neutralizing antibody response in a phase 1/2 trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-russia-begins-clinical-trials-drugmaker-gilead-to-enrol-pediatric-patients-in-remdesivir-testing/story-Ma59Cf2oNvOlL0xhfSK8MN.html
18-06-2020||World||Canada’s NDP leader Jagmeet Singh expelled from House of Commons for calling MP ‘racist’||Indo-Canadian leader of Canada’s New Democratic Party (NDP) Jagmeet Singh was expelled from the House of Commons on Wednesday after calling another MP a “racist” during a session in the chamber.That reaction came after Singh used that charged epithet for Bloc Québécois MP Alain Therrien after the latter voted ‘no’ on a motion introduced by the NDP to recognise “systemic racism” in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP).As a result of the outburst, Speaker Anthony Rota had Singh removed from the House for the rest of the day in an unusual outcome for any leader of a national party in the country.Also read: Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau calls PM Modi, discusses Covid-19 pandemic Singh later told reporters in Ottawa that he had experienced a “moment of anger” after apparently seeing Therrien make a gesture that seemed to cavalierly dismiss the motion. “Anyone who votes against a motion that recognizes the systemic racism in the RCMP and that calls for basic fixes for the problem; is a racist, yes,” Singh later said, according to the outlet Global News.The motion was among the measures that have resulted from outrage in Canada over the RCMP’s behaviour towards Indigenous, Black and other Canadian minorities. That has followed the fierce reaction in the United States after the killing of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis last month.However, the House of Commons’ Whip for Therrien’s party, Claude DeBellefeuille, described Singh’s use of the term as “unacceptable”.According to the CBC News, the motion also called for a review of the RCMP’s budget and how it interacted with the public, among other matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-ndp-leader-jagmeet-singh-expelled-house-of-commons-for-calling-mp-racist/story-7ZHprJf19iUfVTXi1ZLXAL.html
18-06-2020||World||Massive spying on users of Google Chrome shows new security weakness||A newly discovered spyware effort attacked users through 32 million downloads of extensions to Google’s market-leading Chrome web browser, researchers at Awake Security told Reuters, highlighting the tech industry’s failure to protect browsers as they are used more for email, payroll and other sensitive functions.Alphabet Inc’s Google said it removed more than 70 of the malicious add-ons from its official Chrome Web Store after being alerted by the researchers last month. “When we are alerted of extensions in the Web Store that violate our policies, we take action and use those incidents as training material to improve our automated and manual analyses,” Google spokesman Scott Westover told Reuters. Also read: Google Chrome developers want to replace all ‘Blacklist’ coding references to ‘Blocklist’Most of the free extensions purported to warn users about questionable websites or convert files from one format to another. Instead, they siphoned off browsing history and data that provided credentials for access to internal business tools.Based on the number of downloads, it was the most far-reaching malicious Chrome store campaign to date, according to Awake co-founder and chief scientist Gary Golomb. Google declined to discuss how the latest spyware compared with prior campaigns, the breadth of the damage, or why it did not detect and remove the bad extensions on its own despite past promises to supervise offerings more closely.It is unclear who was behind the effort to distribute the malware. Awake said the developers supplied fake contact information when they submitted the extensions to Google. Also read: How to enable dark mode in Google Search“Anything that gets you into somebody’s browser or email or other sensitive areas would be a target for national espionage as well as organized crime,” said former National Security Agency engineer Ben Johnson, who founded security companies Carbon Black and Obsidian Security.The extensions were designed to avoid detection by antivirus companies or security software that evaluates the reputations of web domains, Golomb said.If someone used the browser to surf the web on a home computer, it would connect to a series of websites and transmit information, the researchers found. Anyone using a corporate network, which would include security services, would not transmit the sensitive information or even reach the malicious versions of the websites.“This shows how attackers can use extremely simple methods to hide, in this case, thousands of malicious domains,” Golomb said. All of the domains in question, more than 15,000 linked to each other in total, were purchased from a small registrar in Israel, Galcomm, known formally as CommuniGal Communication Ltd.Awake said Galcomm should have known what was happening.In an email exchange, Galcomm owner Moshe Fogel told Reuters that his company had done nothing wrong.“Galcomm is not involved, and not in complicity with any malicious activity whatsoever,” Fogel wrote. “You can say exactly the opposite, we cooperate with law enforcement and security bodies to prevent as much as we can.”Fogel said there was no record of the inquiries Golomb said he made in April and again in May to the company’s email address for reporting abusive behavior, and he asked for a list of suspect domains. Reuters sent him that list three times without getting a substantive response.The Internet Corp for Assigned Names and Numbers, which oversees registrars, said it had received few complaints about Galcomm over the years, and none about malware.While deceptive extensions have been a problem for years, they are getting worse. They initially spewed unwanted advertisements, and now are more likely to install additional malicious programs or track where users are and what they are doing for government or commercial spies.Malicious developers have been using Google’s Chrome Store as a conduit for a long time. After one in 10 submissions was deemed malicious, Google said in 2018 https://blog.chromium.org/2018/10/trustworthy-chrome-extensions-by-default.html it would improve security, in part by increasing human review.But in February, independent researcher Jamila Kaya and Cisco Systems’ Duo Security uncovered https://duo.com/labs/research/crxcavator-malvertising-2020 a similar Chrome campaign that stole data from about 1.7 million users. Google joined the investigation and found 500 fraudulent extensions. “We do regular sweeps to find extensions using similar techniques, code and behaviors,” Google’s Westover said, in identical language to what Google gave out after Duo’s report. (Reporting by Joseph Menn; Editing by Greg Mitchell and Leslie Adler)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-spying-on-users-of-google-s-chrome-shows-new-security-weakness/story-SbwJGLsyhgJODuIhDqgfLM.html
18-06-2020||World||China-backed AIIB approves $500 million loan for Pakistan’s Covid-19 response||The Beijing-backed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has approved a loan of $500 million to help Pakistan battle the coronavirus pandemic, the bank said on Thursday.The project, co-financed by the Asian Development Bank, aims to strengthen protection for vulnerable groups, bolster the health care system, and help small businesses amid the economic downturn, the bank said in a statement.The loan is part of a $10 billion funding facility the AIIB has announced to help public and private sectors fight the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-backed-aiib-approves-500-million-loan-for-pakistan-s-covid-19-response/story-blhX96yyY6vvqyLfuXhisK.html
18-06-2020||World||Atlanta prosecutors hope to persuade jury to second-guess officer who shot Brooks||Prosecutors seeking to convict Atlanta police officer Garrett Rolfe for murder in the shooting death of Rayshard Brooks must try to persuade jurors to do something they rarely do - second guess split-second police decisions. On Wednesday, Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard brought 11 charges against Rolfe, with the most serious being felony murder which carries the death penalty.Atlanta’s mayor fired Rolfe after Friday’s shooting. Civil rights groups were quick to condemn the lethal methods. Protests broke out in the city as the shooting fueled popular outrage that followed the May 25 death of another unarmed black man, George Floyd, as an officer knelt on his neck during his arrest in Minnesota.Video of the shooting that went viral will likely help the prosecution, and Howard noted that US, Rolfe’s partner, agreed to become the rare police officer who will testify against a colleague. Prosecutors will stress that the officer shot Brooks in the back as he fled, and insist that the suspect posed no threat. Defense attorneys will likely note that Brooks took the officer’s Taser, or stun gun, and brandished it before he fled.Steve Gaynor, president of the Fraternal Order of Police in Cobbs County in Georgia, insisted that Rolfe’s actions were justified under US Supreme Court guidance.“Look at case law. The officer is well within his right to use deadly force,” said Gaynor.Laws governing police use of force differ by state, but the Supreme Court has said deadly force can be used if an officer reasonably believes the suspect poses an immediate threat of serious injury to the officer or others.Georgia allows use of deadly force to apprehend a suspect when officers have probable cause to believe the suspect committed a crime involving infliction or threatened infliction of serious harm, which Gaynor said Brooks had done.He said Brooks committed assault on the officers, a robbery when he seized the stun gun and aggravated assault when fired the stun gun at the officers.Howard, the district attorney, said Brooks posed no threat as he was fleeing because he had discharged the available shots from the stun gun. Gaynor disagreed.“It’s still a weapon, maybe not a deadly weapons but it is a weapon. The public is still in jeopardy at that point,” said Gaynor.Rolfe’s defense attorney could also argue that he followed police training protocols. Jack Ryan, who trains law enforcement nationwide, said some police departments teach officers to consider using deadly force if a suspect has gained control of an officer’s stun gun. However, that is less of a threat when there are multiple officers present.The Atlanta police department did not respond to a request for comment on its training. Ultimately, like most cases against police, legal experts said it could come down to whether a jury is willing to defer to an officer’s version of events. Jonathan Rapping, president of the public defender group Gideon’s Promise in Atlanta, said white jurors in such cases often tend to exaggerate threats posed by minority suspects.“We’re reluctant to second-guess police,” said Rapping, who is a professor at John Marshall Law School.For that reason, having testimony from Rolfe’s partner Brosnan could be key for prosecutors.Sam Starks, an Atlanta criminal defense attorney, said obtaining the cooperation of the other officer was a surprise and “makes it harder for Rolfe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/atlanta-prosecutors-hope-to-persuade-jury-to-second-guess-officer-who-shot-brooks/story-hYBZKZTjD1ukvQuswjpfqJ.html
18-06-2020||World||Scientists use ‘nanosponges’ to soak up, neutralise coronavirus in lab study||Ultrasmall sponge-like particles covered by human lung and immune cell membranes can attract, soak up, and neutralise the novel coronavirus, says a lab study that may lead to new therapies for Covid-19. According to the research, published in the journal Nano Letters, these “nanosponges,” which are thousand times smaller than the width of a single human hair, are named so as they soak up harmful pathogens and toxins.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage These particles were developed by engineers, including those from the University of California (UC) San Diego in the US, for their ability to prevent the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, from hijacking host cells. Following incubation with the nanosponges, the researchers said, “SARS-CoV-2 is neutralized and unable to infect cells.” In experiments performed on lab-grown cells, they said nanosponges built with lung and immune cell membranes caused SARS-CoV-2 to lose nearly 90 per cent of its “viral infectivity” in a dose-dependent manner. Viral infectivity, the scientists explained, is a measure of the ability of a virus to enter the host cell and exploit its resources to replicate and produce additional infectious copies of itself. “Traditionally, drug developers for infectious diseases dive deep on the details of the pathogen in order to find druggable targets. Our approach is different,” said study co-author Liangfang Zhang, a nanoengineering professor at the UC San Diego. “We only need to know what the target cells are. And then we aim to protect the targets by creating biomimetic decoys,” Zhang said. The scientists explained that instead of targeting the virus itself, the nanosponges are designed to protect the healthy cells which the virus invades. They said the nanosponges when engineered with fragments of the outer membranes of the human immune system’s macrophage cells can also soak up inflammatory cell-cell signalling proteins called cytokines. According to the scientists, the cytokines, which are sometimes overdriven by immune response to the infection, are implicated in some of the most dangerous, and sometimes deadly, aspects of Covid-19.Describing the structure of the nanosponges, the researchers said they consist of a polymer core coated in membranes extracted from either the cells lining the lung’s outer layer, or the immune system’s macrophages. They said these membranes cover the sponges with all the same protein receptors as the cells they impersonate, adding that this includes whatever receptors the novel coronavirus uses to enter cells in the human body. In the research, the scientists prepared several different concentrations of nanosponges in solution to test against SARS-CoV-2. They then tested the ability of various concentrations of each nanosponge type to reduce the infectivity of the virus behind the Covid-19 pandemic. The researchers found that at a concentration of five milligrammes per milliliter (mg/mL), the lung cell membrane-cloaked sponges inhibited 93 per cent of the viral infectivity of SARS-CoV-2. According to the study, the macrophage-cloaked sponges inhibited 88 per cent of the viral infectivity. “From the perspective of an immunologist and virologist, the nanosponge platform was immediately appealing as a potential antiviral because of its ability to work against viruses of any kind,” said Anna Honko, study co-author from Boston University. “This means that as opposed to a drug or antibody that might very specifically block SARS-CoV-2 infection or replication, these cell membrane nanosponges might function in a more holistic manner in treating a broad spectrum of viral infectious diseases,” Honko explained. In the next few months, the scientists plan to test the effectiveness of the nanosponges in neutralising the novel coronavirus in animal models. “Another interesting aspect of our approach is that even as SARS-CoV-2 mutates, as long as the virus can still invade the cells we are mimicking, our nanosponge approach should still work,” Zhang said. “I’m not sure this can be said for some of the vaccines and therapeutics that are currently being developed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-use-nanosponges-to-soak-up-neutralise-coronavirus-in-lab-study/story-Llv0522TbyEBnaXUWr3kvO.html
18-06-2020||World||South Korea’s nuclear envoy visits US as tensions flare with North Korea||South Korea’s chief nuclear negotiator will hold talks with officials in Washington on Thursday amid flaring tensions with North Korea after Pyongyang blew up an inter-Korean liaison office and threatened military action.Lee Do-hoon’s unannounced trip came days after North Korea blew up a joint liaison office in Kaesong, near the South Korean border and declared an end to dialogue with the South.Lee is expected to hold consultations with US officials, including Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun who had led denuclearisation negotiations with North Korea, Seoul’s foreign ministry said.Lee and Biegun will “assess the current situation on the Korean peninsula and discuss responses,” the ministry said in a statement.South Korean television showed Lee arriving at Washington’s Dulles International Airport on Wednesday evening, where he declined to comment to reporters.Pyongyang has increasingly snubbed Seoul’s calls for engagement as efforts to restart inter-Korean economic projects stalled due to international sanctions designed to rein in the North’s nuclear and missile programmes.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, on Wednesday criticised South Korean President Moon Jae-in for failing to implement a 2018 peace accord, saying Moon “put his neck into the noose of pro-US flunkeyism.”Pyongyang has also taken issue over defectors in the South sending propaganda leaflets into North Korea.Several defector-led groups regularly send back flyers carrying critical messages of Kim Jong Un, often together with food, $1 bills, mini radios and USB sticks containing South Korean dramas and news.The Rodong Sinmun, the official newspaper of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, said the demolition of the liaison office was the “first stage action” in its “holy war” aimed at punishing Seoul authorities for turning a blind eye to the defector’s campaign.“It was an iron hammer of stern punishment meted out to those who were having empty dreams while pursuing concealed hostile policy,” it said in a commentary.The newspaper also ran a series of articles and photos carrying angry ordinary citizens calling for retaliation and vowing to send anti-South leaflets over the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/update-1-s-korea-s-nuclear-envoy-visits-u-s-as-tensions-flare-with-north-korea/story-bdZrSrivCAdPf0US5PajkO.html
18-06-2020||World||Top US, China diplomats meet in Hawaii amid frayed ties over handling of Covid crisis||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met China’s top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, in Hawaii on Wednesday amid a deep deterioration of ties between the strategic rivals, their first face-to-face meeting since last year.The world’s two largest economies have been at loggerheads over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic and China’s move to impose security legislation on Hong Kong, among the latest flare-ups in tensions that have sharply escalated this year.Yang told Pompeo that Washington needs to respect Beijing’s positions on key issues, halt its interference on matters such as Hong Kong, Taiwan and Xinjiang, and work to repair relations, China’s foreign ministry said in a statement on Thursday.Yang said cooperation between the two countries “is the only correct choice”, according to the ministry.Pompeo stressed “the need for fully-reciprocal dealings between the two nations across commercial, security, and diplomatic interactions,” US State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said in a statement.“He also stressed the need for full transparency and information sharing to combat the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and prevent future outbreaks.”Beijing described the meeting as “constructive” and said the two sides had agreed to continue engagement.The meeting in Honolulu started shortly after 9 a.m. (1900 GMT) and concluded at 3:50 p.m. (0150 GMT Thursday), a senior State Department official said. As the meeting got under way, US President Donald Trump signed legislation calling for sanctions against those responsible for repression of Uighur Muslims in China’s Xinjiang region, which prompted a threat of retaliation from Beijing.Separately, foreign ministers of the G7 countries, including Pompeo, issued a statement calling on China not to follow through with the Hong Kong legislation which critics call an assault on the territory’s democratic freedoms.Pompeo has been forceful in his criticism of Beijing and it was his first known contact with Yang since they discussed the coronavirus by phone on April 15.Tensions have risen also over China’s neighbor North Korea. The United States and China share concerns about that country’s nuclear weapons program.Low pointExperts say US-China relations have reached their lowest point in years, and in mid-May Trump, who has pursued a deal to end a damaging trade war he launched with China, went so far as to suggest he could cut ties with Beijing.The bill Trump signed earlier on Wednesday calls for sanctions on Chinese officials responsible for oppressing Uighur Muslims.Trump tempered that possibility by saying he regarded the bill’s sanctions requirements as advisory, not mandatory.While Trump and his administration have stepped up rhetoric against China in the run-up to the November US election, his former national security adviser, John Bolton, said on Wednesday the president sought Chinese President Xi Jinping’s help to win re-election during a closed-door June 2019 meeting.Bolton’s accusations are part of a book that the US government on Tuesday sued to block him from publishing, arguing it contained classified information and would compromise national security.Trump hit back at Bolton, calling him “a liar” in an interview with the Wall Street Journal. He told Fox News in a separate interview that Bolton had broken the law by including highly classified material in the book.Neither side outlined an agenda for the Hawaii talks, but diplomats and other sources have said the meeting was requested by China.US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer also told a congressional hearing that Chinese officials had repeatedly affirmed their commitment to buy more US goods and services under a Phase 1 trade deal signed in January and that some $10 billion in purchases had been recorded thus far. Lighthizer also said, when asked about exports of products made by Uighurs and other Muslim groups in camps in China, that Washington would “strongly enforce” US laws banning the import of goods made by forced labor.Among his criticisms of China, Pompeo has said it could have prevented hundreds of thousands of deaths from the global coronavirus pandemic by being more transparent, and accused it of refusing to share information.Trump has initiated a process of eliminating special US treatment for Hong Kong to punish China for curbing freedoms there, but has stopped short of immediately ending privileges that have helped the territory remain a global financial center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-us-china-diplomats-meet-in-hawaii-amid-frayed-ties-over-handling-of-covid-crisis/story-bFZRcIUI2RdEOZqhZ30JzO.html
18-06-2020||World||Netflix CEO to donate $120 million to historically black colleges||Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and his wife, Patty Quillin, are donating $120 million toward student scholarships at historically black colleges and universities.The couple is giving $40 million to each of three institutions: the United Negro College Fund, Spelman College and Morehouse College. The organizations said it is the largest individual gift in support of student scholarships at HBCUs.Hastings has a history of supporting educational causes, including charter schools. He launched a $100 million education fund in 2016, beginning with money toward college scholarships for black and Latino students.Hastings said now is the time when “everyone needs to figure out” how to contribute to solving racism. He said HBCUs have been resilient “little-known gems” for black education.Amid protests over police brutality that began three weeks ago, companies and business leaders have been pledging solidarity with their black employees and the black community. But tech companies — including Netflix — have fallen short in hiring, retaining and promoting underrepresented minorities within their own ranks.Other tech industry donations in the wake of the Black Lives Matter protests have largely been on the company level. On Wednesday, Google CEO Sundar Pichai outlined plans toward racial equity at the company that includes increasing the number of black and other underrepresented minority executives and creating a $175 million “economic opportunity package” that includes $100 million in funding for black-led venture capital firms and startups.Last week, Apple CEO Tim Cook announced that the company will spend $100 million on a new Racial Equity and Justice Initiative, investing in education and criminal justice reform among other things. YouTube, meanwhile, pledged $100 million to help black artists and other creators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netflix-ceo-to-donate-120-million-to-historically-black-colleges/story-Rg78jPRzsf2OPt43Qs1ShO.html
18-06-2020||World||China is on NATO radar more than ever: Report||China is on the NATO radar more than ever, a top American envoy to the powerful military grouping has said, asserting that Beijing could be a peaceful partner but it is not showing that right now.Kay Bailey Hutchison, US Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), told reporters at a virtual meeting here on Wednesday that NATO is beginning to assess what China is doing.“China could be a peaceful partner, a good trade partner, but they’re not showing that right now, and I think NATO partners are looking at this,” she said.“It’s much more on our radar screen, and I think it should be because we should assess the risk, hope for the best but prepare for the worst,” Hutchison said on the aggressive behaviour and provocative actions of China against Taiwan, Japan and India.On whether a risk of an actual military confrontation was on the horizon, she said, “I think NATO is now looking to the East.” Everything that has been happening with the 5G networks is being dealt with in the US and Europe throughout the alliance, Hutchison said.“We’re trying to keep our communications secure and seeing that some of the Chinese competitors do not have the capability to control the contractual obligations that are made by communications providers – all of those things, including the Belt and Road Initiative, are raising concerns among our allies, about what is the intent of China,” she said.The United States is very clear that it wants China to be a partner in the world order and it is known that China has stolen intellectual property, violated tariff and subsidies set down by the world courts and the World Trade Organization, Hutchison said.“So we know that China has the capability to compete on a level playing field, and we’re asking them to do that, but we’re also turning a wary eye to their behaviour right now in the South China Sea, militarising islands that they said would never be done, as well as the clampdown on Hong Kong,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-is-on-nato-radar-more-than-ever-report/story-dwrJwZayWL725500BQjdpN.html
18-06-2020||World||Donald Trump ‘pleaded’ with Xi Jinping to help win 2020 US polls, says John Bolton||President Donald Trump had pleaded with President Xi Jinping to help him win a second term during trade negotiations and also endorsed the Chinese leader’s concentration camps for Uygur Muslims, writes John Bolton, the former US national security adviser, in an upcoming book widely previewed in American media Wednesday.Among other bombshell revelations in the book — “Room where it happened” based on Bolton’s 16 months as Trump’s NSA — were reported claims that the US president did not know that the United Kingdom was a nuclear power and that he believed Finland was a part of Russia.But the revelation that sent shockwaves through US political circles was his pleas to Xi for help with his re-election bid. It happened on June 29, 2019, when the two leaders met separately on the sidelines of the Osaka G-20 and came around to discussing trade disputes under negotiation.“Trump, then, stunningly, turned the conversation to the coming US presidential election, alluding to China’s economic capability and pleading with Xi to ensure he’d win,” Bolton writes in an excerpt from the book adapted for The Wall Street Journal. “He stressed the importance of farmers and increased Chinese purchases of soybeans and wheat in the electoral outcome. I would print Trump’s exact words, but the government’s prepublication review process has decided otherwise.”Xi had agreed to these requests — not specifically to his re-election bid — and to resume talks, which led to Trump’s effusive praise of Xi. Bolton writes that the US president hailed Xi as the “greatest Chinese leader in 300 years” and then corrected himself a few minutes later to accord him a promotion as “the greatest leader in Chinese history”.At the same meeting in Osaka, Bolton writes, “Xi had explained to Trump why he was basically building concentration camps in Xinjiang. According to our interpreter, Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which Trump thought was exactly the right thing to do”.Trump has never been able to shake off perception that Russians interfered in the 2016 election to help him defeat Hillary Clinton, which has been reaffirmed by US intelligence and a subsequent investigation by the FBI. And now this claim that he directly sought the Chinese leader’s help to win a second term.Trump blasted Bolton in a retaliatory post on twitter as a “total failure” in government and, who, he added, “bungled” in everything he did. But he did not address the specific issue of his “pleading” to Xi.Thursday morning, the president fired back again, saying, ”Many of the ridiculous statements he attributes to me were never made, pure fiction. Just trying to get even for firing him like the sick puppy he is!’The department of justice sued Bolton on Tuesday in a bid to delay the publication of the book saying it contained classified material.The book is due out next Tuesday. But the storm had started already. “If these accounts are true, it’s not only morally repugnant, it’s a violation of Donald Trump’s sacred duty to the American people to protect America’s interests and defend our values,” said Joe Biden, the former vice-president the presumptive Democratic nominee to take on Trump in November.He added: “And my message to China’s leaders, or anyone else who President Trump might invite to interfere: stay out of our democracy. Stay out of our elections.”The many instances of Trumps’s complete capitulation to the Chinese leader are in stark contrast to the rhetoric he has now deployed to blame China for the Covid-19 deaths and infections in American, with an eye on his re-election prospects, which, his former NSA says in the book, is an overriding obsession.“I am hard-pressed to identify any significant Trump decision during my White House tenure that wasn’t driven by re-election calculations,” he writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-pleaded-with-xi-jinping-to-help-win-2020-us-polls-says-john-bolton/story-ZcBLk74fbJSzYPW9eMiXmN.html
18-06-2020||World||Job losses from coronavirus pandemic ‘devastating’: Australian PM Morrison||The massive blow to Australia’s employment sector from Covid-19 pandemic-driven lockdowns is “devastating”, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday after data showed the jobless rate surged to a 19-year high.“These are our dark times, but I can see that ray of light, and I’m sure Australians can see that,” he told reporters in Canberra.Official data out earlier showed nearly a quarter of a million people lost their jobs in May, sending the unemployment rate to 7.1%, the highest since October 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-job-losses-from-coronavirus-pandemic-are-devastating-says-pm-morrison/story-f3N9H6EYfvWnhLrYYfQmxJ.html
18-06-2020||World||China warns of countermeasures in response to US Uighurs law||China on Thursday warned of countermeasures in response to US President Donald Trump signing legislation calling for sanctions over the repression of China’s Uighur Muslims, demanding that Washington stop interfering in its affairs.China’s foreign ministry said in a statement the United States must bear all the consequences of any responses from Beijing and urged Washington to stop harming China’s interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-warns-of-countermeasures-in-response-to-us-uighurs-law/story-HZSQzXDsIfcpzOWyB4ENIN.html
18-06-2020||World||China says it must improve hygiene in markets after Beijing outbreak||Low standards of hygiene in China’s wholesale food markets and vulnerabilities in its food supply chain need to be urgently addressed after a new coronavirus outbreak in Beijing, a leading body of the ruling Communist Party said.The resurgence of Covid-19 in the country’s capital over the past week, infecting more than 100 people and raising fears of wider contagion, has been linked to the city’s massive Xinfadi food centre.The Communist Party’s top disciplinary body said the outbreak underlined the urgent need to improve sanitation standards and minimise health risks at markets.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The epidemic is a mirror that not only reflects the dirty and messy aspects of wholesale markets but also their low level management conditions,” the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI) said in a report published on its website on Wednesday. China’s sprawling food markets have emerged as an ideal breeding ground for the coronavirus, which has now infected more than 8 million people worldwide. The first major cluster of infections was traced to the Huanan seafood market in Wuhan, where bats and other wild animals were believed to be on sale.The CCDI report noted that most of the markets were built 20 to 30 years ago, when drainage and wastewater treatment was relatively undeveloped.An Yufa, a professor at China Agricultural University, was cited in the report as saying the markets must follow international practice and implement origin tracing systems as well as documentation on storage, transport and sale.Officials in Wuhan province took 3,000 samples from tools, chopping boards and drains in 114 farmers’ markets and 107 supermarkets this week to check for potential new sources of infection. All came up negative, they said.China has promised to ban the trade and consumption and wildlife in a bid to minimise disease transmission, though the use of wild animal products in traditional medicine will still be permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-must-improve-hygiene-in-markets-after-beijing-outbreak/story-L1vGG5N8szt3I158kkmPrI.html
18-06-2020||World||Americans face new coronavirus challenge: A shortage of coins||Banks across the United States are facing a shortage of coins during coronavirus crisis, prompting the US Federal Reserve to ration distribution and work with the US Mint to boost supply. With the partial closure of the economy due to the coronavirus crisis, “the flow of coins through the economy has kind of stopped,” Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell told the House Financial Services Committee. Making matters worse, the US Mint has decreased production of coin due to measures put in place to protect its employees. “We are working with the Mint and the Reserve Banks and as the economy reopens we are seeing coins beginning to move around again,” Powell said. He made the remarks in response to a question from Tennessee Congressman John Rose, who said a bank in his district told him it would run out of coins by the end of the week because the Fed was only sending a portion of its usual order of coins. “We all don’t want to wake up to headlines in the near future such as ‘Banks run out of money,’“ he said. Banks “don’t know what to tell their customers.”Powell said he was well aware of the issue and believed it would be temporary. “We feel like we are making progress,” Powell said. The Fed on Monday told banks it is working with the Mint to increase supply, but that until the shortage can be cured would limit the number of pennies, nickels, dimes and quarters it sends to them “to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of coin inventory.” Allocations will be based on banks’ historical patterns of coin orders, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americans-face-new-coronavirus-challenge-a-shortage-of-coins/story-VI4FtD5xnetWyb01ZJrV6J.html
18-06-2020||World||Trump says US will not lock down again amid rising coronavirus cases||President Donald Trump said on Wednesday the United States would not close businesses again as several states reported rising numbers of new coronavirus infections.“We won’t be closing the country again. We won’t have to do that,” Trump said in an interview with Fox News Channel.Trump’s comments come after White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin both said the United States could not shut down the economy again. In a call with governors, Vice President Mike Pence encouraged them to repeat the administration’s claim that increased testing accounts for the spike in numbers, the New York Times has reported. The paper’s analysis found that positive cases outstripped the average number of administered tests in at least 14 states.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRestaurants, gyms, schools and other locations closed down in March as the country braced for the coronavirus, which has so far sickened 2.16 million Americans and killed nearly 118,000.Millions of Americans found themselves unemployed as a result of the pandemic. Trump had previously touted the strength of the economy, making it central to his re-election bid in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-us-will-not-lock-down-again-amid-rising-coronavirus-cases/story-TFvRDsrAKIUnaTIRlwXHHJ.html
18-06-2020||World||Millions of abandoned oil wells are leaking methane, a climate menace||In May 2012, Hanson and Michael Rowe noticed an overpowering smell, like rotten eggs, seeping from an abandoned gas well on their land in Kentucky. The fumes made the retired couple feel nauseous, dizzy, and short of breath.Regulators responding to the leak couldn’t find an owner to fix it. J.D. Carty Resources LLC had drilled the well near the Rowes’ home in 2006 - promising the family a 12.5% royalty and free natural gas, which they never got. But Carty went bust in 2008 and sold the site to a company that was later acquired by Blue Energy LLC. Lawyers for both companies deny any responsibility for the leak.A year later, Kentucky’s Division of Oil and Gas declared the well an environmental emergency and hired Boots & Coots Inc - the Texas contractor that doused oil-well fires after the Gulf War - to plug it. During the 40-day operation, the Rowes retreated to a trailer on their property and lived with no running water to escape the gases and noise. Regulators determined the leak was a toxic blend of hydrogen sulfide, a common drilling byproduct, and the potent greenhouse gas methane. “I wouldn’t go through this again for $1 million,” said Hanson Rowe, who with his wife is suing the energy companies for compensation. The incident, while extreme, reflects a growing global problem: More than a century of oil and gas drilling has left behind millions of abandoned wells, many of which are leaching pollutants into the air and water. And drilling companies are likely to abandon many more wells due to bankruptcies, as oil prices struggle to recover from historic lows after the coronavirus pandemic crushed global fuel demand, according to bankruptcy lawyers, industry analysts and state regulators.Leaks from abandoned wells have long been recognized as an environmental problem, a health hazard and a public nuisance. They have been linked to dozens of instances of groundwater contamination by research commissioned by the Groundwater Protection Council, whose members include state ground water agencies. Orphaned wells have been blamed for a slew of public safety incidents over the years, including a methane blowout at the construction site of a waterfront hotel in California last year.They also pose a serious threat to the climate that researchers and world governments are only starting to understand, according to a Reuters review of government data and interviews with scientists, regulators, and United Nations officials. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change last year recommended that UN member countries start tracking and publishing the amount of methane leaching from their abandoned oil and gas wells after scientists started flagging it as a global warming risk. So far, the United States and Canada are the only nations to do so.The US figures are sobering: More than 3.2 million abandoned oil and gas wells together emitted 281 kilotons of methane in 2018, according to the data, which was included in the US Environmental Protection Agency’s most recent report on April 14 to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. That’s the climate-damage equivalent of consuming about 16 million barrels of crude oil, according to an EPA calculation, or about as much as the United States, the world’s biggest oil consumer, uses in a typical day. The actual amount could be as much as three times higher, the EPA says, because of incomplete data. The agency believes most of the methane comes from the more than 2 million abandoned wells it estimates were never properly plugged.The problem is less severe in Canada, where the bulk of oil production comes from oil sands mining instead of traditional drilling. The government estimated that its 313,000 abandoned wells emitted 10.1 kt of methane in 2018, far less than in the United States.The global impact is harder to measure. The governments of Russia, Saudi Arabia, and China – which round out the top five world oil-and-gas producers – did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment on their abandoned wells and have not published reports on the wells’ methane leakage.Researchers say it’s impossible to accurately estimate global emissions from leaky abandoned wells without better data. But a rough Reuters calculation, based on the US share of global crude oil and natural gas production, would place the number of abandoned wells around the world at more than 29 million, with emissions of 2.5 million tonnes of methane per year - the climate-damage equivalent of three weeks of US oil consumption.Hidden menace In a forested area of western New York state in February, a group of state regulators, along with researchers from the State University of New York at Binghamton, trudged through the snow. They stopped at a rotting wooden structure encircling a rusted pipe.Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) official Charlie Dietrich held a bright orange device over the heap. It emitted a high-pitched signal, and its screen showed a code indicating the presence of ignitable gas. A scent of petroleum wafted through the air.“There’s some methane coming up out of there,” DEC Mineral Resources Specialist Nathan Graber said.The abandoned well lies in the forests of Olean, New York, which was an oil boomtown at the turn of the 20th century. The site was one of 72 locations logged by geophysicists Tim de Smet and Alex Nikulin in December, researchers from Binghamton, using a drone equipped with a metal detector, part of a program launched in 2013 to help New York identify and plug abandoned wells.New York’s DEC has records of 2,200 abandoned wells dating back to the late 1800s. But the state believes the actual number could be much higher, because of incomplete records.“It’s a lot easier to find stuff when you know where to look,” Nikulin said.The group is among an array of regulators, activists and federal agencies now seeking out abandoned wells from the US Northeast to California. The heightened interest in the climate threat posed by the wells started with a 2014 study by Princeton graduate student Mary Kang, who was the first to measure methane emissions from old drilling sites in Pennsylvania. She concluded in 2016 that abandoned wells represent 5% to 8% of total human-caused methane emissions in the state.“It’s not like they leak for one year, and then they stop,” said Kang, now a professor of civil engineering at McGill University in Montreal. “Some of these have been there maybe for 100 years. And they are going to be there for another 100 years.”Although the Trump administration has downplayed global warming and its link to fossil fuels, the US Energy Department has been financing efforts to improve data on emissions from abandoned wells. Researchers from DOE’s National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) recently took measurements from more than 200 wells in Kentucky and Oklahoma and are planning field work in Texas. They plan to publish their data by next spring.NETL researcher Natalie Pekney said the work was crucial to better understanding the climate impact of abandoned wells. Many wells don’t leak much or at all, she said, while others have “huge” methane emissions.NETL had previously used aerial surveys to locate old wells in Pennsylvania – home to the massive Marcellus gas deposit – so drillers could avoid pushing fluids and gases up through old abandoned well sites deep in the state’s forests. Its researchers found many old wells contained bubbling fluids, an indicator of methane leaks.Growing problemNationwide, the number of documented abandoned wells has jumped by more than 12% since 2008, around the start of the hydraulic fracturing boom, according to the EPA estimates.Many experts believe the number will keep growing. Oil-and-gas firm bankruptcies in the United States and Canada rose 50% to 42 in 2019, and analysts say the rate is likely to accelerate as the pandemic-related slide in energy prices shakes out producers.Research firm Rystad Energy estimates that about 73 US drilling companies could go bankrupt this year, with an additional 170 succumbing in 2021, assuming an average oil price of $30 a barrel.“When prices are this low, it becomes a very serious problem. It becomes a fight over who is going to ultimately have to pay” for cleaning up abandoned wells, said John Penn, a bankruptcy attorney with Perkins Coie LLP in Dallas. “It makes it really bad, and it’s going to get worse.”A school district in Beverly Hills, California, was saddled with a bill of at least $11 million to plug 19 oil wells on the property of its high school, after a judge in 2017 absolved Venoco LLC - the bankrupt company that had been operating the wells - of any responsibility for clean-up because other creditors took priority. The city of Beverly Hills is contributing another $11 million to the job. “This is an incredible amount of money” siphoned away from education, said Michael Bregy, superintendent of the Beverly Hills Unified School District.State and federal regulations normally require drillers to pay an up-front bond to cover future cleanups if they go belly-up. But the rules are a patchwork, with wildly differing requirements, and they seldom leave governments adequately funded. In Pennsylvania, for example, it would take several thousand years to plug its estimated backlog of 200,000 abandoned oil wells at the current rate of spending, according to data from the state regulator.Oil-industry lobbyists have been fighting state and federal efforts to increase the bonding, arguing it would hurt jobs and economic growth during an already tough time for the industry.“States and the federal government have many sources of funding available to reclaim and plug abandoned wells,” said Reid Porter, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, the country’s largest oil and gas trade group.The API spent $1.44 million in the first quarter of 2020 lobbying on Capitol Hill, with oil well bonding legislation one of the target issues, lobbying disclosures show.The US Government Accountability Office estimates that cleaning up and plugging an abandoned well runs from $20,000 to $145,000, putting the price tag for cleaning up all of America’s abandoned wells somewhere between $60 billion to $435 billion.‘Shooting out of the earth’The pollution threat goes beyond climate change. Leaks from abandoned wells have been found to contaminate groundwater and soil. In extreme cases, gas from abandoned wells has caused explosions.In Ohio and Texas, state regulators have each found an average of around two groundwater contamination incidents per year related to orphaned wells, according to research by the Groundwater Protection Council published in 2011 and dating to the 1980s.In April 2017, for example, neighbors of Ohio farmer Stan Brenneman alerted him to the smell of oil coming from a drainage ditch on his 111-acre corn and soybean farm near the town of Elida, Brenneman told Reuters. The ditch drains water from the farm and carries it into rivers, streams and eventually Lake Erie.Ohio’s Division of Oil & Gas Resources Management excavated 800 feet of the farm’s drainage system to find a well casing - about 130 years old - releasing oil three feet underground. The plugging operation took two months to complete and cost the state $196,915, according to a spokeswoman for the state Department of Natural Resources.More recently, in 2018, the US EPA was alerted to the presence of nearly 50 abandoned oil and gas wells on Navajo Nation lands within the borders of Utah and New Mexico that were bubbling water at the surface. Tests showed the way from some of the wells contained potentially dangerous levels of arsenic, sulfate, benzene and chloride.The Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency said plugging the wells would require “major funds” and that, in the meantime, the public had been warned not to drink the water.In rare cases, gas from long-abandoned wells can cause dangerous accidents.In January of last year, a 1930s-era well sent a geyser of gas and dirt 100 feet into the air at the construction site of a Marriott seaside hotel in Marina del Rey, California, an upscale community in the Los Angeles area, according to a state report. The hotel owners did not respond to a request for comment.“It was horrifying,” said resident Marilyn Wall, who witnessed the explosion from her home across the street. She said she was stunned “by the extent and the length of time that the stuff was shooting out of the earth.”A worker standing on a construction platform above the plume was sprayed with debris and scrambled to lower himself down with an escape rope, a video of the explosion shows.Don’t drink the waterFor Hanson and Michael Rowe, their troubles did not end the day their abandoned well was plugged. They no longer drink from the water well on their property because it gives them diarrhea, they said. Michael Rowe said she still suffers from headaches and coughing spells.Kentucky’s Energy and Environment Cabinet is still fighting to recoup the $383,340 cost from the now-defunct J.D. Carty and Blue Energy in an ongoing court battle.An attorney for John Carty, founder of J.D. Carty, said his client had sold what few assets remained in the company and therefore bore no responsibility. A lawyer for Blue Energy said the company denies ever operating the wells on the property and has no responsibility to maintain or plug them.J.D. Carty was only required to have one $50,000 “blanket bond” to cover all its wells in Kentucky. The amount forfeited to pay for the leaky well on Rowe’s land, determined in part by its depth, was just $2,500 - less than 1% of the cost to fix it.After the incident, Kentucky lawmakers passed a bill last year that effectively doubled bond requirements for shallow wells to help cope with the state’s 13,000 abandoned wells. Still, state regulators say the list of wells is growing.Hanson Rowe said he supports fossil fuel development because using natural gas for heat and cooking has improved his quality of life. But the couple say they hope their lawsuit against the companies involved will help change the way the energy industry manages its wells.“You lost your health, you’ve lost it all,” Hanson Rowe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-abandoned-oil-wells-are-leaking-methane-a-climate-menace/story-7FNltTOLexNCarHoEpgfuM.html
18-06-2020||World||US authorities debate over masks, personal freedom as Covid-19 cases surge||When the coronavirus flared in China’s capital this week, Beijing cancelled flights, suspended reopenings and described the situation as “extremely grave.” But with cases rising in some US states, local officials have balked at even requiring people to wear masks.In the United States, which has the most confirmed cases and deaths in the world, authorities wrestled Wednesday with balancing demands for constitutional rights and personal freedom with warnings from health officials that being lax will have deadly consequences.China responded to a new outbreak in Beijing by scrapping more than 60% of its flights to the capital, cancelling classes and strengthening requirements for social distancing. It was a sharp retreat for the nation that declared victory over Covid-19 in March.“This has truly rung an alarm bell for us,” Party Secretary Cai Qi told a meeting of Beijing’s Communist Party Standing Committee.China’s actions follow about 137 new cases, a fraction of the number some US states see each day. In Arizona, more than 1,100 people visited emergency rooms on Tuesday alone with positive or suspected cases. Alabama also is running out of hospital space, stirring impassioned debate over a mask requirement. Other states that haven’t mandated face coverings, like Texas and Florida, are seeing infections soar.With masks becoming a political symbol, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has taken aim at president Donald Trump’s approach to the pandemic.“Donald Trump wants to style himself as a wartime president. Unlike any other wartime leader, he takes no responsibility, he exercises no leadership, now he has just flat surrendered the fight,” Biden said Wednesday.Biden has worn a mask repeatedly at public events, while Trump hasn’t, even on occasions such as touring auto factory floors when they are required. Aides say Trump believes they’re unflattering and that wearing one projects weakness.The mask debate is playing out nationwide, notably in hard-hit states where face coverings have become a political and cultural debate.Hundreds of medical professionals signed a letter urging Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey to require them. Facing mounting pressure to act as cases surge, the Republican said cities were free to mandate masks.Ducey, who removed his mask before speaking to reporters, said there were vastly different rates of infection across the state.“For some things, a statewide directive or executive order works very well,” he said. “If you have 12 or 13 counties that say ‘pound sand’ on an executive order ... it’s a self-defeating executive order.”Ducey has attributed Arizona’s soaring cases to increased testing. The state has been doing more tests, which can yield more cases, but health experts say a better way to see if more people are getting sick is to look at the percentage of positive tests. When that percentage rises, it means the outbreak is worsening — not just that more people are getting tested.Arizona has the nation’s highest seven-day average positive test rate: 17.7%, or about double the national average and well above the 10% threshold that health officials find worrisome. It also has the most new cases per capita in the US in the past 14 days. The state’s leading hospital system says it’s almost running out of beds.Ducey said roughly 300 National Guardsmen would help with contact tracing. Several restaurants and other businesses have closed because staff tested positive in the last week.The same thing is happening in parts of Florida, where people under 35 are testing positive at a higher rate since the pandemic began, contributing to a surge in cases, officials said Wednesday.The coastal city of St. Petersburg had three popular bars close after employees tested positive, and it’s now requiring workers who have contact with the public to wear masks — which some hard-hit cities in southern Florida have been doing for weeks.Mayor Rick Kriseman said he also plans to require people to cover their faces in businesses and other public spaces.“We can wear a mask, protect others and ourselves, or we can contribute to someone’s death. Maybe even our own,” Kriseman said.The Democrat said Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis has encouraged people to use masks but not mandated them.DeSantis said he has no intention of closing Florida’s economy again despite the statewide spike in new cases, which topped 1,000 Wednesday for the 15th consecutive day. He said many of those getting sick are young and unlikely to suffer serious illness or death.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as fever and cough. For some, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia and death.Fears about growing numbers of infections in younger people pushed officials in the San Antonio area to order masks in public as infections keep rising in Texas.“What we are doing here is to protect the life and safety of the San Antonio community,” Mayor Ron Nirenberg said, adding that most infections in the area are in people younger than 40.Later Wednesday, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican, said local governments could force businesses to require customers and workers to wear masks but that he wouldn’t issue a statewide order. The second-most-populated state set daily records for new Covid-19 cases, with 3,129, and hospitalizations. The 2,793 hospitalizations mark a daily high for the 10th time in 11 days.In Montgomery, Alabama, where cases are spiking, the issue of masks erupted during a City Council meeting, where members rejected a proposal to mandate them at public gatherings of 25 or more.Dr. Bill Saliski, a lung specialist at Jackson Hospital in Montgomery, called on the city to pass a mask requirement and declared: “If this continues the way we’re going, we’re going to be overrun.”Some city leaders voiced concern about trampling on people’s rights.“I think to make somebody do something or require somebody to wear something is an overreach,” councilman Brantley Lyons said.Since the virus emerged in China late last year and spread worldwide, there have been more than 8.3 million confirmed cases and over 447,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University. Experts say the true toll is much higher. The U.S. death toll has exceeded 117,000.European nations, which embarked on a wide-scale reopening this week, watched Asia and the Americas with trepidation.After lockdown restrictions were relaxed in Iran, Health Minister Saeed Namaki said he realized the extent of the challenge when he took a domestic flight.“Many people have become careless, frustrated with wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-authorities-debate-over-masks-personal-freedom-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-DjCvszOa6jEiwzMzQOHXUL.html
18-06-2020||World||G-7 calls on China to reconsider Hong Kong security law||The Group of Seven leading economies is calling on China to reconsider plans to impose a national security law in Hong Kong, according to a joint statement issued on Wednesday.The national security legislation is aimed at curbing secessionist activities that Beijing says fuelled monthslong anti-government protests in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.In their statement, foreign ministers from the G-7 nations voiced “grave concern regarding China’s decision to impose a national security law on Hong Kong,” adding that it would breach the territory’s Basic Law and Beijing’s international commitments.“It would jeopardise the system which has allowed Hong Kong to flourish and made it a success over many years,” they said. “Open debate, consultation with stakeholders, and respect for protected rights and freedoms in Hong Kong are essential.” The G-7 members are the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom.“We are also extremely concerned that this action would curtail and threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of all the population protected by the rule of law and the existence of an independent justice system,” the foreign ministers said in their statement, which was also signed by the EU’s top diplomat.“We strongly urge the Government of China to re-consider this decision,” the G-7 added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/g-7-calls-on-china-to-reconsider-hong-kong-security-law/story-Pvlvcvay3l8AEoOBI5CRzM.html
18-06-2020||World||Wuhan experts called in as Beijing reports 158 Covid-19 cases in a week||Beijing on Thursday recorded 21 new cases of Covid-19 for June 17, 10 less than the day before, increasing the caseload to 158 in a week with nearly all the infections linked to a sprawling fresh food market in the southwestern Fengtai district.Local authorities have conducted more than 3.5 lakh nucleic acid tests since Saturday, have suspended flights, schools and gatherings in the Capital and fenced off dozens of residential communities to contain the new surge in infections in Beijing, which have sent ripples of worry across the world about difficulties in tackling the coronavirus pandemic.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here More than a thousand in and outbound flights from two airports in Beijing were cancelled on Wednesday.The Beijing government has described the situation in the city as “grim”.The Beijing Municipal Bureau of Sports issued an urgent notice on Wednesday, suspending sports events as well as closing certain gyms in the capital city.According to the notice, all kinds of sports events will be suspended. Underground swimming pools and gyms will have to be closed.“Basketball, volleyball, football and other group sports are forbidden,” the official news agency, Xinhua, reported quoting the notice.The national health commission (NHC) has deployed in Beijing a team of experts with experience in fighting the outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan where the coronavirus first emerged late last year.The team will guide the local authorities in community management, tracing contacts and preventing the spread of the infection in hospitals.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Overall, 28 confirmed cases were detected in the mainland for June 17, including four imported.North China’s Hebei province, bordering Beijing, reported two new Covid-19 cases and three asymptomatic patients on Wednesday, all of whom are related to the Beijing Xinfadi market.The virus is said to have been detected on a salmon fish chopping board.Beijing’s neighbouring city Tianjin reported one new covid-19 case on Wednesday night; that of a 22-year-old man working at Tianjin’s Conrad Hotel, according to Chinese state media.“The patient has been responsible for dishwashing since May 30, occasionally cleaning frozen seafood. All 93 close contacts have been quarantined for medical observation,” the state media report said.Following Beijing’s decision to raise its epidemic response to Level II from Level III on Tuesday, and after four provinces reported confirmed cases related to the capital city’s new outbreak, 31 provinces and regions in China have tightened health checks on arrivals from Beijing.At least one city, Harbin in northeast China, said arrivals from Beijing’s risk areas would have to go through a 14-day centralised quarantine, a week of home quarantine and four nucleic acid and one serum test during that period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-experts-called-in-as-beijing-reports-158-covid-19-cases-in-a-week/story-LrgzVO48vkB53dFGsHfMyJ.html
18-06-2020||World||Mexico, India, Ireland, Norway elected to UN Security Council, one seat still open||Mexico, India, Ireland and Norway were elected to the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday, but the 193 UN member states must return on Thursday to continue voting to fill one more vacant seat after there was no clear winner.Canada lost out to Ireland and Norway in a hotly contested election that included Ireland enlisting the help of U2 singer Bono and taking UN ambassadors to a U2 concert and Canada taking envoys to a Celine Dion concert. Mexico and India were elected unopposed. Kenya and Djibouti were competing for the final seat, but there was no clear winner. To ensure geographical representation, seats are allocated to regional groups. But even if candidates are running unopposed in their group, they still need to win the support of more than two thirds of the UN General Assembly.The new members will start their two-year term on the 15-member council on Jan. 1. After operating virtually since March amid the coronavirus pandemic, diplomats - wearing masks and social distancing - returned to the General Assembly hall on Wednesday to cast their secret ballots at allotted times. They also elected - unopposed - Turkish diplomat Volkan Bozkir as the president of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly. He will take up the role later this year.The Security Council is the only UN body that can make legally binding decisions like imposing sanctions and authorizing the use of force. It has five permanent veto-wielding members - the United States, Britain, France, China and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-india-ireland-norway-elected-to-un-security-council-one-seat-still-open/story-7fs2XMZg2MH4o8JXLiSAVM.html
18-06-2020||World||Consult allies on future troop plans, NATO chief tells US||The United States remains committed to its European allies and has pledged to consult them on any future US troop moves in Europe, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Wednesday, after President Donald Trump’s surprise announcement that he plans to pull thousands of personnel out of Germany.Trump said Monday that he is ordering a major reduction in troop strength in Germany, from around 34,500 personnel down to 25,000. Members of his own party have criticized the move as a gift to Russia and a threat to US national security. Germany is a hub for US operations in the Middle East and Africa.Speaking after chairing a video meeting of NATO defense ministers, Stoltenberg said that Defense Secretary Mark Esper “stated very strongly that of course the US stays committed to European security, and the United States will consult with other allies as we move forward.”“No final decision has been made on how and when to implement the US intention,” Stoltenberg said.Germany wasn’t notified of the move, which came after Trump branded its NATO ally “delinquent” for failing to pay enough for its own defense, by falling short of a goal set in 2014 for members to halt budget cuts and move toward spending at least 2% of gross national product on defense by 2024.A number of NATO diplomats and officials have suggested the pullout — which would be costly and might not even be logistically possible before the US elections in November — probably won’t happen.Stoltenberg said that the United States and Poland, in consultation with NATO, had decided to boost the US troop presence there, but he provided no details.Asked whether European allies and Canada are concerned that Trump might announce a complete troop withdrawal from Afghanistan as the election approaches, NATO’s top civilian official said only that Esper had given the ministers a detailed briefing on US plans.Stoltenberg said more talks will take place among NATO allies and their partners in the conflict-ravaged country, but that any drawdown would be based on whether the Taliban are complying with their commitments to the peace agreement.Separately, the ministers endorsed a series of measures they’ve been preparing for more than a year to respond to Russia’s development of nuclear capable medium-range missiles and hypersonic weapons, and what NATO says is Moscow’s intimidation of European allies.Stoltenberg said a number of allies are buying new air and missile defense systems and some are investing in advanced fighter aircraft. The 30-nation military alliance is also boosting its intelligence gathering and sharing, and plans more war games.Stoltenberg said the ministers also “decided on additional steps to keep the NATO nuclear deterrent safe, secure and effective,” without elaborating. But he insisted that NATO countries don’t plan to “mirror Russia” by deploying new land-based nuclear missiles in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/consult-allies-on-future-troop-plans-nato-chief-tells-us/story-HfRMWZ5eDFOR9roDilA1hO.html
18-06-2020||World||Donald Trump ‘pleaded’ with Xi Jinping to help him get reelected: John Bolton||President Donald Trump “pleaded” with China’s Xi Jinping during a 2019 summit to help his reelection prospects, according to a scathing new book by former Trump adviser John Bolton that accuses the president of being driven by political calculations when making national security decisions.The White House worked furiously to block the book, asking a federal court for an emergency temporary restraining order Wednesday against its release.Bolton’s allegations that Trump solicited Chinese help for his reelection effort carried echoes of Trump’s attempt to get political help from Ukraine, which led to his impeachment.“I am hard-pressed to identify any significant Trump decision during my tenure that wasn’t driven by re-election calculations,” Bolton wrote.The 577-page book paints an unvarnished portrait of Trump and his administration, amounting to the most vivid, first-person account yet of how Trump conducts himself in office. Several other former officials have written books, but most have been flattering about the president. Other former officials have indicated they were saving their accounts of their time working for Trump until after he left office in order to speak more candidly. The Associated Press obtained a copy of Bolton’s book in advance of its release next week.Bolton, Trump’s national security adviser for a 17-month period, called Trump’s attempt to shift the June 2019 conversation with Xi to the US election a stunning move, and wrote that it was among innumerable conversations that he found concerning. He added that Congress should have expanded the scope of its impeachment inquiry to these other incidents.Deeply critical of the president and much of his senior team, Bolton wrote that because staff had served him so poorly, Trump “saw conspiracies behind rocks, and remained stunningly uninformed on how to run the White House, let alone the huge federal government.” He added that while he was at the White House, Trump typically had only two intelligence briefings a week “and in most of those, he spoke at greater length than the briefers, often on matters completely unrelated to the subjects at hand.”The book also includes embarrassing claims that Trump thought Finland was part of Russia, didn’t know that the United Kingdom was a nuclear power and called reporters “scumbags” who should be “executed.”As for the meeting with the Chinese president in Osaka, Japan, Bolton wrote that Trump told Xi that Democrats were hostile to China.“He then, stunningly, turned the conversation to the coming U.S. presidential election, alluding to China’s economic capability to affect the ongoing campaigns, pleading with Xi to ensure he’d win,” Bolton said. “He stressed the importance of farmers, and increased Chinese purchases of soybeans and wheat in the electoral outcome.”Bolton wrote that he would print Trump’s exact words, “but the government’s pre-publication review process has decided otherwise.”The book, titled “The Room Where It Happened: A White House Memoir,” is set to be released Tuesday by Simon & Schuster. It has been the subject of a lengthy battle between Bolton and the White House.The Justice Department filed suit Tuesday in an effort to delay publication of the book, claiming it still contained highly classified information and that a required review by the National Security Council had not been concluded. According to the filing, a career official determined no classified material remained in April, but national security adviser Robert O’Brien initiated a secondary review that deemed additional information to be classified.The White House’s contention that so much of the book was classified appeared to be a tacit admission that many of Bolton’s allegations were accurate — as inaccurate information could not be classified.Bolton wrote that, due to the review process, he made “numerous changes to the manuscript in order to obtain clearance to publish, the vast bulk of which, in my view, did not change the facts set forth.” He said in some cases he was asked to add phrases like, “in my view,” to make it clear he was expressing his opinion instead of relying on sensitive information. In others, he was asked to describe things more generally. He was asked to remove quotation marks nearly every time he recounts conversation between Trump and foreign leaders and himself and foreign leaders.US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said Wednesday that he attended a meeting between Trump and Xi at the Group of 20 nations in Osaka, but he never heard Trump pleading with Xi to buy more agriculture products to ensure he would win reelection. Lighthizer spoke at a Senate hearing on trade issues and was asked about Bolton’s recollection of events.“Absolutely untrue. Never happened. I was there. I have no recollection of that ever happening. I don’t believe it’s true. I don’t believe it ever happened,” Lighthizer said. “Would I recollect something as crazy as that? Of course, I would recollect it.”Bolton wrote that he raised some of his concerns about Trump’s conversations with foreign leaders with Attorney General William Barr, and flagged similar worries with White House attorneys and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.“The pattern looked like obstruction of justice as a way of life, which we couldn’t accept,” he wrote.Justice Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec denied in a statement that Barr had ever expressed that Trump’s conversations with foreign leaders were improper.Trump continually pandered to Xi, Bolton wrote. At a White House Christmas dinner in 2018, Bolton said Trump asked why the US was sanctioning China over its treatment of Uighurs. China suspects Uighurs, who are predominantly Muslim and culturally and ethnically distinct from the majority Han Chinese population, of harboring separatist tendencies. In recent years, China has dramatically escalated its campaign against them by detaining more than 1 million people in internment camps and prisons, which it calls vocational training centers.“At the opening dinner of the Osaka G-20 meeting, with only interpreters present, Xi explained to Trump why he was basically building concentration camps in Xinjiang,” Bolton wrote. “According to our interpreter, Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which he thought was exactly the right thing to do. “Bolton’s claim that Trump was appealing to China to assist his reelection effort comes as the president’s rhetoric toward the US geopolitical rival has grown more acerbic in response to the coronavirus pandemic. But it may undercut the Trump reelection campaign’s efforts, evidenced in recent television ads and public statements to paint presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden as soft on China.In the book, Bolton describes every Trump decision as being guided by concerns for his own reelection, a claim that evokes the scandal that sparked Trump’s impeachment last year.The book alleges that Trump directly tied providing military aid to Ukraine to the country’s willingness to conduct investigations into the Bidens. In one conversation, Trump said “he wasn’t in favor of sending them anything until all the Russia-investigation materials related to Clinton and Biden had been turned over,” Bolton writes.Trump’s decision to withhold military assistance to Ukraine until it agreed to investigate Biden led the House to charge Trump was abusing his power. The aid was ultimately released once the hold-up became public. The GOP-controlled Senate ultimately acquitted the president on that count and a count of obstructing Congress’ investigation of the incident.Bolton was called to testify before House lawmakers conducting the impeachment inquiry, but he declined, suggesting he wanted a federal court to decide whether he should heed a White House directive not to cooperate with the inquiry.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the specifics in Bolton’s book, but emailed reporters past quotes of Democratic lawmakers impugning the former Trump aide’s credibility. In advance of the public reports about the details, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said the book was “full of classified information, which is inexcusable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-pleaded-with-china-s-xi-jinping-to-help-him-get-reelected-john-bolton/story-TFvdFi9j45j8RbTUQ1N2TM.html
18-06-2020||World||Beijing Covid-19 outbreak poses test for China’s chairman of everything||As Chinese officials in Wuhan struggled to contain a deadly coronavirus outbreak in January, it was Xi Jinping who stepped in and took control. Now, the president who declared himself personally responsible for every aspect of the China’s response to the pandemic faces fresh test: a rapidly growing outbreak in Beijing.The cluster of more than 130 cases in the city that is the seat of Communist Party power risks undermining the government’s narrative it handled the epidemic better than many western nations. It could upend its nascent economic recovery if it turns into a second wave. The stakes are even higher for Xi, who has staked his credibility on China’s response and sought to frame himself as a global leader in the crisis -- to the chagrin of nations from the US to Australia.It comes as Xi grapples with external challenges, too. He’s navigating a US president in the midst of a re-election campaign who has taken to frequent outbursts against China on everything from trade to Covid-19 to Beijing’s growing influence on Hong Kong. On Thursday, Trump signed legislation into law requiring US sanctions for Chinese officials found responsible for mass detentions of Uighurs and members of other Muslim minority groups.And now China is embroiled in a risky spat with neighbouring India after an altercation in a remote, border area of the Himalayas left 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops dead. In recent years Xi has essentially made himself “chairman of everything,” which risks complex issues becoming bottlenecked as he seeks to handle them personally. It also means that any missteps could be seen as his own.“This poses challenges for Xi as he has to carefully navigate through both a domestic economic slowdown and external pressures of being gradually isolated by the whole Western world,” said Chen Daoyin, a political commentator and former professor at the Shanghai University of Political Science and Law. “If China proves its model to be successful again, it will earn more credit globally and at home.”Xi was banking on that when in February, at the height of China’s epidemic, the rare release of internal speeches showed he was personally leading the government’s response, including ordering the lockdown of about 60 million people in Hubei province at great economic and social cost.In the months that followed, it appeared Xi had been validated. New cases dropped as officials implemented strict quarantine, surveillance and testing measures. Public anger over local officials’ initial response turned to nationalist pride as governments around the world struggled in turn to contain their own outbreaks.The resurgence of cases in Beijing threatens to undo that success. Infections have already spread to at least four other provinces, all stemming from the city’s largest wholesale market. Gao Fu, head of China’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said it’s likely the virus had been spreading a month before it was discovered last week.More ManageableStill, the city has so far refrained from the citywide lockdowns that China employed to stem the spread of Covid-19 in Wuhan and in the northeast region in a bid to minimize disruption to the country’s most important city. Officials are instead relying on an aggressive contract tracing campaign to identify and isolate people who had contact with the market.They also have more infrastructure in place this time around, including the ability to conduct more than 90,000 tests a day and a “health code” system available through residents’ cellphones that can show whether someone is at risk of being infected.“We think the second wave is more manageable than the first wave,” said Robin Xing, chief China economist at Morgan Stanley Asia. “The more active surveillance and improved testing and contact tracing will likely result in selective rather than massive lockdowns,” he said, allowing “economic activity in most regions of China to resume while keeping public health challenges in check.”But avoiding economic pain isn’t Xi’s only consideration. In February, he warned government and party officials that they had to “spare no effort” to contain a cluster that broke out in the Beijing’s West District -- home to central party and government compound Zhongnanhai.“The safety and stability of the capital city directly concerns the broader outlook for the party and the country,” he said.Cai Qi, Beijing’s party chief and a close ally of Xi, on Tuesday vowed to “resolutely contain the virus.” He urged cadres to “take strict precautions, maintain social stability and make sure no serious incidents happen again,” according to the official Xinhua News Agency.Beijing has since then moved to close down schools, reinstate strict restrictions in housing compounds and limit outbound trains and flights. Local officials warned on Wednesday that more cases will be reported in the coming days.The source of the outbreak remains unclear, though Chinese officials have indicated they think it came from Europe. Salmon is being boycotted in China after the virus was traced to the chopping board of a vendor selling the imported seafood and authorities are testing some food imports before allowing them in the country, even though scientists say that there’s no evidence that food can transmit the pathogen.External ChallengesThe outbreak in Beijing comes as Xi faces criticism from other nations even as he seeks to tout the advantages of the Chinese approach. On Wednesday, China and India sought to defuse their dispute, even as each side blamed the other for causing the border clash and as their local media whipped up nationalist fervor.With Stones and Iron Rods, India-China Border Clash Turns Deadly“This is a time when you think that Beijing would want to stabilize its periphery, ease up on confrontation, and focus on the major issues” like the economy and unemployment, Daniel Russel, a former U.S. assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, told Bloomberg Television. “And yet the border with India is not the only place where China is throwing punches.”Covid-19 cases are likely to keep rising as China embarks on a series of high-profile international meetings meant to burnish its virus-fighting credentials. On Wednesday, Xi hosted a summit about battling the virus with African nations, before a high-level Belt and Road video conference scheduled for Thursday. A virtual China-EU officials meeting is set for next week.Chen, the political commentator, said the pandemic has “fundamentally changed” China’s relationship with the west.“China faces threats of breaking up global supply chains, the possibility of a new Cold War with the west and its authoritarian rule clashes with the ideology of the free world,” he said. “How China navigates through such a predicament is the question Xi has to answer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-covid-19-outbreak-poses-test-for-china-s-chairman-of-everything/story-xM5iEaUkFsWvP5EmtNQJ9N.html
18-06-2020||World||New Zealand enters first recession since 2010 as coronavirus bites||New Zealand entered recession for the first time in almost a decade as the coronavirus pandemic led to the nation’s biggest quarterly contraction in 29 years.Gross domestic product fell 1.6% in the first quarter from the fourth, Statistics New Zealand said Thursday in Wellington. That’s the largest decline since 1991 and more than the 1% expected by economists. From a year earlier, the economy shrank 0.2% -- the first annual contraction since 2009.New Zealand is bracing for a severe contraction in the three months through June after it responded to the pandemic by closing its border and imposing a strict nationwide lockdown that stayed in place until mid-May. The government has pledged NZ$62 billion ($40 billion) of fiscal support to help revive domestic demand and protect jobs, while the central bank has slashed interest rates and embarked on quantitative easing to drive down borrowing costs.“We are expecting the bulk of the economic impact to hit in the second quarter,” said Jane Turner, senior economist at ASB Bank in Auckland, who tips a 17% contraction. “The labor market is set to deteriorate markedly with unemployment set to rise above 8%. The weaker labor market and job security concerns will likely result in many households becoming more cautious about spending over the coming year.”The New Zealand dollar was little changed after the GDP report. It bought 64.50 U.S. cents at 11:24 a.m. in Wellington.The initial impact of the Covid-19 outbreak began in early February with a travel ban imposed on arrivals from China and exporters facing difficulties in their supply chains. Tourism started to experience the pain as border measures were stepped up after the first case of Covid-19 was discovered on Feb. 28. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern eventually took the unprecedented step of closing the border to all foreigners on March 19.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Only in the final week of the quarter, on March 25, was the nation placed into lockdown, requiring almost all retailers other than supermarkets to close and shutting down building sites and most factories.Bank economists predict the economy will contract by as much as 19% in the second quarter, confirming New Zealand’s first recession since the second half of 2010. Some have scaled back the severity of the expected slump after the country succeeded in eliminating the virus and came out of lockdown earlier than anticipated, partially reviving consumer confidence and giving a fillip to retail spending.The first-quarter contraction was driven by service industries, particularly hospitality as international travel stopped, the statistics agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-enters-first-recession-since-2010-as-coronavirus-bites/story-9CNEgNvOmBS25CTlM1zsTK.html
18-06-2020||World||Trump OKs bill to punish China over ethnic crackdown||President Donald Trump signed legislation Wednesday that seeks to punish China for a crackdown on ethnic minorities, even as a new book by former national security adviser John Bolton said the American leader expressed support for the brutal campaign in a private conversation with his Chinese counterpart. The Uighur Human Rights Policy Act of 2020 passed with overwhelming support from Republicans and Democrats in Congress. Trump signed it with no ceremony, issuing a statement in which he said a sanctions provision intruded on executive authority and he would regard it as non-binding.Still, Uighur activists see the approval as an important step. It is the first time any government has sought to punish China for a campaign of mass surveillance and detention of Uighurs and other mostly Muslim ethnic groups in the western Xinjiang region.“Globally this should be a model for other counties who have been very lukewarm in their response to the ongoing atrocities in the Uighur region,” said Nury Turkel, a Uighur activist and member of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom.The bill, which includes sanctions on Chinese officials directly involved in the crackdown, was expected to further inflame already tense relations with China amid the Trump administration’s criticism of Beijing’s response to the outbreak of the coronavirus.The signing came as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was meeting in Hawaii with a senior Chinese diplomat, and as revelations from the soon-to-be-released Bolton book were emerging.The former national security adviser said Trump asked at a White House Christmas dinner in 2018 why the U.S. wanted to sanction China over the treatment of the Uighurs, who are ethnically and culturally distinct from the country’s majority Han population and are suspected by the Chinese government of harboring separatist tendencies.Bolton wrote that at the opening dinner of the Osaka G-20 meeting in 2019, with only interpreters present, Chinese President Xi Jinping explained the Chinese campaign to Trump.“According to our interpreter, Trump said that Xi should go ahead with building the camps, which he thought was exactly the right thing to do,” Bolton wrote.Bolton said another National Security Council official, Matthew Pottinger, told him Trump had made a similar remark during his 2017 trip to China, “which meant we could cross repression of the Uighurs off our list of possible reasons to sanction China, at least as long as trade negotiations continued.”Trump issued a statement upon signing the legislation Wednesday that the new law would hold “perpetrators of human rights violations” accountable.Members of Congress intended the legislation to increase pressure on China over the crackdown in Xinjiang, where authorities have detained more than a million people — from ethnic groups that include Uighurs, Kazakhs and Kyrgyz — in a vast network of detention centers. Many have been subjected to torture and forced labor and deprived of adequate food and medical treatment.The law would impose sanctions on specific Chinese officials, such as the Communist Party official who oversees government policy in Xinjiang. Trump said in his signing statement that a provision dictating when sanctions could be terminated interfered with executive authority and would be considered non-binding.Even with the signing statement, Turkel said the measure is “still an effective legal mechanism to address human rights abuses” and he thanked members of Congress for their support.Sen. Jeff Merkley, a co-sponsor of the legislation, said the act requires the secretary of state to determine whether individuals responsible for “appalling human rights violations” meet the criteria for sanctions. “The United States cannot remain silent in the face of these atrocious and horrifying abuses,” the Oregon Democrat said. “As millions of Americans fight for racial justice here at home, we must also stand strong as a champion of human rights abroad.”The legislation also requires the U.S. government to report to Congress on the human rights violations in Xinjiang as well as China’s acquisition of technology used for mass detention and surveillance. It also requires American authorities to look into the pervasive reports of harassment and threats of Uighurs and other Chinese nationals in the United States.China has publicly brushed away criticism of its crackdown in Xinjiang, which it launched in 2014 as the “Strike Hard Against Violent Extremism” campaign in the vast resource-rich territory in the far northwest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-oks-bill-to-punish-china-over-ethnic-crackdown/story-xiafxSFAeHqUCMaltswd1K.html
18-06-2020||World||NASA’s next Mars rover honours medical teams fighting coronavirus||NASA’s next Mars rover is honouring all the medical workers on the front lines of the coronavirus battle around the world.With just another month until liftoff, the space agency on Wednesday revealed a commemorative plate attached to the rover, aptly named Perseverance.The rover team calls it the Covid-19 Perseverance plate, designed in the last couple months.The black and white aluminum plate — 3-by-5 inches (8-by-13 centimetres) — shows planet Earth atop a staff entwined with a serpent, a symbol of the medical community. The path of the spacecraft also is depicted, with its origin from Cape Canaveral.Health care workers were “on front lines keeping us safe” during launch preparations, said deputy project manager Matt Wallace of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.“They really inspired us, I think, through this period, and we hope that this plate and we hope that this mission in some small way can inspire them in return,” Wallace told reporters. The rover’s name, Perseverance, has taken on added meaning the last few months, according to NASA officials. It’s hard enough preparing a spacecraft for Mars, but doing it in the middle of a pandemic made it even harder, Wallace said.Additional work shifts were added to reduce the number of people working on the rover at any one time and ensure social distancing. Others had to work from home.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNASA is pressing ahead with a July 20 launch, even as the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Florida. This mission — to seek signs of past microbial life on Mars and collect rock and soil samples for eventual return to Earth — is considered essential by the space agency.If the rover isn’t launched by mid-August, it would need to wait until 2022 when Earth and Mars are back in proper alignment. A two-year delay could add another USD500 million to the nearly USD3 billion mission.Unlike for SpaceX’s first astronaut launch late last month, NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine isn’t urging the public to stay home and watch online to avoid crowds.“It appears they didn’t listen to us,” Bridenstine said. “So we’re asking people to follow all of the necessary guidelines to keep themselves safe and we’re trusting that they will.” Perseverance is one of three upcoming missions to Mars. The United Arab Emirates and China also are preparing spacecraft for launch to the red planet by mid-August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-s-next-mars-rover-honours-medical-teams-fighting-virus/story-Pz5Kv0gXWoJra11DlpGdaJ.html
18-06-2020||World||Kim Jong Un leaves South Korean leader’s peace legacy in ruins||When North and South Korea opened their first liaison office less than two years ago, President Moon Jae-in in Seoul declared a “new era has dawned.” This week, Kim Jong Un showed him how little had changed when he reduced the $15 million building to rubble.The shocking act of destruction, which a Moon spokesman denounced as “reckless,” appeared to be part of a calculated gamble to try to force the South Korean president to break with the US and support sanctions relief for North Korea. The result was to literally blow up the most concrete achievement of Moon’s decades-long drive to establish a lasting peace with his country’s greatest foe.Kim wasn’t finished. On Wednesday, the North Korean military announced plans to reoccupy sensitive border areas, undermining an historic flurry of agreements in 2018 that fueled talk of a Nobel Peace Prize. A North Korea official dismissed the deals as “scrap paper,” describing Moon as the “chief culprit” for their failure. The regime promised more provocations in the future.While North Korea has a long history of diplomatic reversals, few have been as extreme as Kim’s union and breakup with Moon. The relationship’s collapse brings back the specter of military conflict on the Korean Peninsula and leaves the South Korean president just two more years in office to put the Cold War rivals back on a path toward peace.The dispute underscores a fundamental dilemma facing all South Korean leaders: how to reconcile their policies toward Pyongyang with the geopolitical interests of their allies in Washington. Despite his own trade and security frictions with President Donald Trump, Moon has so far chosen to preserve the alliance with the U.S. at the expense of his ties with Kim.“He does not want to get in trouble with the United States and he does not want to get in trouble with North Korea,” Andrei Lankov, a professor at Kookmin University who is a specialist on North Korea, told Bloomberg Television. “But trouble with the United States is a far greater problem for him.”The political cost for Moon, 67, was unclear. Global praise for South Korea’s coronavirus response helped propel Moon’s left-leaning Democratic Party to a historic majority in parliamentary elections in April and lift his approval rating to a record high. Some 62% approved of his performance before the latest North Korea crisis began, according to a Gallup tracking poll.South Korea’s top nuclear envoy, Lee Do-hoon, arrived in Washington Wednesday for talks with U.S. officials about North Korea’s latest provocations, Yonhap News Agency reported.Some opposition members argue that Moon’s accommodation efforts with North Korea backfired. Hong Moon-pyo, a senior lawmaker with the conservative United Future Party, urged Moon to overhaul his North Korea policy, saying it had led to provocations such as the regime’s tests of new missiles designed to strike all of South Korea.“Seoul appeared weak, and gave Pyongyang a waiver,” Hong said. “The response was simply just not strong enough.”Moon, the son of North Korean refugees who settled in South Korea during the 1950-53 Korean War, had spent much of his career working toward peace on the peninsula. He was among a group of acolytes determined to preserve late President Kim Dae-jung’s “Sunshine Policy” toward Pyongyang and served as President Roh Moo-hyun’s chief of staff during an inter-Korean summit in 2007.After sailing into office in 2017 in the wake of conservative President Park Geun-hye’s ouster, Moon pledged to forge a deal that could one day unify the peninsula. It was an optimistic message as Kim carried out an escalating series of missile tests and Trump threatened to unleash “fire and fury” against the Pyongyang.In less than a year, Moon was shaking hands with Kim and bounding across their heavily fortified border in the first of several summits with the North Korean leader. Moon was hailed as the man who helped pull Trump and Kim back from the brink of a conflict that could devastate Seoul and draw the U.S. and China into war.Things began to unravel early in 2019 after Trump walked out of a summit with Kim in Hanoi, rejecting his offer to give up the aging Yongbyon nuclear facility in exchange for sanctions relief. It was a framework that Moon had endorsed after meeting Kim in Pyongyang. Weeks after the Hanoi debacle, Kim dismissed Moon as an “officious mediator.”After that, Moon saw his overtures to Kim repeatedly rejected as the South Korean military tracked a resurgence in weapons tests north of the border. More recently, North Korea started threatening to roll back Moon’s signature achievements including building the liaison office, removing front-line guard posts and enforcing a ban on military exercises near the border.‘Tactless, Sinister’Worse, Kim’s top aides are ruling out future meetings with Moon. Kim Yo Jong -- Kim’s sister and new point person for South Korean affairs -- rejected Moon’s offer to send special envoys to North Korea as a “tactless and sinister proposal.”Moon doesn’t have much he can offer without risking a blowup with the Trump administration, which has rejected South Korea’s calls for sanctions relief. The U.S. has refused to relax United Nations penalties and other measures against the regime without greater commitments on arms reduction.Trade between the two Koreas has dropped to virtually zero from $2.7 billion in 2015, or about 10% of North Korea’s economy. North Korea took a further hit this year when it sealed off its borders in January at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, crimping his remaining trade with countries like China.If Trump doesn’t win re-election in November, things could get even more difficult for Moon. Few other U.S. politicians have been so enthusiastic about meeting Kim, whose aides have spoken of a “mysteriously wonderful” chemistry between the two leaders.There might not be much more for Moon to do, Lankov said, except “sit tight, smile broadly and try to play out the crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-leaves-south-korean-leader-s-peace-legacy-in-ruins/story-3ZWqqaT5qHjYMUXXyVWiXN.html
18-06-2020||World||Many fear Trump’s visit to Tulsa could spark violence||Black community leaders in Tulsa said they fear a large rally by President Donald Trump in the city this weekend could spark violence, and the state’s governor asked Trump not to visit the site of a race massacre where up to 300 black residents were killed by white mobs in 1921.Tens of thousands of Trump supporters are expected in Tulsa Saturday for the first of a series of rallies across the country to rev up his reelection campaign. The gathering at the 19,000-seat BOK Center, and at a 40,000-capacity convention center nearby, would overlap a two-day local celebration of Juneteenth, which marks the end of slavery in the country.Both events are in the city’s downtown area. The Rev. Al Sharpton is among the speakers at the Juneteenth observance in the Greenwood district, where several dozen blocks of black-owned businesses were burned in the massacre. A separate anti-hate rally is set for Saturday night in a Tulsa park about a 30-minute walk away.Community leaders and organisers say all the events should be peaceful, but worry about the potential for clash involving Trump supporters, participants in several anti-Trump protests planned downtown, and those attending the Juneteenth program. Tulsa experienced several days of large protests after the death of black Minneapolis resident George Floyd May 25, but violence and damage were limited.“We’re all terribly concerned,” said Rev. Ray Owens, pastor of the Metropolitan Baptist Church, a historically black church on the city’s north side. “I’m hearing rumors of people coming from both sides who may be inclined to incite some kind of physical conflict or war of words. That worries me.” Wednesday, the QuikTrip convenience store chain announced the closing of its downtown area locations “out of possible safety concerns for our employees.” Up to 250 Oklahoma Army National Guardsmen will be activated as a “force multiplier” for local, state and federal law enforcement providing security, said Tulsa Police Chief Wendell Franklin.Tulsa’s long history of racial tension was exacerbated in recent weeks by the arrest of two black teenagers for jaywalking. Another flashpoint was the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man, Terence Crutcher, by a Tulsa police officer in 2016.“All of those things are the backdrop for Donald Trump’s visit,” said Marq Lewis, a black community organizer and founder of We the People Oklahoma. “His visit is definitely inflammatory.” Adding to the tension is fear about a recent spike in coronavirus cases in Tulsa and how it could be worsened by throngs of people cramming into downtown and indoor arenas.Oklahoma’s Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt had invited Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to tour the city’s Greenwood district during their visit, then backpedaled after being told it was a bad idea.He said he doesn’t know what Trump will do. “That is something that will ultimately be the President’s decision,” Stitt said.Trump supporters started arriving from around the country as early as Monday, some camping outside the BOK Center in the 90-degree-plus heat. Several acknowledged concerns about violence between rally goers and protesters.“That is in the back of everyone’s mind down here,” said 41-year-old Trump supporter Delmer Phillips. “We know that if protesters show up, it could get nasty. That’s ultimately what I fear the most.” State Sen. Kevin Matthews, a Democrat whose district includes the Greenwood area, said Stitt didn’t consult community members before extending the offer. An appearance in Greenwood by Trump would be “a slap in face,” he said.Meanwhile, Franklin said there will be a massive police presence downtown Saturday.“The eyes of the world are on Tulsa, Oklahoma, during this event and we are ready for it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/many-fear-trump-s-visit-to-tulsa-could-spark-violence/story-jbOVPYn8GZ2y0JhzeFHFgJ.html
18-06-2020||World||EU leader vows to fight lack of diversity in EU institutions||The European Union’s top official acknowledged a lack of racial and ethnic diversity within the bloc’s institutions as she pledged Wednesday to keep talking about racism and discrimination.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said during a discussion at the European Parliament about racism and police violence that she wants to “get to the bottom of these questions.”“Let us look around us, here in this very hemicycle,” von der Leyen said in a speech delivered at the horseshoe-shaped EU legislature. “The diversity of our society is not represented. And I will be the first to admit, things are not better in the College of Commissioners, nor among the European Commission staff.”The College of Commissioners, which oversees EU policies, is made of 27 members, one from each EU country. All the members of the team set up by von der Leyen are white.“This is why I say: we need to talk about racism. And we need to act,” von der Leyen said. “It is always possible to change direction if there is a will to do so.”European lawmakers are set to vote Friday on a resolution related to the death of George Floyd, a black man who died after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed a knee into his neck for several minutes as he pleaded for air and eventually stopped moving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-leader-vows-to-fight-lack-of-diversity-in-eu-institutions/story-h16Wp27OV39T18KgHEqynN.html
18-06-2020||India||One more elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh, sixth in 10 days||Another wild elephant was found dead in Raigarh district on Thursday taking the toll of jumbo deaths to six in the last ten days in Chhattisgarh, forest officials said.Forest officials on Thursday morning found the carcass of a tusker was in Behramar village under Chhal forest range of Dharamjaigarh division.“The elephant did not die due to natural causes but the exact cause of death will be known after the postmortem report and the investigation is going on,” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey.On Tuesday, an elephant died after coming in contact with a live electric wire at a farm in Raigarh district after which five people, including three employees of the state power company, were booked.On the same day, an elephant calf died after it got stuck in marshland in Dhamtari district.Last week, carcasses of two elephants were found in the Pratappur forest range while another jumbo was found dead in neighboring Balrampur district. The postmortem report suggested that the elephants died due to toxicity, infection and cardiac arrest.Later, three state forest officials and a guard were suspended, while a show cause notice was issued to a divisional forest officer in Balrampur for alleged dereliction of duty.On Wednesday, the state government decided to step up measures for the conservation and protection of wildlife in the state and develop two hospitals with all facilities for the treatment of wild animals.Officials present in the meeting informed chief minister Bhupesh Baghel that in the last 10 years, the state has recorded an increase in the population of wildlife, including elephants whose number rose from 225 to 290 during the period.The CM issued necessary guidelines for the monitoring of wild animals in the state forests and improving measures for their conservation, the official saidNorth Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts surfaced in the last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-elephant-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-sixth-in-10-days/story-HdDDyRc3AIhPws6JgkDCAO.html
18-06-2020||India||India confirms participation in virtual meeting of RIC foreign ministers||India on Thursday confirmed external affairs minister S Jaishankar will join a virtual meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23, a day ahead of Indian and Chinese military contingents participating in the Victory Day parade in Moscow. Russia had on Wednesday formally announced the virtual meeting of the RIC foreign ministers, quashing doubts about India’s participation in the aftermath of the violent clash with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.“External affairs minister will be participating in this meeting. The three ministers are expected to discuss the current situation of the global pandemic and the challenges of global security, financial stability and RIC cooperation in that context,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.Srivastava noted this would “be a trilateral meeting” – an indication that bilateral matters such as the India-China border stand-off would not be up for discussion.The violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on June 15 had cast a shadow on the RIC meeting, originally scheduled to be held in March but postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia recently took the initiative to organise the virtual meeting this month, as first reported by HT on June 13.The virtual meeting was originally scheduled for June 22 but was postponed by a day due to a request from the Chinese side, people familiar with developments said.A day after the RIC meeting, military contingents from India and China will participate in the Victory Day parade in Moscow. Russia marks the Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany on May 9 each year with a massive military display involving thousands of troops and tanks parading through the Red Square. This year’s event has been delayed by the pandemic.A 75-member Indian tri-service contingent is set to leave for Russia on Friday. China sent a 105-member contingent of the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) honour guard on June 15.The RIC meeting is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran.“The existence of the #RIC is an undisputable reality, firmly fixed on the world map. As for the current stage of the trilateral cooperation, there are no indications that it might be frozen,” Russia’s ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev, tweeted on Wednesday.“We welcome all steps aimed at de-escalation at the #LAC, including the conversation between the two FMs, and remain optimistic,” Kudashev said in another tweet, referring to Wednesday’s phone conversation between Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.Russia, the chair of RIC for this year, has made concerted efforts to organise the meeting of the foreign ministers. Moscow’s relations with New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-confirms-participation-in-virtual-meeting-of-ric-foreign-ministers/story-9649WVCYmSZeDwbmEA3d1O.html
18-06-2020||India||MP govt offers Rs 1 crore, house and job to kin of Deepak Singh, slain in Galwan Valley clash||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 1 crore and a house or a plot along with a government job to the next of kin of Naik Deepak Singh who was among the 20 soldiers, killed during a clash with the Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley on Monday. Chouhan made the announcement while paying tribute to the soldier from Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh.30-year-old Deepak Singh Gaharwar, a resident of Faraida village in Rewa district about 536 kilometres north east of Bhopal, is survived by wife Rekha, a teacher in a Navoday school. His marriage took place a few months ago in November last year. His last rites is expected to be held on Friday.His grandmother had yesterday said that in his last phone call home, Deepak had promised to visit her after the lockdown restrictions were eased further.Deepak was the younger son of Gajraj Singh Gaharwar, a farmer by profession. He was raised by his father and his grandmother after the passing of his mother when he was still a child. Deepak’s elder brother Prakash Singh is also in the army and is posted on the Indo-Pak border in Rajasthan, as per family members.Deepak’s grandmother Phoolmati said, “He talked to me about a fortnight back. He told me ‘Dadi tum pareshaan mat hona. Main lockdown khatm hote hi aaunga (Don’t worry. I will come home after lockdown restrictions are lifted)’. I didn’t know he would never come.”Deepak’s cousin Sachin Singh described him as the most adorable person in the village who respected everyone in the village and was loved by all. Among the 20 soldiers killed on Monday, five are from Bihar, four from Punjab, two each from Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal, and one each from Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-offers-rs-1-crore-house-and-job-to-kin-of-deepak-singh-slain-in-galwan-valley-clash/story-J85tSEv7ENoMhixIEzptSM.html
18-06-2020||India||Can’t refuse admission to Covid-19 patients: Bengal govt to pvt hospitals||Private hospitals can neither refuse admission and treatment to Covid-19 patients nor can they prescribe tests for asymptomatic people, the Trinamool Congress government told representatives of 33 private institutions at a meeting on Thursday.Cost of tests have to be rational and uniform as well, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, pointing out that some laboratories were charging Rs 2,800 while others were taking Rs 4,500.“Around 10,000 beds in private and government hospitals across the state are earmarked for Covid-19 patients and 80 per cent of these are lying vacant. Yet, we receive complaints that patients are running from one hospital to another. This cannot be allowed,” Sinha said after meeting officials of the private institutions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.This was the second time the state told private hospitals that admission cannot be refused to patients. On May 1, the government issued a 30-page order, asking private hospitals and clinics to admit all patients without seeking certificates showing that they have not contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, or face strict penal action.“According to the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act 2017, no patient can be refused admission. We also met representatives of doctors’ organizations on Wednesday and heard that many hospitals have reduced their salaries. Please pay full salary to doctors,” Sinha said on Thursday afternoon.The chief secretary also said it was unfair for private hospitals to charge patients for PPE kits for a large number of staffers.“In some private hospitals, patients are being charged for PPE kits used by as many as seven staff members. Hospitals should bear most of this cost and charge patients only a part of it because the economic slowdown has affected all,” said Sinha.He also cautioned hospitals against delaying treatment till arrival of Covid-19 test reports.“We have also heard that private hospitals are not starting treatment till arrival of Covid-19 test reports. In some critical cases this may be necessary but the pretext cannot be used left, right and centre,” the chief secretary said. “Also, private doctors cannot prescribe tests for asymptomatic patients,” he added. “It was a fruitful and frank discussion and the points raised by the government are very reasonable. We are extremely happy. As far as charging patients for PPE kits is concerned, hospitals have to be reasonable,” Dr Alok Roy, chairman of Medical group of hospitals, told HT.“We have already increased the number of beds to more than 100,” said a spokesperson of AMRI Hospitals. Bengal’s first Covid-19 death was reported at the group’s Salt Lake unit. “We are ahead of Covid-19 in this war and there should not be any distinction between private and government hospitals. We had to hold the meeting as we were receiving various complaints,” said Sinha.Salary cuts for doctors that have become an issue amid the pandemic was also a topic of discussion at the meeting.“We have been raising the issue of salary cuts since June 1. We welcome the government’s decision although it may pose a problem for small clinical establishments with limited resources and staff,” said an office bearer of the West Bengal Doctors Forum who did not wish to be quoted.“Occupancy in hospitals will go down once patients start living in ‘safe homes’ and corporate houses set up satellite health facilities as prescribed by the state government. We will upload on the health department’s website the status of vacant beds in state hospitals. The figures for private hospitals will be uploaded from Friday,” Sinha said.Incidentally, at several private hospitals, doctors and paramedical staff have been affected while treating Covid-19 patients. One such private hospital in Kolkata’s Salt Lake area was shut down in April. Another 400-bed hospital in south Kolkata had to be shut down for two weeks in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-refuse-admission-for-covid-19-patients-bengal-govt-to-pvt-hospitals/story-pIiU6hgY4NMUra3YpxkKAO.html
18-06-2020||India||China, India to deal with ‘serious matter’ caused by Galwan conflict in a ‘just manner’: Beijing||China and India have agreed to deal with the “serious matter” caused by the conflict at the Galwan Valley in a “just manner” and both sides are in communication and coordination through diplomatic and military channels to de-escalate the tensions as soon as possible, a top Chinese official said on Thursday.At least 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. China’s official media has acknowledged casualties on the Chinese side without mentioning numbers.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Thursday that after this incident both sides are in communication and coordination on the matter through diplomatic and military channels.“Both sides agreed to deal with the serious matter caused by the conflict at the Valley in a just manner, jointly observe the commander level talks consensus and deescalate the tensions as soon as possible and safeguard the peace and tranquillity,” he said. “Currently, the overall situation is stable and controllable. We believe under the guidance of the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries the sides can deal with the relevant matter jointly safeguard peace and stability at the border areas and work for sound development of bilateral relations,” Zhao said. On Wednesday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the two sides agreed to “cool down” tensions on the ground “as soon as possible” and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area under the agreement reached between the two countries.During the briefing, the spokesman read out the whole press statement issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry on Wednesday on the telephonic conversation between Wang and Jaishankar.During the conversation, Jaishankar conveyed to Wang India’s protest in the strongest terms on the violent face-off and said the unprecedented development will have “serious impact” on the bilateral ties.He asked the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement in New Delhi.“The Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” Jaishankar told Wang.The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement here that the two sides agreed to deal “fairly” with the serious events caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley, jointly abide by the consensus reached at the military-level meetings between the two sides, “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area in accordance with the agreement reached so far between the two countries. A large number of Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley and certain other areas of eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks, including in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. Monday’s face-off was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the face-off. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the row.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-to-deal-with-serious-matter-caused-by-galwan-conflict-in-a-just-manner-beijing/story-HDwMmeZXZPMhYCI0YfXLvN.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre, Assam working on relief for those affected by gas well fire: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Centre and Assam government were working to ensure proper relief and rehabilitation for those affected by a gas well fare in the state that has been raging since June 9.“Reviewed the situation in the wake of the Baghjan fire tragedy in Assam. Centre and state government are working to ensure proper relief and rehabilitation to those affected,” Modi tweeted.The gas well at Baghjan area of Assam’s Tinsukia district had suffered a blowout on May 27 which continued for two weeks before it ignited on June 9. A massive fire has been raging since then.Oil India Limited which owns the gas well had said it could take up to four weeks to cap the blaze. Last Sunday, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan who visited the site of the fire said the people affected by the blowout and resultant fire would be adequately compensated.The area around the gas well also experienced a series of tremors prompting the Assam government to ask a group of scientists to conduct a study on the tremors.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal met scientists of Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) and CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST) on Monday and asked them to conduct the study on emergency basis and submit a report so that the government can take appropriate steps.Residents of Baghjan and Natun Rongagora villages which are close to the site of the fire, had complained of repeated tremors. Some houses have also developed cracks due to the tremors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-assam-working-on-relief-for-those-affected-by-gas-well-fire-pm-modi/story-vJXjALpg9IxMIC0HPLIdeP.html
18-06-2020||India||Puri Ratha Yatra halted after 285 years, temple priests and opposition blame Patnaik govt||The Supreme Court’s decision, to not allow the annual Rath Yatra next week due to the coronavirus pandemic, has drawn flak from priests of the temple as well as opposition leaders, who slammed the State government over its alleged half-hearted approach in the apex court.Following a petition filed by an NGO called Odisha Vikash Parishad, a three-judge SC bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said it would not be appropriate to hold the Rath Yatra this year. “It is not disputed that the number of people that are likely to gather for the annual Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on June 23 is going to be about 10 to 12 lakhs. Having regard to the danger presented by such a large gathering of people for the Rath Yatra, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens, who are devotees, to restrain the government from holding the Rath Yatra this year,” the three-judge bench said.This is the first time after 285 years that the Rath Yatra would not be held. The last time the car festival could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district.Senior lawyer Harish Salve, appearing for Odisha, submitted that the conduct of the festival might lead to a huge public gathering and a law and order situation, but he never mentioned any alternative way to pull the chariots. The Orissa High Court last week advised the state government to consider holding the Rath Yatra with elephants or machines, instead of humans, pulling the chariots. But this suggestion did not figure during the deliberations in the apex court.Also Read: Covid-19: Supreme Court stays Rath Yatra in Puri ‘in the interest of public safetyThe state cabinet headed by CM Naveen Patnaik this evening decided that it will abide by the order given by the Supreme Court on the Rath Yatra.The SC order and the state Cabinet decision, left not just millions of devotees fuming, but the priests shocked.Senior servitor Binayak Das Mohapatra alleged that a conspiracy was being hatched against the Rath Yatra. “All preparations for the centuries-old annual festival have been wasted. It was an elaborate drama by the state government to hoodwink the devotees. What had not happened in the last 5 centuries became a reality today. The PIL was a state-sponsored act to not let the festival happen,” he alleged.Similarly, chief priest of the temple and head of Chhatisa Nijoga, Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra said that the car festival and Lord Jagannath were inseparable.“The Rath Yatra is an integral and intrinsic part of the life of Shri Jagannath since thousands of years ago. The Rath Yatra and Sri Jagannath are inseparable and one must not mistake the annual 9-day festival as a mere festive procession that can be cancelled or postponed,” said Mohapatra.He added that the Yatra could have re-instilled the faith of billions of people praying to Sri Jagannath for wellbeing during the time of pandemic had it been allowed to be held on a limited basis like other commercial activities.“Total curfew can be imposed in the entire Puri city two days before the yatra and only policemen be utilised for pulling the chariots,” he insisted.Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, chairman of Jagannath Temple Managing Committee, too, expressed his disappointment and said that the temple managing committee meeting will be held soon to discuss the Supreme Court’s order.“We will seek the opinion of Sankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati on this matter. Whether Rath Yatra can be held inside the temple in a symbolic manner or not, will be examined,” he said.Leader of opposition (LoP) in Odisha assembly, Pradipta Naik blamed the Odisha government for not taking a timely decision on the matter after centre left the decision on the issue to the state.“The matter should never have landed in court. It is an emotional issue for 4.5 crore people of Odisha and the state government should have found a way out to hold the festival,” he said.Also Read: Woman migrant worker found dead near Covid-19 quarantine centre in OdishaIncidentally, all preparations for the Rath Yatra next week were on track with the last minute work on the three chariots almost getting over. The servitors associated with the event had been tested for Covid-19 and had been put on isolation for over a month to ensure there was no risk of the virus spreading.Early this month, the temple administration had successfully conducted the Snana Purnima, the ritualistic bathing of the three deities before Rath Yatra without the presence of any devotees.In the last 425 years of the car festival, the event has been scrapped 32 times, mostly during invasion.“It was scrapped for the first time in 1568 when Kala Pahad alias Kala Chand Roy, a general of Bengal king Suleiman Kirrani attacked the temple and pillaged the deities. For the next 9 years, Rath Yatra could not be held,” said Jagannath temple historian Bhaskar Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-ratha-yatra-halted-after-285-years-temple-priests-and-opposition-blame-patnaik-govt/story-1kmbuzzSL5pn6wMkQWD8pM.html
18-06-2020||India||2 Odisha villages grieve as bodies of 2 soldiers killed in Ladakh arrive||As a special flight of the Indian Air Force carrying the bodies of two soldiers from Odisha who were killed in Galwan valley of Ladakh landed in Bhubaneswar on Thursday evening, a pall of gloom descended on the villages of the two jawans.The coffins of the two fallen soldiers - Sepoy Chandrakant Pradhan of Kandhamal district and Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren of Mayurbhanj district were wrapped in the tricolor. Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, armed forces personnel, senior officials of the Odisha government and police officials paid their tributes to the two soldiers. A guard of honour was given to the two jawans.The bodies were then taken to Kandhamal and Mayurbhanj by road where the last rites will be performed on Friday. Both Pradhan and Soren were from 16 Bihar Regiment. They were among 20 soldiers killed during a violent face-off with Chinese troops on Monday night.Also read: In death, soldiers provide roads, street lights to their impoverished villagesIn Biarpanga village in Kandhamal district, people thronged to Sepoy Chandrakant Pradhan’s mud house to console his grieving parents Karunakar Pradhan and Bilasini Pradhan. Pradhan, who had joined the Army in 2014, had plans to construct a pucca house in place of the present mud and asbestos house for his seven-member family including three brothers and a sister.“We were planning for his marriage this year. So before that we had started constructing a pucca house behind our existing home. We had managed to construct the four walls of the house, but due to lack of money we had postponed it,” the soldier’s father said.Pradhan’s younger sister Sandhyarani is still unable to believe that her elder brother is gone. “He was more like a friend to me. He had told me that he would come in August after lockdown. We were planning to see some girls to find a match for him. I can’t believe he is no longer there,” she said.In Bada Champauda village under Bijatala block of Mayurbhanj district, Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren’s three brothers too are yet to come to terms with the death of their youngest brother. “We hardly make anything out of farming as there are no irrigation facilities. Nandu Ram used to help us financially. We are now devastated,” said Daman Soren, the eldest brother.Soren’s wife Laxmimani and three daughters live in a rented house in Rairangpur town, about 5 km from the village. “I had last spoken to him on Monday morning when he enquired about children’s education. I never thought that it would be the last time I would be speaking to him,” said Laxmimani.His eldest daughter Gyaneswari too is inconsolable, but wants the Indian Army to avenge her father’s death by teaching the Chinese Army a lesson. Sarpanch of the grampanchayat, Anjali Behera demanded that Odisha government should pay an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh instead of Rs 25 lakh. “I would request the state government to give his wife a suitable government job as it would be difficult for her to raise three daughters without financial support,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-odisha-villages-grieve-as-bodies-of-2-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-arrive/story-VctWuA1x6E5cfeuvYcFYYL.html
18-06-2020||India||Stay home this Yoga Day, says PM Modi in video message on bridging distances||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday rooted for using yoga as a multi-dimensional solution to many health challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic and asked the people to celebrate the international Yoga Day on June 21 in their homes to bridge the distance between the mind and the body.The Prime Minister’s message around the Yoga Day was put out today in a video clip. He said that people should know that yoga brings things together; therefore, the physical distancing imposed due to the outbreak of the deadly virus should not dampen our spirits or affect our enthusiasm while we observe the day.“These are times of distancing. But do you know that yoga is what ends distance. Yoga joins or brings things together,” he said, before adding that yoga ends the distance between the mind and the body and expectations and reality.“It also ends the distance between the life we have and the life we want to have,” Modi said in the video clip, while explaining the ancient practice’s role in mitigating stress generated in the day to day life.Also Read: PM Modi launches auction of coal mines. Full speech hereMentioning the special role yoga has in preventive healthcare, the prime minister said that after the coronavirus pandemic subsides, the focus would be on preventive healthcare, which will result in even greater relevance and popularity for yoga.“In the post Covid19 era, the focus on preventive healthcare will get stronger and that is why I am confident that yoga will become even more popular,” Modi said.Also Read: Retweet of PM Modi’s old tweets in Tharoor’s reminder on China’s Ladakh aggressionThe prime minister also noted that the theme for this year’s Yoga Day was ‘Yoga at home’ and ‘Yoga with family’ which took into account the present need to follow social distancing. He advised people to assemble only in small gatherings if need be.“We are marking the sixth yoga day in extraordinary times. Usually, yoga day is about public events, mass participation. This year, yoga day goes indoors,” the prime minister said.The sixth international Yoga Day will be observed on June 21, when a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be broadcast on electronic and digital platforms on the occasion, according to the health ministry. Unlike previous occasions, there will be no mass gatherings this year due to the threat of infections posed by contagious coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bridge-distances-through-yoga-this-year-pm-modi-snuanced-message-for-yoga-day/story-JAvf8TvSfibePY1Eso8wUK.html
18-06-2020||India||Kerala ready to give kits to test expatriates before boarding flights: CM||As uncertainty over Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning to Kerala continues, the state on Thursday told the Union Government that it is ready to provide TrueNat testing kits to check expats before they board the flights. TrueNat test is usually used to detect tuberculosis and the Indian Council of Medical Research had recently recommended this also for widening the range of options for testing Covid-19 patients. Though TrueNat kit is expensive, it can test samples and provide results within 60 to 120 minutes and sample collection is safe when comparing to two other tests - RT-PCR and rapid anti-body tests, experts say.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state will provide these kits to Indian missions where testing facilities are not available. He said the state chief secretary has written to the foreign secretary about this.“These tests can be done only through embassies and the Union government will have to help us on this. We have already made it clear tests are necessary for all air passengers coming to the state. As we stick to it we suggested this option to the centre,” the CM said.He also said the state was in favour of tests from the very beginning. When asked what will be done with those testing positive, he said the Centre will have to make arrangements for them.His earlier suggestion that the civil aviation ministry may operate separate flights for Covid-19 positive flights was severely criticized by opposition parties and expatriates. “Even primary school students know that no airport will entertain positive patients at this juncture. The CM has no idea about what he is talking about. He wants to delay flights of poor diaspora communities,” state BJP president K Surendran.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is holding a one-day fast before the state secretariat on Friday urging the state not to delay flights of expatriates. “According to the latest report 228 Keralites died abroad. Many of these lives could have been saved if the Centre and state took a proactive stand in the early days of pandemic,” said Chennithala. The tiff between state and centre over Covid-free certificates affected 149 Vande Bharat and 171 chartered flights being planned in one-month time. Last week the state had issued an order making a certificate mandatory for all foreign travellers coming to the state.Meanwhile, Kerala reported one death and 97 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. Out of 2,793 virus cases 1,400 are active cases, said the CM. The death of a 28-year-old man, who had no co-morbid complaints, in north Kerala’s Kannur district has shocked harried health officials in the state. A driver with the state excise department he tested positive four days ago and his condition deteriorated and died on Thursday morning.“The deceased had no previous illness history. We have no idea from where he contracted it. We are in a race to collect his contact history. His family members and friends have already been quarantined,” said Kannur district medical officer (DMO) Dr Narayana Naik. “The young man’s death has shocked health officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ready-to-give-kits-to-test-expatriates-before-boarding-flights-cm/story-rrxxf2iqRrjnGF9XiLMkLK.html
18-06-2020||India||Retweet of PM Modi’s old tweets in Tharoor’s reminder on China’s Ladakh aggression||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Thursday retweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweets from the year 2013 and 2014-- when Modi was Gujarat chief minister-- questioning the then UPA government’s China policy while advocating the need for a “strong” government at the centre. Tharoor put out a series of three tweets posted by Modi on May 13, 2013, February 8, 2014 and August 15, 2013 respectively, however, the Congress leader didn’t post any comments along with his re-tweets. “China withdraws its forces but I wonder why Indian forces are withdrawing from Indian territory? Why did we retreat?,” Modi, then Gujarat chief minister, had asked in a tweet dated May 13, 2013.On 15 April 2013, a platoon of Chinese troops established an encampment of four tents southeast of Daulat Beg Oldi, 19km inside the Indian territory, triggering a 21-day standoff. Two months later, the same year, Chinese soldiers again intruded into the Chumar sector in Ladakh on June 17.“Today security of the nation is under threat. What did China do? They enter our borders and we silently watch,” Modi had tweeted on Independence Day in 2013. Tharoor re-tweeted it seven years later on Thursday.Tharoor’s re-tweets come close on the heels of an offensive by Congress leadership asking the government to explain the circumstances of the June 15 clash between Chinese and Indian Army soldiers that led to 20 Indian soldiers losing their lives. According to an estimate by the United States, 33 Chinese soldiers also lost their lives in the violent face off. Indian Army officials claim 43 Chinese soldiers were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. This is first such deadly clash between the two sides since 1975, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector in the month of October and shot dead four soldiers.Earlier today, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to explain why Indian soldiers were unarmed during the clash on the LAC at Galwan Valley.“China has committed a crime by killing India’s unarmed soldiers. I want to know who sent these unarmed soldiers in the harm’s way and why. Who is responsible,” Rahul Gandhi asked in a video posted on his Twitter account.In his earlier reactions, Rahul had accused the prime minister and the defence minister of keeping silent on the issue of Chinese aggression and demanded to know ‘how much of Indian territory had been occupied by the Chinese’ in recent transgressions.Tharoor’s final re-tweet of PM Narendra Modi’s previous tweets from the year 2013 and 2014, cited Modi’s advocacy for a “strong” government at the centre to “change” the routine incidents of getting “troubled” by neighbours.“A noble nation like ours is being troubled by our neighbours, while the Centre stands helplessly. We need a strong government to change this,” Modi had tweeted on February 8, 2014.Three and half months later that year, Modi became the prime minister of India after the BJP stormed into power – largely riding on his popularity—by winning 282 seats in the Lok Sabha elections.Yesterday, PM Narendra Modi reacted to the recent bloodbath at the LAC and said that India will “firmly” protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect. He added that while India had a policy of peaceful co-existence with neighbours, valour was equally part of India’s tradition.PM has called an all party meeting on Friday to discuss the current face off at the LAC which has led to India loding a strong protest with China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retweet-of-pm-modi-s-old-tweets-in-tharoor-s-reminder-on-china-s-ladakh-aggression/story-HHhMpWvdrw6AA5tg3ogJeL.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod sought and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod soughtThe ministry of railways on Thursday said its PSU, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays. Read moreCongress to move no-confidence motion against BJP-led govt in ManipurThe Congress on Thursday decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Biren Singh-led government in Manipur, a day after nine MLAs, including three from the BJP, withdrew support from the government. Read more‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barbIndian soldiers involved in the bloody clash with Chinese soldiers at Galwan valley were not unarmed but soldiers at the border do not use firearms in faceoffs, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Thursday. Jaishankar’s tweet was a comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ‘s attack that asked the government to spell out who had ordered unarmed soldiers to go to the standoff point. Read moreMedics to the World: Latvia unveils 20 feet high sculpture honouring medical workersSculptor Aigars Bikse has paid tribute to the health care workers around the globe, for their relentless efforts in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, by installing a six-metre-tall (20 feet high) statue of a medical worker with her arms outstretched in Riga, Latvia. Read moreElephants brothers Jasiri and Faraja’s friendly fight in the mud is a treat to watchHow many times have you tried those WWE moves on your sibling and landed in trouble for accidentally hurting them or yourself? Well, this video of two elephant brothers may just refresh your memory about those pretend-fights with your sibling. This video shows two young elephants having some fun in the mud and makes for a lovely watch. Read moreRobert Pattinson says he looked to Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Robert Downey Jr. as inspiration for The BatmanActor Robert Pattinson is foraying into the superhero genre with the upcoming film, The Batman. Directed by Matt Reeves, it will see him play the caped crusader alongside a long list of other talented stars. Read moreApple to manufacture new iPhone SE in India: ReportApple seems all set to manufacture the new iPhone SE in India, as reported by The Information (via Apple Insider). This move by the iPhone maker will likely result in it avoiding the heavy tax that is added on smartphones imported into the country. However, it is not necessary that this move will result in Apple reducing the cost of iPhones in India. Read more‘Hadn’t seen anything like it before,’ Rohit recalls scenes after India’s win over AustraliaIndia batsman Rohit Sharma has spoken about the importance of fans during a cricket match, highlighting the how the buzz generated by people allow the players to feel the electricity and thus, get further involved in the game. Read moreChina blames India; Jaishankar Vs Rahul; no jawan missing: Latest updatesChina has once again blamed India for the violent faceoff in Ladakh that resulted in the killing of 20 Indian soldiers. Meanwhile, a massive political war has broken out with Rahul Gandhi questioning who sent unarmed Indian soldiers to martyrdom. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hit back saying that it is a long standing practice to not use firearms during a faceoff. Meanwhile, the Indian Army has clarified that no Indian soldier is missing after the Monday night faceoff. Watch the full video for all the updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-railways-to-terminate-contract-with-beijing-firm-world-bank-s-nod-sought-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WJKPyI4ywyTU5grRr4Mg3L.html
18-06-2020||India||Yediyurappa gets his way in picking Karnataka legislative council nominees||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa - days after the Central leadership said no to his nominees for the Rajya Sabha seat - seems to have had his way if the ticket allocation for the legislative council seats is any indication.On Thursday the Bharatiya Janata Party gave tickets to MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar, Sunil Vallyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak, all of whom immediately filed their nominations.Seven seats in the 75-member legislative council will be vacant as members retire after a six-year term. The BJP can win four seats, the Congress two and the regional Janata Dal (Secular) one.The Congress on Tuesday itself had announced that B K Hari Prasad, who recently retired from the Rajya Sabha, would be sent to the Karnataka Legislative Council and Naseer Ahmed, another party leader, would be given a second term.The BJP’s choice of candidates was closely watched as both MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar had helped topple the Congress-JDS coalition government. In the bypolls, MTB Nagaraj lost out to a BJP rebel candidate Sharat Bachegowda while Shankar decided to ‘sacrifice’ his Ranibennur seat in favour of a BJP candidate.Similarly, Sunil Vallyapure, BJP state secretary of SC Morcha, had given up his claim on the Chincholi assembly seat so that Avinash Jadhav, son of Gulbarga MP Umesh Jadhav, could be accommodated.Umesh Jadhav was wooed from the Congress to defeat Mallikarjuna Kharge with the assembly seat promised to his son as part of the bargain. Vallyapure, who had represented the seat in 2008, was waiting to be ‘rewarded’ by the party. All the three are being seen as Yediyurappa’s candidates. Only AH Vishwanath, former JDS Karnataka unit president who played an important role in toppling the coalition government, did not get a ticket after losing from Hunasuru.Vishwanath expressed his disappointment to HT, saying, “Yes, I was also an aspirant for a council seat and disappointed that I did not get (a ticket to council). However, I still believe that Yediyurappa will keep his promise to me. I have full faith in him.”The fourth BJP candidate Pratap Simha Nayak, who hails from Belthangady in the coastal Karnataka stronghold of the party, is seen as a close associate of party president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Party leaders, however, claimed that there were no factions and that the party high command had chosen the candidates on merits. Kateel, speaking to the media, said, “Nayak is a veteran leader of the party, Vallyapure a former minister and both MTB Nagaraj and Shankar made sacrifices to ensure BJP came back to power under Yediyurappa’s leadership.”The JDS, on the other hand, has decided to give the ticket to a Kolar origin businessman Inchara Govindraj, who filed his papers accompanied by former CM HD Kumaraswamy and other senior party leaders.Political analyst L Manjunath said: “After the loss of face to Yediyurappa in the Rajya Sabha ticket race, any setback here would have undermined his leadership. By ensuring that three of the four seats went to his followers, he has signalled that he cannot be sidelined easily at least for the present. Vishwanath may still be accommodated under the nominated category in the council. Yediyurappa has redeemed his sense of honour after the RS ticket debacle.”In the 75-member legislative council, Congress has 38 members, JDS 15 and BJP 20 with two independents. Voting, if required, would be held on June 29 but most likely all the seven candidates from the three main political parties will probably be elected unopposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-gets-his-way-in-picking-karnataka-legislative-council-nominees/story-J8AAN3A2MeKaeHqYTLJonN.html
18-06-2020||India||Thousands pay last respects to Indian soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off | Photos||Thousands paid last respects to the soldiers who were killed in a clash with Chinese Army in Galwan Valley in Ladakh as their mortal remains were taken to their native places. For many of the bereaved families, the wait started on Tuesday evening when they were informed by senior Indian Army officials about the sacrifice of the 20 soldiers in the clashes with the Chinese Army along the Line of Actual Control a day earlier.Among those killed, five soldiers were from Bihar, two each from Odisha, four from Punjab, Jharkhand and West Bengal and one each from Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.Indian Army soldiers carry the coffin of Colonel B.Santosh Babu, who was killed in a border clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh region, on a truck during his funeral ceremony at his hometown in Suryapet, India. (Reuters)Telangana bid tearful goodbye to its son Colonel B. Santosh Babu, who died in the violent clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh on Monday. Here are more pictures from across the country of the crowd taking to streets to bid adieu and show respect to the soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty.Indian Army soldiers carry the coffin of Colonel B.Santosh Babu. (Reuters)Army personnel during a gun salute to Havildar Sunil Kumar before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar on Thursday. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Time) Family members and relatives salute to pay respect to Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh during his last rites, in village Seel, Patiala district, Punjab. (Photo: Bharat Bhushan/Hindustan Times)Army personnel pay their tributes to Naib Subedar Satnam Singh before his cremation, at his native village Vhoj Raj in Gurdaspur district, Thursday, June 18, 2020. (PTI photo)Army personnel pay tribute to the mortal remains of Bihar regimental jawans, who were killed during the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, at Jaiprakash Narayan Airport in Patna. (PTI photo)The funeral cortege of Havildar Sunil Kumar is surrounded by a large crowd before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar, India on Thursday, June 18, 2020. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Times)Army personnel during a gun salute to Havildar Sunil Kumar before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar, India on Thursday, June 18, 2020. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Times)Army personnel carry the mortal remains of Bihar regimental jawans Kundan Kumar and Jai Kishore, who were killed during the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, after a wreath-laying ceremony at Jaiprakash Narayan Airport in Patna. (PTI photo)Relatives and villagers carry the mortal remains of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, who was among 20 Indian Army soldiers martyred during a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh on Monday night, during his funeral ceremony near Ghanour in Patiala district. (PTI photo)People shower flower petals on the mortal remains of Colonel Santosh Babu during his funeral procession, in Suryapet. (PTI photo)People participating in Candlelight march to pay condolences to Colonel B Santosh Babu, the Commanding Officer of the Army's 16 Bihar unit who was killed during a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Eastern Ladakh in front of Charminar in old city of Hyderabad on Wednesday. (ANI photo)Army personnel carry the mortal remains of Havaldar Sunil Kumar who was killed in the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, during his funeral procession, at Tarapur in Patna. (PTI photo)Congress activists light candles in solidarity with twenty Indian army personnel martyred during a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan valley. (PTI photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-pay-last-respects-to-indian-soldiers-killed-in-face-off-with-chinese-troops-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-photos/story-1cbf1Mr3k6WeT6EF1eeP6H.html
18-06-2020||India||Earthquake rocks Mizoram, no report of damage||An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter scale hit 98 km south-east of Champhai in Mizoram at around 7:29 pm Thursday, the National Center for Seismology said.There has been no immediate report of any damage.The Northeast falls in a high seismic zone and earthquakes are frequent in the region. Over the past few weeks several earthquakes have been recorded in Delhi and Gujarat. There have been no damages in any of the quakes so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-rocks-mizoram-no-report-of-damage/story-1qQOJWK4V8VwHTTJY4ZpZK.html
18-06-2020||India||Govt lifts export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine||The government on Thursday lifted the export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine with immediate effect.The government on March 25 had banned the export of the drug in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.“The export policy of Hydroxychloroquine API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and its formulations from prohibited to free with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DFFT) said in a notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lifts-export-ban-on-anti-malarial-drug-hydroxychloroquine/story-ZyFxWpW22mFF1itGoCdn3O.html
18-06-2020||India||BSP, SP MLAs to vote for BJP in RS poll in Madhya Pradesh||Two opposition MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, one from Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) and the other from Samajwadi party (SP) and an independent lawmaker said Thursday they would vote for BJP candidates in the Rajya Sabha polls for three seats in the state on Friday. However, the central leaderships of both BSP and SP parties are yet to take a decision on who to support, according to the MLAs.The MLAs include Sanjeev Kushwah of the BSP and Rajesh Shukla of the SP. They were supporting the former Congress government of Kamal Nath from outside before it fell in March following rebellion by 22 lawmakers. and Rambai Singh is another BSP MLA in the assembly.The BJP candidates for the election include former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki while Congress candidates include former chief minister Digvijaya Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya.Sanjeev Kushwah said, “I am with the government and this is for development of my assembly constituency.”SP MLA Rajesh Shukla spoke along the same lines and said he would vote for the BJP candidates.However, both the MLAs said there was no party leadership’s decision so far in this regard and added that if the party leadership took a different decision then they will look into that.Independent MLA Surendra Singh Shera said, “Everybody saw yesterday that I stood with the government. There is no confusion on my part.”State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “We are going to have support of all the non-Congress MLAs and our candidates will win the election comfortably. This is why Congress is worried.”Both the Congress and BJP legislature parties had meetings on Wednesday and Thursday. Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP state affairs in charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe arrived at Bhopal on Wednesday evening. State Congress affairs in charge Mukul Wasnik also came from Delhi.State Congress president Kamal Nath who addressed the CLP meeting said the Rajya Sabha election result should be a message for those who betrayed the party.“The MLAs are to undergo a training once again so that there is no mistake during voting on Friday. The Rajya Sabha election result should be a message for those who betrayed the party and toppled a democratically elected government of Congress.”The BJP looks in a comfortable position to win two of the three Rajya Sabha seats. The state assembly has presently 206 MLAs with 24 vacant seats. In the house, BJP has 107 MLAs and Congress 92 while there are four independent, two BSP and one SP MLAs. As per state assembly officials, as many as 52 first preference votes are needed for victory of a candidate but to avoid any chance of setback at the last minute both the parties were busy in permutations and combinations on the eve of the poll to ensure there is no mistake during the voting and no cross voting either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-sp-mlas-to-vote-for-bjp-in-rs-poll-in-madhya-pradesh/story-gIRe9TZ4odHEiphIe8eGJM.html
18-06-2020||India||Karnataka police hunt for man who urged China to destroy India in FB post||The Karnataka police on Thursday registered an FIR against a 27-year-old man from Gadag who in a Facebook post urged China to destroy India.The social media post in Kannada came amid a countrywide outrage and anger at the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday. G Basvraj is a native of Munavalli village in Belgaum district has been working in a mobile phone repair shop in Rona taluk of Gadag district for more than four years, and also praised China in the post. Basvraj who has a social media account under the name ‘Basvraj Yash’ wrote a post asking for more Indian soldiers to be killed by China and for the destruction of the country. His social media account which is now locked indicates that it was opened in April 2013. The FB post calling for India’s destruction has enraged many people and the police have suo motu registered a complaint. Speaking to HT, Rona police station Sub Inspector Vinod Pujari said “An FIR has been registered under IPC sections 153 and section 505. He has been absconding ever since a backlash against his post. The owners of the mobile shop where he works say that they have no idea why he may have done this. We are on the lookout to detain him and will thoroughly investigate the matter.”Section 153 of the IPC deals with incidents of wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot and carries a jail term of up to a year.Section 505 deals with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility. The crime is punishable with imprisonment of up to three years.Efforts to reach Basvraj for his version of the events on the phone number displayed with his profile proved unsuccessful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-police-hunt-for-man-who-urged-china-to-destroy-india-in-fb-post/story-bZ8HcZaFLEoAjfpzHn4UIK.html
18-06-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari hopeful of India emerging as electrical vehicle manufacturing hub in 5 years||India will be a manufacturing hub for electric vehicles in five years, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said and urged players to grab opportunities amid changed circumstances in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The road transport minister stated that global businesses are looking at possibilities outside China. Addressing a webinar on ‘India’s Electric Vehicle Roadmap post-Covid-19’, Gadkari assured the electric vehicles sector of all the support in view of disruptions caused by the coronavirus crisis. According to a road ministry statement, Gadkari “expressed confidence that in the next five years, India will become a manufacturing hub for electric vehicles”, and said the government is trying to extend “best possible concessions” to this sector. The minister said the government has lowered the GST on electrical vehicles to 12 per cent. Gadkari said he was aware of the issues facing the EV sector, but was also sure that things would change as sales volume rises. On the present trend in the global market, he said, “The world is no more interested in doing business with China, which is a very good opportunity for Indian industry to pick up the shift in business.” Gadkari further said that with petroleum fuel being available in limited quantity, the world has to look for alternate and cheap sources of power, and added that electric and bio fuels stand a good chance for adoption. He also said that ensuing vehicle scrapping policy will give a fillip to the auto manufacturing sector.The minister cited the London model of public transport, where private and public investment is working well, the statement said. He said similar approach will be beneficial in India for both the poor commuters and the civic administration. He also talked about plans like working on a pilot project for developing an electric highway on the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Green Corridor.Gadkari expressed full confidence in the capabilities of the auto sector, and said, with consistency and self confidence in this economic crisis, it can gather good market opportunities. He also called upon the industry to go in for indigenisation and support Prime Minister’s ‘AtmNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-hopeful-of-india-emerging-as-electrical-vehicle-manufacturing-hub-in-5-years/story-AGi5cpHLUn6G6vHVsLgwbJ.html
18-06-2020||India||NCR needs common anti Covid-19 strategy, says Amit Shah, drafts in UP, Haryana||Home minister Amit Shah on Thursday stressed on the need for a common strategy to tackle Covid-19 spread in the national capital region (NCR) and asked Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to provide details of total beds, oxygen cylinders, ICU facilities and ambulances available with them along with their plan to argument these facilities.A government statement said that Shah passed the instructions while chairing a meeting to review Delhi’s preparations for management of Covid-19 spread.“Shri Amit Shah said that keeping in view the close knit urban structure of the NCR region, it is necessary for all concerned authorities in Delhi and the NCR region to come together to tackle the virus,” the statement said.Both Haryana and UP have been asked to submit the details by 15th July. This is the latest move in a series of decisions taken after Amit Shah took charge of Delhi’s preparedness to meet with the challenges posed by a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks.A committee, appointed by Shah and headed by NITI Aayog Member Dr V K Paul, had yesterday fixed Rs 2,400 as the rate of RT-PCR tests done by private hospitals to detect coronavirus. Capital’s testing capacity has also been hiked by almost 4 times since Sunday, in line with Shah’s assurance.In addition to the above, health officials in the city have been instructed to set up rapid antigen testing facilities near over 160 containment zones for tracking, tracing and testing of coronavirus patients—a strategy underlined by the centre as key to managing the disease. Also Read: Delhi commences Covid-19 rapid antigen testsOn Thursday, Shah is said to have asked both Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, who share borders with Delhi, to consider revising the rate of test charged in private hospitals in their jurisdiction if it is more than the panel-suggested capped rate of Rs 2,400. According to the statement, Shah also indicated that in addition to fixing the rate for tests, Delhi government could also consider fixing the rate of treatment of coronavirus patients in line with the findings of the expert committee. “Amit Shah also told the meeting that the committee also decided on rates for COVID-19 beds and treatment, and these rates could also be applied to hospitals in the NCR region after consultations,” it said.Also Read: Needed policy on movement between Delhi and bordering districts: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to PMThe statement adds that Shah told the meeting that “there is a need to work in a Mission Mode”.The meeting was attended by the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, besides senior officials from the Union government, chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana & Uttar Pradesh and other senior officers from Delhi-NCR, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncr-needs-common-anti-covid-19-strategy-says-amit-shah-drafts-in-up-haryana/story-DjOnRtqvMGHABA9RtNWpfM.html
18-06-2020||India||Congress to move no-confidence motion against BJP-led govt in Manipur||The Congress on Thursday decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Biren Singh-led government in Manipur, a day after nine MLAs, including three from the BJP, withdrew support from the government. The party met Governor Najma Heptullah this afternoon, requesting a special session of the assembly to move the motion.“We have come here to submit an application to the Governor, requesting for a special session of the assembly to adopt a resolution on the no-confidence motion against the government led by N Biren Singh,” senior Congress Chaltonlien Amo told journalists before entering the Raj Bhawan.The Congress claimed it had the numbers to form the government under Okram Ibobi Singh.“We want the Governor to call the newly formed Secular Progressive Front (SPF) under Okram Ibobi Singh, leader of the single largest party. The Congress with the SPF will form the government. The present government no longer commands a majority” he added.Meanwhile, NPP president and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma said that the developments in Manipur are because of problems with the leadership of N Biren Singh and it would have no impact on the government in Meghalaya, which has support of two BJP MLAs.“The immediate trigger for it was the resignation of the three BJP MLAs in Manipur. There were also issues with interference in the working of our party’s minister’s in that state. The events there will not affect the government in Meghalaya,” Sangma told DD News in Shillong.The move comes after three BJP MLAs, all four National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs, one Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator and an Independent MLA withdrew support to the three-year-old coalition government on Wednesday.In his letter to the Governor, former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh informed that a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led coalition has been moved before assembly Speaker Y Khemchand Singh requesting to hold a special session to “debate, consider and pass a resolution in the matter at the earliest”.“It is requested that Hon’ble Madam may exercise powers under Article 174 of the constitution to summon a special session of Manipur legislative assembly at the shortest possible time to vote on the motion of no confidence against the present minority council of ministers to protect democracy in the state,” the letter to the Governor read.Alternatively, the letter sought that “since the present ministry is in minority, it may be dismissed outright” and Okram Ibobi Singh, leader of SPF, who commands the majority invited to form the government.The letter to the Governor included letters of support from all members of SPF: 20 from Congress, four from NPP, one TMC MLA and one Independent MLA.The NPP, which is heading the government in Meghalaya with the support of BJP, has decided to join hands with Congress and form the next government.The three BJP MLAs, who resigned on Wednesday, have officially joined Congress, but their votes won’t get counted in the assembly as they would come under purview of anti-defection law.“We will go together in formation of the next government led by Congress. The government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation and interference in ministries handled by our party’s ministers are reasons why we decided to withdraw support to the government,” NPP leader and former deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh said. The immediate triggerIn April this year, chief minister N Biren Singh had divested Joykumar of all his portfolios after the latter termed the former’s assurances of food security during the Covid-19-induced lockdown as “hogwash”.The latest developments come after Manipur High Court on June 9 restrained seven Congress MLAs, who switched sides to the ruling BJP, from entering the assembly till Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh disposes of the pending anti-defection cases against them.The ruling had cast doubts on these MLAs from voting for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the state, elections for which are scheduled on June 19.In March this year, the Supreme Court had ordered removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. Shyamkumar had won on a Congress ticket but switched sides immediately after results were announced and became a minister in the BJP-led government. Following the SC move, he resigned as an MLA.It started three years agoThe first BJP government in Manipur had come to power in March 2017. The party had won 21 of the 60 seats in the state while Congress had won 28 seats.But BJP formed a government with the support of 4 MLAs each from NPP and Naga People’s Front (NPF), one legislator each from TMC and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and an Independent MLA. Like Shyamkumar, later 7 other Congress MLAs had switched sides to the BJP.How the numbers add upWith three BJP MLAs resigning, the BJP is now reduced to 18 MLAs. It still has support of 4 NPF MLAs and the lone LJP legislator taking the coalition’s tally to a total of 23 members from the 39 MLAs it had earlier.On the other hand, Congress had 20 MLAs of its own (8 disqualified for switching sides) plus 4 from NPP and one TMC and one Independent taking their total to 26 MLAs.With seven turncoat Congress MLAs not allowed to enter the assembly and the three BJP MLAs not getting a chance to vote under purview of the anti-defection law, the effective strength of the assembly is now reduced to 49 members.All eyes are now on the Speaker’s Tribunal which will decide the fate of the seven Congress MLAs debarred from entering the assembly. In the event of the disqualification cases against the seven Congress MLAs are overruled, it will favour the BJP and the Congress, if it’s upheld.“Though three of our MLAs have left, there’s still no threat to the government. We have a strategy in place and are working on it,” said BJP MLA and government spokesperson S Rajen.“We are hopeful that the assembly Speaker gives a ruling allowing the seven MLAs to enter the House and vote. If that happens, we will win the Rajya Sabha election on Friday and will also sail through a floor test, if it takes place. We are also hopeful of some Congress MLAs crossing over to our side,” he added.Meanwhile, the NPF has decided to stick with the BJP and support it in the Rajya Sabha poll on Friday as well as in a floor test.“The NPF has had an alliance with the BJP for a long time. We supported the BJP in forming a government in Manipur when it didn’t have the numbers and we will continue doing that. We don’t abandon our friends or break our ties despite BJP dishonouring agreements in the past,” said K Leishiyo, NPF MLA from Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-led-govt-in-manipur/story-PBjJDecX5M4f2Xn5Y4E5fJ.html
18-06-2020||India||In death, soldiers provide roads, street lights to their impoverished villages||Some of the soldiers who were killed in the medieval era type skirmish with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh came from some of the country’s most impoverished villages without basic facilities such as piped drinking water and proper road connectivity.Families of some of these fallen soldiers still live in thatched mud huts.Hours before their bodies arrived on Thursday for the last rites, the local administration worked overtime to build make-shift mud roads, first for some of these villages and also installed street lights as ministers and important people came visiting. Six of the 20 soldiers, who were killed, were tribals from the country’s most backward parts, especially in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradeshand Chhattisgarh. “They (the local administration) overnight built a road to bring his body and installed street lights,” said Dinesh Handsa, elder brother of Ganesh Handsa, a sepoy in Bihar regiment, who was killed at the LAC. His body was brought to their village in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district on Thursday, which still does not have a proper drinking water source in the village. Paresh Munda, panchayat samiti member, said Bandhdih tollah (Handsa’s village) was one of the most backward areas of the tribal dominated district, where still women walk long distances to fetch water.The work on the road had started under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MG-NREGA), the scheme that employs Dinesh Handsa as a daily wage earner, about a year ago. But, the work was going on at a slow pace. On Wednesday, the Baheragora block administration, under whose jurisdiction the village comes, swung into action and building remaining part of the earthen road leading to Ganesh’s house, about two km from NH-33, and installed three street lights, as political leaders, district officials and media visited Hansda house. “My brother’s death has ensured that our village now has a road,” Dinesh said.But, his brother’s dream to build a pucca (cement) house for the family will remain unfulfilled. The family of six --- Handsa’s parents, his wife, a child and sister -- lives in a two-room thatched mud house in the outskirts of Kosaphaliya village. “When he came in February, he promised to send money to build two brick rooms for us. With him, the dream is also gone,” Handsa said.Almost 500 kilometers away in West Bengal’s Birbhum district, soldier Rajesh Orang’s home at Belghoria village in the Muhammadbazar area comprises a Spartan brick and concrete single-storey house as well an old structure with thatched roof. “The old house needs restoration and reinforcements. I don’t know whether the family without their only earning member will be able to repair their home now,” said Ritesh Orang, a relative of the 26-year-old soldier.He said that the only source of drinking water for close to 200 families in the village is a hand-pump and a narrow road where only two wheelers can pass connects the village to the main road about five kms away. “So, the body could be brought only to the main road, from where people carried it to the village,” Orang said. Trinamool Congress legislator and agriculture minister Asish Banerjee visited Orang’s home on Thursday morning and assured all the help to the family. In Bengal’s Alipurduar district’s Bindigram village, home of soldier Bipul Roy, is no better. The village has electricity but no concrete road. During monsoon, people have to take a kilometer-long muddy road to reach Roy’s home, said Taranikanta Das, Roy’s brother-in-law. He said Roy’s father is a farmer and the family lives in a house made of mud, brick and tin roof. “Bipul said he was saving money to build a proper brick house in five or six years,” he said. On Thursday, another fallen soldier, sepoy Deepak Kumar’s village Farenda in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district will finally have a road the construction of which was announced in 2017. “Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has directed officials to complete the road fast,” said Ashish Singh, a village resident, who was among several villagers who participated in Kumar’s last journey. “We will name the road after Deepak,” he said. According to villagers, their major concern is lack of health facilities. “There is a health centre but no doctor. Villagers take medicines from a lone chemist in the village,” said Rakesh Singh, another villager. Deepak Kumar’s funeral will take place on Friday.Ganesh Ram Kunjam, a sepoy from Chhattigarh’s Maoist affected Kanker district, hailed from a nondescript village Kurretola, which got a road under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) only last year, said Surya Nevendra , Kunjam’s childhood friend. Kunjam was, however, able to build a concrete house from his savings last year, the only such house in this tribal village, said his uncle Tiharu Ram Kujam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-death-soldiers-provide-roads-street-lights-to-their-impoverished-villages/story-BubyYk81vaKK8jEgWFkX8J.html
18-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt considering extending area of proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve||Chhattisgarh government is considering extending the area of the proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve (LER) following demands from the activists, who are advocating the inclusion of the total catchment area of the Hasdeo river within the pachyderms’ new habitat.State forest department officials said Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel would take the final call on it, while exuding optimism that LER’s total area, measuring 1995.48 square kilometres, is likely to be extended.The government might include in LER the total or a part of the catchment area of Hasdeo river, measuring around 250 sq km, the officials added.However, the state government is facing a major hurdle because of the presence of four operational mines in the Hasdeo river’s catchment area, which also includes another five allotted mines and 12 coal reserves.“The matter is under consideration. The CM will take the final decision,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Chhattisgarh.Senior government officials said some Chhattisgarh-based activities have written to Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, citing the proposed LER would remain a non-starter without the inclusion of the catchment area of the Hasdeo river.Earlier, LER’s area was 450 sq km during the Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s rule in the state in 2007, which was extended to 1995.48 sq km by the Congress government last year.Four forest divisions --- Korba, Katghora, Surajpur, and Dharamjaigarh -- fall under LER.“There could be legal issues, if 250 sq km is included in LER because four operational mines fall in the area. The government may exclude these operational mines and include an additional 220 sq km in the proposed elephant reserve,” said a government official, privy of development.“The CM is believed to be waiting for the instructions of the Congress high command,” he added.Chhattisgarh-based activists have been demanding the extension of LER. “The Hasdeo Bango dam irrigates 2.55 lakh hectares in Janjgir-Champa and Raigarh districts in Chhattisgarh and has empowered the Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and Other Backward Class (OBC) people living in the area. The forest dwellers of Kendai, Premnagar and Udaipur forest ranges must be spared from mining activities. Else, the local tribal population will be displaced again after their 61 villages were submerged because of the construction of the Hasdeo Bango dam,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a Chhattisgarh-based lawyer and activist, who has written to Gandhi over the issue.He also advocated for an extension of LER because it would act as an effective corridor for the region’s wild elephants.LER is being developed as per the recommendations of centrally-constituted Special High-Power Technical Committee (SHPTC), which suggested measures such as the abundance of water, food, and a natural corridor for the state’s elephant population to thrive.“The move will also lessen the man-elephant conflicts, destruction of human lives, crops, and properties,” said an official.Alok Shukla, the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, which was formed in 2009 and focuses on people’s issues in the state, said LER would be a futile exercise, if Kendai, Morga, and Madanpur forest ranges are excluded from its jurisdiction.“Perhaps, the government is under pressure from a select group of mining companies to leave these areas out of LER. However, the government must remember that it was voted to power because of its commitment to protecting the tribals from the threat of displacement, and the conservation of ecologically fragile areas in the mineral-rich state,” Shukla said.“LER is a promising habitat not only for elephants but for leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears, herbivores, etc. Lots of endemic birds are also found in that area. It has good connectivity, and if notified and managed properly, it has the potential to emerge as a major landmark for elephant conservation in the state,” said Meetu Gupta, a member of the State Wildlife Board.Chhattisgarh has two national parks, three tiger reserves, eight sanctuaries, and one biosphere reserve covering 11,310.977 sq km, which is 8.36% of the state’s total geographical area and 18.92 % of the state’s total forest area of 59,772 sq km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-considering-extending-area-of-proposed-lemru-elephant-reserve/story-TDYYe1FgSFfANsjHUu8MYN.html
18-06-2020||India||Carcass of an eight-year-old elephant found in Ramnagar forest division’s Dechauri range||A carcass of an eight-year-old elephant was found in Ramnagar forest division’s Dechauri range on Thursday, said forest officials.Chandrashekhar Joshi, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ramnagar forest division, said “The elephant had injury marks on its legs and trunk. It’s likely to have died due to infighting with a tiger or tigress.”“A forest patrolling team spotted the carcass of the elephant on Thursday and informed the officials, who immediately rushed to the spot. A team of veterinary doctors conducted its post-mortem, following which the elephant was cremated,” he added.Dr. Dushyant Sharma, a senior veterinary doctor at the Corbett Tiger Reserve, said that viscera of the elephant would be sent to the animal testing laboratory in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly soon in a bid to ascertain the exact cause of its death.This is the second incident of an elephant’s death near the Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is separated from the adjoining Ramnagar forest division by the Kosi river, in the last five days.On June 14, a carcass of an eight-year-old female elephant was found in the Dhela range of the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Corbett and its surroundings are the natural habitat of 1,035 elephants, who often come into conflict with the local population, causing loss of lives, crops, and properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-an-eight-year-old-elephant-found-in-ramnagar-forest-division-s-dechauri-range/story-dsozcXtOhnoP6HfpTfnbxM.html
18-06-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Non payment of salaries to doctors, nurses made a criminal offence||The union government has declared the act of withholding salaries of doctors and nurses engaged in the battle against Covid-19 an offence under the disaster management act (DMA) through an order released on Thursday afternoon.The order issued by the health ministry follows a Supreme Court order on Wednesday directing the centre to criminalise the non-payment of dues on time to doctors and nurses and sought issuance of guidelines making it mandatory for states to make adequate quarantine and isolation facilities available for medical professionals. The centre had promised to issue the order within a day.“It is hereby directed that the States and Union Territory Administration should ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers doing Coved-19 related duty shall be released on time,” the order said.The Supreme Court had issued the order yesterday while hearing a doctor’s petition which alleged that medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and were also not provided with facilities to isolate themselves which was a big risk to their families if they were to get infected.Also Read: North body doctors defer mass resignations, to get two months’ salaries by June 24The petition had also approached the government last week and flagged the problems related to salaries and the safety of medical workers’ families apart from insufficient PPE kits, and long working hours.The home ministry order released today says state governments were responsible for the implementation of the order, violation of which will invite action against concerned hospitals and/or authorities.“The Chief Secretary of the States/UTs should ensure compliance of this order by all concerned, violation of which will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code, and action taken accordingly against defaulting hospitals/institutions/authorities.”Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) prescribes punishment for disobeying orders passed by a public servant.The Supreme Court had last week asked the centre to take care of corona warriors at the forefront of the country’s containment efforts and likened the present situation with a “war” and medical professionals as “soldiers”, who it said couldn’t be kept unhappy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-non-payment-of-salaries-to-doctors-nurses-made-a-criminal-offence/story-1atvnAPUpHs8USJ5fUcwwO.html
18-06-2020||India||Polio vaccine for Covid-19 ‘testable’, may offer limited protection: Report||Indian scientists have responded cautiously to a suggestion by global researchers that the oral polio vaccine be tested for Covid-19 treatment, saying it is a “testable idea” based on a sound scientific concept but may offer only limited protection against the infection.With a vaccine for Covid-19 at least a year away, scientists say repurposing already safe and effective vaccines is the way to go for immediate relief against Covid-19. The repurposed vaccines could include the oral polio vaccine (OPV) and the Bacillus Calmette–Guerin (BCG) used against tuberculosis, both part of the immunisation given to Indian children.  It is worth conducting a clinical trial, said Ram Vishwakarma, director of the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM) in Jammu.  He was responding to a study last week by an international team of researchers in the journal Science. The researchers, including Shyamasundaran Kottili and Robert Gallo from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in the US, said the OPV should be tested to see if it might protect people from the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They noted that the vaccine used to prevent poliomyelitis infections has been around since the 1950s, and is found to provide some protection against other viral infections.  The stimulation of innate immunity by attenuated vaccines -- live but with substantially reduced virulence -- in general and OPV in particular could provide temporary protection against Covid-19, the scientists noted.  Innate immunity is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates, including humans.  According to Vishwakarma, the idea proposed by Gallo, an internationally renowned virologist who co-discovered that HIV causes AIDS, is based on the fact that people who have undergone polio vaccination boost their innate immunity.  “It is a sound scientific concept but we do not know what will eventually happen because this has multiple phases. It may help patients in the early phase, with mild and moderate symptoms but may not help serious patients,” Vishwakarma told PTI.   “It is a testable idea based on a scientific hypothesis that is in turn based on the concept of what we call trained immunity, a non-specific way to boost innate immunity for our immune system to fight out the virus,”  Vishwakarma explained.  India has been implementing a pulse polio programme since 1995 with an aim to eradicate polio, added virologist Upasana Ray. This is in accordance with a resolution passed by the World Health Assembly in 1988 for polio eradication globally.  “Every year, children between 0-5 years age are immunised with polio vaccine. It is a very widespread and well established programme,” Ray, senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI.  Immunologist Satyajit Rath added that it is best to keep in mind that Gallo and his team are not talking about the function of the OPV as a ‘vaccine’ which generates a specific immune response.  “Instead, it is simply the idea of giving people a viral infection, any viral infection, so that there is activation of innate antiviral and inflammatory immunity, which might reduce the chances of another virus (SARS-CoV-2) infection which enters at the same time,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi, told PTI.  “Do I think this might work? It might, to some very modest extent, would be my guess, and not enough to make it particularly worthwhile,” he said.  Noting that repurposing vaccines is a good idea, Ray said there is a chance of cross protection to some extent if the proteins of two pathogens have similar sequences even at some epitopes.An epitope is a part of an antigen or a foreign substance that is recognised by the immune system cells, specifically by antibodies, B cells and T cells.  “For polio also, we first need to see if any of the polio proteins show overlapping T or B cell epitopes as compared to that of SARS-COV-2. If there are, it might provide some protection... To what extent? That needs validation,” said Ray.  Vishwakarma said the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is currently testing a repurposed vaccine against Covid-19 on the similar lines of a polio vaccine.  It is testing Cadila Pharmaceuticals’ Sepsivac against Covid-19 in a Phase 2 clinical trial.  This immunotherapy treatment, which boosts “innate immunity”, has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for clinical trials, he said.  Rath noted that there are major potential limitations to using the polio vaccine for Covid-19.  First, it is likely that this ‘protection’ by ongoing innate immune activation is likely to be of short duration.  Second, the likelihood is that a lot of people in India, particularly children, are immune to polio, and therefore will not actually let the OPV  ‘work’ as an infection, he said.  “Instead, polio-immune individuals would be ‘protected’ against yet more vaccine, which would defeat the SARS-CoV-2-related purpose,” Rath noted.  “In fact, even amongst those who do not have current anti-polio antibodies, this ‘protection’ would likely be a transient one-time effect for a few days which is unlikely to be repeatable since this first exposure would make them polio-immune,” he said.Agreeing with Rath, Ray noted that most people in India are already vaccinated against polio in childhood.  “Aren’t those people getting infected? Say yes, still they are.......then the next question could be, are they getting sick similar to non-vaccinated ones?” she said.  “Next, is it possible that for polio it is providing life-long protection. Is it possible that in case some epitopes are matching that vaccination could help? All these are blind spots. Need time testing,” said Ray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polio-vaccine-for-covid-19-testable-may-offer-limited-protection-report/story-hUAXwERvt4JQLY1y14DE3L.html
18-06-2020||India||India says priority at UNSC will be to enhance counter-terrorism cooperation||A day after India was elected to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with an overwhelming majority for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021, the government said enhancing counter-terrorism cooperation will be one of its main priorities.“India will work to enhance counter-terrorism cooperation, which will be one of the priorities during its membership of UN Security Council during 2021-22”, said Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs.“India will also work to improve and depoliticise the system of sanctioning terrorists,” he said.Swarup said India’s performance at the UNSC in the next two years would reaffirm its credentials to be a permanent member of the council.“Our presence on the Security Council and our performance there over the next 2 years will underscore the value that a country like India brings to the table and reaffirm our credentials to be a permanent member of UNSC,” the secretary said.It will be India’s eighth two-year term. India’s election as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, underlined the goodwill the country has in the world body, Swarup said.“It demonstrates the goodwill India enjoys at the UN and the confidence the international community has reposed in India’s capability to contribute to the work of the council.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-priority-at-unsc-will-be-to-enhance-counter-terrorism-cooperation/story-9Udrrn4vjtcAzv80FGYGDI.html
18-06-2020||India||India’s recovery rate touches 53% a day after PM Modi pushed for Unlock-2||India’s recovery rate from Covid 19 infection has risen further to 52.96 per cent with a total of 1,94,324 patients getting cured so far, as per the data released by the health ministry on Thursday. The rise in recovery rate comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on maintaining a good recovery rate from the disease as India goes about the twin tasks of unlocking more economic activities and battling the coronavirus pandemic in the coming days.“During the last 24 hrs, 7,390 COVID-19 patients were cured. A total of 1,94,324patients, so far, have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate rises to 52.96%. Currently, 1,60,384 active cases are under medical supervision,” a statement from the health ministry said.The government of India has also laid emphasis on the three principles of tracing, tracking and treating Covid cases and has indicated that it seeks to continuously push up the number of daily tests to achieve that purpose. According to the health ministry data, a total of 62,49,668 samples have been tested in the country so far.The statement added that the number of government labs has been increased to 699 and the number of private labs testing Coved 19 samples has also increased to 254 therefore taking the total testing capacity to 953 labs—540 of these labs are capable of real time RT PCR tests, 340 are equipped with facilities to conduct TrueNat based testing and 73 are capable of conducting CBNAAT based testing.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With the enhanced capacity, a total of 1,65,412 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the statement said.India on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 12,881 Covid-19 cases pushing the overall tally of infections in the country to 3,66,946 including 12,237 deaths, of which 334 are new fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours.In another measure to strengthen India’s health infrastructure to tackle the pandemic, the health ministry today launched the country’s first mobile I-Lab which is an infectious disease diagnostic lab meant for Covid-19 testing for last mile access in remote areas.“It will be deployed in remote, interior and inaccessible parts of the country and have capability to perform 25 COVID-19 RT-PCR tests/Day, 300 ELISA tests/day, additional tests for TB, HIV etc. as per CGHS rates. The Infectious Disease Diagnostic Lab (I-LAB) is supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, under the Covid Command strategy,” said the official statement by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-rate-touches-53-a-day-after-pm-modi-pushed-for-unlock-2/story-loUTCEZxNA7IqBDQePMYbL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barb||Indian soldiers involved in the bloody clash with Chinese soldiers at Galwan valley were not unarmed but soldiers at the border do not use firearms in faceoffs, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Thursday. Jaishankar’s tweet was a comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ‘s attack that asked the government to spell out who had ordered unarmed soldiers to go to the standoff point.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so,” Jaishankar tweeted on the clash. Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives in the Galwan clash; China hasn’t revealed any information about their casualties.Jaishankar added that there was a long-standing practice established in view of two agreements of 1996 and 2005 not to use firearms during faceoffs”.Rahul Gandhi should have known about it, a senior union minister added later. The first agreement was signed by the Deve Gowda government that was supported by Congress and the second during the first edition of the Manmohan Singh government.In the tweet that set off the political row, Rahul Gandhi had tweeted: “How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent UNARMED to martyrdom?”Rahul Gandhi’s dart - one of the many that he has been flinging at the government through the standoff that started with a brawl last month - quoted an interview by Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag to Hindustan Times.In this, Lt Gen Panag had claimed that the troops would not have gone unarmed without a clear order. “That means the troops would have been given specific orders,” the retired army officer had said, claiming that this instruction would not have been issued without political clearance.The bloody clash at Galwan Valley was set off due to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s insistence of constructing an observation post at a Indian patrolling point. The post would have helped the Chinese to not only observe Indian troop movement towards Karakoram but also would have had the capacity to interdict army vehicles plying on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) road.Jaishankar, in his conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, had underscored that the People’s Liberation Army soldiers had a pre-meditated plan to change the agreed alignment of the Line of Actual Control and push out Indian Army from Patrolling Point 14.Point 14 is on a ridge that overlooks both the Galwan River Valley and the Galwan Nullah which joins the Shyok river on whose bank India is building the DSBO road. It was set up by the army in 1978.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-s-comeback-to-rahul-gandhi-barb-let-us-get-the-facts-straight/story-hGTeXX0sMaouBSYFkt8H5I.html
18-06-2020||India||Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod sought||The ministry of railways on Thursday said its PSU, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays. To be clear, the decision to terminate the contract was taken in April due to “slow progress by the firm,” officials aware of the development said. The contract was for signalling and telecommunication work at the Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay 417 KM long stretch on the Eastern Dedicated Freight corridor. The World Bank funded project is worth Rs 471 crore. The national carrier has also approached the World Bank for the same, Hindustan Times has learnt. “The contract was awarded in August 2016 and was to be completed within 1,000 days however the progress has been very slow and hardly 20% work has been completed. We decided to terminate it and approached the world bank to grant us an NOC in April and are hopeful the process will be completed by June end. It is an important project and was being monitored by the PMO as well,” DFCCIL Managing Director Anurag Sachan told HT. For the contract to be terminated, a non-objection certificate (NOC) from the World Bank has to be granted as per its procurement regulations in investment project financing. For modification of signed contracts subject to prior review, the borrower shall seek the bank’s no objection before agreeing to terminate the contract, according to the regulations. “In April, DFCCIL brought to the Bank’s notice delays in implementation of this contract. The Bank had sought more details on the contract implementation issues. We received most of the information by June 9, 2020 and are currently reviewing the information provided,” a World Bank spokesperson said. The announcement by the railway ministry comes amid escalation of the border conflict with China triggered following Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). DFCCIL has decided to terminate it due to “very poor performance of the company”, a railway ministry spokesperson said. Only 20% of the work had been completed “despite passage of four years” DFCCIL said in its termination notice. In view of poor progress it is decided by DFCCIL to terminate this contract, it said.The company was reluctant to furnish technical documents, the railways PSU said citing the reasons for the termination of the contract. “Non availability of the engineers/authorised personnel was a serious issue,” it said. Physical work on the project also could not progress as they have no tie up with the local agencies, DCCIL mentioned. “Material procurement, which is an independent activity, has not been done earnestly. There is no improvement in progress despite repeated meetings with them at every possible level.” DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways’ quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Howrah, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL) aims to decongest up to 70 % freight load of the Indian Railways to decongest its network for running passenger trains as well. India has been mulling economic measures, including limiting China’s access to its market. On Wednesday, the ministry of housing and urban affairs said it has not finalised a contract with a Chinese firm for construction of an underground stretch of Delhi Meerut RRTS (Regional Rapid transit System) project after it emerged as the lowest bidder at Rs 1126 crore. “The tender is under process and yet to be finalised. The ADB/World Bank/Multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among firms/ countries,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-terminates-contract-with-beijing-firm-cites-poor-performance/story-nHak8FjrYW0iaVroBZlTzI.html
18-06-2020||India||No soldiers missing after Galwan Valley clash, says Indian Army||The Indian Army on Thursday rubbished media reports that claimed several soldiers had gone missing after the June 15 violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China also purportedly suffered casualties.“It is clarified that no Indian troops are missing in action,” the army said in a brief statement. An army spokesperson said the statement was in reference to the article, “In China-India Clash, Two Nationalist Leaders with Little Room to Give”, published by the New York Times on Wednesday.Some sections of the Indian media had also reported that several Indian troops had gone missing or were unaccounted for. The statement came on a day Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met in eastern Ladakh to defuse mounting tensions between the border troops. This was their seventh meeting after the current border stand-off began and the third after the brutal Galwan Valley clash.Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash near Patrol Point 14, where the Indian Army suffered its first casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 45 years.Also read | ‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barbIn October 1975, Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.The June 15 clash left 76 Indian soldiers injured, including 18 with serious injuries, officials said adding that all of them were stable now.The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement on Tuesday, confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. The Chinese fatal casualties reportedly include a colonel-ranked officer, but HT couldn’t independently verify this.The June 15 brawl has virtually derailed the de-escalation plans worked out by senior Indian and Chinese military commanders in a rare meeting on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-are-no-indian-troops-missing-in-action-indian-army/story-L7pvc0HiCDqFBagiihcXTK.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre to pump Rs 50,000 cr into Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to boost jobs||The Centre will frontload Rs 50,000 crore into 25 schemes that will be brought together under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to provide employment to migrant workers across 116 districts in the country who returned home during the lockdown, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said Thursday.“We want to frontload money allotted for these 25 works. Workers will get their work. Assets will be created. Objective of rural development will be filled,” she said.“Everyone who needs an assignment in these 116 districts will be given work under GaribKalyanRojgarAbhiyaan, broad estimated expenditure for the scheme is Rs 50,000 crore, the money allotted for this will be front-loaded, Sitharaman said. She said the skill sets of the migrants who returned home have been mapped to a large extent. The 116 districts are spread across Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan“The central and state governments have meticulously mapped the skill sets of the migrant workers who have returned in large numbers to the 116 districts in 6 states,” Sitharaman said.Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch on June 20, aims to provide meaningful employment to workers who returned home. “Within125 days, for 116 districts, nearly 25 schemes of the government will be brought together under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan, we will reach saturation levels for each of those schemes within 125 days. The objects will be achieved using workers who returned,” Sitharam said.Each of these districts has at least 25,000 workers who returned home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-pump-rs-50-000-cr-into-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-to-boost-jobs/story-5aPEsnMOAIK3k04qlzf9MO.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Coal block auctions to make India self-reliant in energy sector, says Amit Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coal block auctions to generate 2.8 lakh jobs and revenue windfall: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hailed the launch of the auction process for commercial mining of 41 coal mines as historic and said it will not only make India self-reliant in the energy sector but will also create lakhs of jobs and massive revenue for states by attracting huge capital investments. Read moreMumbai witnesses its first intense showers, 4 days after onset of monsoonThe Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received intermittent spells of intense showers through Thursday morning -- four days after the onset of the south-west monsoon in the city and its suburbs. Read moreMumbai: 36-year-old tailor injured after a man with criminal history opens fireA tailor (36) was shot at twice by a man (35) with criminal antecedents at Amir Baug area in Mumbai’s Kurla (East) early on Thursday morning. The tailor, identified as Sadiq Khan, suffered two bullet injuries and is undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital. Read moreCovid-19 patients without disease symptoms may have weaker immune response: StudyCovid-19 patients who do not show any symptoms of the disease may have a weaker immune response to the virus, according to a new study which highlights the risks of using ‘immunity passports’ to certify that a person has recovered from Covid-19, and is fit for travel and work. Read more‘Complex challenge’: Mallorca CEO responds after pitch invader clicks selfie with Lionel MessiEven as the Spanish league, LaLiga, restarted after the forced break due to the coronavirus pandemic, a controversy broke out over a pitch invader interrupted the clash between FC Barcelona and RCD Mallorca. Read moreYour Honor review: Jimmy Sheirgill puts family before principles in this gripping crime dramaCrime thrillers are keeping us entertained in this season of uncertainty as we lap up the dark, and often deranged, on OTT platforms.Before we are done applauding the engrossing and layered Paatal Lok, we have been served Your Honor on Sony Liv. Read moreTSA dog hangs up his boots after 8 years. His last bag search was all kinds of awesomeA dog who spent eight years of service with the TSA got the sweetest surprise after his retirement. A video shared on Twitter shows how this special dog was celebrated for his service and it’s beyond adorable. Read moreWatch: Sushant Singh Rajput’s rumoured girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty records her statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-coal-block-auctions-to-make-india-self-reliant-in-energy-sector-says-amit-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HxhpolIN5dcXaZbGWewYyI.html
18-06-2020||India||‘All border troops carry arms’: Jaishankar responds to Rahul Gandhi on Ladakh standoff||All troops on border duty always carry arms, underlined external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday while countering Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter query as to why Indian soldiers were sent in unarmed during the violent face-off with China in the eastern Ladakh region.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” tweeted the minister just hours after Rahul Gandhi raised the question.The deadly clash between the two armies began on Monday at around 7 pm in the Galwan valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Twenty Indian soldiers died in the line of duty in clash with the Chinese troops.The soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand combat that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6.On Wednesday, Jaishankar, in a phone call with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, conveyed India’s protest in “strongest terms” to Beijing over the violent face off and said that China had attempted to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC. New Delhi also said that the Chinese side took “premeditated and planned” action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. A statement by the external affairs ministry following the conversation said that India had conveyed to China that the Galwan Valley development will have a “serious” impact on the bilateral relationship. It also added that the need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take “corrective” steps.A strongly worded statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry – after the phone conversation - said New Delhi “should strictly control frontline troops”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-facts-straight-s-jaishankar-on-soldiers-without-arms-in-china-clash/story-73VYyqeWNdFMNMJrX6PWUI.html
18-06-2020||India||Close down restaurants selling Chinese food, says Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has said all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down and products made in China should be boycotted.His comments come after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“China is a country that betrays. India should boycott all products that are made in China. Chinese food and all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down,” Athawale, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, said in a tweet.Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.He also paid tribute to the martyred soldiers.“20 soldiers of India have been killed in violent clashes in Galwan of Ladakh. Humble tribute to the soldiers! The martyrdom of the soldiers will not go in vain. The government of India and all Indians stand with the families of the martyred soldiers!,” Athawale tweeted in Hindi.Earlier in March, Athawale was in the news when his video along with Chinese Consul General in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks chanting ‘Go corona, go corona’ at a prayer meet had gone viral on social media.The video was reportedly shot at Gateway of India on February 20 during a prayer session to stop the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-down-restaurants-selling-chinese-food-says-ramdas-athawale/story-ZaH066diNyJRRRLQfG8nlL.html
18-06-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan launches India’s first mobile laboratory for Covid-19 testing||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched India’s first mobile laboratory for Covid-19 testing in rural and inaccessible areas of India.“To ensure testing facilities in far-flung areas, such innovations have been developed in the interior, inaccessible parts of the country,” said Union Health Minister.In the wave of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Ministry of Science and Technology and Andhra Pradesh Med-tech Zone have collaborated to address the shortage of critical healthcare technologies in India and move progressively towards a stage of self-sufficiency. Explaining the scope of this lab, Vardhan said, “It has the capability to perform 25 RT-PCR tests per day, 300 ELISA tests per day and additional tests for TB, HIV as per CGHS rates.”“We had started the fight against Covid with one laboratory in February. Today, we have 953 laboratories across the country. Out of these 953, around 699 are government labs,” he added.India has witnessed the highest single-day increase of 12,881 Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours and the cumulative count for the cases have surged to 3,66,946 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-launches-india-s-first-mobile-laboratory-for-covid-19-testing/story-jFDvyJqlXh6MfjcV1RVNVO.html
18-06-2020||India||Migrants toil to revive ‘dead’ Gharar in village in UP’s Banda district||Unfazed by lack of work after returning to their native village Bhanwarpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district, a group of migrants decided to bring a dead river, the Gharar, back to life.Toiling from dawn to dusk for the last three weeks, the group of men and women in Bhanwarpur, about 200 km south of Kanpur, have been cleaning the riverbed and digging new passages so that flood water can drain easily during the monsoon, the only season during which the Gharar looks like a river.They have already managed to clear nearly two kilometres along the course. Another three kilometres remain, the workers say.The small river originates in Panna in Madhya Pradesh. It passes through Bhanwarpur before merging in the Baage river in Banda. The mighty Ken river is nearby. Its flow during the monsoon temporarily fills the Gharar, which at other times resembles a nullah at some places, said Sajeevan, a migrant.Like him, about 200 others returned to the village, braving hardships after the Covid-19 lockdown. They claim they initially went to the village headman Ram Naresh Badri seeking work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) but were told that there was no work for them in the village or nearby.Everyone was dejected, except seven men who hit upon a plan and got 60 workers involved in the project to revive the river.“It was better than sitting idle in our houses doing nothing. Everyone is contributing to revive this river. Our work will save us from flooding in monsoon and give us water to irrigate our fields. So, what if we are not getting money? We are certainly doing something worthwhile,” said Sajeevan, who has completed the 14-day mandatory quarantine after returning home.The project is important as the lack of proper drainage causes floods every monsoon, damaging houses and inundating fields in Bhanwarpur which has a population of 1,500. Recalling the village headman’s refusal to give, Rama Bai, a villager, said, “At this point, some men suggested why not volunteer to revive Gharar, which can be turned into the village’s lifeline. Some people did not agree but this group was persistent. After a meeting, the majority came on board. The rest joined later.” The work begins early in the morning and goes on till 5pm and beyond. The women and men sing bhajans in tandem, boosting one another’s morale. They take a two-hour lunch break between 1 pm and 3 pm. The women cook the food and all of them eat together.“We have cleaned about two kilometres and think it will take another three weeks to complete the remaining three kilometres,” said Asha Devi, another worker.Badri denied that the workers asked him for work. “They are doing this (river revival work) on their own,” he says.District magistrate Banda Amit Bansal said no one in the district has been denied employment under the MGNREGS. About nine projects are going on under MGNREGS around Bhanwarpur but the Gharar river is not included because it is filled with water at the moment. Apart from them the administration has undertaken work under MGNREGS on 54 water bodies in the district. “The migrants are being work under MGREGS in all the 459 village panchayat, no one has been denied work,” he said. As for Bhanwarpur and the allegation that the village headman denied work to the migrants, he said it will be looked into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-toil-to-revive-dead-gharar-in-village-in-up-s-banda-district/story-zzt8OMf8ymgp8y1YjQpn6O.html
18-06-2020||India||Chinese firm’s Rs 470 cr contract to be cancelled, says railway amid Ladakh face-off||The Indian Railways’ Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) has decided to terminate contract with China. The signalling contract was given to Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication in the year 2016.The Chinese company was meant to complete the signalling and telecommunication work the 417-km long Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay section. The project cost was Rs 471 crore.The decision was taken because the Chinese firm had only completed 20 per cent of the work in four years.Officials said the Chinese company was reluctant to furnish technical documents as per contract agreement. Also, the Chinese firm has not been able to provide engineers/authorised personnel at the site which was a serious constraint.“There have been meetings at every level, but no improvement in progress,” one official said.The announcement comes after a face-off between India and China in the Ladakh region in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. India is mulling economic measures to counter Beijing, people familiar with developments said.A railway official, however, underlined that the decision was taken way back in April. For the contract to be cancelled, New Delhi will, however, need a non-objection certificate (NOC) from the World Bank.At least 100 Chinese products are staring at anti-dumping action and future investments from China, including participation of its firms in big and important projects such as the 5G market, could be barred, four government officials said, asking not to be identified.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added.“Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one government official said.Traders are also against China. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a powerful lobby of 70 million local traders, has decided to step up its nationwide movement against the boycott of Chinese goods, CAIT national secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said.Both ministries of finance and commerce are already taking action against the influx of Chinese goods that is injuring domestic industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-psu-cancels-contract-with-chinese-company-cites-poor-progress-in-work/story-6Rl55F0aSllgoufI0mfo9N.html
18-06-2020||India||Coal block auctions to generate 2.8 lakh jobs and revenue windfall: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hailed the launch of the auction process for commercial mining of 41 coal mines as historic and said it will not only make India self-reliant in the energy sector but will also create lakhs of jobs and massive revenue for states by attracting huge capital investments.Shah also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and mines and coal minister Pralhad Joshi for the marquee decision and said it will bring transparency in the process of coal block allocations.“In line with the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, PM @NarendraModi ji today flagged off the process to auction 41 coal mines for commercial mining. This historic decision will make India self-reliant in the energy sector by introducing competition and boosting coal production,” Shah tweeted.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said it marked an important step in India becoming self-reliant in energy production by reducing imports.Also Read: ‘Covid-19 an opportunity, taught India to become self-reliant’: PM ModiIndia has the world’s fourth-largest coal reserves and is its second-largest producer, yet the country is also among the largest importers of coal due to its own power generation needs. PM said his government was undoing a mistake made by previous governments of not unlocking this sector’s full potential.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. The country will reduce its dependence on imports. To make India self-reliant in the energy sector, a major step is being taken today,” Modi said at the launch.Auction of coal mines to pave the way for commercial mining is part of a series of reforms announced by the centre under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package to chart a new path of economic resurgence from the setback dealt by the coronavirus outbreak.It is expected to boost private sector participation, leading to higher production and competition.Modi added that the auction of these coal mines also had the potential to turn the tribal belts—where most of these blocks are located—and the eastern and central parts of the countries housing them, into pillars of development.He said it was a win-win proposition for industry, states and people as the move opens up new resources, more revenue and employment opportunities.Shah stressed on the employment generation aspect of the project and said the auctions would eventually create 2.8 lakh new jobs.“This decision of the Modi government will create more than 2.8 lakh jobs, attract capital investment worth 33,000 crore and generate annual revenue of 20,000 crore for the state governments,” Shah said in one of his three tweets lauding the move.An official statement said that the coal blocks will be auctioned through a two-stage electronic auction process.It added that at the peak of its production capacity, these blocks will produce 225 million tons of coals-- about 15 per cent of the country’s projected total coal production in 2025-26.The government has allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) to attract latest technologies and mechanisation in mining operations.Shah also lauded the PM and the coal minister for “ensuring transparency” in the mine allocation process.“I thank PM Shri @NarendraModi and Shri @JoshiPralhad for this very important decision and for ensuring transparency in the mine allocation process. It reiterates Modi government’s commitment towards building a prosperous, corruption-free and self-reliant India.”The government believes that increased production will ensure sustained coal stocks for industries lending greater reliability and help move the sector towards a free-market structure with the implementation of a National Coal Index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-block-auctions-to-generate-2-8-lakh-jobs-and-revenue-windfall-amit-shah/story-flGetdcfMRL2bGeyp6WgKJ.html
18-06-2020||India||India must reduce coal imports, become self-reliant in energy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and reiterated his call for India to become self-reliant in energy by reducing imports.Despite having the world’s fourth-largest coal reserves and being the second-largest producer, the country is the second-largest importer.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. The country will reduce its dependence on imports. To make India self-reliant in the energy sector, a major step is being taken today,” Prime Minister Modi said while addressing at the launch of auctioning 41 coal mines for commercial mining.“We are not just launching the auction for commercial coal mining but bringing the coal sector out of decades of lockdown,” he said addressing the gathering by video conferencing.The roll-out of commercial coal mining is part of the series of announcements made by the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. It is expected to boost private sector participation which will, in turn, lead to higher production and enhance competition.“Allowing private sector in commercial coal mining is unlocking resources of a nation with the world’s fourth-largest reserves,” the Prime Minister said. “It has been decided to open up the coal and mining sector for competition, capital, participation and technology,” he added. The Prime Minister said reforms related to coal sector will prove to be big in making tribal belts as well as eastern and central India into pillars of development. Commercial coal block auction is a win-win for industry users. New resources will open up, states will get more revenue and new employment opportunities will be generated, he said.A two-stage electronic auction process is being adopted for allocation of the coal mines, according to an official statement. Upon attainment of peak rated capacity of production of 225 million tonnes, these mines will contribute about 15 per cent of the country’s projected total coal production in 2025-26.The move will provide direct employment to about 70,000 people and indirect employment to 2.1 lakh people. It is expected to generate Rs 33,000 crore of capital investment in the country over the next five to seven years. These mines will contribute Rs 20,000 crore in revenue annually to the state governments.Allowing 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) is likely to bring in international practices, the latest technologies and mechanisation in mining operations. Self-reliance with substitution of imports by independent thermal power plants and captive power plants will result in saving of foreign currency.The initiative will ensure sustained coal stocks for industries with greater reliability. It will move the sector towards a free-market structure with the implementation of a National Coal Index.Commercial mining of coal will promote the practice of efficient use of clean energy and reduce the scourge of environmental pollution with an incentive to coal gasification and liquefaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-reduce-coal-imports-become-self-reliant-in-energy-pm-narendra-modi/story-rxXr4pgblDbV9yyL9vN8nM.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre targets 6 lakh rapid Covid-19 tests in Delhi; to add 500 ventilators, 650 ambulances||The Centre plans to conduct six lakh rapid antigen Covid-19 tests in Delhi at 169 new facilities being set up in the capital where 50,000 kits have already been supplied, Union Minister G Kishan Reddy said on Thursday.He also said the central government is going to provide 500 additional ventilators and 650 ambulances to hospitals in Delhi, which has seen a spike in number of coronavirus cases over the past few days, “From today onwards, 169 testing centres will be operational in Delhi where rapid antigen methodology will be used. We have targeted to conduct six lakh tests. People living in containment zones and relatives of the positive cases can go for test in any of these centres,” Reddy told reporters here.The Union Minister of State for Home said that as of now 50,000 rapid testing kits procured from South Korea have been sent to these 169 testing centres.He said Delhi currently has 431 ventilators and the central government will provide 500 more to hospitals in the city.Similarly, the central government will provide 650 ambulances to add to the 350 that the city already has, he said.“Because of the (coronavirus) situation, people of Delhi were gripped with tension. So, the Central government took the matter seriously,” he said.Reddy said that following a directive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and under the leadership of Home Minister Amit Shah, the Centre and the Delhi government took certain decisions for the benefit of the people of the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-targets-6-lakh-rapid-covid-19-tests-in-delhi-to-add-500-ventilators-650-ambulances/story-qLcyC8XIkFHzx7QpyZzmXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Coal mine auction opens up vast stretches of forests in central India for mining, show documents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining, saying the market for the commodity is now open and the sales will help turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity.But the list of 41 mines showed several are located in biodiversity-rich forest areas in central India, including a few in one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest called Hasdeo Arand that spans 170,000 hectares.Brief descriptions of the mines up for auction on the website of state-run MSTC Limited showed several do not have the required forest clearance and are located amid protected forests. Madanpur North in Chhattisgarh, for example, has a total area of 21 sq km, of which 19 sq km is forest area. The area is the drainage for several streams that join Hasdeo river. The mine is awaiting forest and environmental clearance.Morga II, also in Hasdeo Arand coal block, has an area of 26.64 sq km, of which 85% is forest land. The area falls within the drainage of Hasdeo river, a major tributary of Mahanadi river. Almost the entire Morga South coal block is also in forest land, according to the site’s description on MSTC’s website.There are several coal blocks in biodiversity-rich forest land in Jharkhand. For example, Chakla block has 55% forest cover and acts as drainage for major rivers such as Damodar and Bakri. Jharkhand’s Choritand Tilaya too has forests in 50% of the area, while Seregarha block comprises 40% forest.Madhya Pradesh’s Gotitoria East coal block is 80% forest and acts as drainage for Sitarewa river. There are several other blocks among the 41 where operations will involve massive forest loss, the documents show.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had written to the prime minister on June 10 to request him to place a moratorium on mineral auction processes to ensuring competitive auctions.“Coal and iron ore are the two most significant minerals that would come up for auction. However, both these minerals are found in districts that have significant forest cover and host a large population of scheduled tribe and backward community,” he wrote.Gram sabhas in Hasdeo Arand in Surguja region of Chhattisgarh also wrote to the prime minister on Tuesday, asking him to stop the auction of five coal blocks in the region.“Total 20 gram sabhas of the region have been regularly passing resolutions against mining and auction/allotment of coal blocks in the region since the last five years. Even when the first phase of auctions was happening in 2015, these gram sabhas had written to the PM,” the letter stated.“Nature has blessed eastern and central India with rich coal deposits. I want to assure people of these regions that labour welfare and development of coal bearing regions are foremost on our mind,” union coal minister Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday. Coal sector is committed to a massive capital expenditure and employment plan in coal bearing regions, Joshi added.To achieve complete Aatma Nirbhar Bharat in coal sector, we need to make large infrastructure investment in eastern and central India, he said.“I have already declared that welfare provisions for contractual labourers in event of mishap will be no less than that for regular employees....Coal sector is committed to a massive capital expenditure and employment plan in coal bearing regions,” he said.Coa l India will rise to energy challenge and increasingly get into clean coal technology, the minister said. “ CIL will invest thousands of crores of rupees on mechanizing coal movement to mine coal technologically and more efficiently, reducing pollution and improving efficiency.”Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, said: “This centralised coal mine auctions open the fragile and biodiverse forest areas in constitutionally protected Scheduled V areas. The messaging of the auction process signals that the government sees these places as mere coal bearing areas from where projects interested in commercial coal mining will extract for private profit.“With no end use and pricing restrictions, the government is also giving up its important responsibility of safeguarding public interest, protecting the environment and upholding the prevailing constitutional safeguards for the areas in question.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-mine-auction-opens-up-vast-stretches-of-forests-in-central-india-for-mining-show-documents/story-1SdToixA4Dcomld0op8lzH.html
18-06-2020||India||PM Modi launches auction of coal mines. Full speech here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said that this is a major step in making India self-reliant in energy sector. India will turn the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.Here’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s full address at virtual launch of auctioning of coal mines for commercial mining: Thank you Prahlad ji , hello to everyone.All the comrades taking part in this event at home and abroad are very welcome. So Challenging Time to be this kind of event , you must include all , you have a very big hope awakens in , comes to the big message of confidence.India will fight Corona and will also win , it will also move forward. India major disaster , disaster cry and understand - not the side of the seating area. India Disaster how great it may be , is determined to change her opportunity and we will have the opportunity to disaster by all together. This crisis of Corona has also taught India the lesson of being self-reliant India- Self Reliant .Independent India ie Bharat Import will reduce their dependence on. Independent India ie Bharat Import bring against foreign exchange lakhs of crores of rupees spent on and work for the welfare of the poor. Independent India ie India Import do not , for he will constantly strive towards developing tools and resources in their own country , will grow further. On mine I am confident to say that , today we Import do , at the largest of the Exporter will.Comrades , this goal it is very necessary to achieve that we each grabbed a sector , each holding a product , while one service care Holistic work methods. Make India self-sufficient in that region by choosing one region. Today’s Event Similar thinking an important towards realizing initiative is , is a strong move. Today , a huge step is being taken to make India self-reliant in the Energy Sector . These programs simply Coal Mining connected to , associated with a sector reforms is to take off on the ground , is not it, but it’s 130 million Aspirations to Realize the commitment to. This is the beginning of creating millions of employment opportunities for our young colleagues.Peers , Self Reliance to prove the resolution when it was last month declared independence India campaign , so many people think it is normal governmental process. But within a month , every announcement , every reforms , whether Agriculture Sector in , regardless of MSMEs in the sector or longer Coal and Mining of Sector in , are taking a variety of steps in every area with a , Decisions are being made , and everyone is trying to land the decisions faster.It shows that India Crisis to Opportunity is how serious change , so Committed is. Today we just Commercial Coal Mining to Auction the Launch are not , but Coal Sector are excluded from lockdown of decades. Coal sector is the impact of the lockdown ,You all know this better than me. Imagine , which country Coal Reserve is the fourth largest country in the world according to , which is the second largest of the Producer ‘s , they land Coal ‘s Export does not our country the world’s second largest Coal Importer are , the coal import .The big question is that when we are in the world Producers Largest like , a kind of Largest Producers which the main Group , we are one of them. If this is true then why can’t we be Largest Exporter ? And all of us have to ask ourselves. And the same question has always arisen in the mind of me , all of you and crores of Indians too.Friends , this situation was going on here for decades. The country’s Coal Sector was entangled in the web of Captive and Non-captive . It was kept out of the competition , a big problem of Transparency has come up again and again. Honestly Auction leave the , coal mines allotment has heard everyone talking about big scandals , has been at all times , has resulted in every corner. Due to this, investment in the coal sector of the country was also low and its efficiencyShe was always surrounded by questions. Coal came out of a state , hundreds of kilometers away from another state’s power plant . While the power plants of the state kept waiting for coal. So quite a few M Ismanage was , was disrupted.Friends , After 2014, several steps were taken to change this situation . The coal linkage that no one could think of , we showed it. Coal sector was also strengthened due to such steps . Today , the power to absorb big reforms is coming in him. Recently we did the reforms , which were being discussed for decades. You guys were also doing it. Who himself Export competitor admits , they were even. Now India Coal and Mining Sector of competition for , capital for , ParticipationAnd Technology for , has taken a very big decision to fully open. It has also taken care that the new Players, Private Players both in mining , they Finance no reason to be difficult , given her has been taken care of in order to encourage new ones. .Friends , Self Reliance is not possible without a strong Mining and Minerals sector . Because Minerals and Mining Our Economy is Important Pillars are. After these reforms, now coal production, the entire coal sector will also be self - sufficient in a way . Now the market has opened for coal , the sector will buy as much as it needs.Colleagues , who Reforms we made , it benefits not only the coal sector , will also be on other sectors. When we Coal Production increased if Power Generation grow as well as Steel, Aluminium, fertilizer , many other sectors such as Cement Production and Processing on Positive Impact is. Fortunately we have Coal, Iron, Bauxite, many such Minerals Reserves are very close to each other ,There are many nearby in a way, like God has kept a cluster for us. Such as , recently Minerals which took Reforms were , he Coal Mining Reforms these other sectors to join are also very strong.Colleagues , Commercial Coal Mining today for this Auction is the beginning of it all Stakeholders to win-win Situation is. The industries , you , your business , your investment now new Resources will , find new markets. With this , the state governments will get better revenue , a large population of the country will get employment. In a way, the work of serving the poor can also be done with coal , it will create confidence.That is, there will be a positive impact on every sector and due to what I am feeling , we are going to get the most blessings of poor people and poor people of our country.Colleagues , Coal Reforms While this thing has been taken care of the Environment to protect India’s commitment will not weaken from anywhere. Coal and Gas We want to use the now improved and modern technology to make and will come at a better Technology , coal gasification such steps Environment will be protected. Using gas made from coal Transport and Cooking will be , urea and Steel Manufacturing will promote the industries involved. We have set a target that by 2030 , that is, about 100 million tons in this decadeCoal to Gasify be. I’ve been told that it has identified four projects and nearly Rs 20 thousand crores on Invest will be.Colleagues , Coal Sector associated with these reforms Eastern and Central India and , in particular, our Tribal Belt of the , Development of the Pillar is a great way to build. There , where coal , where Minerals are , that part of the country, Progress and Prosperity has not reached that level in case. I thought it was part of the country , where a large number of Aspirational Districts also. The district where people , for developmentAspire are , are greedy , some are intended to pass , strength , power , everything , but this district was left far behind in the development race. You can imagine , 16 countries Aspirational Districts are , where coal has large reserves.But these gains are not more people there , as it should have. There the poor than to be good , he did not. Even from our partner in large numbers - away to leave their old parents , to leave his farm, barn Man-up friends Krek in large cities Employment for Migration do.In such a large population opportunities for better employment near his home to reduce the number of problems and eastern and central India , Commercial Mining towards which we are taking steps , they bring a desired result and when I desired result Let’s talk , I have to develop these areas. We have to do well for the poor. We first create a self-sustaining the countryside , create self-sufficient in every family there , is to change the poor life.Today the Coal Blocks The Auction is happening , they have millions in the region Jobs is expected to generate. Not only that , from extracting coal Transportation to improve to who would be willing modern infrastructure , it also will be opportunities , such as more facilities for those who live there. Recently, the government has decided to spend 50 thousand crore rupees on such infrastructure.Peers , are in Coal Sector Reform , occurring in this sector investments , people’s lives , especially playing a huge role in making our poor and tribal brothers and simplify the lives of sisters. Coal Production which states Extra Revenue will , use it there will be public welfare schemes , will be in the state of development. Along with this, the District Minerals Fund is also going to help the states a lot and this help will continue. The bulk of this fund is being invested in the development of essential facilities in the vicinity of Coal Mining . Lives of the people thereease of living, they do not struggle to live , they do not have to struggle with the government. They should live with self-respect , they should live self- reliant , that is , where there is wealth , there should also be prosperity among the people , we are moving forward with this goal. Today are taking these steps , the goal will be very helpful to achieve.Colleagues , this Auction are in a time , when India Business Activity is becoming increasingly normal. Consumption and Demand are moving rapidly towards the Pre-covid Level . In such a situation there cannot be a better time for this new beginning. Power Generation is , Consumption is , Petroleum Products in Demand is , these increased rapidly in the first week of the end of May and June. Similarly , E-way Bills, compared to April , has seen a big jump of around 200%. In June Toll Collection also , February Collection has reached 70 per cent of. Improvement of 26 percent has been registered in Railway Freight Traffic in the month of May as compared to April . If Total digital Retail Transactions, his talk , his Volume and Value, began to be increased in both. Friends , Rural Economy is also starting to catch its speed . This time the area of Kharif Crops is more than 13% over the previous year. Wheat Production and Procurement have both increased. Compared to last year, yet more than 11 per cent of wheat Procurement been mean that this time came more money in the pockets of farmers’s all the Indicators are , I show did not take too much time short , he Showing that the Indian Economy is ready to do a Bounce Back fast , has moved forward.Friends , India has come out of the biggest crisis , it will also come out of it . If we Indians are crores of consumers , then don’t forget that there are crores of producers too. India’s success, India’s growth is certain. We can become self-sufficient. You remember , till just a few weeks ago we used to buy N- 95 mask , Corona testing kit , Personal Protective Equipment- PPE, ventilator , most of our needs from outside. Now India is fulfilling its demand from Make In India itself. Rather , we are very importantExporter of medical products will also be made. You can keep your faith , your courage high , we can all meet these dreams. We can be self-reliant and this is the resolve of all of us , the resolution of 130 crore countrymen. We have to build a self-reliant India and we can build a self-reliant India.Self Reliant India which Journey L30 million Indians have started , you also her partner. Come forward to lead you. There are very few occasions in life when there is an opportunity to twist history by doing something. Today India’s industry , today India’s business , today has a chance to change history to heal the people of India’s service sector . The opportunity has come to change the direction of history. There is a chance to change the destiny of India. We do not have to let this chance go. We do not have to leave this opportunity. Here , turn up to India , make India self-reliant India.Friends , today I got a chance to be among you. Matter of coal , walk by dreaming of diamonds. Once again , my best wishes to all of you for this important beginning , this important step in the coal sector! I would especially like to congratulate my colleague Prahlad Joshi ji on the Council of Ministers and his team that they used this lockdown period so much. Studied all the nuances of the entire department. Can new to the country , what can new ways ; He has given a great leadership. I want to congratulate Prahlad ji , his secretary and his team today.You might think that you are doing a small program. I am not feeling Prahlada ji , I see that you are laying a strong foundation for self-reliant India today. And so you and your team deserve a lot of congratulations.Industry who present partner today , I have I want to draw a confidence again , I am with you. You should take two steps in every work of the country , I am with you for walking four steps. Let us together do not let this opportunity go.Once again, best wishes to all of you.Thanks a lot.ThankYou!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-auction-of-coal-mines-full-speech-here/story-mPLcwsYtZ9B9TJtZwZ4KcP.html
18-06-2020||India||Col Santosh Babu, killed in Ladakh clash, cremated with military honours||The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu - who died in the line of duty, along with 19 other soldiers, in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, were consigned to flames with full military honours in his agriculture farm at Kesaram village of Telangana’s Suryapet district on Thursday.Amid chants of “Colonel Santosh Amar Rahe (long live Santosh Babu)” by thousands of people assembled there, his father Upender lit the pyre at around noon. The army jawans from 16 Bihar regiment gave a gun salute to the departed soldier.Several senior officials from the regiment conducted the proceedings as per the military procedures, including carrying the coffin up to the pyre.A large number of political leaders - Nalgonda MP Capt N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, former MP Gutha Sukhender Reddy, state minister for power G Jagadish Reddy - senior officials and non-officials paid homage to the slain Colonel by placing wreaths on the body.Earlier, thousands took part in the funeral procession to give an emotional farewell to the son of the soil by showering petals on the coffin and raising slogans hailing his sacrifice for the nation.The six-km long procession, which began at this residence at Vidyanagar Colony, went through the streets of Suryapet town that observed complete shutdown as a mark of respect to the departed soul and reached the family’s agriculture farm at Kesaram village.The body of Col Santosh, which was flown in a special aircraft to the military airport at Hakimpet on the outskirts of Hyderabad at around 7 pm on Wednesday, was later driven to Suryapet. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan, Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao, Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and others paid floral tributes to the soldier at the airport.Thousands of people in Suryapet and nearby villages waited till late in the night to have a glimpse at the body of Col Santosh and pay their last respects to him. The steady flow of visitors continued till Thursday morning. At one stage, the queue was two kilometres long outside his residence. The police ensured that the mourners maintained physical distancing and wore face masks.Health department officials distributed masks and hand sanitisers to the people and conducted thermal screening before allowing them into the house. Disinfectants were also sprayed at the premises of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-santosh-babu-killed-in-ladakh-clash-laid-to-rest-with-military-honours/story-XRTiNKeKnzetS8EvxYH8lM.html
18-06-2020||India||Both houses of Nepal’s parliament approve new map including territory controlled by India||The upper house of Nepal’s parliament on Thursday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map that depicts Kalapani region as part of Nepalese territory, a move that could exacerbate a border row with India.The National Assembly or upper house unanimously voted to endorse the new political map issued last month that shows the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.The amendment had been passed by 258 votes in the House of Representatives or lower house on April 13. Its passage in the upper house was considered a formality as the ruling Nepal Communist Party has a majority, unlike in the lower house.However, even the lower house had passed the bill by a two-thirds after it was backed by key opposition parties such as the Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party. The bill will be sent to President Bidya Devi Bhandari for approval.Thursday’s developments came days after the Indian side said on Monday that the onus is on the KP Sharma Oli government in Nepal to create a “positive and conducive atmosphere” for talks to resolve the row over the Kalapani-Lipulekh region.The Indian side has repeatedly conveyed its readiness to discuss the issue, with the latest offer for talks between foreign secretaries of the two sides having been made around the time the Nepal government tabled the constitutional amendment in parliament on May 31, people familiar with developments had said.The boundary row with Nepal has flared up at an inopportune time for India, which is engaged in a tense weeks-old border stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on Monday night left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead.The border row erupted last month after India opened an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the border with the Tibet Autonomous Region to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar.Nepal lodged s strong protest and Oli’s government issued a new map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepalese territory. It then moved the constitutional amendment in parliament to give legal backing to the map.Almost 98% of the 1,750-km land and riverine border between India and Nepal has been delineated and differences remain only in the Kalapani sector in Uttarakhand and Susta sector in Bihar. The Indian side has said Nepal’s “shifting” claims are contrary to the Treaty of Sugauli signed in 1815 by Nepal and the British, a ruling by the British governor general in 1817, and Nepal’s boundary treaty with China of 1961 and protocols signed by these two countries in 1963 and 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-houses-of-nepal-s-parliament-approve-new-map-including-territory-controlled-by-india/story-1arIgq3h7OKPozvITjufJK.html
18-06-2020||India||1,65,412 samples tested for Covid-19 in last 24 hours: ICMR||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday informed that 1,65,412 tests of coronavirus were conducted by various laboratories across the country in the last 24 hours.This is the highest number of tests conducted by the laboratories in a single day. So far, 62, 49,668 tests have been conducted.As of now, a total of 953 laboratories across India have been given the approval to conduct the test. This includes 699 government laboratories and 254 private laboratory’ chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-65-412-samples-tested-for-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-icmr/story-5y38P85L9f4xPyI8IR0UXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Don’t underestimate our firm will to safeguard territorial sovereignty’: China on Ladakh face-off||China has said that India must not underestimate its firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty. The comments were made by Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying on Twitter.“India must not misjudge the current situation or underestimate China’s firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty,” Hua said in her first tweet.“Indian front-line troops broke the consensus and crossed the Line of Actual Control, deliberately provoking and attacking Chinese officers and soldiers, thus triggering fierce physical conflicts and causing casualties,” she said in a follow up tweet. India must not misjudge the current situation or underestimate China's firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty.The remarks come a day after the external affairs ministry rubbished the Chinese military’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, at the heart of a border stand-off. India said such “untenable claims” go against an understanding between the senior military commanders reached on June 6 to de-escalate and disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Galwan Valley was the scene of what Indian officials have described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel. Dozens more were injured and there are reports of some Indian soldiers still being unaccounted for.After the clash, a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday had said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”In a statement issued at about 1 am on Thursday, external affairs minister spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the Chinese side’s claim that the sovereignty of Galwan Valley “belongs to China”.“Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding,” Srivatava said in his rebuttal.The Galwan Valley - the site of the bloody clash between soldiers from both sides - has been one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception of the boundary between the two sides was minimal.The two countries have been trading charges of what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 more wounded including 18 with serious injuries. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Foreign Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. Jaishankar also added that the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC” and set up the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-underestimate-our-firm-will-to-safeguard-territorial-sovereignty-china-on-ladakh-face-off/story-UUgjI8L4tjCxkeF9XwWmmJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Family tries to flee with body of Covid-19 patient to Moradabad from Delhi||The Delhi Police on Wednesday had to perform a peculiar task of tracing the body of a coronavirus patient after his family tried to flee with it to his hometown while it was being transported from the hospital to a burial ground here. The family was intercepted and the vehicle traced by the central district administration, officials said.The man, infected with Covid-19, was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on June 1. He died on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFollowing the death, Qabrastan Ahle Islam, the burial ground at ITO, was informed to make necessary arrangements as a grave has to be dug up with the help of a JCB and there is a separate entry gate for transporting coronavirus bodies, the officials said.The body left the hospital in an ambulance but did not reach the burial ground. Another ambulance with an Uttar Pradesh number plate was kept ready near the burial ground by the family to take the body to Moradabad, they said. The entral district administration was alerted when the relatives of the patient “snatched” the body.In a letter to the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Karol Bagh, the Central district asked the police to trace the body immediately. “…a Covid positive dead body being transported from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Central district to burial ground near the ITO/ Feroz Shah Kotla for burial was snatched from the attendants of the hospital by around 30 people” the letter stated.The body was being transported in a “forcefully hired ambulance”, the directive said. The police said the family had travelled a few kilometres within the city, but then it was contacted by the district administration and asked to bring the body back to the burial ground. The victim’s relatives finally relented. The staff at the burial ground waited until 6 pm but the body did not arrive.“We thought the body will come tomorrow (Thursday) and shut the Qabarastan gate,” Shamim Mohammad, the caretaker of the burial ground, said. “It was only at around 10.30 pm that the police said the body has to be buried immediately. The body was finally buried post midnight,” Mohammad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-tries-to-flee-with-body-of-covid-19-patient-to-moradabad-from-delhi/story-v52Nc4veYpOmWY41Fk0j8M.html
18-06-2020||India||Nepal’s parliament approves map that includes Indian territory, president assent next||Nepal’s upper house on Thursday unanimously cleared a constitutional amendment bill to reflect its new map in the national emblem, a move that is seen to virtually make the boundary row a permanent irritant in relations between Kathmandu and New Delhi. The bill garnered 57 votes in its support and none against. Last week, Nepal’s lower house cleared the bill that was supported by all the 258 lawmakers present and voting.Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura are the territories Nepal now claims as its own.Reacting to the passage of the map in Nepal’s lower house, New Delhi had said: “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.” Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli government, which had gone ahead to issue the new map last month, has repeatedly claimed that Nepal would “get back the land occupied by India” through dialogue. The move is expected to aggravate a diplomatic row between Nepal and India, which erupted after Kathmandu protested against the opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border by New Delhi last month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the Indian side has said the road is completely within its territory.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told Parliament last week that the new road to Lipulekh had “undermined” the country’s sovereignty.Nepal’s border begins at Limpiyadhura, the origin of the river Kali, and the border with India is determined by the Treaty of Sugauli of 1816, he said. India, he added, had acknowledged in 1997 that the borders at Kalapani and Susta were “unresolved”.The move in Parliament followed after several efforts by Kathmandu to hold talks with New Delhi on the border row. People familiar with developments said Nepal last formally contacted India early in May for talks to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-s-national-assembly-unanimously-okays-new-map-that-includes-indian-territory-next-step-president-s-assent/story-7lCzeCJGWEbvZAJrFCiLUI.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Who sent unarmed soldiers and why?’: Rahul Gandhi on Ladakh face-off||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, addressing people in a video message, condemned China’s actions in eastern Ladakh that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers. The Congress leader, pointing out that Indian soldiers were unarmed, sought to know who is responsible for this situation.“China has committed a crime by killing India’s unarmed soldiers. I want to know who sent these unarmed soldiers in the harm’s way and why. Who is responsible,” said Gandhi in Hindi during an 18-second video clip posted by him on Twitter.The clash between the two armies in which both sides suffered casualties on Monday began at around 7 pm in the Galwan Valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Also Watch | ‘Who sent unarmed Indian soldiers to martyrdom’?: Rahul Gandhi In a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand combat that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides. Forward troops patrolling the disputed border either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who in his first comments said India is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation at the India-China border. Presidents of various political parties will participate in the meeting at 5 pm on Friday via video, the Prime Minister’s Office said.On Wednesday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked PM Modi to come clean about the situation in eastern Ladakh and tel the nation how the “Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred”.Since May, there have been tensions between the Indian and Chinese sides following clashes between the troops of the two countries in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-sent-unarmed-soldiers-and-why-rahul-gandhi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-Pj8Xk8mtkpmqQC7QhPdbMN.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amit Shah holds another important meet on Covid-19 situation in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah holds another crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situationUnion home minister Amit Shah is meeting the officials from Delhi administration to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and its management. Shah has been regularly holding meetings in the wake of huge spike of the coronavirus disease cases in Delhi. Read moreTamil Nadu crosses 50,000-mark, Delhi records over 47,000 cases: Covid-19 state tallyAfter Maharashtra, which has reported over one lakh coronavirus cases till date, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with its Covid-19 tally crossing the 50,000-mark on Thursday. Read moreIndia-China standoff in Ladakh: Mansa family loses a son 2 days after another’s marriageIt was on Monday when the elder brother of Gurtej Singh (23), who along with 19 soldiers lost his life in a face-off with the Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, got married. Read moreCovid-19 could erase more global wealth than financial crisis of 2008The rich are still getting richer, but the coronavirus crisis may slow the breakneck pace of wealth accumulation for years to come. Volatile markets and the economic fallout from the virus could wipe out as much as $16 trillion of global wealth this year and hinder growth for the next five years, according to a study by Boston Consulting Group. Read moreKerala ready to include Sreesanth in Ranji team after ban endsAfter a seven-year ban the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has decided to include controversial speedster S Sreesanth (37) in the state Ranji cricket team in September after his ban period ends. Read moreGoogle Play Store to soon let you pay for an app’s subscription even without downloading itLooks like Android app developers will have a new way to market their app’s subscription models in future. The search giant confirmed to TechCrunch that with a new model, which is under tests, consumers will be able to purchase subscriptions outside of the app. Read moreInternational Day of Yoga 2020: When was it first celebrated, why and the theme of International Yoga DaySince 21 June, 2015, the International Day of Yoga has been an annual, global celebration. The physical, mental and spiritual practice of yoga originated in India. Read moreMumbai cop helps 14-day-old baby who accidentally swallowed safety pin to reach hospital in timeMumbai Police Constable S.Kolekar is winning a tremendous outpouring of love on Twitter thanks to his quick actions which helped saving a baby’s life. Read moreWatch| HT Salutes: Debojit Thakur, a researcher who helped Covid & Amphan victims||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amit-shah-holds-another-important-meet-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xu17RJFiXs2SReWURzt7RM.html
18-06-2020||India||Congress attempts to topple BJP-led govt Manipur; NPP to offer support||Opposition Congress is making a desperate bid to topple Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh and form a non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in the politically-volatile state after nine members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), including three from the BJP, withdrew support to the BJP-led coalition government on Wednesday evening.The three-year-old coalition government is tottering after three BJP MLAs, all four from the National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs, including three cabinet ministers, the lone Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker and an independent MLA withdrew support over alleged resentment to the N Biren Singh-led government’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and growing interference in the functioning of non-BJP ministers.“We’re going to have a new coalition government led by the Congress with support from like-minded parties. The true mandate had been given to the Congress and our dream is coming true,” Manipur Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei tweeted.The NPP, which is heading the government in Meghalaya with the ally BJP’s support, has decided to join hands with the Congress and form the next government in Manipur, as political loyalties often get blurred in the north-eastern states because of regional compulsions.The TMC and independent MLAs have also decided to side with the Congress.The three BJP MLAs, who resigned on Wednesday, have officially joined the Congress, but they can’t take part in a no-confidence vote in the 60-member assembly, as they would now come under the purview of anti-defection law, or the Tenth Schedule to the Indian Constitution.“We’ll go with the formation of the Congress-led government. We’re most likely to meet Governor Najma Heptullah on Thursday to call for a no-confidence motion against the incumbent government and seek a floor-test in the assembly,” said Y Joykumar Singh, NPP leader, and former deputy CM. “The government’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak and interference in ministries handled by our party’s ministers are some of the reasons that led us to withdraw support to the government,” he added.Earlier in April, CM Singh had divested Joykumar of all his portfolios after the later termed the former’s assurances of food security during the Covid-19-induced lockdown as “hogwash”.The political crisis deepened after Manipur high court (HC) on June 9 restrained seven Congress MLAs, who had switched sides to the ruling BJP, from entering the assembly until Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh disposed of the pending anti-defection cases against them.The HC ruling had cast doubts on these MLAs from voting for the lone Rajya Sabha (RS) seat from the state, which is slated to be held on Friday.In March, the Supreme Court had ordered the removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. Shyamkumar had won on a Congress ticket, but switched sides immediately after results were declared and became a minister in the BJP-led government.The first BJP government in Manipur had come to power in March 2017 after it cobbled together a majority. The party had won 21 of the 60 seats in the state, while the Congress had won 28 seats.But, the BJP formed the government with the support of four MLAs each from the NPP and the Naga People’s Front (NPF), one legislator each from the TMC, and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), and an independent MLA.Like Shyamkumar, seven other MLAs had later switched sides to the BJP.Now, the BJP is reduced to 18 MLAs in the state assembly after three of its lawmakers resigned, the eight Congress MLAs, who had switched sides to the BJP but are not allowed to enter the assembly, and six others, including four from the NPP and one each from the TMC and the independent, withdrawing support.The N Biren Singh-led coalition had the support of 39 lawmakers. Now, it has been reduced to 23, including 18 from the BJP, four from NPF, and one from the LJP.While the Congress, which had got reduced to 20 MLAs after eight of its lawmakers switched sides, enjoys the support of 26 lawmakers, including four from NPP and one each from the TMC and the independent.The BJP, however, is putting up a brave front, despite the loss of three of its lawmakers on Wednesday.“Though three of our MLAs have left, there’s still no threat to the coalition government. We have a strategy in place and are working on it,” said S Rajen, BJP MLA and government spokesperson.“We’re hopeful that the assembly Speaker gives a ruling on Thursday on allowing the seven MLAs (the Congress lawmakers, who had switched sides and were barred to enter the assembly) to enter the House and vote. If that happens, we will win the Rajya Sabha election on Friday and will sail through a floor test, if it takes place. We’re also hopeful of some Congress MLAs crossing over to our side,” he added.Amid the political drama, the NPF has decided to stick with its old ally, the BJP, and support it for the lone RS seat on Friday as well as in a floor test.“The NPF has had an alliance with The BJP for long. We supported the BJP in forming government in Manipur, when it didn’t have the numbers and we’ll continue doing that. We don’t abandon our friends or break our ties, despite BJP not honouring agreements in the past,” said K Leishiyo, NPF MLA from Phungyar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attempts-to-topple-bjp-led-govt-manipur-npp-to-offer-support/story-n3fjHvacLAL4TH8KPMzlqJ.html
18-06-2020||India||India pays homage to 20 soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off||Protest rallies were taken out and candles lit as India paid respects to the 20 Indian Army bravehearts killed in a face-off with China along the disputed border in Ladakh. Some of them had planned celebrations upon their return; some of them had joined the army just two years ago. Havaldar Sunil Kumar, 34, Patna, BiharSunil Kumar, a resident of Taranagar-Sikaria village in Patna, joined the army in 2002. “He called his wife on June 6 and said the situation was under control in Ladakh,” his brother said. He is survived by his wife Preeti Devi and three children.Sepoy Chandan Kumar, 24, Bhojpur, BiharSepoy Chandan Kumar joined the army in 2018 at general duty (GD) post. His three younger brothers are also in the defence services. Chandan’s father, Hridyanand Singh, a farmer, said Chandan was supposed to get married next year.Sepoy Kundan Kumar, 27, Saharsa, BiharKumar was a resident of Aran in Saharsa district of Bihar. He had joined the Army in 2012. His father, Niminder Yadav, said “I appeal to every Indian to join the Army to protect every inch of Indian Territory,” he said. He is survived by his wife Baby Devi.Sepoy Aman Kumar, 27, Samastipur, BiharAman was a resident of Sultanpur village of Samastipur district. His father, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said, “He had called a few days ago and inquired about our well-being. We are proud of his sacrifice,” he said. Aman is survived by his wife, Mintu.Sepoy Jai Kishore Singh, 22, Vaishali, BiharJai Kishore Singh of Chakfateh village in Vaishali joined the Army in 2018. Before leaving for the border in March, Jai told his family that he will not be able to contact them due to poor network connectivity, his relatives said.Naib Subedar Satnam Singh, 42, Gurdaspur, PunjabSatnam Singh is survived by his parents, wife Jaswinder Kaur (40) and two children. “I will take revenge for my brother’s martyrdom...,” said his brother, Subedar Sukhchain Singh (40), who is currently posted in Hyderabad.Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, 49, Patiala, PunjabMandeep Singh joined duty about 20 days ago after a two-month leave. “We lost everything,” said his mother. Singh is survived by his 70-year-old mother Shakuntala Devi, wife Gurdeep Kaur (37), daughter Mehakpreet Kaur and son Jobanpreet.Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, 22, Sangrur, PunjabGurbinder Singh joined the army in 2018 after passing out from school. “We were planning his marriage on his next leave expected in the next two months,” said his elder brother Gurpreet Singh. He is survived by his parents and two siblings.Sepoy Gurtej Singh, 23, Mansa, PunjabGurtej Singh had planned a grand party upon his return to his village to celebrate his elder brother Gurpreet Singh’s wedding, which took place on Monday. As celebrations were on, Gurpreet got a call from officials informing about Gurtej’s death.Sepoy Ganesh Handsa, 22, West Singhbhum, J’khandHandsa was the sole bread-earner of his family of daily wagers, who worked in fields and took up MGNREGA work to ensure that Handsa received education. “We don’t know how this darkness will be cleared,” said his elder brother Dinesh Handsa.Sepoy Kundan Kumar Ojha, 32, Sahibganj, JharkhandOhja, a resident of Dihari village in Sahibganj, joined the army in 2011. He is survived by his wife, Namita, and a 17-day-old daughter. “He promised that once tension along India-China border eases, he would come to see Diksha,” Mukesh, Kundan’s brother, said.Sepoy Chandrakanta Pradhan, 28, Kandamal, OdishaPradhan got his posting in Ladakh in February. “He was crying over phone and asked for forgiveness if he had ever hurt me. He asked me to look after my family ..(he) said a war may start,” said Sandhayarani, his sister. They had last spoken on June 1.Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, 43, Mayurbhanj, OdishaNuduram Soren, a Santhali tribal hailing from Champauda village, joined the army in 1997. His wife and three daughters have not been informed about his death, his younger brother, Daman, said. “I don’t think she (his wife) can bear the loss,” he said.Colonel B Santosh Babu, 37, Hyderabad, TelanganaMortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu were flown to Hyderabad on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife, Santoshi, two children, and his parents, B Upender and Manjula. “He told me he might get relieved in September once pandemic subsides,” Upender said.Havaldar K Palani, 40, Madurai, Tamil NaduThe last call that Palani made to his wife, Vanathi Devi, was on June 3. That was his 40th birthday. He was set to retire next year after 22 years. He dropped out of college at 18 and joined the army to support his family. He is survived by his two children, parents and two siblings.Havaldar Bipul Roy, 36, Meerut, Uttar PradeshRoy was a native of Bhatibare village of Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal but moved to Meerut city a few years ago. He was posted in Ladakh about a month ago. “He came home in December 2019 and that was when we last met. I am proud of him,” said Bipul’s cousin, Rajib Roy.Lance Naik Deepak Kumar Rewa, Madhya PradeshDeepak Kumar was a resident of Faranda village near Bhopal. He is survived by his wife, father, grandmother and brother. Deepak promised to return once the lockdown was lifted, his family said. “I didn’t know he would never come back,” said Deepak’s grandmother.Sepoy Rajesh Orang, 26, Birbhum, West BengalRajesh joined the army in 2015, and was the sole earner in his family. He is survived by his father, mother and two sisters. “I am proud of my son. My only request to the Indian Army is that they should give a befitting reply to China and avenge the killing of Indian soldiers,” said his father.Sepoy Ganesh Ram, 27, Kanker, ChhattisgarhGanesh joined the Army in 2011 and was expecting a new posting, said his uncle, Tiharu Ram Kunjam. He is survived by his parents and two sisters. “In January, his parents fixed his marriage …He was going to be married on his next visit,” said Surya Nevendra, Ganesh’s friend.Sepoy Ankush, 21, Hamirpur, Himachal PradeshAnkush, who was recruited in the Punjab regiment in 2018, was on his first posting to Ladakh. His uncle, Sunil Kumar, said he last visited home about 10 months ago. “He has attained martyrdom serving the nation…there is also a grief that he was too young to go,” his father said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-india-pays-homage-to-20-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-face-off/story-58iFsP68UUrvWsF5eFBjXP.html
18-06-2020||India||Amit Shah holds another crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situation||Union home minister Amit Shah met the officials from Delhi administration on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and its management.The movement of people between Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) districts also figured in the meeting, news agency PTI reported. The home minister reviewed the steps taken to check the spread of the virus, PTI quoted a government official as saying.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, senior officials of NCR districts and ministries of home and health and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) attended the meeting.Authorities of Haryana, UP and Delhi have imposed restrictions in different times during the Covid-19 lockdown over movement of people between the states, leading to inconvenience to many.On June 4, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the NCR.Shah has been regularly holding meetings in the wake of huge spike of the coronavirus disease cases in Delhi. He had chaired an all-party meeting on Monday, where the home minister appealed to all political parties to set aside their political differences and unite to fight the Covid-19 outbreak.The home minister also asked the political leadership of all parties to urge their workers to ensure that the Delhi government’s Covid-19 guidelines are implemented on the ground.Top leaders of the BJP, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Congress and the BSP attended the meeting.He had met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after which the Centre announced a slew of measures to fight the coronavirus crisis in the national capital.These measurs included carrying out a comprehensive door-to-door health survey in all containment zones, doubling of tests in next two days followed by a three-fold increase within a week’s time.At least 500 railway coaches with a capacity of 8,000 beds were also allocated for Delhi. Private hospitals, too, were told to earmark 60 per cent of beds for Covid-19 affected patients at lesser rates.Kejriwal called the meeting with home minister as “extremely productive”, and tweeted to say that the Centre and the Delhi government will fight Covid-19 together in the national capital.Delhi is currently, the state with the third-highest Covid-19 tally preceded only by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The capital’s tally of coronavirus infections climbed to 47,102 on Thursday and the number of deaths due to the infectious disease is heading towards 2,000.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also discussed the situation in Delhi and other states in meetings with the chief ministers for over two days. The prime minister reiterated the importance of testing to quickly trace, track and isolate Covid-19 positive cases and said that apart from maximising the existing testing capacity, there must be a constant effort to expand it. He also emphasised the “emotional aspect” of the challenge and asked states to help people “battling fear of being afflicted and the stigma” by highlighting the large number of recovered patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-holds-another-crucial-meeting-on-delhi-s-covid-19-situation/story-woXLZHgTXV0afIbb0JHZxJ.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Covid-19 an opportunity, taught India to become self-reliant’: PM Modi||India will turn the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He was addressing the launch of auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining, via video conference.PM Modi called the auction a major step in making India self-reliant in the energy sector.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. It has taught India to be self-reliant. India to reduce its dependence on imports,” the prime minister said.“For decades, the country’s coal sector was entangled in a web of captive and non-captive. It was excluded from competition, and there was a big problem of transparency,” said PM Modi.“After 2014, several steps were taken to change this situation. Coal sector got strengthened due to steps taken,” he said, adding that India should be the world’s largest coal exporters considering the size of reserves it has.The auction is expected to garner Rs 33,000 crore of capital investment in the country over next 5-7 years.The prime minister said that the government has set an aim of gasification of 100 million tonnes of coal by 2030 with an investment of Rs 20,000 crore.The prime minister had held meeting with the chief ministers for two days where he said that instead of a lockdown, India now needs to focus on the next phase of unlocking the country and speeding up economic activities.He also reiterated the fact that the economy was witnessing a revival.In his address to the nation last month, PM Modi had said that the Covid-19 crisis has given India an opportunity. “We did not manufacture personal protective equipment, made N-95 masks for namesake when the disease first broke out here. Today, we manufacture two lakh PPEs in a day and two lakh N-95 masks in a day. This is because we turned the challenge into an opportunity,” he had said.He also said that it is the responsibility to every person of the country to make 21st century India’s century. “There is only one way to do this - to become self reliant,” the prime minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-an-opportunity-taught-india-to-become-self-reliant-pm-modi/story-EQkEObjvNSvZpH46z6HIOP.html
18-06-2020||India||BJP puts off political rallies for two days||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Thursday it will put off all political programmes, including ongoing digital rallies, to mark the first year of the government’s second term as a mark of respect for the 20 soldiers killed in action in Ladakh. BJP president JP Nadda, who was scheduled to address a digital rally in Assam on Thursday, announced the two-day break in political programmes through a tweet.“The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days,” he tweeted. The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days.A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the sacrifice of the soldiers will not be in vain. He said India has always worked with its neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner and hoped for their growth and development. However, he added that India is prepared to give a befitting reply if it is provoked.A meeting of all political parties will be chaired by Modi on Friday to discuss the situation. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has halted large gatherings, the BJP opted for virtual engagement and digital rallies to connect with people. These rallies are being organised to showcase the Union government’s achievements and, going forward, will be used for electioneering as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-puts-off-political-rallies-for-two-days/story-tISx9Okut7ae2bOByLcV3K.html
18-06-2020||India||PM Modi to launch ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ on June 20 to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India.“Government of India has decided to launch a massive rural public works scheme ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ to empower and provide livelihood opportunities to the returnee migrant workers and rural citizens,” the Prime Minister’s office said. The campaign of 125 days across 116 districts in 6 states aims to work in mission mode to help migrant workers.It will involve intensified and focused implementation of 25 different types of works to provide jobs and create infrastructure in the rural regions of the country with a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore, the PMO office said. Around 39 crore people have received financial assistance of Rs 34,800 crore amid the Covid-19 lockdown under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) as on May 5, the government had said in a statement on May 6.These people received the assistance, which was announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect them from the impact of the lockdown due to Covid-19, via digital payment infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-to-boost-livelihood-opportunities-in-rural-india/story-ybAXBMCS7KRWLh4Qq7jfpJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Galwan Valley face-off: BJP defers all political events, rallies in tribute to Army bravehearts||The Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to defer its political events, including virtual rallies, for the next two days to pay homage to the Indian Army bravehearts who lost their lives in the face-off with China in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday.“The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs,” BJP national president JP Nadda said in a tweeted on Thursday. “The BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days,” his tweet read. This comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reacted to the recent violent face-off between India and China in Ladakh which led to the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers. PM Modi in a brief address said the “sacrifice of the soldiers will not go in vain”.  Also read: Outnumbered, Indian soldiers stood ground in violent seven-hour face-offThe supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days.The PM, along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers, observed a two-minute silence as a tribute to the soldiers who got killed in the recent military stand-off with China.“India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated, the prime minister added. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Monday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-face-off-bjp-defers-all-political-events-rallies-in-tribute-to-army-bravehearts/story-NWR5FasAbkVbF3G1IdL8NJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu crosses 50,000-mark, Delhi records over 47,000 cases: Covid-19 state tally||After Maharashtra, which has reported over one lakh coronavirus cases till date, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with its Covid-19 tally crossing the 50,000-mark on Thursday. Delhi stands at the third spot with over 47,102 cases followed by Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. India’s Covid-19 tally on Thursday jumped to 366,946 with the death toll mounting to 12,237.Here’s a look at the statewise numbersWorst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 116,752 on Thursday. As many as 5,651 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 59,166 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 50,193 in the southern state. Five hundred and seventy-six people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 27,624 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 47,102 on Thursday, 17,457 patients have recovered here while 1,904 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 25,093 on Thursday. The state has seen 17,430 people recover from coronavirus while 1,560 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 14,598 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,904 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 435Rising numbersMadhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,244 on Thursday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 13,542. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 12,300. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,942 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 7,071 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,734 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 5,675 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,400-mark. Haryana has seen more than 8,832 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,338 while Assam has reported 4,605 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,400-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-crosses-50-000-mark-delhi-records-over-47-000-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-9wkEWIRCXfdQdc4qMghr8N.html
18-06-2020||India||Galwan Valley face-off: Indian, Chinese military officials meet to defuse tension||Indian and Chinese military officials met on Thursday morning to resolve the issues related to the violent face-off in Galwan Valley area in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.The Major General-level officers met at Patrol Point 14, which witnessed the seven-hour-long clash on Monday night. A meeting was held on Wednesday too.This is part of the efforts by both the countries to defuse the tense situation at the border.Thursday’s meeting is seventh one between the military officials since the stand-off at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) last month and second since the Galwan Valley clash.The clash began at around 7 pm on June 15 when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides.Also read | Behind Galwan’s bloody face-off, China’s plan to interdict gateway to KarakoramThe Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” said a person aware of the developments.It was when Colonel Babu and his team confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site that the clash broke out, this official said, adding that the situation swiftly escalated as the Chinese soldiers refused to vacate their positions and the Indian soldiers removed the tents and the observation post that were on the Indian side of the LAC.In a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand fighting that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, second of the three officials Hindustan Times spoke to, said.Indian and Chinese officials have been meeting regularly as part of a phased de-escalation strategy to ease tensions that have persisted since May 5. The plan was discussed between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the South Xinjiang region in a meeting on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-face-off-indian-chinese-military-officials-meet-to-defuse-tension/story-WPBzxRcYshSE51gGPPzTeM.html
18-06-2020||India||‘LAC holds no sanctity for Chinese army’, says General Ved Prakash Malik||The savage killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the Chinese military in the deadliest border clash in last four and a half decades has dramatically spiked tensions between the two nuclear-equipped neighbours.As New Delhi weighs its response, a defining marker of the Ladakh face-off, according to General Ved Prakash Malik, former chief of the Indian army, is that the military-level engagement on the long-contested Line of Actual Control, premised on a series of bilateral agreements and protocols, has ceased to be a dispute resolution mechanism. In an interview on Wednesday with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak, Gen Malik, who led India’s decisive victory against Pakistani intrusion in the 1999 Kargil war, analysed India’s options, the geo-strategic portents in the escalation on the eastern frontiers and the road ahead in fraught Sino-India ties. Excerpts:Q. What is your reading of the deadly clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh? What makes it an extraordinary escalation?Two facts stand out from the present face-off: (a) the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) encroachment across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley and in the disputed area of Fingers, North of Pangong Tso has been a well-planned military activity (b) military-level dialogue and understanding on the LAC has no sanctity for the People Liberation Army of China. This military action has eroded whatever ‘confidence’ that was created with China at the military level, and trust at diplomatic and political levels.Q. From the defence standpoint, what are the most crucial consequences of the “violent face-off” in the Galwan Valley?Despite several agreements and protocols, special representative- level talks and political summits to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC, the number of PLA attempts to encroach upon undisputed/disputed territories have increased. The level of violence from scuffles to stone pelting and use of nails-embedded wooden clubs to kill opponent soldiers have increased. I foresee larger deployment of troops on both sides along the LAC to ensure security of our territory and assets. This will also require urgent improvement of military infrastructure to sustain troops deployed.Q. What do you see as the tactical and strategic objectives of China’s multiple and in-depth transgressions and holding the ground in what India has so far seen as its side of Line of Actual Control?China under President Xi Jinping is committed to retake all territories which it perceives to have belonged to China in the past. Its attempts to execute salami slicing or creeping encroachments avoiding major escalation (‘lull the political adversary to comfort level before striking at military level’) will continue. We can expect more such military level activities, particularly in Ladakh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Reports suggest that intelligence agencies had red flagged the PLA troops’ unusual build-up at multiple points along LAC by April before their ingress and occupation of roughly sixty square km of what was so far an Indian-patrolled areas in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso. Did our side lower the guard? Or, were we taken by surprise?I have no knowledge of such an intelligence report from any source.Q. Do you think our military response on the ground was adequate and effective enough to countervail the Chinese intrusion?As per past practices in Demchok, Depsang, Chumar areas in Ladakh and in Dokalam, the effort at military and diplomatic levels was to defuse and disengage. This has been the government’s policy and the usual response to maintain peace and tranquillity and avoid violent escalation. The army has gone as per those policy guidelines. These guidelines may change hereafter.Q. Now that China has aggressively attempted to redefine the LAC at strategic stretches and staked claim on the Galwan Valley that was so far seen to be on the Indian side, what options India has for restoration of status quo ante (before April) and counter China’s playbook of redrawing the LAC on ground while keeping its aggression below the threshold of actual conflict?While the armed forces have to be prepared for any military escalation, it is for the cabinet committee of security to consider wider geo-political and strategic aspects and then give further directions. I think the government will now explore diplomatic and political level possibilities to get the encroachments vacated before going in for escalation.Q. Is a localised military response still one of options?I believe any military-level dialogue at this stage is unlikely to produce desired results. It has to be tackled at diplomatic and political level now. However, with prevailing tension and anger among troops who are in eye ball to eye ball situation, a violent escalation cannot be ruled out. The armed forces have to remain extra alert for any military action.Q. In view of Indian army sustaining unprecedented fatalities on the Chinese front, what in your assessment are the chances of things flaring up militarily along LAC?I do not expect the situation will develop into a full-fledged war or even major skirmishes along the length of our border. It is likely to remain localised. That, however, does not mean that we should become complacent militarily or politically. Q. Given that Monday’s clashes happened during “disengagement” agreed upon by senior military commanders of both sides, do the bilateral dispute resolution protocols/agreements still hold good for defusing the local stand-offs? Have these mechanisms failed? Is it time to relook at them?Yes! My answer to Q 1 makes it clear. More importantly, we must not allow our troops to get into ‘unarmed’ or ‘scuffle’ situations. A new SOP will be required for patrolling on the ground and for any flag meetings.Q. Amid a heightened antagonism and mistrust between India and China, what will be the most important geo-strategic consequences of a tense LAC for India vis-à-vis Pakistan? Pakistan may attempt to intensify (a) its sponsored terrorist activities in J&K, and (b) ceasefire violations along the LoC and AGPL. India has the capability to handle any such escalationsWhy it is crucial to resolve or freeze the border dispute with China? The border dispute must be resolved peacefully or frozen till both nations can find a peaceful solution. That way both nations will be able to contribute towards peace, tranquillity and prosperity of Asia and also improve the quality of life of their people.Q. Is a two-front scenario now more real than ever before?Unless the border dispute is resolved peacefully, such a possibility in the North West part of India cannot be ruled out in the middle distant horizon.Q. Do you see any parallel between Pakistan’s intrusion of Kargil in 1999 and China’s intrusion in Ladakh?No. Pakistani military and political objectives in Kargil were much larger. It became a limited war situation. Present Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, unless it escalates further, cannot be compared to Kargil conflict. Given the complexity and high-level bilateral and multilateral interaction (including security) between India and China, the stakes in any India-China conflict, whether large scale or limited, will be much higher.Q. What does the Ladakh 2020 tell us about the strategic lessons that India learnt or hasn’t learnt fully from the Kargil 1999?As I said, there are no comparisons. The Chinese political and military strategies are of different style. We have to study them carefully. At the military tactical and operational level, the only thing common is high-altitude mountain warfare. In that respect, our troops are better skilled and have greater adaptation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-holds-no-sanctity-for-chinese-army/story-tcTmHOhLHqUwMab7QnbQbJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Woman migrant worker found dead near Covid-19 quarantine centre in Odisha||Odisha migrants’ tragic tryst with quarantine centres continued with a woman migrant worker from Nuapada district found dead near a quarantine centre on Wednesday.The police said Subarna Majhi (30), who had arrived in Odisha from Telangana on June 4, was found dead near the quarantine centre in Khariar block of the district. Majhi (30), wife of Kanhu Majhi of Dabri village, had checked into the quarantine centre at Malapada village along with family members for institutional quarantine on June 4. The police sent the body for post-mortem and started an investigation into the incident. Sarpanch Radhe Rana said the district administration has been informed about the woman’s death near.Also read: Covid-19 - 12,881 new cases, 334 deaths in last 24 hours; India’s tally crosses 3.6 lakhThis is the 19th such death across various quarantine centres in Odisha since May when migrant workers started arriving in the state amid Covid-19 pandemic. In comparison, there have been just 11 deaths in Odisha due to Covid-19 so far. In May, Odisha set up 16,813 quarantine centres in 6,798 gram-panchayats with provision of over 7.6 lakh beds to house incoming migrant workers. The state has made it mandatory for migrant workers in rural areas to stay in quarantine centres for 14 days. In some districts, the local authorities have extended the quarantine period from 14 days to 21 days as Covid-19 symptoms may take longer than 14 days to manifest in some cases.While Ganjam district, the epicentre of Covid-19, has reported 11 deaths since May, Nuapada and Bhadrak districts have reported two deaths each. Of the 19 deaths, three were cases of suicide.On May 15, a 40-year-old man of Mayurbhanj district who had returned from Vijaywada in Andhra Pradesh killed himself outside a quarantine centre after a tiff with his wife who stayed at the same centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-migrant-worker-found-dead-near-covid-19-quarantine-centre-in-odisha/story-Dr8KqAv5Wg0IOA9yx4nI3K.html
18-06-2020||India||India rubbishes China’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley||India on Thursday rubbished the Chinese military’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, at the heart of a border stand-off, saying such “untenable claims” go against an understanding between the senior military commanders reached on June 6 to de-escalate and disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Galwan Valley was the scene of what Indian officials have described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel. Dozens more were injured and there are reports of some Indian soldiers still being unaccounted for.After the clash, a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday had said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”Also read: 35 fatalities on China side in Ladakh clash, suggests US reportIn a statement issued at about 1 am on Thursday, external affairs minister spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the Chinese side’s claim that the sovereignty of Galwan Valley “belongs to China”.Srivastava pointed to the agreement reached at a meeting of senior military commanders on June 6 for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC and said: “Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding.”According to the Indian readout of a telephonic conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday, the Indian side has insisted on the implementation of the agreement between the military commanders.“At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely,” the readout had said.Jaishankar also told Wang that “premeditated and planned action” by Chinese troops while the agreement of June 6 was being implemented on the ground was “directly responsible” for the violence and casualties on Monday night. Jaishankar also blamed Chinese troops for intruding into the Indian side of the LAC.“Ground commanders were meeting regularly to implement this consensus throughout the last week. While there was some progress, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC…It reflected an intent to change the facts on the ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying in the readout.Srivastava referred to the telephonic conversation between Jaishankar and Wang and said: “Both sides have agreed that the overall situation should be handled in a responsible manner and that the understandings reached between Senior Commanders on June 6 should be implemented sincerely.”Former Indian Army officials, have in recent interactions with the media, insisted that Galwan Valley had not been the scene of tensions between Indian and Chinese troops in recent decades, and even when tensions had flared in other sections along the LAC in Ladakh region.The army officials and experts have said Chinese troops were trying to alter the status quo by entering into the Indian side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-china-s-claim-of-sovereignty-over-galwan-valley/story-tU8BwAKJxB6itlM49iZfPL.html
18-06-2020||India||After India’s election to UNSC, PM Modi thanks global community for ‘overwhelming support’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday thanked the global community for supporting India’s mmbership to the United National Security Council.“Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India’s membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity,” he said on Twitter. Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity.India was on Wednesday elected to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with 184 of the 192 votes for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident than in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.India will begin its eighth two-year term on January 1, hoping to use it to further bolster its claim to a promotion to the permanent seat in a reformed UN Security Council.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. It reiterated that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for the eighth term.In a statement issued hours after the election results, the ministry of external affairs described the commitment to a reformed multilateral system, which reflects India’s long-running ambition and demand for a permanent seat on the council, which has been described by India and countries with shared objectives, as a body completely out of sync with changes global realities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-grateful-for-overwhelming-support-says-pm-modi-as-india-is-elected-unopposed-to-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat-for-8th-term/story-FQaQkRKr6CbpBG98lZ8zhN.html
18-06-2020||India||Covid-19: 12,881 new cases, 334 deaths in last 24 hours; India’s tally crosses 3.6 lakh||The number of coronavirus disease cases reached India recorded 3,66,946 on Thursday after the country recorded 12,881 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.THe Union health ministry update at 8 am showed 334 deaths in the said period and the overall fatalities to be 12,237. There are 1,60,384 active cases and 1,94,324 cured or discharged.The death toll surged after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, officials have said. The country had recorded its first fatality in March when the Covid-19 infection tally was a little over 70.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of death to the total number of cases has gone up to 3.4% from 2.9% with the jump in the death toll.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held the second round of meeting eith the chief ministers on the Covid-19 situation where he made it clear there will be not be any further lockdown in the country.According to the chief ministers who attended the meeting, PM Modi said that they need to think about ‘Unlock 2.0’ and also ways to minimise infection.The prime minister noted that the spread of Covid-19 is more in a few big states and cities and urged the chief ministers to make full use of their state’s existing testing capacity and also work to augment health infrastructure.An officer on special duty in the Union Health Ministry told the participants that there has been a continuous decline in growth rate of cases during the phases of lockdown and subsequently also in Unlock 1.0.The OSD also informed that the number of cases and deaths per lakh of population in India are amongst the lowest in the world.Home Minister Amit Shah, who also took part in the virtual meeting, said the country has so far been quite successful in the fight against the virus. He, however, cautioned that the “battle is far from over”.Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were among those who attended the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-12-881-new-cases-334-deaths-in-last-24-hours-india-s-tally-crosses-3-6-lakh/story-CtxZDk0F3JTAa4mIQCPQzI.html
18-06-2020||India||Veteran Bengal CPI (M) leader and former Siliguri mayor tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Asok Bhattacharya (62), a legislator from Siliguri constituency in north Bengal and chairman of the board of administrators at Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday.He is admitted to a private nursing home. He has fever, pneumonia, among other ailments.Bhattacharya had been unwell for quite some time but tested negative for Covid-19 on June 13. He is also a diabetic and has a heart problem.Bhattacharya was the minister of urban development in the erstwhile Left Front government and till recently served as the mayor of Siliguri. He served as a minister four times.S Poonambalam, district magistrate of Darjeeling said, “Bhattacharya is stable. He had heart surgery last year.”The Siliguri civic corporation sounded an alert immediately after Bhattacharya tested positive. “The SMC head office will remain closed for three days from Thursday,” said a notice. Many Siliguri-based journalists who met Bhattacharya over the last one week will also be tested for Covid-19, said a health official. Earlier, TMC leader and state fire services minister Sujit Bose also tested positive for Covid-19 and spent two weeks at a hospital in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-bengal-cpi-m-leader-and-former-siliguri-mayor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-v5qRXfjZo8o4KJfxC6wz0K.html
18-06-2020||India||Satellite images show build-up at Galwan Valley where clashes killed 20 Indian soldiers||The Galwan Valley, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese soldiers, has seen a build-up of troops in the past few days.The clashes happened near Patrol Point 14 at around 7 pm on Monday (June 15).Satellite images taken from the spot nearly 24 hours after the clash show presence of the soldiers from both the countries.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” a person familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. According to the plan discussed, the Chinese side was supposed to have fallen back around 5 kilometre to the east of the location, said the third official. They retreated a bit last week but came back to retake the positions they had temporarily vacated, this person said.The Chinese deployment had numerical superiority over the Indian side - more than 250 of them were present in the area. An Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, that reached a contested site near Patrol Point 14, confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site. It was then that the clashes broke out.Chris Biggers, a former US government satellite imagery analyst, said forces amassed at Galwan dwarf what was seen at Doklam.“I’ve never seen anything, outside of a military exercise, of this kind of mobilization of force, particularly between India and China,” Biggers told news agency Associated Press.The seven-hour-long violent face-off involved reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, another official Hindustan Times spoke to, said.The face-off involved more than 500 soldiers from both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-images-show-build-up-at-galwan-valley-where-clashes-killed-20-indian-soldiers/story-sAE3VIpMIEC6xMxO863LjM.html
18-06-2020||India||Sisodia takes charge of Delhi health ministry after Satyendar Jain tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has temporarily taken charge of the health ministry and other departments which were under Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain as the latter tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Jain’s first covid-19 test, conducted on Tuesday, had shown a negative result, senior government officials said. Officials in the hospital said that he is still on oxygen support.Besides Jain, AAP MLA Atishi and two other leaders of the party -- Akshay Marathe, an advisor to CM Arvind Kejriwal and Anindita Mathur, an advisor to deputy CM Manish Sisodia -- also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday. Party functionaries said swab samples of all three of them were collected on Tuesday after they developed mild symptoms.All three have been recommended home isolation by doctors and contact tracing have been initiated, said a health department official, adding that their offices have been sanitised too. Delhi government officials said that the health department is yet to initiate tracing contacts of Jain.On Sunday morning, Jain had attended the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. “Social distancing was strictly adhered to in the meeting but whether others present in the meeting should get tested would depend on what the health officials recommend after the contact tracing exercise,” said a senior government official.On Tuesday, soon after being admitted to the hospital, Jain had said that he developed the symptoms the previous night. Till Monday, Jain also chaired several meetings and frequented healthcare centres to take stock of covid healthcare management, a senior functionary said.This comes a week after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-takes-charge-of-delhi-health-ministry-other-depts-after-satyendar-jain-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-HLdlvmFz7iX5kByoqBpJLN.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After winning UNSC seat, India reiterates commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India reaffirms commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ after winning UNSC seatIndia reiterated Wednesday that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council to which it was elected easily with 184 of the 192 votes polled. It begins the new two-year term on January 1. Read moreChina opens another front, steps up cyberattacks that target India: IntelChina has opened another front against India with sustained DDOS (distributed denial of service) attacks on Indian information websites and the country’s financial payments system. Read moreHappy Father’s Day 2020: From King Lear to Atticus Finch, the 7 most celebrated fathers in literatureFathers have a profound impact on our lives, there can be no doubt about that. Whether it is through the example that they set or their protective, nurturing behaviour. Read moreIndia-China clash: What is the way forward? Lt Gen HS Panag (retd) answersWith the violent clash in Ladakh claiming the lives of at least 20 Indian soldiers, and an unspecified number of Chinese personnel, Lt Gen HS Panag (retd) comments on what India’s next steps can be. Read moreHow India must tame ‘arrogant’ China, Ex-diplomat G Parthasarathy explainsIndia lost 20 of its brave soldiers in a violent faceoff with the Chinese Army in Ladakh on Monday night. There is outrage in the country with PM Modi warning China not to provoke a peace loving India. Read moreDo what you want: How Virat Kohli was convinced with Ashwin’s plan to dismiss Warner while playing PlayStationThat India off-spinner Ravichandran is a street-smart cricketer is a secret to none. His tactical abilities are as strong as his off-spinners or carom balls. Read moreTwitter launches audio tweets feature for iOS usersTwitter will soon allow users to post audio snippets with their tweets. The feature will be initially available on iOS. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-winning-unsc-seat-india-reiterates-commitment-to-reformed-multilateralism-and-all-the-latest-news/story-12vPK6EOusIbZzA0J8L28H.html
18-06-2020||India||India reaffirms commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ after winning UNSC seat||India reiterated Wednesday that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council to which it was elected easily with 184 of the 192 votes polled. It begins the new two-year term on January 1.India has sought reforms in multilateral systems ranging from the UN Security Council to the International Monetary Fund and the World Health Organization and others arguing for more inclusive leadership to make them represent better changed global realities from the time of their founding.“We have received overwhelming support and we deeply humbled by the tremendous confidence that the member states of the United Nations have reposed in India,” T S Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN, said in a video-recorded message shortly after the election results were clear.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident that in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.In a separate statement issued in New Delhi hours after, the ministry of external affairs described the commitment to a reformed multilateral system, which reflects India’s long-running ambition and demand for a permanent seat on the council, which has been described by India and countries with shared objectives, as a body completely out of sync with changes global realities“India will be guided by the five priorities under the overarching theme of NORMS: New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System.,” the ministry said in the statement, adding they would include “new opportunities for progress, effective response to international terrorism, reforming multilateral systems, comprehensive approach to international peace and security, and technology with a human touch”.It described Covid-19-related circumstances in which the election took place as the most “pressing crises this generation has faced”, and said it “made us rethink how we can use multilateralism and international cooperation to make this a better world a better place”.“The current crisis offers India a window of opportunity to make critical contribution to the Security Council’s work, guided by Prime Minister Modi’s vision for reformed multilateralism,” it added.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. The others who went through were Mexico, which was also a endorsed candidate from its Latin American and Caribbean Group and Ireland and Norway from the Western European and Other Group. Neither Kenya nor Djibouti garnered enough votes to win the African Group seat, which is expected to be settled by another round of voting Thursday.Asked which were the eight countries that did not vote for India, a diplomat closely associated with India’s campaign for the seat said dismissively, “It doesn’t matter”.The voting took place in a phased manner for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. Member countries were allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups or 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats were not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button. They needn’t have worried — 192 countries showed up..Candidate countries such as India had needed two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G-4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reaffirms-commitment-to-reformed-multilateralism-after-winning-unsc-seat/story-lCRTMxCbVJclosdbPZY95M.html
18-06-2020||India||Another elephant found dead in Odisha forest, bullet marks on its body||A bullet-ridden carcass of a three-year-old male elephant was found in the forests of Odisha on Wednesday. Forest officials say the elephant was killed by poachers.The death of the elephant came to light after some women from Dakapadar village near Mundeswara forest under Madhapur forest range of Boudh district saw the carcass lying in the forest while they were out to collect mushrooms.However, its tusks were intact. Forest officials who seized the carcass said that its death may have happened 2-3 days ago.This is the third case of poaching in a span of days in which four elephants have died. Earlier, three elephants - a male, a female and a calf - died in Odisha after coming in contact with livewire set up by poachers to trap wild boars. On June 14, forest officials in Keonjhar district found carcasses of a male and female elephant - with the tusks of the male elephant removed - in a reserve forest area the district. The tusks of the about 22-year-old male elephant were missing. A probe by the officials revealed that poachers had left livewire connected to 11 kv transmission lines for wild boars that left the two elephants dead.Following an investigation by forest officials, Keonjhar forest department suspended two a forester and a forest guard over their alleged negligence. On June 12, an elephant calf too died under similar circumstances in Sundargarh district as it came in contact with livewire set up for wild boars.Wildlife conservationists alleged that since April 2019, more than 50 per cent of the elephant deaths in Odisha have been due to unnatural causes. “The number of deaths of adult breeding elephants has gone up. The state is rapidly losing adult males, about 20 every year. This has threatened the sustainability and health of our elephant population,” said Biswajit Mohanty, noted wildlife conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-elephant-found-dead-in-odisha-forest-bullet-marks-on-its-body/story-sOvlvsieANt7FSPYSESIOP.html
18-06-2020||India||30 local Covid-19 cases in a day trigger concerns in Odisha, experts claim community transmission has begun||For the second time in last 16 days, Odisha reported 30 local Covid-19 cases (people outside quarantine centre), the highest so far, giving rise to fears of community transmission. In May, there were very few local cases.Of the 175 infections detected in the state on Wednesday, 30 were local cases taking the total number to 242. This is 11 per cent of the 2,234 cases between June 1 and June 16. On June 2, the state had reported 31 local cases.While 150-180 cases on an average are being detected everyday in the state, the rising nuymber of local cases has led epidemiologists to believe that community transmission may have started.“There is little doubt that community transmission has started in Odisha. the government is not ready to admit it as it would create panic. We are reaching a stage when contact tracing has little relevance. We should now test more and focus on social distancing and use of masks,” said an epidemiologist of a government hospital, refusing to be quoted.The epidemiologist said that the number of Covid-19 cases would go up only if the state tested more from the current numbers of less than 3,000 samples a day. “We had set a target of 15,000 samples this month. But the machines in some of our labs are still waiting to be repaired. So there is little way of knowing about community transmission,” he added.However, the state health officials had last week denied community transmission.Meanwhile, the state government today announced setting up of Covid-19 care home facilities in every panchayat where 10 to 20 people with symptoms like cold, cough and fever can be accommodated. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said that those with these symptoms will be taken to these care homes first and shifted to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals if found positive.The sarpanches will be in charge of the management of these care homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-local-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-trigger-concerns-in-odisha-experts-claim-community-transmission-has-begun/story-IULzIh98jzxKFPBHhIR03K.html
18-06-2020||India||Army augments forces at LAC, navy alert in Indian Ocean after Ladakh face-off: Officials||India has warned China that the face-off in which 20 of its soldiers were killed, will have serious impact on the bilateral ties.Foreign minister S Jaishankar told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation on Wednesday that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. This was the first time Jaishankar spoke to Wang since the stand-off began in early May.The Indian Army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added.“Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one of the government officials said.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), meanwhile, is holding crucial meetings on the infrastructure development along the China border. A road being built by India in the Galwan Valley is the reason for latest confrontation between the two countries. The crucial road will help India easily transport supplies to its soldiers in the remote Ladakh region.The MHA held a meeting with Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) and other agencies like Border Road Organisations, Central Public Works Department on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported. At the meeting, the MHA took initiatives to speed up the process of road construction, ANI further reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Wednesday that India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation. Addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis, PM Modi said, “India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have any iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply.”The meeting observed two minutes silence to pay tribute to the 20 soldiers killed in the face-off on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-augments-forces-at-lac-navy-alert-in-indian-ocean-after-ladakh-face-off-officials/story-s0Q2GXjfCTQLaGGnttFekJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Indian forces on highest alert after Ladakh face-off, Jaishankar speaks to Chinese counterpart: Latest developments||India and China held talks over the border stand-off in the Ladakh region in which 20 soldiers were killed. Both the countries spoke of the need to avoid actions that could escalate matters along their disputed border.External affairs minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in China Wang Yi in a phone conversation the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties.Here are the latest developments in the border face-off:• The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is holding crucial meetings to discuss infrastructure development near India-China border. On Wednesday, a meeting was held with Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) and other agencies like Border Road Organisations and Central Public Works Department involved in infrastructure development in Ladakh and areas close to the Indo-China border, news agency ANI reported.• China’s state broadcaster CCTV, meanwhile, showed footage of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tanks and soldiers holding live fire drills in Tibet.• India on Wednesday responded sharply to the Chinese foreign ministry claiming Galwan Valley, asserting that this was an “exaggerated and untenable” claim. New Delhi also reminded Beijing about the phone conversation between the foreign ministers of the two countries who had agreed that the overall situation “should be handled in a responsible manner” and the understanding reached between military commanders of the two countries on 6 June “should be implemented sincerely”.• In the phone call, both sides agreed to handle the situation in a “responsible manner” and sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 between army commanders.China’s foreign ministry said the two sides had agreed to “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, observe the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, maintain peace and tranquillity in line with existing agreements, and to “fairly address the serious situation caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley”.• Addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis on Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi said India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation.• On Wednesday, Indian and Chinese delegations led by major generals met in eastern Ladakh to defuse tensions, two officials said on condition of anonymity. This was their sixth meeting after the stand-off began. Officials said the talks failed to achieve any breakthrough. While Indian and Chinese troops disengaged from the face-off site, both sides continue to maintain military presence in the disputed area.• Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday carried out a security review of the situation in a meeting with the chief of defence staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, and the three service chiefs. He also met PM Modi in the evening and briefed him on the situation.• The Indian armed forces are on the highest state of alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the situation, officials said.• The army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-forces-on-highest-alert-after-ladakh-face-off-jaishankar-speaks-to-chinese-counterpart-latest-developments/story-QWeXHeVibsfBl5g4PLAfHI.html
18-06-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in J-K’s Pulwama||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said.A cordon-and-search operation was launched in the morning by the forces at Meej in the Pampori area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama after receiving specific information about the presence of terrorists, a police official said.He said the operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces.A gunfight is underway and further details are awaited, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-terrorists-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-9MsxgV5Y4J8utGMEdrijKK.html
18-06-2020||India||Manipur govt on edge as 3 MLAs resign, ally walks off||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur was dealt a blow on Wednesday after three of its legislators resigned and a key alliance partner withdrew its support.The development came two days ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha election for the lone seat from the state. Three BJP legislators -- Samuel Jendai, TT Haokip and S Subhaschandra – resigned and joined the Congress.Six other MLAs-- all four from the National People’s Party (NPP), one from the Trinamool Congress and one independent -- withdrew support to the government led by BJP’s N Biren Singh.The four NPP MLAs are deputy chief minister Y JoyKumar Singh, tribal and hills area development minister N Kayishii, youth affairs and sports minister Letpao Haokip and health and family welfare minister L Jayanta Kumar Singh.The resignation of the three BJP leaders is yet to be accepted by speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh. They may also be disqualified under the anti-defection law, which bars any group with less than one-third of the party’s strength from breaking away.Before the crisis, the BJP -led government had 39 MLAs in the 60-member House. The Opposition had 21. To win the Rajya Sabha seat, a candidate requires 26 votes. The central BJP in Delhi ruled out any threat to its government in Manipur. “At the time of 2017 assembly elections, we had 21 legislators. Then, 11 Congress members joined us. Together with NPP, NPF, TMC, LJP and one independent, our strength was 43,” a party functionary said.A senior Congress leader said the party will meet governor Najma Heptulla Thursday and request her to convene an emergency session. A second Congress leader said the party will also give notice for a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led government.The BJP’s woes started with the Manipur high court on June 9 restraining seven former Congress MLAs, who had joined the BJP, from entering the assembly till the speaker disposed of anti-defection cases against them. In March this year, the Supreme Court ordered the removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. He had won on a Congress ticket but switched sides after results were announced.After the one disqualification and the seven members disallowed, the effective strength of the House came down to 52.In the 2017 election, the BJP won 21 seats while the Congress bagged 28. But the BJP formed the government with support of four legislators each from NPP and Naga People’s Front, one each from the TMC and the Lok Janshakti Party besides an independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-govt-on-edge-as-3-mlas-resign-ally-walks-off/story-p2TRIAIIg7ZQFMJAc1Wq5L.html
18-06-2020||India||Military canteens turn to Indian spirits, stop foreign liquor orders||Pernod Ricard and Diageo, two of the world’s biggest spirit makers, have stopped receiving orders for imported brands from India’s defence canteen stores where they were sold at concessional prices, industry sources told Reuters.The move is seen as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “vocal for local” campaign in which he has called for promotion of indigenous products to make India self-reliant during the coronavirus pandemic, a government measure that critics have called protectionist and against foreign businesses.India’s defence canteens provide access to both local and imported products such as liquor and electronics at less-than-market rates to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families.But Pernod Ricard India, whose brands include Chivas and Glenlivet scotch whisky, received no order in May for imported spirits, compared with monthly orders of 4,500-5,000 cases by defence stores, a source said. One case typically holds six, nine or 12 bottles of liquor.Diageo India too has not received any orders since May for its imported brands such as the popular Johnnie Walker Black Label whisky and Talisker single malt, a second source said.Pernod Ricard declined to comment and Diageo did not respond to queries. The defence ministry did not respond. While no written order has been issued, a senior government official said a formal decision in the matter was imminent.“We want to encourage indigenous products ... with the PM’s campaign, it gets more priority,” said the official.A bottle of Johnnie Walker Black Label costs ₹3,600 in Maharashtra’s defence canteens, a third lower than ₹5,500 retail customers pay there. “Drinking scotch has become a habit, this move is going to hurt our pockets,” said a retired Indian army official who said he purchases five scotch bottles each month.While imported liquor sales at defence stores generate only about $17 million in annual sales, the channel generates regular demand for top foreign brands. The canteens sell about $450 million worth of liquor each year, mostly Indian-made beer, whisky, rum and other spirits, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-canteens-stop-foreign-liquor-orders/story-tELUnDbs9MXKSUNW2Fpw2H.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Exaggerated’: India’s late night rebuttal to China’s new claim over Galwan Valley||India on Wednesday responded sharply to the Chinese foreign ministry claiming Galwan Valley, asserting that this was an “exaggerated and untenable” claim. New Delhi also reminded Beijing about the phone conversation between the foreign ministers of the two countries who had agreed that the overall situation “should be handled in a responsible manner” and the understanding reached between military commanders of the two countries on 6 June “should be implemented sincerely”.“Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivatava said in his rebuttal released around midnight.The Galwan Valley - the site of the bloody clash between soldiers from both sides - has been one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception of the boundary between the two sides was minimal. In New Delhi, the Chinese statement is seen as an effort to create fresh areas of differences even as older differences turn into disputes.Also read: India warns China of serious impact on ties, Modi talks of ‘befitting’ replyColonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theater Command, was the first to claim Galwan Valley within hours of the Indian army confirming that soldiers of the two armies had clashed in Galwan Valley. Like the foreign ministry’s first response, the army officer had accused Indian soldiers of crossing the line but he significantly, also insisted that “China always owns sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region”.At its daily briefing, the Chinese foreign ministry had read out the PLA officer’s statement that claimed the Galwan Valley region belongs to China.The Chinese foreign ministry readout of the conversation between India’s S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi, however, did not make this point.It is understood that New Delhi’s late night statement was designed to set the record straight since the foreign ministry had vetted the PLA’s version.Also read: China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor: Lt Gen (retired) HS PanagThe two countries have been trading charges of what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 more wounded including 18 with serious injuries. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Foreign Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in a phone conversation that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. Jaishankar also added that the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC” and set up the clash.Also read| ‘A dark hour’: Experts predict shake-up in tiesWang, according to the Chinese foreign ministry, said the “Indian side must not misjudge the current situation and must not underestimate China’s firm determination to safeguard our territorial sovereignty”. Wang reiterated China’s accusations that Indian troops had triggered the clash on June 15 by crossing the LAC, and said India must investigate its troops for the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rebuttal-at-midnight-india-calls-china-claim-over-galwan-untenable/story-vHFNgMujti6TNezyjFNSkN.html
18-06-2020||India||India elected unopposed to UNSC’s non-permanent member seat||India was elected Wednesday to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with 184 of the 192 votes for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021.“We have received overwhelming support and we we deeply humbled by the tremendous confidence that the member states of the United Nations have reposed in India,” T S Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN said in a video-recorded message.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident than in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.India will begin its eighth two-year term on January 1, hoping to use it to further bolster its claim to a promotion to the permanent seat in a reformed UN Security Council.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council was a given, though some UN diplomats intimately involved with the election had said they were “keeping our fingers crossed”.It was a suspense of a badly made triller. Everyone knew the end. Voting by paper ballot got underway at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11:pm, India), stretching a process that should hav been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to the UNSC. .The 193 UN members countries were vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner, for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They were allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups or 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats were not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button. They needn’t have worried — 184 of the 192 showed up.Candidate countries such as India needed two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico was the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway were contesting for the the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti were running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G-4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wins-unopposed-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat/story-heCU25mJRYCVC9OYDvBCJP.html
18-06-2020||India||India could restrict market access to China-made goods to counter Beijing||With external affairs minister S Jaishankar speaking with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday for the first time since the troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) began several weeks ago, people familiar with developments said the focus is expected to remain on bilateral efforts to defuse the crisis.India, however, is mulling economic measures, including limiting China’s access to its vast market, even as its armed forces went into a state of high alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the border conflict with China after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a brutal clash with Chinese soldiers on June 15.The army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.  Also Watch | The General who first saw through China’s intentions in LadakhOn the economic front, at least 100 Chinese products are staring at anti-dumping action and future investments from China, including participation of its firms in big and important projects such as the 5G market, could be barred, four government officials said, asking not to be identified.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added. “ Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one of the government officials said.But New Delhi is hoping that the two countries will be able to work out a solution at the diplomatic level that doesn’t compromise India’s interests or position, the people cited in the first instance added. They described the call between the two foreign ministers as an effort to clear the air after Monday night’s violent face-off . THE DIPLOMATIC TOUCHThough there have been behind-the-scenes contacts involving the two foreign ministries and the Chinese mission in New Delhi and the Indian embassy in Beijing, the first public diplomatic contact between the two sides on the border stand-off was the video conference between joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and his Chinese counterpart Wu Jianghao on June 5.This contact was under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The people cited above said WMCC and the Special Representatives mechanism are among several bilateral mechanisms that can now be used to carry forward efforts to address the border issue.“If needed, there can also be bilateral contacts at a higher level,” said one of the people.India has traditionally kept away from multilateral forums to address bilateral issues, particularly border disputes. This was the reason why US President Donald Trump’s recent offers to mediate between India and China were immediately rebuffed by New Delhi. However, the possibility of quiet back channel contacts with other countries to get China around to a negotiated settlement is something experts haven’t ruled out.On Wednesday, the UK expressed concern at the border stand-off. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We encourage China and India to engage in dialogue on issues relating to the border – violence is in no-one’s interest.”China is interested in a solution because of the economic stakes it has in India. Over the past two decades it is the country’s economic prowess, not military might that has made China a global superpower, and the country recognises that. Those stakes could be it. THE ECONOMIC HITAlready, with this latest Chinese offensive, the chances of Chine telecom equipment maker Huawei’s participation in the multi-billion dollar 5G project in India are bleak, a second official with direct knowledge of the matter said. “Besides economic interests, this project also involves serious security concerns,” this person added.A third official said the Beijing’s aggression is ill timed for China. “It came at a time when New Delhi is aggressively pursuing an economic policy of self-reliance, anti-China sentiments have gripped major global economies such as the United States, and it is the prime suspect for spreading the Covid-19 virus,” he said.Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has launched a campaign against China, its national co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan said.Traders are also against China. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a powerful lobby of 70 million local traders, has decided to step up its nationwide movement against the boycott of Chinese goods, CAIT national secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said. CAIT has released a list of over 450 commodities that can be sourced locally: fast moving consumer goods, toys, textiles, builder hardware, footwear, apparel, kitchenware, luggage, hand bags, cosmetics, gift items, electrical and electronics.Both ministries of finance and commerce are already taking action against the influx of Chinese goods that is injuring domestic industry. “Imports of more than 100 goods are under various stages of anti-dumping action,” a fourth official said. India could extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods this year that range from calculators and USB drives to steel, solar cells and Vitamin E amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products. Anti-dumping duties on these products were imposed five years ago and are expiring this year. Email queries sent to ministries of finance and commerce did not elicit any response.But Mohit Singla, chairman at the Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI), said economic decisions must be driven by pragmatism and practical consideration and it was a wrong call to boycott Chinese products as many industries are dependent on imports from that country. Singla added that India should not ignore any investment from China. “Any equity investment is about adding value to the Indian companies, which is much more important and needed,” he said.Anupam Manur, assistant professor at Takshashila Institution, said, “As much as the popular sentiment and political will dictates, India is not in a position to hurt China economically, and therefore we should carefully consider our economic position. The key question to ask would be the cost imposed on our own society in an attempt to hurt another country.”He said by attempting to boycott Chinese goods, India will hurt its own citizens more than the Chinese government. “Every essential item that we import from China will become more expensive and the reality is that we cannot find credible domestic alternatives overnight.” On curbing Chinese investments, he said, “Chinese investment is a lot trickier than import of goods, as in many cases, it is impossible to distinguish between a private player and the Chinese government.”“Nonetheless, at a time when India’s investment rate is low and falling, it would be unwise to turn away investments. Therefore, instead of a blanket ban on Chinese investments, the Indian government can use a lot more discretion based on the sector and the level of investment. Sensitive sectors such as banking, telecommunications and defence should attract greater scrutiny, while investment in ‘dumb’ infrastructure such as roads can get an easier pass,” he said.India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.But even as it discusses an economic route to hurting China, New Delhi is ensuring its armed forces are prepared. THE MILITARY RESPONSEThe government has given financial powers to the armed forces to make critical purchases to plug capability gaps and emergency procurements are likely to be fast-tracked, said one of the military officers cited.He added that the armed forces were prioritising key purchases to stay prepared for any eventuality. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat is responsible for integrating and prioritising the acquisition requirements of the three services.The officer said that the possibility of China asserting its so-called claims in other sectors of the LAC cannot be ruled out, given the current belligerent stand of the neighbour and its unwillingness to de-escalate in the Ladakh sector. “We have improved our posture in all sectors, from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. We are ready for any task,” he said.He said rules of engagement and standard operating procedures for forward deployed troops were also being revisited to allow soldiers to deal with situations that may unfold along the disputed border. The IAF is also leaving nothing to chance and it is ready to swing its assets into service at short notice, said the second military officer .The navy already has warships positioned along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points in the Indian Ocean Region under its mission-based deployment and the vessels could be diverted for any mission, said the third military officer. The navy has its warships deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Strait of Malacca and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa, he added.While Indian military planners said it was unlikely that Pakistan could resort to any adventurism, all border aspects and developments are being closely monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restricted-access-to-market-in-plan-to-counter-beijing/story-XHp0CnKfRICQl6YUR73LZI.html
18-06-2020||India||India warns China of serious impact on ties, Modi talks of ‘befitting’ reply||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India would give a befitting reply to any provocation even as New Delhi and Beijing on Wednesday spoke of the need to avoid actions that could escalate matters along their disputed border, two days after a violent face-off left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Both sides again traded charges on what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the focus of the current tensions, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar telling his counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties.This was the first time Jaishankar spoke to Wang since the stand-off began in early May and marked the highest political contact to address the tensions after talks between military commanders failed to break the impasse.The Indian readout of the conversation said, “Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols.” Both sides agreed to handle the situation in a “responsible manner” and sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 between army commanders.China’s foreign ministry said the two sides had agreed to “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, observe the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, maintain peace and tranquillity in line with existing agreements, and to “fairly address the serious situation caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley”.However, addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Modi said India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation.The PM has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation.“India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have any iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply,” he said, speaking in Hindi.The meeting observed two minutes silence to pay tribute to the 20 soldiers killed in the face-off, and Modi said, “I want to assure the nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain. The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers have been martyred while they were fighting.”“Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect. India is culturally a peace-loving country…We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare,” he added.India has tried to ensure that differences with neighbours never turned into a dispute, he said, adding: “We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country.Two days after the brawl in Galwan Valley in which the 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China suffered scores of casualties, Indian and Chinese delegations led by major generals met in eastern Ladakh to defuse tensions, two officials said on condition of anonymity.This was their sixth meeting after the stand-off began. Maj Gen Abhijit Bapat, commander of Karu-based headquarters 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash near Patrol Point 14, where the Indian Army suffered its first casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army in 45 years.Officials said the talks between delegations led by the two-star generals failed to achieve any breakthrough. While Indian and Chinese troops disengaged from the face-off site in Galwan Valley on Tuesday, both sides continue to maintain military presence in the disputed area.In October 1975, Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot dead four soldiers.The June 15 brawl also left 76 Indian soldiers wounded, including 18 with serious injuries, though all of them are stable now, the officials said. It also virtually derailed de-escalation plans worked out by Indian and Chinese military commanders in a rare meeting on June 6.The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement on Tuesday, confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday carried out a security review of the situation in a meeting with the chief of defence staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, and the three service chiefs. He also met PM Modi in the evening and briefed him on the border situation.The Indian armed forces are on the highest state of alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the situation, officials said.Army chief General MM Naravane and all ranks saluted the “supreme sacrifice of our valiant soldiers at Galwan” even as they “stand strong in our resolve towards protecting the sovereignty and integrity” of the country, the Indian Army tweeted.During his phone conversation with China’s foreign minister, external affairs minister Jaishankar conveyed India’s strong protest on the violent face-off in Galwan Valley and noted an agreement on de-escalation and disengagement was reached at the meeting of military commanders on June 6.Even as ground commanders made some progress in implementing this consensus last week, the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC”, Jaishankar said, according to the Indian readout.“While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” he added.Jaishankar said this “unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship” and the Chinese side should “reassess its actions and take corrective steps”. The two sides should implement the understanding reached on June 6 and abide by bilateral agreements and protocols while strictly respecting the LAC and not taking “any unilateral action to alter it”, he said.The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement showed Beijing intends to continue with its aggressive posture, quoting Wang as saying that the “Indian side must not misjudge the current situation and must not underestimate China’s firm determination to safeguard our territorial sovereignty”.Wang reiterated China’s accusations – already rejected by India – that Indian troops had triggered the clash on June 15 by crossing the LAC, making “deliberate provocations” and “even violently attacked the Chinese soldiers who went for negotiations”.“China once again lodges its strong protest to the Indian side. We urge the Indian side to conduct a thorough investigation, hold the violators accountable, strictly discipline the frontline troops and immediately stop all provocative acts to ensure such incidents will not occur again,” the statement said.Wang said both countries are emerging powers and should speed up their development. “Therefore, mutual respect and support is a sure way and meets the long-term interests of both countries; suspicion and friction is a wrong path and goes against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples,” he added.He also reiterated China’s call for acting on the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and strengthening communication and coordination to address the border situation through existing channels, including the Special Representatives mechanism and border personnel meeting mechanism.Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, said, “The PM has set out in unambiguous terms what the government’s stand is. The situation demands that great thought be given to the path ahead without emotions clouding decision-making. The future would demand some serious and tough decisions to be taken, for which unstinted national support would be a must.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-warns-china-of-serious-impact-on-ties-modi-talks-of-befitting-reply/story-pWgAXVlQT7yeQnepFpzj3O.html
18-06-2020||India||China opens another front, steps up cyberattacks that target India: Intel||China has opened another front against India with sustained DDOS (distributed denial of service) attacks on Indian information websites and the country’s financial payments system. DDOS attacks are malicious attempts to overwhelm a network by flooding it with artificially created internet traffic. A variety of targets were zeroed in on, including government websites and the banking system including ATMs.Most of the attacks were traced back to the central Chinese city of Chengdu. The capital of Sichuan province, Chengdu is known for being the headquarters of the People’s Liberation Army’s Unit 61398, the Chinese military’s primary covert cyberwarfare section. The attacks began on Tuesday and continued through Wednesday, said people aware of the developments, but they largely proved unsuccessful.Chengdu is also home to a large number of hacker groups, many of whom are hired by Chinese government agencies to provide a cover for their operations. While cyberattacks against India normally come from Pakistan or from known hacker-for-hire centres in Central Europe or the United States, the past two days has seen a surge in attacks coming directly from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-steps-up-cyberattacks-intel/story-hQXYHWJTeRq1ut6P0g7yGL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Test a must,’ says Kerala CM on certificates for west Asia returnees||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday defended his government’s move of making Covid-free certificates mandatory for all passengers returning from West Asia from June 20, saying it was in the state’s larger interest. As many as 200-odd chartered and 70 flights as part of the Vande Bharat Mission for the repatriation of stranded Indians abroad are scheduled to arrive in Kerala.The state earlier insisted on Covid-free certificates for those returning on chartered flights. It added the conditionality to Vande Bharat flights on Tuesday. Vijayan asked the opposition to stop playing politics at the time of pandemic while insisting the state has been consistent with its demand. “Some people are creating confusion and misleading stranded people... We want to bring them back. But the test is a must as we cannot take any chances.”He added the number of Covid-19 cases went up after people started coming from abroad and other states. He said 179 Vande Bharat and 124 chartered flights have brought back 84,000 people so far.Vijayan insisted Indian embassies can arrange for testing if facilities for them are unavailable in some countries. He said tests were conducted when people were evacuated from Italy and other European countries last month. “Bringing back people without testing is really dangerous. If one passenger is infected, he will transmit it to others.”Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kerala president K Surendran accused Vijayan of planning to sabotage even Vande Bharat evacuations by putting “unreasonable demands”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-a-must-says-kerala-cm-on-certificates-for-w-asia-returnees/story-cNPro69ePBd3JxBs3rXD1L.html
18-06-2020||India||Plea to transfer PM-CARES fund to NDRF: Supreme Court notice to Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Union home ministry on a plea by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), a non-government organisation, seeking transfer of all contributions made to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares) Fund, formed after the outbreak of Covid-19, till date to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF).The NDRF is a fund created by the central government under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act (DM Act) for dealing with disasters.The PM Cares Fund, the petition claimed has been set up in violation of the legal mandate under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.“However, currently, NDRF is not being utilized in fighting the ongoing Covid-19 and a PM-CARES Fund has been constituted instead, outside the purview and ambit of DM Act, as a public charitable trust and ail the contributions/ donations with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic are being made to the said fund in violation of clear statutory provisions”, the petition stated.The petitioner also prayed that a national plan should be drawn up for disaster management for the whole of the country as mandated by section 11 of the DM Act.“Section 11 of the DM Act makes it mandatory for a national plan to be drawn up for disaster management for whole of the country but currently, there is no such national plan in place to deal with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic even though the same has been notified as a ‘disaster’ and numerous notifications are being issued to contain the same under the DM Act”, the petitioner pointed out.“The central government has overruled the mandate under the DM Act. We will show it”, senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who appeared for CPIL, submitted. A bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan sought the Centre’s response despite solicitor general Tushar Mehta arguing against it.“We have read the petition. We will issue notice. Let reply be filed in four weeks”, the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, said and listed the case for hearing next on July 8. The case will be heard along with the suo motu case initiated by the top court on May 26 to address the plight of migrant labourers.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner pointed out that two weeks before setting up PM Cares Fund, the central government had, on March 14, communicated to all states that Covid-19 would be treated as a notified disaster for the purpose of providing assistance under state disaster response fund (SDRF), a fund similar to NDRF and set up under the Disaster Management Act at the state level.The petitioner said that apart from SDRF, the Central Government should have included NDRF too for the purpose of providing assistance in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, which it decided to treat as a notified disaster. It wasn’t done so that the central government could later create the PM Cares Fund.“lt is to be noted that PM Cares is not subject to mandatory CAG audit and according to a recent RTI reply, dated May 29, PM Cares Fund doesn’t come under the RTI Act, 2005 either”, the petition submitted. CAG is short for the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. RTI is short for the Right To Information Act. The Centre has been refraining from disclosing information about the specific utilization of the money that has been contributed/donated to the PM Cares Fund till date, the plea said.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM Cares Fund. All the contribution being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM Cares Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act”, the petition added.Earlier, the Rajasthan government had approached Supreme Court against excluding contributions made towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) meant for Covid-19 mitigation from the purview of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities while allowing contributions made to the PM Cares Fund as CSR funds, stating that it is irrational.The Supreme Court had issued notice in that case on Tuesday.“To allow the PM Cares Fund for Covid-19 as CSR but to exclude the CMRF for the very same purpose is creating a distinction without a difference. This is gross infraction of Art. 14 of Constitution of India”, the Rajasthan government had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-to-transfer-pm-cares-fund-to-ndrf-sc-notice-to-centre/story-iY52gAYbutXJmVsoDrAu9I.html
18-06-2020||India||CBI registers fraud case against BJP’s Mumbai gen secy, others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Mumbai Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Mohit Bharatiya and others for allegedly cheating Bank of India of ₹57 crore, officials said Wednesday. The CBI teams conducted searches at five locations in Mumbai, including the residence and office of Bharatiya. According to the CBI FIR, the accused had diverted funds from the bank to different companies, including one owned by a renowned Bollywood producer. Bharatiya was the guarantor and managing director in Avyan Overseas Pvt Ltd, engaged in manufacturing and export of handcrafted gold jewellery to Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong and other countries.According to CBI, between 2013 and 2018, the Avyan Overseas and its managing director Bharatiya, along with an unknown public servant, entered into an agreement with the bank’s Mid Corporate Branch in Fort, with an intention to cheat through FB purchase/ Foreign Bills Negotiation Limit and Export Packaging Credit Limit facilities worth Rs.60 crore (approx.) extended to the firm.“In pursuance of the conspiracy, the said private company allegedly got it (Rs 60 crore) sanctioned and got it released. It was further alleged that after availing the said limits, the accused company diverted the funds and prepared forged and fabricated documents in support of the claim. An alleged loss to the tune of Rs 57.26 crore (approx) was caused to Bank of India,” CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said.The bank had declared the loan as a Non Performing Asset on March 31, 2015 due to non-servicing of interest and continuous overdues position of bills.The Head Office fraud monitoring Unit of the bank red flagged the account ordering a forensic audit by Ernst and Young, the bank said in its complaint to the CBI.In the forensic audit report submitted on March 31, 2017, it was pointed out that there was a diversion of loan funds to a sister concern, to other companies and there was even a flat purchase agreement between the wife of Kamboj and a construction company owned by a noted film producer.Kamboj told HT – “Compromise in the above loan account has been done in 2018 by paying Rs 30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I have also received no dues certificate from the Bank of India in March 2019. I don’t know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint, after two and a half years of clearing all the dues. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with the CBI probe as I have full trust in them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-fraud-case-against-bjp-s-mumbai-gen-secy-others/story-s51huccf8BDXjUjf1xliSK.html
18-06-2020||India||16-year-old dies by suicide after being mocked on gender identity||A 16-year-old resident of Subhashnagar in Bareilly district killed themselves on Monday afternoon.In a suicide note, the class 10 student said that they had the habits of a girl and self-identified as ‘kinnar’. The youngster also alluded to being mocked on their appearance.Kinnar is an indigenous socio-cultural group in north India, and comprises those whose gender identity is woman or transwoman. According to mental health experts, teenage years are marked by shame surrounding issues of gender and sexuality. The absence of proper sex and gender education in schools also results in bullying and stigmatization. “Teenagers go through a tough time during puberty and need someone to discuss their issues with specially, if it is linked to their bodies. Schools and parents must make such education mandatory and encourage children to speak about it,” said Mumbai-based psychiatrist Dr Anjali Chhabria, author of ‘Death is not the answer: Understanding suicide and the ways to prevent it’.“Body shaming has become a common phenomenon in present times which children face while growing up. Parents must be receptive to their children if they speak to them about it,” Surbhi Srivastav a school counsellor based in Lucknow said.“The boy lost his mother five years ago. His father told us that he used to remain quiet and distant from other family members,” circle officer of Suibhashnagar Seema Yadav said. The gender identity of the deceased youth is neither boy nor man.To seek help for depression and other forms of mental distress please reach out to the helplines of International Bipolar Foundation (+91-8888817666) and Jeevan Aastha (toll free: 1800 233 3330). For issues surrounding gender and sexuality, call LGBT organisation, Pahal Foundation at 8318837081 (operational on Friday to Sunday, from 3pm to 6pm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-year-old-dies-by-suicide-after-being-mocked-on-gender-identity/story-39EyFINimi5VghXMzCsDyN.html
18-06-2020||India||China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor: Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag||One of the first military analysts to raise an alarm about the border situation with China was Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag, a former GOC of the Northern Command. In an interview with Sunetra Choudhury, he talks about how the situation with China worsened with 20 Indian soldiers being killed on Monday.How did we get to a situation where 20 of our soldiers are killed in that region?I think we have not read China right, both politically and militarily. We have failed to appreciate what is China’s political aim. China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor not just in South Asia but in the international arena. Its intent is to impose its hegemony on India, and the border dispute is just a tool it uses. Otherwise all territories that China strategically requires were seized before the 1962 war. After that war, relations improved but despite all agreements and meetings, China refused to demarcate the LAC. They have kept this issue open and they use it to impose their hegemony on India.But you also say that by denying that the Chinese were in our territory, India committed a mistake?I say that because China always exploits a prevailing narrative. For example, they exploit race relations in America. In India, the narrative is that of a strong government which has given freedom to the armed forces and we will take aggressive action. When these clashes happened, it was at a time when we have said that there is no intrusion. So the Chinese have said, “We have done nothing, we have only come up to our area...”Why no guns and sticks and stones?...we didn’t want an escalation. So both sides wouldn’t carry arms and at times you would see soldiers putting their hands in their pockets and talking. But sooner or later when armies confront each other, first there is pushing and jostling, scuffles and then. as the temperatures went up by design by the Chinese, they came with clubs, they came with knuckledusters, studded baseball bats. It was an effort at a local level to show they supremacy and to humiliate us. And we fell into the trap.So what is the way forward, how should India respond?We must have a clear head when we start looking at the future. We have two options. One, when such a thing happens, even the Chinese will be disturbed about it; it affects them internationally. The sheer brutality of the incident, it calls for sanction internationally. It may create a ground for diplomatic negotiation. Our political aim today should be that status quo of April 2020 should be restored. Number two, at the end of this, we should demarcate the LAC so that such incidents don’t take place. We should put this incident behind but great ready for the worst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sees-india-as-an-economic-political-and-military-competitor-lt-gen-retired-hs-panag/story-lGRmgT5Lxmtn4cy5J32pvK.html
18-06-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul ask PM to speak up on India-China border row||Opposition leaders called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak on the incident involving Indian and Chinese soldiers and “tell the nation how the Chinese managed to commit this act of aggression,” with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi leading the charge against the government. Leaders from several other political parties, such as the Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) and the Shiv Sena, too asked the government to give out more information regarding what has been described as the worst confrontation with the neighbour in 45 years. All of the opposition leaders said they backed the army and were united with the country in facing the Chinese threat.“Today, when there is so much anger in the country over Chinese intrusion into Indian border, the prime minister should come out and tell the truth on how the Chinese occupied the Indian territory, why brave soldiers were martyred and what is the current situation along the LAC,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in a video statement, in which she added that the party stood with the army and the government.Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi questioned the Prime Minister over his “silence” on the issue. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land?” he said in a tweet.In another tweet, the former Congress chief hit out at defence minister Rajnath Singh for not naming China in his statement on the killing.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too attacked the government, saying India deserved a leadership that is willing to do anything before allowing its land to be taken. “Our land, our sovereignty is being threatened, our soldiers and officers have been martyred, are we just going to remain silent? India deserves the truth. It deserves a leadership that is willing to do anything before allowing its land to be taken,” she said on Twitter.BSP chief Mayawati termed the killings “extremely sad” and “shocking”. “Government should take steps in the country’s interest with utmost alertness and wisdom. The country is confident that the government will take the right decision at the right time and will not allow anyone to take even an inch of our land,” she said in a series of tweets.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut assured that all parties will support any decision taken by the Prime Minister on the matter but the government must disclose all facts.“Our relations with China have not been great, but no bullets had been fired for close to 50 years. The killing of our 20 jawans is shocking. We cannot hold Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi responsible for that,” he told reporters in Mumbai.“We all are responsible for the martyrdom of 20 jawans. All parties will support whatever decision the Prime Minister takes but he should first tell people what went wrong,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-ask-pm-to-speak-up-on-india-china-border-row/story-5uweyUp0zZAidSEuSQCfRN.html
18-06-2020||India||India-China-Russia meeting on track despite tension||Russia on Wednesday announced a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping will be held on June 23, removing doubts that had arisen about India’s participation in the wake of the violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).After a weeks-long military build-up along the LAC, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in what Indian officials described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night. One officer was among the 20 soldiers killed in the confrontation and several more were injured.The incident had cast a shadow on the planned meeting, originally scheduled to be held in March but postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia had recently taken the initiative to organise the virtual meeting this month, as first reported by HT on June 13.“A video conference of the foreign ministers of the three countries is planned on June 23,” Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova told a media briefing.“During this, the ministers will exchange their views on global political, economic and financial trends following the [Covid-19] pandemic as well as the opportunities for cooperation to overcome this existing crisis,” she said.The border stand-off was not on the agenda of the RIC meeting since the grouping, by convention, doesn’t take up bilateral issues. The situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran are expected to figure in the agenda.“The existence of the #RIC is an undisputable reality, firmly fixed on the world map. As for the current stage of the trilateral cooperation, there are no indications that it might be frozen,” Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said in a tweet after Zakharova’s announcement.“We welcome all steps aimed at de-escalation at the #LAC, including the conversation between the two FMs, and remain optimistic,” Kudashev said in another tweet, referring to Wednesday’s phone conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.Moscow’s relations with both New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.Kudashev said Russia is confident that India and China will be guided by commitments made by the Indian and Chinese leadership during their two informal summits and work for peace and tranquillity on the border. He also said Russia is looking toward further engagements in the RIC, SCO and Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) groupings to enhance mutual trust and stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-russia-meeting-on-track-despite-tension/story-9BTdGW1wPXJlDN32mqXpmL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘A dark hour’: Experts predict shake-up in India-China ties||The Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, and the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in Galwan valley, will complicate the planned disengagement process at the border, but more fundamentally, lead to a reset in New Delhi-Beijing ties and bring the competitive element of the relationship under sharper focus, experts say.It could force India to closely re-examine the cooperative elements of its relationship with the Asian neighbour, and have an impact on geopolitics.Commenting on Chinese motivations, Ashley Tellis, a strategic analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC, who has closely studied South Asian security dynamics, said, “ I believe that entire crisis was driven by multiple intersecting Chinese calculations: to push back against India for what China feared was the beginning of Indian revanchism after the Article 370 decision—on this count, the Chinese misinterpreted India’s decisions entirely; to physically secure additional territory in Aksai Chin through salami slicing—an area that China already claims entirely and where it has been incrementally increasing its control now for some thirty odd years; and to embarrass India by inflicting political reverses for a variety of accumulating Chinese grievances.” In a separate video analysis posted on the Carnegie site, Tellis said that the planned disengagement between the two sides was now “somewhat in jeopardy”. “Remember, there are three locations where these confrontations are occurring. The Indians had hoped they would be able to secure a mutual disengagement from the first location, which is where the brawl occurred, and then move on to negotiating further disengagements in other locations. All this is now up in the air.”While emphasising that the most important thing now for India was to secure de-escalation along the entire front and a restoration of the status quo ante, Tellis underlined that China-India relations could not go back to the old normal. “Beijing has crossed a threshold that was important to India. Over the longer term, India needs to make some hard decisions about accelerating economic growth, getting military modernisation back on track, and more transparently balancing China in partnership with other Asian friends and the United States,” he added. Former Indian foreign secretary Nirupama Rao, who also served as ambassador to China and has closely studied the border dynamics, after a careful reading of the People’s Liberation Army statement on the incident, said on Twitter, “Chinese statement minces no words. The gloves are off.” She noted that the statement was in line with communications received from the Chinese after the border dispute erupted in 1959 and skirmishes in the western and eastern sectors. “A dark hour like this with all the blood that has been shed is such a dreadful tragedy. Efforts made for normalization since 1976 have come to nought. There is a bad moon rising on India-China relations.”Illustrating the possible Chinese motivations, S D Muni, professor emeritus at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and a former ambassador of India to Laos, said the Galwan violence was a “tough Chinese message” of not vacating strategic heights occupied through encroachments. “Strengthening Indian defence infrastructure in the region, along with the Indian political resolve on Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin, is seen as a threat to Chinese illegal occupation of Aksai Chin and its strategic access through the Karakoram highway to Pakistan. It has sunk billions of dollars in Pakistan to nurse this strategic access,” Muni said.Muni said that India will now have to explore a wide variety of options. “India must negotiate for peace on the Line of Actual Control, but capture strategic heights wherever possible for military and diplomatic bargaining to push back the Chinese. The peace and tranquility confidence-building measures (at the border) will have to be renegotiated at the highest political level.” But alongside, he also called for a tougher stand from India. “Delhi should revisit its Tibet and Taiwan policies, must reinforce its Indo-Pacific strategic partnerships, and widen Quad by including Indonesia, Vietnam and Singapore in it. The building of Andaman and Nicobar as a formidable tri-service base must be expedited too.” Quad is an informal security dialogue between four countries -- India, the US, Japan and Australia. It was conceptualised, in part, to counter China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific. While suggesting that China’s motivations and the reason for the timing of its action in Ladakh are hard to gauge, Alyssa Ayres of the Council on Foreign Relations said it was important to note China’s territorial assertiveness in several other places as the world dealt with the pandemic. On the future of the bilateral ties, she added: “India-China ties will undoubtedly suffer; they have for decades been marked by security tensions but with some degree of multilateral cooperation. It is harder to see New Delhi want to compartmentalise in the same way going forward.” Ayres added that India’s options seem limited but it will have to make choices. “China is pushing India to make choices about who its friends are, a decision that India has historically refrained from making.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-dark-hour-experts-predict-shake-up-in-ties/story-FFDVwlzehtoRfKH4FLII2H.html
18-06-2020||India||35 fatalities on China side in Ladakh clash, suggests US report||The United States has said it is “closely monitoring” the India-China border situation and an American media report suggested China may have suffered severe losses in the eastern Ladakh clashes and put the number of its fatalities at 35 citing an intelligence assessment.US News, the media publication, went on to suggest that the Chinese are taking the deaths as a humiliation and might be reluctant, therefore, to announce or confirm them for fear of emboldening other adversaries.In the reported assessment of US intelligence it was a tense border meeting between military personnel of the two sides to de-escalate tensions that turned violent. Most deaths were caused by batons, knives or from falling off a steep cliff. The details of this account of events could not be ascertained independently.The state department pointed to an earlier statement when asked. A spokesperson had said: “We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation.”The spokesperson had gone on to refer to a June 2 phone call in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump had discussed the India-China border.President Trump had earlier, on May 28, offered to mediate the dispute, saying in a tweet, “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute.” The offer was turned down by both India and China and Trump has since not said more on this, snowed under as he is with the twin crises of the Covid-19 epidemic that has killed nearly 117,000 Americans and the civil unrest triggered by the killing of an Africa-American man by a white police officer in Minneapolis.The state department had earlier slammed the border tensions as a reflection of Chinese aggression going beyond the rhetoric and the House foreign affairs committee had blamed the Chinese for as well.“I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border.,” Eliot Engel, the chairman of the House foreign affairs committee, had said in a statement in early June. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbours rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-fatalities-on-china-side-us-report/story-dwC3UkXRmvcXck7CvhstsI.html
18-06-2020||India||We don’t want to see more clashes: Beijing||China on Wednesday continued its silence on the casualties suffered by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Monday’s deadly border clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.Both foreign minister Wang Yi in his phone call with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, and the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian remained silent on the aspect despite talking about casualties sustained in the flare-up.Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian refused to share details – including the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) casualties – and repeatedly said border troops from both countries were dealing with the matter on the ground.China and India are in close communication on resolving relevant issues through both diplomatic and military channels, Zhao said, adding that China “…does not want to see more clashes”.At the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday, Zhao stalled queries on Chinese casualties.“As I said, the border troops of the two sides are dealing with the specifics on the ground. I have no information to release here,” he said when asked about the numbers.Hu Shisheng, a Beijing-based south Asia expert said it could be because China wants to keep domestic reaction quiet.“It seems that both sides, especially the Chinese side want to calm down the whole situation,” Hu, from the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told HT.Wang Dehua from the Shanghai Municipal Centre for International Studies said he was optimistic about the future as “…neither side has the intention or reason to let the situation get out of hand”.The editor of Global Times Hu Xijin had tweeted on Tuesday -- without elaborating -- that the PLA too had sustained casualties.“Chinese side didn’t release number of PLA casualties in clash with Indian soldiers. My understanding is the Chinese side doesn’t want people of the two countries to compare the casualties’ numbers so to avoid stoking public mood. This is goodwill from Beijing.”On China’s Twitter-like social media platform, Weibo, millions of Chinese citizens shared and commented on Monday’s incident: By Wednesday evening, it was trending at the top of the “hot search” option on the platform.Many talked about the casualties that the Indian army suffered, discussing reasons why the situation went out of control and descended into violence.Some speculated about PLA’s possible fatalities and injuries as well.Chinese state media have followed the government in squarely blaming India for the situation without - expectedly - raising any question about the lack of details available.“The incident happened during a patrol and both sides suffered injuries and casualties, with this being the most severe situation China and India have experienced along the border in more than four decades and may render previous efforts to defuse border disputes fruitless,” Qian Feng, director of the research department of the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University in Beijing, told the nationalistic tabloid Global Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-want-to-see-more-clashes-beijing/story-tgkkJnwsSMMnwoLZZCxahP.html
18-06-2020||India||ITBP asked to keep eye on Chinese troops along border||Intelligence agencies are assisting the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) technologically and providing it satellite imagery as the government has directed the force to solidify its presence and keep an eye on the movement of Chinese troops along the 3,488 km long India-China border from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, two officials said. More troops were being rushed to the frontier, they added. Tensions between India and China have escalated since Monday when at least 20 Indian troops were killed after Chinese soldiers attacked them with clubs studded with nails and stones in Ladakh’s remote Galwan Valley.The officials cited above said the border guarding force was being provided with the imagery to ascertain if Chinese troops were trying to transgress from other areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto border between the two countries.ITBP troops are deployed at 180 border outposts (BoPs) along LAC in Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in a treacherous terrain located between 9,000 feet to 18,750 feet above sea level, where temperatures can dip to minus 45 degree C.“Each BoP usually has a strength of 100 to 110 personnel but following aggressive behaviour of [Chinese] People’s Liberation Army in the Ladakh sector and... [the attack] particularly, we are sending more troops from the battalion headquarters and other postings,” said an official who did not wish to be named.A second official said satellite-based surveillance is important for border guarding forces to know the movement of Chinese or even Pakistani troops before it is too late.The government had decided to make ITBP the nodal agency for a G-SAT Centre in Delhi to monitor things like Chinese troop movement, their strength along LAC in case of a similar situation after the 2017 Doklam standoff between the two countries. The centre is yet to become operationalThe government is also yet to raise four more ITBP battalions (around 4,000 troops) that it had decided in 2017 for better border management.Top ITBP officials could not be reached for a comment on the matter while the Union home ministry said it has no additional information to share.According to government data, Chinese transgressions along LAC have gone up over the last few years, particularly in Ladakh. In 2019, there were 663 such incidents.A parliamentary standing committee report on the Doklam standoff and the border situation with China in September 2018 noted Beijing remains in illegal occupation of 38,000 sq km area of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir. China has illegally acquired Pakistan Occupied Kashmir’s 5,180 sq km territory from Pakistan, it added. The report said China claims about 2,000 sq km territory in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The panel asked the government to monitor the Chinese activities along the border, improve the infrastructure and equip Indian forces to respond befittingly to any contingency. It added in absence of commonly delineated LAC, China sees it in its interest to keep the dispute alive indefinitely for “throwing India off-balance whenever it so desires”.The panel asked the government “to improve coordination between the army and the Air Force, which could provide better airborne early warning and control support to the forces on the ground when difficult situations arise, including through the deployment of unmanned aerial vehicles or drones”.The panel asked the Centre to urgently re-energize ties with neighbouring countries. “It is clear that we now have to contend with the possibility of some of the countries in our neighbourhood playing the China card as leverage in their relations with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-asked-to-keep-eye-on-border-activity/story-LBJcS9IIBO7uNgKY8YntfN.html
18-06-2020||India||Behind Galwan’s bloody face-off, China’s plan to interdict gateway to Karakoram||It was the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s insistence of constructing an observation post at Indian patrolling point that resulted in the violent scrap between the two sides on the evening of June 15, according to a a sequence of events put together by HT. The post would have helped the Chinese to not only observe Indian troop movement towards Karakoram but also would have had the capacity to interdict army vehicles plying on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) road . Most importantly, the post was on India’s side of the Line of Actual Control or LAC. While External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar red-flagged this issue in his conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, it is quite evident that the PLA had a pre-meditated plan in the garb of de-escalation to change the agreed alignment of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and push out Indian Army from Patrolling Point 14. This would have been hugely detrimental to Indian interests.  Also Watch | China’s response on Ladakh violence as PM Modi says ‘don’t provoke’ Set-up in 1978 by the Indian Army, Point 14 is on a ridge that overlooks both the Galwan River Valley and the Galwan Nullah which joins the Shyok river on whose bank the DSBO road is being build by Indian Army engineers.Based on detailed interactions with the military brass and former commanders, the Hindustan Times has learnt that the June 6 meeting between military commanders of  India and China, even defined the number of troops to be present at each point leading to Point 14. But even as the the de-escalation was on, the Chinese wanted to put up a watch post near Point 14 on grounds that they wanted to observe the dis-engagement of troops. This was strongly objected to by 16 Bihar Commanding Officer Col Santosh Babu who rightly saw this as the breach of laid down rules of disengagement.Also Read: The message is clear: China pressing forward to create new buffer zonesAround dusk on Monday, June 15, Col Santosh and his company commander went up to Point 14 and told his PLA counterpart to pull down the structure. A heated exchange ensued, more troops rushed in from both sides, and punches were thrown. The Chinese PLA, which has a base camp down from the ridge near the Galwan River, rushed in more troops in armoured personal carriers to the nearest road-head to Point 14. Initially, the Indian troops were present in significant strength but the PLA soon outnumbered them . While Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has asked India to punish its troops for breach of discipline, the fact is that the PLA wanted to set up the observation post as part of its efforts to redefine the LAC; Chinese officers told their Indian officers before the scrap that the alignment of the LAC was behind Point 14. The illegal Chinese post would not only have made the Indian position at Point 14 untenable but also given a huge tactical advantage to the PLA with the option of interdicting Indian Army movement on the soon to be constructed bridge with artillery or direct fire. If the post had been allowed to be set-up the Indian army supplies to DBO camp ahead would have been at the mercy of Chinese PLA. With more than 600 troops involved in fisticuffs and hand to hand combat, the mountain ledge on which the fighting was taking place gave away to a landslide. This led to casualties on both sides as the troops fell into the Galwan nullah and river with a section of Indian troops being isolated on the other bank of the tributary. Drenched in ice cold water of Galwan and with temperatures running way below zero, the Indian troops had nowhere to hide against the elements at an altitude of 16000 feet. A large number of Indian casualties are on count on standing out in the open in wet clothes to prevent the PLA taking control of Point 14. According to top military officers, the Chinese PLA engaged in a show of strength on the morning of June 16 by bringing in more armoured personnel carriers to the nearest road head to intimidate their Indian counterparts. The PLA also linked the dis-engagement on Patrolling point 15 to the Indian Army allowing the observation post being built near Point 14 on the Indian side. It was the courage of Col Santosh and his men that prevented that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-s-plans-for-an-observation-post-triggered-clashes/story-HoEL1u5Dxtv1GVH46RnUfI.html
18-06-2020||India||Outnumbered, Indian soldiers stood ground in violent seven-hour face-off||The clash between Indian and Chinese troops in which both sides suffered casualties on Monday began at around 7 pm in the Galwan Valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides. Forward troops patrolling the disputed border either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on. Also read: ‘LAC holds no sanctity for Chinese army’, says General Ved Prakash MalikThe Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” said one of the persons cited above.It was when Colonel Babu and his team confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site that the clash broke out, this official said, adding that the situation swiftly escalated as the Chinese soldiers refused to vacate their positions and the Indian soldiers removed the tents and the observation post that were on the Indian side of the LAC. Also Watch | The General who first saw through China’s intentions in LadakhAlso read: Satellite images show build-up at Galwan Valley where clashes killed 20 Indian soldiersIn a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand fighting that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, second of the three officials HT spoke to, said.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The external affairs ministry corroborated this sequence of events on Wednesday when it detailed a conversation between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. In a phone call, Jaishankar told Yi that the Chinese soldiers’ actions “reflected an intent to change the facts on the ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo”.Jaishankar, in his call, underscored the need to implement the June 6 understanding reached by the military officials of both sides as part of a phased de-escalation strategy to ease tensions that had persisted for weeks. The plan was discussed between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the South Xinjiang region. According to it, the Chinese side was supposed to have fallen back around 5km to the east of the location, said the third official. They retreated a bit last week but came back to retake the positions they had temporarily vacated, this person said.On Monday, the Chinese deployment had numerical superiority over the Indian side --- more than 250 of them were present in the area when the Indian squad, despite being fewer in numbers, demanded the PLA remove the structures and withdraw in order to return to status quo, these officials added. “The Chinese were, however, adamant on holding their ground. They seemed prepared for a face-off,” said the second of three officials who was aware of the confrontation, asking not to be named. In the first wave of clashes on Monday night, Babu and two other soldiers were grievously hurt and succumbed to their injuries. Reinforcements arrived from the Indian side within an hour and the brawl spilled over to beyond midnight, the third person said, adding that the face-off involved more than 500 soldiers from both sides.The clash took place in pitch-dark conditions and resulted in 20 deaths on the Indian side, and possibly 40-45 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.They were the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. The deadly confrontation came on a day when army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC --- one involving brigadier-ranked officers who met at the Galwan Valley, and the other between Colonel-ranked officers at Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.The army acknowledged three casualties in a statement issued on Tuesday afternoon. It later issued another statement in the evening saying, “17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand-off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total killed in action to 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outnumbered-indian-soldiers-stood-ground-in-violent-seven-hour-face-off/story-HUkKcHVvoxjE03OKVU79JO.html
18-06-2020||India||960 train coaches set up as isolation wards deployed||The Centre has deployed 960 railways coaches converted into isolation wards in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, officials said on Wednesday. Over half of the coaches (503) have been pressed into service in the national capital, followed by Uttar Pradesh (372), Telangana (60), Andhra Pradesh (20) and Madhya Pradesh (five), they added.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week said Delhi will need 150,000 beds by the end of July amid a spike in the Covid-19 cases. Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised 500 railway coaches for Delhi with a capacity of 8,000 beds to treat Covid-19 patients to mitigate any possible shortage of beds as he held meetings for augmenting health care infrastructure. The government also plans to use stadiums, hotels and banquet halls as makeshift hospitals in Delhi.The isolation coaches have been stationed at nine stations in Delhi with a bulk of them--267--at Anand Vihar. “The Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia... reviewed the coaches [on Wednesday]. They are seriously considering it and will inform us on the patients once the demand arises,” said northern railways general manager Rajiv Chaudhary. He added no patient has so far been admitted to these coaches.In a statement, the railway ministry said the isolation coaches will be under the care of the chief medical officers of the concerned states and they will deploy doctors and paramedics for them as per the Union health ministry’s procedures. It added the railways will deploy two liaison officers for each location to assist the state governments.The ministry said the isolation coaches can be used for patients with mild symptoms and in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities” and need to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed cases.The first Covid-19 coaches with 160 beds were deployed at Delhi’s Shakur Basti railway station on May 31.Officials said the states have sought the coaches around two months after they were prepared. The railways has modified 5,231 coaches to be used as Covid-19 care centres.The 372 Covid-19 coaches in Uttar Pradesh have been deployed at 23 locations, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, and Saharanpur.In Madhya Pradesh, all five coaches have been stationed at Gwalior. The 20 Covid-19 coaches in Andhra Pradesh have been pressed into service in Vijayawada and the 60 in Telangana’s Secunderabad, Kachguda and Adilabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-train-coaches-set-up-as-isolation-wards-deployed/story-4B4Ko9vac40mjkrrBnLTXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Church suspends 2 priests over abuse||Thiruvananthapuram: The Thalassery Archdiocese of Syro-Malabar Church in Kerala on Wednesday suspended two priests, who were accused of sexual harassment last year, after audio clips of their purported sleazy conversation went viral on social media.In a statement, the diocese apologised to the believers saying the two, Father Joseph Poothattil and Father Mathew Mullappallil, were supposed to “hold a high moral ground but they failed”.It said the priests have been debarred and restrained from carrying out priestly duties indefinitely. A woman last year complained to the diocese about the alleged harassment while others have also complained about their behaviour even. But the church brushed aside these charges and defended them.The audio clips surfaced on social media last week in which one of the priests is purportedly heard admitting to having a relationship with the woman and how they really wanted to get out of it. They were also purportedly talking about a dalliance with the woman. Some video clips also surfaced later.“Whatever we want to say, it is there in the statement. We don’t want to make more comments on this,” said the spokesman (NAME) of the archdiocese. Police said they are yet to get a complaint in this regard while the two priests were unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/church-suspends-2-priests-over-abuse/story-gBm0HTjxn57p74DwxnFmcM.html
18-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh braces for fresh swarm of locusts||As many as 36 districts of Madhya Pradesh have been ravaged by desert locusts, a pest that continues to wreak havoc on the state’s agriculture output despite concerted efforts by the agriculture department to control them. With a huge swarm of locusts expected to enter the country through Jaisalmer district in Rajasthan from Wednesday, and soon spread to other states, the Madhya Pradesh government has asked all its districts to be on alert to tackle the menace.Swarms of locusts had earlier entered the state through Neemuch in Malwa region and Sheopur in Gwalior-Chambal region around mid-May. A release issued by the state government on Wednesday said, “Two fire tenders sprayed about 80 litres of insecticide on a swarm of locusts spread over a 4km area in Simarhar village of Vidisha district on Tuesday. Similarly, chemicals were sprayed on locusts at Parana, Goojarakhedi and Dhanola villages in Agar Malwa and Kalidudhi and Harra villages of Anupur district on Tuesday.”“All districts have been directed to be alert and be prepared with necessary resources to track the movement of locusts and control it,” the release said. Locust warning office, a Union agriculture ministry wing, deputy director KL Gurjar said, “As on Wednesday, swarms of locusts were spotted in Panna, Damoh, Guna and a few other places in Madhya Pradesh. However, we are tracking and controlling the pests and they will be completely eliminated by the time the kharif crop season begins.”Madhya Pradesh’s minister for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Kamal Patel said, “A sum of ₹51 lakh was sanctioned to 15 districts and ₹64 lakh to 21 other districts for locusts control. We are taking effective measures in controlling the pest. Those farmers whose vegetables or other crops have been damaged will be compensated as per the rules of the revenue department.”The state government is yet to release any report on the extent of crop loss --mainly vegetables and lentils -- wrought by the pests belonging to the grasshopper family. However, since there is no rabi crop in the fields currently, officials said no massive damage was caused by locusts.The state agriculture department has decided to seek the help of farmers who own tractors and sprayers for spraying chemicals on locusts. A government official said the department wants farmers to come forward voluntarily to help control locusts, while chemicals will be provided by the department. Government may also consider incentivising them, another official from the agriculture department said.The next round of major locust attack is expected in mid-July with the pests travelling from the Horn of Africa and entering Rajasthan via Pakistan, the LWO has warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-braces-for-fresh-swarm-of-locusts/story-gxumsJqgTpYSwuYZoSk89H.html
18-06-2020||India||India all set to win seat at UN Security Council||Washington: India was expected to be elected unopposed on Wednesday to the UN Security Council this week and will hope to use its eighth term as a non-permanent member to bolster its claim to a permanent seat with the avowed goal of forging a “new orientation for a reformed multilateral system”.India is the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faces no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council is a given, though some UN diplomats involved with the election said they are “keeping our fingers crossed”.Voting by paper ballot will start at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time on Wednesday) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11pm, India), stretching a process that should have been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to UNSC. The results will be known around 4:30 pm (2:00 am Thursday in India).The 193 UN member countries will vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They will be allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups, or 20 or so, because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19, said diplomats familiar with the process. New York City, where the UN is headquartered, remains the epicentre of the disease in the US. It has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats are uncertain how many of the member countries which can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button.Candidate countries such as India need two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010 and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico is the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway are contesting for the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti are running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the US, the UK, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants like Japan, Germany and Brazil, which have called the current set up outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-all-set-to-win-seat-at-un-security-council/story-iOW7OkbP8cZmIM8Y4bOlxK.html
18-06-2020||India||Holding pay of medical staff on Covid frontines may be criminalised||The Union government is likely to criminalise withholding salaries of doctors and nurses deployed at the frontlines of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and issue guidelines making it mandatory for states to make adequate quarantine and isolation facilities for medical professionals, after a Supreme Court order on Wednesday.The top court was hearing a petition by a doctor who said medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and found it tough to isolate themselves, citing risks to their families if they are infected. The court, which last week likened medical staff on Covid-19 duty to soldiers on the battlefield, was assured by the solicitor general that new rules will be issued within 24 hours. The bench, comprising Justices SK Kaul and MR Shah, directed the Centre to release the order by Thursday. Last week, the judges asked Centre to travel the extra mile: “This is a kind of war. You cannot keep soldiers unhappy during a war.”The Centre had received a representation last week from the petitioner Arushi Jain indicating problems in salaries and of keeping medical workers’ families safe. The communication flagged the May 15 “Advisory for Managing Healthcare Workers working in COVID and non-COVID Areas of the Hospital” issued by the health ministry, which said that only “high-risk” health care workers or those showing symptoms of Covid-19 should get 14-day quarantine. The representation, drafted by advocate Mithu Jain, highlighted non-payment of wages, insufficient PPE kits, and long working hours among other concerns.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre through videoconferencing, informed the Court that as regards non-payment of wages, the Joint Monitoring Group headed by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) has decided to issue fresh directive to states for strict compliance. He said that non-compliance will be treated an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) that prescribes punishment for disobeying orders passed by a public servant.For the petitioner, senior advocate KV Vishwanathan suggested to the bench that since health is a state subject, it would be proper to receive responses on quarantine facilities from states. But the Court refused to pass an order asking Centre to take up this aspect with states as part of its directive.The bench was of the firm view that doctors, nurses, medical staff who are looking after coronavirus infected patients must receive at least one week quarantine that can be further extended by a week, depending on their condition. The bench remarked, “The May 15 guidelines have done away with quarantine for health care workers unless they are high-risk or symptomatic.” Mehta clarified that quarantine is mandatory for all who are in contact with COVID patients.The bench has kept the matter after four weeks to monitor compliance of its directions by states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-medical-staff-pay-may-be-criminalised/story-aKkABGNklo36yzE63rZfgM.html
18-06-2020||India||SC seeks CBSE response to plea against board exams in July||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)’s response to a plea seeking quashing of the latter’s May 18 decision to hold the remaining board examinations for Class 10 and 12 from July 1 to July 15.The CBSE’s lawyer did not have concrete instructions from his client and sought time to respond.The court did not issue a formal notice but asked CBSE to consider the plea and respond by June 23 whether it would go ahead with the exams.CBSE on May 18 issued a notification on holding the remaining examinations. It put ongoing exams on hold two months earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Four parents have filed the petition saying their children face the risk of contracting the infection if they appear for the exams while citing warnings that the infections will peak in July. They have called the fresh notification for the exams arbitrary.The court asked the petitioner’s counsel, Rishi Malhotra, what his clients’ proposal was in case the examinations are postponed. Malhotra told the court that results should be declared as per marks scored in exams held and internal assessment scores of the papers for which exams have not been held.The petition noted the exams were being held across 15,000 centres and added ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards as prescribed would be “a herculean task”.“[Covid] cases in India are rising dramatically and as on date there are almost 3,00,000 cases... Moreover, even if it is to be assumed that 50 percent of the cases are asymptomatic, then the students appearing for these exams could also be potential careers themselves posing a great risk to the other family members,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-cbse-response-to-plea-against-board-exams-in-july/story-KGCMi7F9WlkjYAYM0Zpx0H.html
18-06-2020||India||To arrest rising Covid-19 toll, govt plans to expand rapid testing||India is scaling up diagnosis using rapid tests across the country to track, trace and treat all cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to contain its spread and bring down the number of deaths, as the number of fatalities caused by the virus in the past 24 hours on Wednesday crossed 2,000 nationally.The government’s focus so far has been on keeping the death rate down, but with the surge in numbers, it is exploring all possible alternatives to track every single infected person in the country, and re-strategising disease management to ensure no serious patient is left untreated.For testing, the antigen-based rapid test recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be expanded in a big way across the states with a high disease burden, especially in containment zones and hotspots and hospitals.In a letter to health secretary Preeti Sudan on Sunday, Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of the ICMR said, “…Testing remains a cornerstone in our fight against Covid-19, and therefore ramping up testing is essentially critical to track, trace, and treat all cases of Covid-19. Since the gold standard RT-PCR test has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment, ICMR had been exploring alternate quick and reliable options for diagnosis of Covid-19.”The antigen-based testing will begin with Delhi that has been reporting about 50 deaths daily on average over the past few weeks, to prevent the spread of infection.“To prevent the disease spread, aggressive testing is the only solution. All states will have to strictly enhance their testing capacity as more you test, the more number of people you will be able to treat in time. Not everyone needs hospitalization but we must be able to identify those who do to save lives. Testing is the only way. The states have been advised to take up antigen based testing as it will be able to cover a large population in a short span of time that will give us quick results and modify strategies accordingly,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.Community engagement is another key area that the government is focusing on to avoid people stigmatizing people suspecting either to have been infected by Covid-19 or have recovered from it.The ministry of health has drafted an elaborate awareness campaign material to be circulated within the community to educate people. The document highlights the issue of stigma being the one of the reasons why many people conceal symptoms, and don’t seek medical care, thus reporting late to hospital.“To some extent late reporting to hospital of Covid patients due to stigma attached is still a concern, and one of the reasons for patients turning serious,” says, Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.When assessing rising deaths in Gujarat recently, Dr Guleria had found that along with comorbidities, people were succumbing to Covid in the state because they were reporting their symptoms late for fear of stigma; and by the time they were tested and put on treatment it was already too late. “Community engagement to ensure people don’t face stigma in society that will be the ultimate key to help people come forward and report symptoms. And people who interact with the public, making door-to-door visits need to adequately trained to communicate the message well. It’s important for these people to connect with the masses well only then the mind-set will change,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital. Another focus area is to enhance the health infrastructure across the country in terms of beds, especially Intensive Care Unit beds with oxygen support for serious patients, to treat all those serious enough to require hospital care.“We have added thousands of beds, especially increased ICU beds, labs and are procuring more ventilators. Even though our capacity isn’t fully utilized, both in terms of testing and hospitalization, the country is fully prepared to deal with the surge. This is all a part of the overall strategy to save lives. Cases may increase but we shouldn’t be losing lives, and we have been lucky that our death rate is the lowest in the world,” said a health ministry official.“As for rising deaths one must remember that it is reporting of deaths in past 24 hours; not really these many deaths in a day.”As of now India has 958 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 167,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds. There are 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 133,037 isolation beds; 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.In 7,525 Covid care centres there are 7,10,642 beds now available in the country. There are currently 21,494 ventilators available for Covid beds.Experts say that for better utilization of hospital beds, the strategy should be to prioritise admissions.“We should prioritise admission to hospitals with critical care for elderly and those with co-morbidities irrespective of age. Early identification of poor O2 saturation, faster transit to facilities with high-flow oxygen is important for those isolated at home. Planning can save lives. Allocation of critical care beds through centralised risk scoring and automatic allotment based on region/risk category can prevent confusion & promotes equity. Trust and partnerships with private hospitals and community are integral to reduce overall mortality,” says Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-arrest-rising-covid-toll-govt-plans-to-expand-rapid-testing/story-gHJiCjEiHsjALLkJvF7JqI.html
18-06-2020||India||Modi rejects demand to delink reforms from state borrowing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to remain focused on economic reforms and use the Covid-19 pandemic to push some long-pending measures.The PM’s meeting with chief ministers on Tuesday provided a clear indication of the Centre’s intention to stay the course of reforms although its agenda was largely devoted to the pandemic. Punjab CM captain Amarinder Singh demanded at the meeting that the Centre delink a requirement for reforms from an enhancement of the states’ market borrowing limits. His argument, according to a person who attended the meeting, was that while the Centre had permitted states to borrow more money from the market, the increase has been linked to stringent reform conditions. Singh argued that reforms and borrowing should not be tied. The Prime Minister rejected the argument. Two people who attended the meeting quoted Modi as telling Singh not to make it a prestige issue. “Use this opportunity to bring in reforms this will help your state and your people. You should also create a conducive environment for economic growth while enhancing health infrastructure,” the PM said.As a part of the financial package announced by the Centre in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, it had accepted the demand from many states and hiked the net borrowing limit to 5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) from 3%. Out of the 2 percentage points increase in the borrowing limit, 1.5 percentage points would be linked to “specified and measurable” reform actions. The PM added that the Centre trusted the states to do the right thing and that’s why was pushing the states to implement reforms. Elaborating on the need for reforms, Modi said that going forward, the country would need a continuous upgrade of the health infrastructure and accelerated economic growth, the people cited above said. He also maintained that Covid-19 “cases in absolute terms may increase but don’t lose sight of economic revival and upgradation of our healthcare.” The laundry list of reform measures include four broad categories: pushing the one nation-one ration card programme to provide universal access to the public distribution system, further ease of doing business, making power distribution more viable and enhancing the revenues of municipal bodies. Announcing the reforms, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on May 17 that the extra borrowing will be linked to specific reforms, including some recommendations by the 15th Finance Commission. The Centre also expected the states to ensure sustainability of additional debt through higher GSDP growth and lower fiscal deficits. This measure, according to the Centre, would allow states to mop up from an additional, combined fund of Rs 4.28 lakh crore to meet their fiscal needs.Achiransu Acharya, an economist with Viswa Bharati University, said, “In this time of fiscal crunch, the state and its different arms should be able to able to improve its fiscal heath and for that reason they must usher in reforms. For example, if the states undertake power sector reforms, the power tariff might increase for consumers. Remember, when multilateral agencies such as IMF or World Bank gives loans, they too, want guarantee on reforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-rejects-demand-to-delink-reforms-from-state-borrowing/story-SQ7nsaY5SOj4AdAQ1sQtTN.html
18-06-2020||India||Focus on testing, boost economy: Modi to CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that instead of a lockdown, India now needs to focus on the next phase of unlocking the country; speed up economic activities; continue to expand testing, and trace-track-isolate Covid-19 positive cases; and battle the fear of being afflicted by the disease and overcome the stigma around it by highlighting the number of recoveries. Speaking at the second — and concluding day — of his meeting with chief ministers (the sixth such interaction on the coronavirus pandemic) on Wednesday, PM Modi also reiterated the fact that the economy was witnessing a revival. Six CMs spoke at the meeting, and their demands included extension of the PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana for another three months, greater financial support, and policy initiatives to attract investments in their respective states. They also spoke about the challenge of providing employment to migrant workers who had returned home. The PM began the interaction by paying tribute to the personnel of the armed forces who had been killed in the India-China border face off. The PM mentioned that the country has entered the phase of unlocking and added, “We need to now think about phase 2 of the Unlock and how to minimise all possibilities of harm to our people.” Unlock 1.0 — which has seen relaxations in economic activity, travel, and opening of businesses and markets — will last till the end of the month. PM Modi also talked about the need to fight rumours of lockdown, after Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao mentioned in his speech how people thought this PM-CM meeting has been called to extend lockdown and rollback relaxations.HT had reported on June 13 that there are no plans to impose a stringent nationwide lockdown again.On the economic front, PM Modi spoke of the reduction in restrictions outside the containment areas and how indicators of economic performance are showing signs of revival. He pointed out that inflation is under control and asked states to boost infrastructure and construction related work, with an eye to engage the large number of construction workers who have returned to their villages. The PM also listed the measures under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme to help different sectors and asked states effectively tackle the challenges faced by the migrant labourers in the coming months.NR Bhanumurthy of National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said, “India already had a stringent lockdown period and it has managed it well. But now I am glad that PM Modi understood the weakness in economy. In unlock 2, there are a series of proposed measures, and time has come to roll them out quickly.”On the health front, the PM reiterated the importance of testing to quickly trace, track and isolate Covid-19 positive cases and said that apart from maximising the existing testing capacity, there must be a constant effort to expand it. He also emphasised the “emotional aspect” of the challenge and asked states to help people “battling fear of being afflicted and the stigma” by highlighting the large number of recovered patients. “Our priority must remain to help and support our corona warriors, doctors and health care workers,” Modi said, highlighting the importance of Jan Bhaagidaari, or people’s participation, in the battle.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Telangana CM Rao urged the PM to extended to PM Gareeb Kalyan package by another three months to help the poor. The ₹1.7 lakh crore package was announced soon after the first lockdown, and provides income support and welfare to vulnerable segments of the population. Tamil Nadu CM E Palaniswamy asked for a relief package of ₹9,000 crore, another package for power sector and ₹1000 crore from the national disaster relief fund. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath spoke about how they have mapped the skills of all 3.4 million migrant workers who returned to the state and now plans are afoot, across 80 skill areas, to give them employment. The UP CM also demanded an integrated strategy for the National Capital Region in tackling covid as a few UP states also fall in this region.Bihar CM said 3 million migrant labourers had returned to the state and now they did want to go back. He urged the PM to help Bihar get more private investments to create jobs as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and other government programmes could not absorb such a large workforce. Telangana CM Rao, who spoke right after Bihar, requested the PM to persuade Nitish Kumar to allow workers who are willing to return to Telangana as the southern state is facing considerable difficulty in running industries.Bhanumurthy maintained that in the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna there are a few low-hanging fruits. “Expenditure that goes through DBT or PMGKY has to be used to push resources to boost demand. The government can think about increasing the cap of MGNREGS days. As millions of migrant labourers have returned to their villages, the states should think about their social security. There is an urgent need to have a labour policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-testing-boost-economy-modi-to-cms/story-YRWDBpFaOwqdk8aMWtoGfJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Govt issues revised guidelines for Covid-19 lockdown: What’s mandatory, what’s prohibited||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of Covid-19 lockdown, the government on Wednesday issued revised guideline to be followed till May 3.Travel by air, rail and road, operation of educational and training institutions, industrial and commercial activities, hospitality services, cinema halls and shopping complexes will remain closed, as per the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday.All social, political and other events and opening of all religious places will also remain closed till the time the lockdown is in force, said the order.Also Watch: 7 things PM Modi wants you to do during lockdown Also Read: 13 activities that will remain suspended till May 3The use of homemade face covers at workplace and public places has been made mandatory. The offices have been asked to provide sanitisers, run staggered shifts, ensure access control and put in place thermal screening, as per the revised guideline.“The objective of the revised guidelines is to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners,” the government said in a release.Also Read: What new guidelines mean for you“The revised consolidated guidelines are aimed at operating those sectors of the economy which are critical from the perspective of rural and agricultural development and job creation, while maintaining strict protocols in areas where safety is paramount to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country,” the government release said.To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities will be allowed and come into effect from April 20.As per the guideline, “additional activities will be operationalised by states and the Union Territories (UTs) based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures”.The revised guideline will not apply in containment zones, as demarcated by states, union territories and district administration. The guideline was issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning announced extension of the 21-day lockdown for another 19 days until May 3 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-revised-guidelines-for-covid-19-lockdown-what-s-mandatory-what-s-prohibited/story-0G8mfTuLQ3onwxvBhpxN2O.html
18-06-2020||Today's||Why Delhi and Mumbai failed its people to control Covid-19, UP did not | Opinion||India has reported its highest single day death toll due to coronavirus - after Delhi and Maharashtra revised their previously reported numbers. Now, the number of deaths due to Covid-19 stands at 11,903 and the confirmed cases above the 355,000 mark. During the past few weeks, some states, particularly Delhi and Maharashtra, hogged the limelight due to the rising number of coronavirus infections and related deaths. While Maharashtra is at the head of the coronavirus infections table, Delhi is at third spot, after Tamil Nadu, and is soon expected to overtake Tamil Nadu as per current trends. In Maharashtra, Mumbai has been the highest contributor to coronavirus infected patients and deaths. Ironically, both Delhi and Mumbai have a much better medical and health care infrastructure and a higher density of health care professionals as compared to other parts of the country. Despite this clear edge, why have these two metros failed to control the spread of coronavirus that has led to loss of so many precious lives?Both Mumbai and Delhi have a population of nearly 2 crore each. And their respective chief ministers are well equipped with all the governmental paraphernalia available right there to guide, monitor and control operations. Compare the scenario with the state of Uttar Pradesh with a population of more than 22 crore which has so far reported 14,091 confirmed cases and only 417 deaths. Certainly, Uttar Pradesh is no match to Delhi and Mumbai in terms of availability of doctors, nurses, paramedics, beds etc. According to data published by the Union Ministry of Health, Uttar Pradesh has 58,000 hospital beds for a population of more than 22 crore whereas Delhi has 20,000 beds for a population of nearly 2 crore. It is not a matter of pride that UP is so poorly placed in this regard. But despite the constraints, how could Uttar Pradesh manage to contain the spread of virus to a manageable level. Or why did Delhi and Mumbai - despite their distinct advantage over UP and most states in terms of most health service parameters - fail to contain the spread of the virus that is linked to loss of so many lives.The answer perhaps has to do a lot with one critical fact - how efficiently did the government manage their existing resources to fight this pandemic.After the country went into lockdown mode, the central government issued detailed guidelines listing out the standard operating procedures to be followed and implemented by state governments and common people. Over the past three months, the success of various states in containing the spread of the coronavirus depended on how seriously the government concerned implemented the guidelines issued from time to time. Undoubtedly every state has the same kind of administrative machinery and infrastructure. Thus, the intensity of implementation of the guidelines was more likely a function of the overall administrative capacity, sincerity and hard work put in by both political and bureaucratic leadership of the states concerned. Uttar Pradesh, with more than 22 crore population, vigorously implemented the guidelines and advisories issued from time to time and adhered to regular and strict monitoring to ensure that the guidelines were strictly enforced. This strategy succeeded to a large extent in containing the spread of coronavirus and number of deaths due to the virus though the state did receive millions of migrant workers from various coronavirus hotspots. There seems to be no other reason other than the strict enforcement of the lockdown and other guidelines issued by the central government.Delhi, on the other hand, went on with the business as usual approach and did not do much to enforce the standard operating procedure laid down to control the virus spread. It is difficult to comprehend how Delhi, with so many resources at its command and well-equipped hospitals, doctors and experts failed to contain the spread of the virus. It is most unfortunate that news reports are still appearing in Delhi and Mumbai that capture how people are running from pillar to post to get themselves tested for Covid or find themselves a hospital bed for their near and dear ones. This situation is just unacceptable and shows lack of effective monitoring and control at the level of the top leadership. The situation of Delhi is more bizarre as Arvind Kejriwal had the much-touted mohalla clinics that one has lately stopped hearing about. It seems Mr Kejriwal forgot to utilise the services of the clinics that was counted as one of his successes in the last election.Clearly running a government, and that too during a crisis period like coronavirus pandemic, requires more than just headline management. Sincerity, hard work and dedication; to begin with. Mere slogans and publicity may win votes but they will not solve any problem. Certainly, there is a lot for those running Delhi and Mumbai to learn. They know where to look.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-delhi-and-mumbai-failed-its-people-to-control-covid-19-up-did-not-opinion/story-lenF3ARtQTfLrazgBpZwSP.html
18-06-2020||Editorials||Protecting lives and livelihood||Over two days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers — the sixth such interaction since March — on the coronavirus pandemic. There were three key threads to his message. The first was that the phase of the lockdown is over and governments need to extend the relaxations in a planned manner. This is an important intervention at a time when, due to a surge in cases, rumours about a lockdown have proliferated. The prime minister’s remarks make it clear that there will be no national lockdown anymore. This is positive. At the same time, state governments need to be flexible on the issue, for in particular geographies, hard measures may be required in case of a surge. His second message was on the economy. The prime minister spoke about how there were green shoots visible in the economy; there was a revival across sectors; and governments needed to continue to protect livelihoods. It is understandable that as the nation’s leader, the prime minister has to exude optimism and confidence. But the fact is that the revival being witnessed is because of the opening up of economic activity after 68 days of a lockdown. This will not be sufficient. It is clear that this year, the Indian economy will see a contraction, unemployment will rise, demand will be low, businesses will shut down, and poverty will increase. As many chief ministers pointed out, migrant workers who have returned home are now reluctant to go back to cities and government schemes will not be enough to employ them. All of this indicates that the prime minister needs to back his message with stronger fiscal measures. And his final message was around the need to boost the health infrastructure, expand testing, and rigorously trace-track-isolate Covid-19 positive patients. This, in fact, should remain the single most important policy priority. For the prime minister’s thrust on opening up the country further and reviving the economy rests on bringing the disease under control to some extent. At this moment, India is moving in the opposite direction. Cases are rising. The fatality rate has increased. Hospital beds are running short. Testing is still inadequate. In cities like Delhi, where community transmission has undeniably taken place, the contact tracing process has weakened. To be sure, the government is attempting to remedy all these issues. But unless India is able to flatten the curve — it has not even peaked yet — all other objectives will remain elusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/protecting-lives-and-livelihood/story-Ox2uIkhVhTIsJ0JdjylhMJ.html
