23-06-2020||News||China has been playing Go, not chess. India needs to learn the game | Opinion||Chinese strategist Sun Tzu’s most famous aphorism goes something like this. He said, “If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles”Strategists learn about adversaries by observing their actions and statements, interpreting their behaviour, and studying their leaders. But the more astute understand the enemies’ mindset by studying their culture.Leaders and tactics may change, but strategies and doctrines are embedded in the culture and mindset of a nation and are, therefore, far better predictors of their actions. Both China and India have a rich culture and several texts that explain respective mindsets but an easier way to explain the difference is to study the strategy games of the two nations.Chess originated in India. The game is played by two players on a board of 64 squares with 16 white and black pieces each. The opponents start the game with all their pieces arraigned against each other and each player moves alternatively. The pieces have powers in hierarchical order with the queen being most powerful. All pieces change their positions continuously during the game.As those familiar with chess know, it is a game of manoeuvre that has one centre of gravity — the king; and the objective is to capture or “kill” the opponent’s king. The loss of rest of the pieces or their positions at the end of the game is immaterial.The Chinese strategy game, however, is “igo” — commonly known as “Go”. It is played on a much larger board that has 19x19 sides resulting in 361 points compared to the 64 squares in Chess. In Go, the stones are positioned on the “intersections” of the squares to deny “liberty” to the opponent’s stones. Go also has white and black pieces called stones, but that is where the similarity with chess ends. The objective of Go is not to capture any single piece; instead, it is to surround a larger total area of the board with one’s stones before the opponent. As the game progresses, the players position stones on the board to map out formations and potential territories. Contests between opposing formations result in the expansion, reduction, or capture and loss of stones. The winner is decided by counting each player’s surrounded territory along with captured stones.China has been playing Go, not chess with India. It has been playing the game on a multi-dimensional canvas much larger than the Indian landmass and across several spectrums, ranging from the military to the economic “intersections” blocking India’s “liberty” or manoeuvrability over a long period. It has inveigled every neighbour of India by coaxing, cajoling, or enticing them into its camp. It has infiltrated into India’s economic, infrastructure, health care, communication and technological value chain so inextricably that, contrary to silly calls for boycotting Chinese goods, India cannot meaningfully disengage its dependence on China.While there is no doubting the valour of our army, the cost of militarily confronting an adversary whose economy is over five times as large as ours and whose defence budget is four times ours would be horrendous in human and economic terms for decades to come. This is particularly so because China has turned India’s northern and western neighbours into its surrogate pincers tying down a large part of our military assets and strategic mindshare. If India does consider the military option, it will have to factor in China’s overwhelming superiority in the Ladakh region specifically, and in electronic warfare, cyberwar, drones, missiles and the nuclear arsenal of the People’s Liberation Army generally.The word “igo” in Mandarin literally means to encircle, and that is China’s strategy with a combination of the “String of Pearls” (which refers to the sea line communications from China to the Horn of Africa through strategic choke points and maritime centres in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Somalia) along India’s coastline and the Belt and Road initiative in the North. Nepal, Bhutan and now Ladakh are additional “stones” being placed to constrict India’s manoeuvrability from every direction.Instead of treating these episodes as singular events, India must join the dots to appreciate the Chinese game plan and design a counter-strategy along three thrust lines.First, an encirclement cannot be broken only from inside. Instead, India must expand the ‘board” by cooperating with countries such as Japan, Australia, Taiwan, Malaysia, South Korea, Singapore and Vietnam which are increasingly threatened by China’s hegemonistic moves. Simultaneously, it must build pressure from within the encirclement by rapprochement with immediate neighbours such as Nepal, Bhutan and Sri Lanka. This requires us to think like a Go player and appreciate that unlike chess, the stones in Go don’t have relative power. India has far greater historical synergies with every one of our neighbours including Pakistan, than China does. Each stone, or in this case, country, is important, regardless of its physical or economic size. We need to value them as equal partners in the struggle against Chinese hegemony. Second, India must recast its national security strategy horizons to decades instead of election cycles. If a government’s image is interlocked with tactical timelines, then, by definition, strategy will suffer because tactical and strategic goals are usually at cross purposes. Divorcing national security from politics will enable long-term indigenous capacity-building and strengthening external alliances.Last, and most important, India needs to consolidate its internal critical mass. The country is facing multiple challenges on several fronts, most seriously the economy. Political power, as Mao said, may grow from a barrel of a gun, but national power emanates from a strong and vibrant economy, which, in turn, requires internal peace, cooperation, and harmony to inspire customer and investor confidence. Unless those conditions are achieved, no country can aspire to be a regional power or thwart attacks on its sovereignty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-is-playing-go-india-needs-to-learn-the-game/story-s3kUjr5sAPIp90UhcboxEO.html
23-06-2020||News||On China, it’s time to consider cyber operations | Opinion||The recent border clashes between India and China have led analysts, habituated to conventional warfare, to compare the relative strengths of the two adversaries in terms of the number of tanks, aircraft and other military paraphernalia.It appears that Indian strategic discourse has yet again discounted cyber operations as an instrument of power projection, which could have offered a degree of flexibility when it comes to coercing, compelling and imposing costs on the contentious neighbour. This is unfortunate considering how much Indian think-tanks have glamourised the cyber domain.Unlike conventional means, cyber power projection exploits the delicate interfaces between society and technology. Such operations are best suited to create a mix of effect and perception. The Australian prime minister’s dramatic public disclosure of an ongoing State-sponsored cyber-attack highlights accurately the perception factor. And, as was evident during the hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, switching off a power grid may lead to more panic than an actual loss of productivity, thus demoralising the adversary.Cyber operations broadly fit into the template of a hybrid, multi-dimensional offensive waged by militaries wary of breaching acknowledged redlines. This is exactly the case with India and China.From influencing narratives, disrupting missile launches to breaking nuclear deterrence, the malleability of the cyber option makes it very potent. It relieves the defending military of the burden of maintaining a comparable capability that is driven by a strict numbers-based assessment.The cyber vulnerabilities of each nation are unique, asymmetrical and closely tied to its body politic. The rigid socio-political hierarchies of the Chinese State make it increasingly susceptible to information warfare.After the damning hack of a sensitive database storing the background checks of government employees, the United States (US) had plans of temporarily disrupting Chinese Internet censors such as the “Great Firewall” as a mode of retaliation. The totalitarian regime of the Communist Party of China would have considered such a manoeuvre as a severely existential threat.The simple act of making hitherto forbidden information available to the masses, already unsettled by the coronavirus pandemic, would have struck at the heart of the adversary. Yet, it would have carefully skirted the quantifiable, time-tested thresholds of war.The stark absence of the cyber option in the Indian discourse does not come as a surprise. Even during the Balakot escalation, this was an element which was conspicuously ignored.On the other hand, China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has employed cutting edge cyber operations, endorsing these as the strategic pivot of an “informationalised” battle space.The last two decades have witnessed the breathtaking formalisation of how power is accumulated and projected in cyberspace. The Indian cyber apparatus seemed to have squandered that opportunity, thanks to inertia and a lack of organisation.Contrary to popular belief, the cyber option cannot be exercised as an afterthought. You cannot whip up a team of hackers to respond in kind. Subversive or punitive actions require years of covert pre-positioning into adversarial networks and societal structures.That is exactly why a substantive element of cyber power is still driven by access. It is for not for nothing that the Huaweis of the world are risking life and limb to consolidate access to the nodal constructs of digital infrastructure such as 5G, in the process sparking the most bitter global trade war.There is only one parameter of effectiveness for cyber operations — cohesiveness, or jointness in military terms. The cyber option requires a sharp convergence of awareness around the political, diplomatic and military organs, more so than the conventional ones whose effects are qualified and known.The US Naval War College made a crucial observation on “the importance of Presidential personalities in determining cyber operations in crises”, following wargames conducted over a period of seven years. Cyber operations require a seamless, fluid command structure right from the head of state.It is fine to struggle with the technical intricacies of the domain, but its potential and expendability must be carefully drawn up as a doctrine. The Indian cyber doctrine, which was slated to be released early this year, has still not seen the light of day.While China may profess hegemony in access-based operations with its broad commercial reach, India can still muster up formidable capability with expeditionary cyber manoeuvring.However, expeditionary cyber operations are volatile and intense, requiring a degree of risk appetite, rigour and hardiness. And most important, a slight misstep or an overreaction could lead to a spiralling escalation, which may result in a ruthless cyber retaliation by China.As such, the Indian doctrine must spell out its escalatory and declaratory thresholds very clearly so as to moderate the reactions of the adversary, which could be tempted to behave irrationally. Unlike nuclear deterrence, there is no science available to deduce such thresholds. They need to be calibrated with experience.India’s institutional memory of cyber operations is literally non-existent. And institutional memory is institutional capability in this knowledge-driven domain. General James Cartwright, the earliest cyber commander, had bet that cyber operations could “reset diplomacy”. It is time that India puts that option on the negotiating table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-china-it-s-time-to-consider-cyber-operations/story-crMraUyDc64taDRHMhEnhP.html
23-06-2020||News||Don’t give the military total freedom | Opinion||The violent skirmishes between India and China in eastern Ladakh have been disturbing. Some of the reactions from Indian leaders have also been disturbing. In a civilian democracy, where the armed forces operate under the direction of the political leadership, to announce as the prime minister and defence minister have done, that “the forces have been given complete freedom to take necessary action” is an abdication of political responsibility and opens the door to future crises in the India-China relations and in other possible conflict situations.It is also not fair to thrust this responsibility on to the armed forces. Matters relating to war and peace are for the political leadership to decide on. Yes, once the leadership has decided that a military riposte is called for to counter a serious threat to the nation’s security, the armed forces must be given discretion in operational matters. They must act to defend our borders, but while actions at the local level and of limited scale and duration may be handled and resolved by them, any incident that goes beyond a certain threshold, with larger political and security implications, must be subject to careful assessment within the national security system and the political leadership before a military response is considered.The possibility of escalation is not just a military matter. It could have much wider ramifications, particularly if the adversary is a nuclear weapon-state just as India is. Such serious incidents cannot just be handled at the local, on-the-spot military level. The diplomatic machinery must be activated without delay and in serious instances, such as the Doklam face-off in 2017, a summit-level intervention, even, may be necessary.We have as many as four bilateral agreements with China on maintaining peace and tranquillity at the India-China border. These were concluded in 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2013, over a period of 20 years. These are valuable agreements with important provisions to ensure peace and tranquillity, and should not be unilaterally jettisoned or altered in an angry reaction to what happened in the Galwan Valley. They have, by and large, kept the peace at India’s borders for the past several decades. That is an important achievement which should not be minimised.The use of arms by Indian forces when engaging with Chinese counterparts will inevitably lead to similar action by the latter. If we give the country’s security forces the discretion to use firearms in an angry encounter, a bloodbath much worse than that which took place at Galwan could ensue. The consequences of such an incident would not just be military. It would reverberate right up the domestic political and diplomatic space. India’s effort should be to ensure that China remains committed to these important agreements and see how they can be strengthened.Even in the present case, it is not clear why the skirmishes which took place at various points were not raised to the diplomatic and higher political level. The series of incidents at multiple points and the earlier violence witnessed at the Pangong Lake area should have been a warning enough that the country was dealing with a new situation on the border. As a result of the violence in some of these encounters, we should have been aware of heightened emotions and anger among the Indian forces as also among the Chinese. The possibility of such anger leading to more violent clashes should have been anticipated and diplomatic engagement should have been intensified. It should have been raised to the level of the national security adviser and the external affairs minister. This would have also been helpful in reading Chinese calculations. If this was done, then it has not been put out in the public domain.The agreements arrived at in 1996 and 2005 committed the two sides to engage in a clarification of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). We know where LAC lies and India’s activities are confined to the area within LAC. China contests this alignment at some locations but we do not know how China perceives LAC in its entire length. Both sides have agreed that clarifying LAC is essential to assuring peace and tranquillity at the border, pending the settlement of the border question. The Galwan incident offers an opportunity for us to engage China on this agreed exercise and implement it expeditiously. China’s reaction will also demonstrate whether it is really interested in maintaining peace on the border or whether it prefers to keep it ambiguous so that it can unilaterally advance its territorial claims at points and time of its choosing. This will enable us to draw the necessary conclusions and respond accordingly.There is no doubt that India’s relations with China have become more adversarial. The string of incidents at the border is a symptom of that, as is the mounting evidence of Chinese activism in India’s subcontinental neighbourhood. The Indian government’s response has to be a careful mix of political, diplomatic, economic and military measures. Engagement with China must continue but its terms must reflect the changed context. Now, more than ever, we need to step back and reconsider our national strategy in all its dimensions. India has left that on the shelf for far too long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/don-t-give-the-military-total-freedom/story-cJ5UfWRH5XGex4TFp9tAeM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rainwater accumulation: Ludhiana MC chief directs staff to identify high-risk areas||In view of the approaching monsoon season, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has directed the MC staff to identify high-risk areas in the city and ensure sewers and road gullies are cleaned on a regular basis. Sabharwal gave these instructions during a review meeting with the operations and maintenance (O&M) cell and health branch officials at the Zone A office of the MC here on Tuesday.Sabharwal directed the staff of the cell to arrange sandbags for strengthening banks of the Buddha Nullah at the time of emergency and arrange pumps to drain out rainwater from residential areas. The officials were also directed to ensure chlorination of water during the rainy season. Health branch officials were directed to ensure regular lifting of waste from secondary points and roadsides as sewer lines get choked after the waste enters the lines. SABHARWAL MEETS STF CHIEFSabharwal also met the head of the Naamdhari sect and the head of the special task force, constituted to clean the Buddha Nullah, Satguru Uday Singh, at Bhaini Sahib on Tuesday. The sect has been involved in cleaning the nullah and the sect has assured its services during the monsoon season as well. A meeting of the STF is also expected to take place in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rainwater-accumulation-ludhiana-mc-chief-directs-staff-to-identify-high-risk-areas/story-5uzvTZt1kESdTC6rHzySUJ.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||40, including Punjab Police ASI, test positive for Covi-19 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Two persons died while 40, including a Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and two-year-old girl tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday. An 85-year-old resident of Bahadurke road died at SPS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk in the afternoon. He was suffering from asthma and diabetes and was rushed to the hospital two days ago. He was in critical condition and kept on ventilator support.The second death was of a 65-year-old resident of Krishan Colony, Malerkotla. He passed away at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) this afternoon. Meanwhile, a lab technician posted at civil surgeon’s office also tested positive for Covid-19.Following this, 14 employees, including assistant civil surgeon, chief pharmacy officer, superintendent and eight class-four employees, have been quarantined.Also, a 49-year-old ASI and his 46- year-old wife also tested positive for the virus. The couple’s son, who is posted at Pathankot, tested positive two days ago.Six more cases were reported from containment zones of Prem Nagar and Chhawani Mohalla. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said there are 207 active cases in the city, while 18 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-including-punjab-police-asi-test-positive-for-covi-19-in-ludhiana/story-rfbfCmmzh5MILGVnhuDDVN.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||No clarity on exams of final year medical students, deployment on Covid duty||The Delhi government’s proposal to deploy final-year postgraduate medical and nursing students to manage intensive care units amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the capital is likely to face hurdles as these students are due to take the final exams, which will end only by mid-July.As at least three postgraduate medical institutes and eight undergraduate and postgraduate nursing institutes in the capital are affiliated to the Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU), vice-chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma has been tasked with deploying the required number of final-year postgraduate medical students and undergraduate nursing students to hospitals for a period of six months.“We are looking for those who opted for specialities such as pulmonology, anaesthesiology and those who can man the ICUs. MS and MD students are currently appearing for their exams and we can deploy them only once the exams are over. As of now, we are only collecting data and exploring our options,” Verma said.While students of medical colleges affiliated to GGSIPU will take their exams from June 25, those from Delhi University have no clarity on when their exams will begin -- the scheduled exams have been cancelled and no new dates announced so far. Generally, the final-year exams are held in April, which have been delayed this year due to the pandemic and the lockdown it entailed.On Monday, the Delhi government also ordered that medical college students will make follow-up calls to Covid patients who are in home isolation for nine days. This comes a day after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, wherein recommendations were made to engage third and fourth-year students to improve contact tracing and surveillance.“There are around 600 final-year postgraduate students from the three medical colleges under DU. Currently, none of them is working in any of the hospitals. There is little clarity on when exams will be held. This is a huge loss of manpower, especially during a pandemic,” Dr Saurav Kumar Sinha, member of the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) and a final-year postgraduate student of Maulana Azad Medical College, said.Another final-year postgraduate student, Dr Sonali Malhotra, said they are stressed by the situation. “There is a lot of uncertainty and we don’t know if we should even be studying right now. We had prepared for exams while working in Covid-19 wards and then they were cancelled on the eve of the scheduled date,” a student of Lady Hardinge Medical College said.FORDA president Dr Shivaji Dev Barman said the association had written to the Medical Council of India, the apex body overseeing medical education in the country, requesting that it consider an internal assessment for declaration of results. “Students are disturbed by the repeated cancellation of exams and the stress of their Covid-19 duties. After the exams, they would go on to become specialists in their fields and this six-month (Covid deployment) period should be considered a part of their senior residency,” he said.VK Paul, the chairman of the board of governors at MCI, said, “Final year exams are important as they will decide the medical specialists we have in the future. We have come up with extended dates and a set of guidelines to hold the exams in the present circumstances, with the use of simulations and case scenarios. Other options can be looked into if the situation demands, but exams are being conducted successfully by several universities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-clarity-on-exams-of-final-year-medical-students-deployment-on-covid-duty/story-KPOqD1hTYCq9EDEFJFt3QN.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Reluctant patients, burdened doctors at Delhi Covid care centres||For seven Covid-19 positive, but asymptomatic, patients brought to the Delhi government’s Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Narela on Tuesday morning for a clinical examination, the day seemed never-ending. “I have all the facilities for remaining in home quarantine. I don’t know what I’m doing here,” said Dinkar Chopra (36), a resident of Rohini’s Sector 17 and one of the seven patients brought to the CCC.Till evening, the patients remained at the facility even as doctors and district officials debated on whether to keep them at the centre or allow them to return to home isolation. The new round of confusion was triggered by a fresh set of SOPs (standard operating procedures) from Delhi’s lieutenant-governor Monday that mandates sending all mild and asymptomatic patients to CCCs for check-ups. Officials that HT spoke to, on the condition of anonymity, said the new guidelines were quickly turning into a logistics nightmare for the state. With nearly 3,000 new cases being reported every day for the past one week in the national capital, district officials say it is impossible to take so many patients, especially those who are asymptomatic, to the centre just for a screening.“This is a time-consuming process. We can allow these patients to be taken back home only after we get a report from the district surveillance team stating that patients have adequate facilities to remain in home quarantine. It took almost an entire day to get everything done,” Dr Ishrat Kafeel, the chief minister’s representative at the Narela facility, said.Chopra, who is asymptomatic, said he got his RT-PCR test done as a precautionary measure after a few people he came in contact with tested positive for the Covid-19 infection over the past few days. “I got the rapid test done and was advised home isolation after officials inspected and okayed my home. I then suddenly got a call and was brought to Narela for a screening. I have adequate infrastructure to remain in home isolation. I don’t want to stay here,” he said. At the Sultanpuri CCC, the district administration has sent nearly 30 asymptomatic patients. “We are yet to get the report on how many patients could be examined on Tuesday and how many of them were sent home by evening,” a district official, who is part of the surveillance team, said on condition of anonymity.But several CCCs didn’t get a lot of patients for clinical examination on Tuesday. “There have been multiple orders over the past three days. We are trying to streamline the system. We still have patients who were admitted to the CCC after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority ordered five days of mandatory quarantine.” a senior district official said. “Most of these patients want to return home. We are in the process of sending them back but for that, we need a report from the district surveillance team stating that these patients have adequate facilities for home isolation,” the official, quoted above, said.A senior district official said there are only a limited number of ambulances available and these have to be used to ferry serious patients. But the new protocol insists that officials spare ambulances for ferrying asymptomatic patients to CCCs. “Some of the centres are located in far-off places and we can’t take multiple patients in a single trip. These patients then have to wait till the ground report is cleared,” another district official said.At some CCCs, such as the two Delhi government schools at New Friends Colony, no patient was referred for clinical examination on Tuesday. So was the case with the centre at Bakkarwala, where Delhi government’s shelter board flats have been turned into a Covid care facility.District officials said the new guidelines increased the workload of the already overburdened district staff. “Our teams are going to a patient’s home and examining him/her. Today, not many patients were sent to CCC for examination. It is not possible to send everyone to the centre,” a third senior official said.A senior Delhi government official said very few cases could be taken to CCCs Tuesday. “At some centres, there were five patients, while some others had nearly 30 patients. The numbers taken to CCCs are very few when compared to the number of positive cases,” the official, requesting anonymity, said. The person, however, declined to give an overall figure of people taken to CCCs on Tuesday and said the data was being compiled.While screening has become more cumbersome, testing has become easier in the capital with the advent of antigen tests, a more rapid way for testing for Covid-19. At the testing centre in Pilanji village, patients were given reports within 30-45 minutes of sample collection.“Once we get the report, we examine patients and give them the Oximeter test ( to check oxygen levels in blood) to see if they are fit for home isolation,” Sarita Mittal, a doctor with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the in-charge of the facility, said.She further said, “I then inform the ASHA workers and surveillance officials who will visit the person’s home and assess if (s)he can be kept in home isolation.”The centre, started on June 18, has tested over 1,000 patients so far, Mittal said. Another centre in Shaheen Bagh, which too started on June 18, sees nearly 100 patients daily.On Tuesday, 16,952 Covid-19 tests were done in Delhi. Until now, over four lakh people have been tested for the virus infection in the national capital, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/reluctant-patients-burdened-doctors-at-delhi-covid-care-centres/story-mDbNejIBVpYSsaYe9ALwyN.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||16 years after being allotted Housefed apartments, 52 homeowners wait for possession||Mohali : They invested in category-3 houses in Sector 79 being built by the Punjab State Federation of Cooperative House Building Societies Ltd or Housefed in 2004, after paying full costs of the units, but 16 years later 52 homebuyers are still waiting for possession, forced to live in rented houses.Housefed, which had floated the scheme to build 632 apartments in five categories, promised to hand over possession in 2006.Even though all allottees paid for 140 category-3 apartments in Mohali’s Sector 79, a draw of only 88 apartments was conducted in 2014.The remaining 52 allottees were told that as Housefed did not have enough land to build the units it would hand over possession later. They were also told they could opt for refunds with 10% interest or pay additional costs in case of a price rise.All allottees agreed to pay the increased costs. So, the price of ₹9 lakh in 2004 for a unit went up to ₹19 lakh to ₹21.25 lakh in 2014 when the draw of 88 apartments was conducted.Possession of land in 2018Surprisingly, though Housefed got possession of land – which had been under litigation – to build the units in March 2018, it did not start construction work.“We have been forced in stay in rented accommodation for the last one decade. Despite getting possession of the land, Housefed has done nothing. We request the authorities concerned to sort out the issue,” said Ravinder Dogra, one of the allottees.The costs of the apartment have now increased from ₹20 lakh to ₹35 lakh and the allottees have been asked to pay up. “Why have the costs gone up? Was it our fault?” questions Naresh Trehan, president, Housefed Sangarsh Committee. When contacted, Amarjit Singh, Housefed managing director, said an agreement had already been signed with Punjab Markfed to build the apartments. “We hope to start the construction soon,” he said.About HousefedHousefed was set up in November 17, 1970, to tackle housing shortage in the state by providing financial assistance to individuals to buy/build homes in rural and urban areas.​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-years-after-being-allotted-housefed-apartments-52-homeowners-wait-for-possession/story-wJqzlu2GRa7pDzL3pu20TO.html
23-06-2020||City||Gurugram: Three snatch phone from man, offer to return it for cash||Gurugram: Three men allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a 22-year-old employee of a private company when he was waiting for a commute at Vatika City in Sector 49 on Monday evening. The snatchers offered to return the phone for some money and took the victim to two ATM kiosks, eventually taking off with his handset and ₹11,000 in cash, the police said. The suspects are yet to be identified, the police said.According to the police, the incident took place around 6pm when the victim, a native of Palwal, was waiting for a shared cab near a park. The police said he was playing a mobile game when the three men approached him. In his police complaint, the victim said, “One of the suspects snatched my phone and another pushed me from behind. I assumed that they were armed. They started threatening me and said that if I gave them cash, they would return my phone. They took me to two ATMs. At the first ATM, I withdrew ₹2,000, but they asked for more money. In the second transaction, I withdrew ₹3,000 but they insisted on more and finally I gave them ₹6,000 more.”The police said after taking the cash, the suspects refused to return his phone and decamped in a car, which was parked near the park.Shahid Ahmed, station house officer, Sector 50 police station, said, “The miscreants snatched the victim’s phone and offered to return it for cash, which was a ruse. The suspects are yet to be identified. It is not certain if they were armed and we are examining the footage from CCTV cameras in the area. The preliminary probe has found that they escaped in a sedan.” A case was registered against the three suspects under sections 379 A (punishment for snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 50 police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-three-snatch-phone-from-man-offer-to-return-it-for-cash/story-uWF11KsfnLrAsGckwpl9TM.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government calls off final semester exams||The state government, on Tuesday, said that it had decided not to go ahead with both the terminal examinations for the final-semester students and those for intermediate-semester students across the state. Examinations for final-semester students in government colleges were earlier scheduled to take place from July 6 onwards.Students will now be promoted based on a combination of 50% weightage of internal assessment marks along with 50% weightage of marks from previous examinations. However, the students will have the option of appearing for examinations for improvement of grades later once normalcy returns to the state. The same procedure will also be applicable for all students of distance education and those studying in private universities.The directive issued by the state government on Tuesday also stated that if a university so wishes, it may conduct online examination, provided that it is fully prepared and equipped for conducting such an examination. The university will also need to ensure that all students are able to take the online examinations.The directive further stated that students with academic arrears in previous examinations may also be exempted from examinations and be promoted to the next semester. Students who are supposed to reappear for papers are to be given marks on the average of the previous examinations for promotion. For first-year students, internal assessment marks may be used for promotion to the next year.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, welcomed the decision. Yadav said that the college had raised certain concerns with respect to the earlier decision of conducting physical examinations. “Our college is being used as a quarantine facility by the district administration. We would have required an alternative examination centre had the exams not been called off. The decision will especially help outstation students living outside Gurugram,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-calls-off-final-semester-exams/story-KOS3WPWPCuRKoLpOtgxQ8N.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab readies Covid contingency plan to deal with major outbreak||With the number of the Covid-19 cases and casualties on the rise in the state, the Punjab health department has come up with a contingency plan to deal with the possibility of a major disease outbreak. As per the plan, all asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms will be kept in hostels of various educational institutions. The district administrations have prepared a list of hostels for the purpose. A number of hostels have already been made ready to isolate the patients. Also, according to the plan, patients with co-morbidities (one or more additional conditions often co-occurring with a primary condition) will be immediately shifted to either of three government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot or the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, after testing positive for the virus. Patients with moderate symptoms will be treated at civil hospitals.Earlier, when the number of people testing positive for the virus was low, all patients were kept at district hospitals or the special Covid-19 treatment centres set up by the administration concerned. But after a sharp rise in the number of cases this month, the health department was compelled to change the strategy and spare space for patients with moderate and severe symptoms in the government facilities. The situation aggravated after June 1 with 2,098 new cases, including 61 deaths, recorded in the state since. So far, the state’s total tally of cases is 4,397, including 105 deaths. Even as the new guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stipulate that asymptomatic patients can be kept in home isolation, the state health authorities have decided to keep such persons in institutional quarantine as some people tend to violate home-isolation norms, said a senior health department official tasked with Covid-19 supervision.“There have been instances when asymptomatic patients kept in home isolation broke the quarantine norms and later all of their e family turned out to be positive,” he said.“The idea of the contingency plan is to reduce the risk of keeping patients in a place where we don’t have facilities for the serious stages,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.MoU SIGNED WITH 3 PRIVATE HOSPITALS The health department has signed a pact with three private healthcare facilities — Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) Ludhiana, Amar Hospital and Sadbhawna Hospital (both in Patiala) to provide tertiary treatment of serious Covid-19 cases. “These hospitals will treat the patients and will be paid by the state government as per the Central Government Health Scheme rates,” said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-readies-covid-contingency-plan-to-deal-with-major-outbreak/story-cguC0Taa8e9UStBUkYX4GN.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Masked men steal ₹1.3 lakh from ATM in Badshahpur||Unidentified thieves stole ₹1.29 lakh from an automated teller machine (ATM) in Badshahpur on Monday night, police said. They added a preliminary probe suggests the suspects, who covered their faces with masks, had used a gas cutter to cut open the ATM.According to the police, the incident was reported to them Tuesday morning. They said around 10.30 pm on Monday, several masked men entered an ATM kiosk, near a bus stand at Darbaripur crossing, and sprayed some chemical on the CCTV to avoid being identified. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “No security guard had been stationed at the ATM kiosk. On the complaint of the bank manager, we have registered a case in the matter. It seems a gas cutter was used to cut open the ATM from which a total of ₹1.29 lakh cash has been stolen.”The police said they were checking footage from CCTV cameras in the vicinity of the kiosk to trace the suspects. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Badshahpur police station on Tuesday. This is the third incident of ATMs being targeted in the city after the lockdown restrictions were considerably relaxed last month. Earlier on June 1, thieves had stolen ₹ 42.39 lakh from an ATM in a shopping complex in Sushant Lok. The probe had found that two masked men had entered the ATM kiosk on May 23 and tampered with the machine, eventually decamping with the cash. But the incident was reported a week later when the cash management company noticed a discrepancy during an internal audit. On May 25, masked men had allegedly stolen₹1.5 lakh from an ATM in Sohna. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, (ACP), crime, said, “The crime branch has made several arrests in the past two weeks, including a mastermind of the ‘Advani’ gang, who specialise in stealing money from ATMs. Three crime teams have been tasked with tracing the suspects responsible for Monday’s incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/masked-men-steal-1-3-lakh-from-atm-in-badshahpur/story-pGPn4pIXelmsJxQDG4uDxO.html
23-06-2020||City||Sanitation workers’ union demands dedicated quarantine centres for staff members||New Delhi: The Delhi commission for safai karamcharis has requested the state government to provide three dedicated quarantine centres -- in east, south and north districts of Delhi -- for sanitation workers who are in the forefront of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.In two separate letters, sent to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and state social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Monday, the commission said, “The safai karamcharis are forefront warriors in the fight against Covid-19 and the Delhi government has announced a compensation to be given to the dependents of safai karamcharis who died while working against the Covid-19.”“Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, we request you to issue directions for the opening three of quarantine centres (100 beds each) for safai karamcharis in south, north and east districts of Delhi. In case a safai karamchari is quarantined in a private hospital, then free-of-cost treatment may be provided to him/her,” the commission said in the letter.Sanjay Gehlot, the chairperson of the commission, said as many as 30 on-duty safai karamcharis have tested positive for Covid-19 and nine have succumbed to the virus so far. “The safai karamcharis cannot afford private hospitals. A worker was recently charged ₹9 lakh by a private hospital for Covid-19 treatment. A majority of these workers live in a oneroom set and they do not have space for self quarantine. We have requested the government to provide a separate facility for them,” he said.A senior government official said it won’t be possible to provide a dedicated quarantine unit in the prevailing circumstances. “The government is providing all possible help to the safai karamcharis. It has also announced a compensation for the families of those who died while on duty. We will give space to them in government facilities if required but separate centres would not be possible,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitation-workers-union-demands-dedicated-quarantine-centres-for-staff-members/story-WP9zRIxLf128dR8wB9COHP.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram relying on private hospitals to manage expected rise in Covid-19 cases||Facing an infrastructure constraint at government medical facilities in the fight against Covid-19, the Gurugram administration is focusing on building capacities at private hospitals in the district to meet an expected surge in positive cases, particularly after rapid antigen tests are going to start in coming days, officials said.In the next three weeks, that is by July 15, a total of 31 private hospitals in Gurugram are slated to have 252 ICU beds with ventilators, 260 beds without ventilators, 2,912 beds with oxygen and 3,336 isolation beds, according to a ‘preparedness report’ sent to the Centre by the administration on June 18. A copy of the report is with HT.This is up from the existing private capacity of 92 ICU beds with ventilators, 98 beds without ventilators, 785 beds with oxygen and 1,298 isolation beds. From 2,591 dedicated Covid-19 beds at present, Gurugram will have a total of 7,078 such beds by July 15, the district administration’s report suggests. At present, only 16 of 31 private hospitals are engaged in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, with 70 ventilator ICU beds, 61 ICU beds, 410 oxygen beds and 448 isolation beds in use. “The remaining resources will be put to use as the need arises,” said Dr Jai Prakash, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram.Meanwhile, four government facilities -- Civil Hospital in Sector 10, ESIC Hospital in Sector 9, a polyclinic in Sector 31 and AIIMS, Badsa (in Jhajjar) -- will remain at their existing capacities of 80 ICU beds without ventilators, 108 beds with oxygen and 130 isolation beds. Surprisingly, there is no ICU beds with ventilators in any government facility in the district, the report suggests. Though AIIMS, Badsa is in Jhajjar district, Covid patients from Gurugram are sent there for treatment, the officials said.The health department is also slated to receive 19 new ambulances, in addition to the current fleet of 31 (which are all under utilisation) by July 15.The officials said that building public health infrastructure is posing a major challenge in Gurugram. “This is true. The Civil Hospital building in Civil Lines is an unsafe structure, so we are operating from a new facility at Sector 10. But there is little space there to expand our bed facilities. In such a scenario, we have to rely on the private sector,” said Prakash.Prakash also clarified that of existing private and public medical facilities, neither are yet overwhelmed. “We have enough capacity to deal with the current active caseload. Even if it increases in coming days, we are prepared to deal with as many as 7,000 active cases by mid-July. With antigen testing going to start soon, we will be able to find even more positive cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-relying-on-private-hospitals-to-manage-expected-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-b9corCEu9uHtHPg7TZlL6L.html
23-06-2020||City||As exams near, DU’s visually challenged students keep fingers crossed||New Delhi: Deepak Kumar Gupta, a final-year postgraduate student studying English in St Stephen’s College who has complete visual impairment, is extremely worried as his exams will start from July 1 and he has no help.“Forget about scribes helping us write our papers. During this pandemic, nobody wants to help us cross the roads even. Even if we receive reading material now, we have only a week to prepare for multiple subjects,” he said while speaking over the phone from Nokha, a small town in Rohtas district of Bihar and his native place.“Colleges have said only students in Delhi can be helped with scribes. How can we come to Delhi when there is a visible Covid-19 spike in the city?” said the 23-year-old, who also secured his undergraduate degree from DU.With a week left for the university’s first online open-book exams, Delhi University on Monday asked its colleges and departments to provide assistance to visually challenged students with scribes, reading material, and assistive devices. “The principals of colleges and heads of departments will make their best efforts to arrange scribes for students of Visually impaired appearing for examination as per prior information received from such students as per date sheet notified in OBE mode for academic session 2019-20,” said the notification signed by Dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta on Monday.The development comes after the Delhi High Court last week asked final-year undergraduate and postgraduate visually impaired DU students to try to sit for the open-book online exam, while stating that the cost of any book or assistive device they buy for the examination will be reimbursed up to Rs 2 lakh.The court directed that “the visually impaired students may approach their respective institutes/colleges for any assistance required, including reading material/textbooks in an accessible form and assistive devices”. It said that visually impaired students should be allowed to take a second round of the open book exam in September if they want to improve their score.However, the implementation of the order is proving to be challenging, said SK Rungta, general secretary of the National Federation of the Blind, and a petitioner in the case. “Students have come to us with complaints that the responses they are receiving are not satisfactory and not all required reading material is available in an accessible format,” Rungta said. “They have not been able to study or even attend the online classes and are now expected to appear for their papers.”Preevi Singh, 20, a final-year undergraduate student currently staying in Varanasi, said visually impaired women students might find it particularly difficult to appear for their exams due to multiple reasons, including travelling to Common Service Centres (CSC) providing information technology support or navigating through domestic issues. The English student hasn’t been able to find out her nearest CSC using the link provided by the university since the notification itself is not in the accessible format and neither is the application.“During regular college days, we go to the university’s Equal Opportunity Cell and get our books scanned. That is not possible now. Our college has made efforts to help us but it isn’t enough,” said the Miranda House student. “The move to conduct exams will affect our higher education and employment prospects because the retest, if that happens, will take place in September. Till that time, we have to make do with these results, which will not work out well for us.”Dean (Exams) Vinay Gupta said, “We are coordinating with CSCs to arrange for scribes for students who will not be able to reach Delhi for their papers. As far as reading material is concerned, we have asked principals and heads of the departments to provide reading material to students and have made provisions for students to access Saksham, an NGO that provides online learning material for the visually impaired.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-exams-near-du-s-visually-challenged-students-keep-fingers-crossed/story-48D7BPpBeRKIv7YWDdZ6JM.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Covid test of pilots delayed, 135 fliers from London stuck at IGI airport for 10 hours||As many as 135 passengers who had landed at the Delhi international airport from Heathrow airport, London, in an Air India’s Vande Bharat flight on Monday, had to wait for more than 10 hours inside the airport terminal as their connecting Air India flight to Chennai was inordinately delayed. While passengers said they were told the flight was delayed because results of the pre-flight Covid-19 tests of the pilots weren’t received on time, Air India maintained that “the delay was because of operational reasons”, without explaining the details.One of the passengers that HT spoke to, Uma Natrajan from Chennai, who had gone to meet her daughter in London and was stuck there because of the lockdown, said she boarded the Air India’s flight from the Heathrow airport around 7.30pm Sunday and arrived at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport at 8am Monday.“It was a Vande Bharat flight and from Delhi, we had a connecting AI flight to Chennai. Our departure was scheduled at 10.30am. Soon as we landed, we were asked to sit in the waiting lounge and were told that the flight will depart at 12.10pm. After an hour, the time was changed to 2.30pm, then to 4.30 and finally, our flight to Chennai departed Delhi airport around 6.30pm, after a delay of over 10 hours,” Natrajan, a manager at a private firm in Chennai, said.Another passenger who was travelling on the same flight, but did not wish to be named, said because there was no clarity on the departure time and all 135 passengers were getting restless, around 4pm they demanded that the airline manager be called to address them. “The manager came around 4.30pm and told us that the flight has been delayed because the pre-flight Covid-19 tests of the pilots have not yet come in,” the passenger said. Another passenger, 22-year-old student Madhumithaa Sharmila Ramesh Kumar, who studies at a university in the UK, said this was her worst experience with Air India so far. “There were pregnant women and children among the passengers. One of the women had to attend her father’s funeral and she was pleading with airline staff to send her on any available flight, but they didn’t. If the airline officials had told us initially itself that the Covid-19 results of the pilots are awaited, we would have waited patiently. But they gave us no clear answers or explanations, which is unprofessional, “ Kumar said.An airport official, who didn’t wish to be named, also confirmed that the reason behind the delay was that the test results of the pilots had not come in.Air India later said the flight departed the IGI airport at 6.30pm and arrived in Chennai at 8.30pm. An airline spokesperson said due to “last-minute operational reasons, the flight had was delayed”. The airline, however, did not comment on the delay over the test reports.“There were 135 passengers in transit. All efforts were made to minimise the inconvenience to the transit passengers and they were provided refreshments,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-test-of-pilots-delayed-135-fliers-from-london-stuck-at-igi-airport-for-10-hours/story-kAOD68UHKgEJVJfniILa2O.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||HSVP employee tests positive for Covid, first case reported in the authority||An employee of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) who worked in the land acquisition department of the authority in its office in Sector 14, in Gurugram, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday evening following which the authority officials have decided to get the entire building sanitised. This is the first Covid-19 case to be reported from HSVP.All employees who had come in contact with the Covid-positive employee have been asked to observe self-quarantine and get tested for the infection, officials said.“The authority will also try to get Covid-19 tests conducted for employees who show symptoms of influenza-like illnesses (ILI),” said HSVP administrator, Jitender Yadav, on Tuesday. HSVP officials said they have also issued directions to all the staff members and visitors to wear masks and observe all social distancing norms. “I have also discussed the matter with the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and requested him to get the entire office building sanitized soon. The employees have been asked to strictly observe social distancing norms,” Yadav said. The affected employee, officials said, is a resident of Delhi, and had been coming to work daily from the national capital.Yadav said all employees who had come in contact with the employee who tested positive to come to work only after they test negative for Covid-19. A few days ago, the affected employee had attended a meeting in which senior of the authority officials were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-first-case-reported-in-the-authority/story-dGIigHz4JzVH8POxsYlE1J.html
23-06-2020||City||With 121 Covid-19 cases, Ghaziabad crosses 1,000-mark||Ghaziabad:With the biggest single day spike of 121 Covid-19 cases so far, the district on Tuesday crossed the 1,000-mark. On Tuesday, the total number of positive cases in the district stood at 1,079, health officials said.However, the officials said that the number of deaths remained at 49 with no fresh addition to the toll tally.“The 121 new cases include 20 cases from Indirapuram, 11 from Sahibabad and 14 from Vijay Nagar, among other localities. We also have 11 cases which have come from police’s Dial 112 facility in Ghaziabad. With the addition, the total figure of 1,079 has been updated on the portal and will reflect in figures which will be released by the state control room on Wednesday,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Police sources said that three out of 11 cases are related to police personnel deployed at UP112’s control centre at Govindpuram while the rest eight are employees of a private firm who are also deployed at the same control centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-121-covid-19-cases-ghaziabad-crosses-1-000-mark/story-Z8EWWJ1c0EmfytkCeN4DIP.html
23-06-2020||City||Man arrested in connection with death of wife||Greater Noida: A sanitation worker was arrested by the Surajpur police on Tuesday in connection with the death of his 27-year-old wife on Monday morning. The suspect has been charged with the dowry death, the police said.The incident was reported around 4am from Surajpur when the woman allegedly fell down from the second floor terrace of her rented accommodation. According to police officials, she had been rushed to a private hospital where she died during treatment.The woman’s family said that she had been married to the suspect on June 15 and that he had been harassing her for a dowry of Rs 5 lakh. “He had been putting pressure on her for money. We could not fulfil the demand immediately due to poor economic condition, but we had assured him that we would pay the money eventually,” said the woman’s father.According to the father, the woman had called them a day before her death alleging that her husband had beaten her up. “He told her that he felt cheated even though he had received gifts at the time of the marriage,” said the father.Based on the father’s complaint, a case was registered against the suspect at Surajpur police station under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.The police officials said that the husband in his statement told them that the couple was asleep on the terrace when the incident occurred.“Based on the family’s complaint, a case was registered and the suspect was arrested. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-in-connection-with-death-of-wife/story-KrE8ge29jvCcnwikbdYaKM.html
23-06-2020||Noida||All govt offices in Gautam Budh Nagar to have Covid-19 help desks||In a bid to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration will set up help desks at offices of various government departments that receive a large footfall. The Covid-19 help desks will primarily raise awareness on the disease and will also screen visitors for symptoms of the infection. According to the guidelines released on Tuesday, soon one desk each will be set up at every office of all the departments of the district administration. “One worker will man a help desk for two weeks on a rotation basis, and all the workers will be provided with all the necessary information. They will take all necessary precautions such as wearing masks and gloves, and will be instructed to maintain a distance of almost two metre while interacting with any other person,” the guidelines said.The help desk will be equipped with sanitisers, thermal scanners, and pulse oximeters, which will be used to measure oxygen saturation levels of people who show symptoms of the infection. Workers who will man the help desk will be trained to use the oximeters. “In case the reading on the pulse oximeter is less than 94% for a person, the help desk personnel will be asked to report the matter to the CMO(chief medical officer) office or the nearest CHC (community health centre) or district hospital apart from informing the district toll-free helpline immediately. After every use the device will be thoroughly sanitised with a solution of hydrogen peroxide,” said the guidelines.“Such help desks were already set up in offices of the district health department or the hospitals where Covid patients are being treated. Now they will be there in all government offices in the district,” Rakesh Chauhan, district information officer, said.The in-charges of all offices in the district have also been asked to ensure that any employee suffering from cough, fever, breathlessness, throat infections should be asked to refrain from coming to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/all-govt-offices-in-gautam-budh-nagar-to-have-covid-19-help-desks/story-0ybFDNvc6E2PjKrMPRt99L.html
23-06-2020||City||No patient will be referred to Meerut without Covid-19 test, say health officials||Ghaziabad: The district health department has decided that it will not refer any non-Covid patients to the government hospital in Meerut without a Covid-19 test. Health officials said that if a patient turns positive for the virus, he/she will be treated at a Covid-dedicated hospital in Ghaziabad itself. The decision comes after 27 Covid-19 related deaths of Ghaziabad have taken place at LLRM Medical College, Meerut, which is also an L3 category Covid hospital. Till June 22, the Ghaziabad district had reported a total of 49 Covid-19 related deaths.“We have started referring only non-Covid patients to the Meerut medical college. These patients were earlier getting referred without testing, but now they will be tested for Covid-19 before any referral to Meerut. There have been cases where non-Covid patients got referred to Meerut and they tested Covid-19 positive there. Later, during the treatment they succumbed to medical conditions as a result of delays in early detection. Since Ghaziabad now has L1, L2 and L3 facilities, such patients will be referred to an appropriate hospital in case they test positive for Covid-19,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.“Further, the medical college at Meerut is also overburdened as it is receiving patients from other nearby districts of western UP,” he said.Gupta said that for testing of such patients, the district has already started using True-Nat machine installed at Ghaziabad’s MMG Hospital.“True-Nat machine gives result in one hour. It is basically a testing for Covid-19 negative. If the test result is negative, then it is confirmatory negative patient. If the test indicates mild, moderate or highly positive, then confirmatory test has to be taken up through the RT-PCR method and samples need to be sent to a lab. However, we have received 200 kits which can further help us get a confirmatory test in one hour,” CMO said.At present, the Ghaziabad district has two smaller L1 hospitals at Sahibabad (with 76 beds) and Nandgram (60 beds), while Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital (100-bedded) is functioning as L2 category hospital. Besides, there is a 400-bed L3 facility at Santosh Medical College.Meanwhile, to enhance the testing capabilities, state officials said that they will be holding a training session for staff members of six districts of western UP, including Ghaziabad and Noida, for antigen testing.“The antigen testing will soon start in six districts of Meerut division, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).Further, in order to bridge the gap of rising number of Covid-19 cases and short availability of L1 category beds in Ghaziabad, the health officials on Tuesday inspected the ongoing furnishing works at Divyajyoti College at Niwari which is proposed to be made operational by Wednesday.“It is proposed for 250 beds. Also, there is a building near the college where we can come up with 150 more beds. So, it has potential to become 400-bed L1 facility and will suffice for another 15 days in wake of rising number of cases. Once it gets started, we will close down 60-bed L1 hospital at Nandgram and shift L1 patients to Niwari. The same team of health care staff will also be shifted to Niwari and we have made arrangements for their stay,” CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-patient-will-be-referred-to-meerut-without-covid-19-test-say-health-officials/story-MPoeeWCzxWY6VCDHtWzIrN.html
23-06-2020||City||UP relaxes sealing norms for high-rises, restricts action to floor of infected person||In a move that would bring relief to thousands of high-rise residents in Noida and Ghaziabad, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to relax the containment (sealing) norms that come into play when a person tests positive at a high-rise. The officials of the health department of the two NCR districts confirmed that the proposals to amend the rules have been put forward during a recent video conferencing of state officials.According to the proposal, in case a resident tests Covid-19 positive, only the floor of his/her residence will be sealed, as opposed to the current practice of sealing the entire tower. The guidelines have been discussed and forwarded to district officials. In case there are multiple patients, the tower will be marked as a containment zone and other exercises, as per the Covid-19 protocol, will be carried out,” an official from the Ghaziabad health department said.Earlier on May 31, Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari had issued directions relaxing containment area rules as part of the Union government’s Unlock1 plan.The directions said in case there were one or more cases on the same floor of a high-rise, then the particular tower will be sealed. It further stated that in case there were active cases in more than one tower, then the respective towers along with common areas such as gyms, swimming pool, park and banquet hall, etc. will be sealed.Later, on June 14, the state government also relaxed the period of containment, and reduced it to 14 days, from the earlier 21 days. These directions had come after residents raised repeated complaints to officials.Under the latest proposal, the officials said in case of single case, the area within a 250m radius will be marked as a containment zone, while an area within a 500m radius would be sealed of there are more than one case.Both Noida and Ghaziabad are part of the National Capital Region, and are among the 11 districts of Uttar Pradesh with a high number of Covid-19 cases.The health department has also made it mandatory that in every suspected Covid-19 case, the person’s sample for testing is to be collected within 24 hours of the person coming forward.“We are waiting for written directions from state officials regarding the revised containment guidelines,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.Gautam Budh Nagar health department also said it was waiting for the new guidelines. “Until a written order comes, we cannot start implementing the new guidelines,” a senior health department official said.Residents have welcomed the proposal.“It was a hassle for residents of an entire tower to remain stuck at home, in the event of one person testing positive. Organisations and offices have resumed work and people run the risk of losing jobs if they are unable to move out of home,” Saurabh Kumar, a resident of Nirala Estate in Greater Noida West, said.The residents of the society had protested against the administration sealing an entire tower after a single case of Covid-19 was reported on June 18.The district currently has 282 containment zones most of which are in the urban areas. In Ghaziabad, the officials have identified 244 category 1 containment zones (having single Covid-19 case) and another set of 35 category 2 containment zones (having more than one Covid-19 case).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-relaxes-sealing-norms-for-high-rises-restricts-action-to-floor-of-infected-person/story-18DzlWpRRBCCCcSavvk9QI.html
23-06-2020||Noida||Noida authority allots four new plots to boost industrial growth||With the Noida Authority allotting land to private firms to attract investments and create new job opportunities, sectors 151, 156-159 and the adjoining areas are fast emerging as the new industrial hubs along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The authority on Monday allotted four plots to private firms in these areas to tide over the growing economic crisis set in motion by the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. As per officials of the Noida Authority, old industrial sectors of 1-11, 55-59, 63, 67, 82 and Phase-2 no longer have fresh plots for new business activities. The new sectors along the expressway that have better connectivity and infrastructure is likely to witness a substantial industrial growth in the coming months, said officials of the authority. “We have allotted 2,100sq m-sized plots to various industries and have earned a total of ₹12.34 crore in revenue. The four allotment will attract a total investment of ₹35 crore and will create at least 500 new jobs in the city. Sectors like 151, 155, 156, 157 and others along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway are all set to transform into industrial hubs in the coming months. The authority is also working on preparing more industrial land to be allotted ahead,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida Authority.The allotment is a part of a new scheme for industrial development launched by the Noida Authority on January 1, 2020. The scheme was suspended towards February-end and all new allotments were put on hold after the nationwide lockdown came into existence on March 25. The online land allotment scheme restarted in the first week of April “Now with the easing of the lockdown restrictions, we have started selecting successful applicants from a draw of lots. We have plots of several sizes, including 250 metres, 400 metres, 2,100 metres and 4,000 metres or above for this scheme. We will keep allotting plots along the expressway following due procedures,” said Tripathi.In addition to allotting plots, the authority is also carrying out development activities in the new sectors so that industrial units can be quickly set up.“We will start giving possession to those who will start paying the land cost,” said Tripathi.At present, the authority has at least 300 hectares of land for the industrial use. “We are identifying more plots and also working on creating a land bank,” said Tripathi.Apart from this the authority also allotted 4,000sq m plots via an interview process during the lockdown. The big industrial plots are allotted via interview unlike small ones, which are always alloted through draw of lots, said officials.Earlier, on June 16, the authority had earned a total revenue of at least ₹300 crore by allotting 212,745.68 square metres of land across nine industrial plots to different companies. These plots are expected to cumulatively generate over 5,500 jobs over the next two years.“With the earlier and fresh allotments taken together, the authority is expected to earn a total revenue of ₹300 crore, while the city will get around ₹870 crore in investments. These firms are likely to create over 5,600 jobs over the next two years,” said Tripathi.The new firms to whom the allotments have been made will produce sewing equipment, ready-made garments, packaging material, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-allots-four-new-plots-to-boost-industrial-growth/story-Q3FjEhku4bbfsBztMZjo7H.html
23-06-2020||City||In Bhiwani, nearly 60 recently infected patients traced to local lawyer||Bhiwani district has seen a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases with 108 new infections in the last four days. Most cases are being reported from BTM Line and DC Colony areas in the city.So far, 87 patients have recovered and 224 are active cases in the district.Bhiwani coordinator for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Kumar said nearly 60 patients from BTM Line and DC Colony areas were asymptomatic and contracted the infection from a local lawyer, who had tested positive for coronavirus disease on June 12.“The lawyer was told to home isolate but he moved freely despite having the infection. He even went to the court, following which his assistant also tested positive for Covid-19. Ignoring the health department guidelines, the duo moved freely in BTM Line and its adjoining DC Colony, ending up infecting close to 60 persons, mostly labourers working at the BTM mill,” said Kumar.The district coordinator said all these persons tested positive after sampling was conducted in the said localities after they received the input that the lawyer violated the home isolation rules.“Now, we have sent the lawyer to Bhiwani government hospital. We accept our mistake that he had not only violated the home isolation, but health department guidelines as well. We have not taken any action against the lawyer and his assistant yet. The persons who have come in contact with the patients from both the areas are being tested faster and we are making efforts to stop the spread of infection to other areas,” he added.ROHTAK SEES 97 CASES IN 6 DAYSRohtak has witnessed an outburst of Covid-19 cases as 97 new cases were reported in the district since June 17.Rohtak civil surgeon Dr Anil Birla said the new cases are mostly contacts of infected patients. “After witnessing a sharp rise in infections two weeks ago, the cases are now decreasing. The district has 218 active cases of which 53 patients are hospitalised and 165 are in home isolation,” Dr Birla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-bhiwani-nearly-60-recently-infected-patients-traced-to-local-lawyer/story-m31RUh2hLNupLBaU4z8kIM.html
23-06-2020||City||Galwan Valley incident part of larger Chinese design, Amarinder tells CWC||CHANDIGARH Terming the Galwan Valley incident as part of a larger design on the part of China, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that India should not make the mistake of dismissing the incident as a patrol clash, but should take a firm stand against any Chinese incursions into Indian territory.He said the amount of build-up in Galwan Valley showed that the Chinese were working on a plan and India could not afford to lose even an inch of its land in the area. “We have all seen clashes in our times, with Pakistan and even with Chinese, and this is definitely not a patrol clash. We have to take a strong position, and we should be clear that if we lose even an inch of land, we must hold them responsible,” he said at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) video-conference convened by the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi.Amarinder also cornered the Centre over its failure to support the state in its fight against Covid, pointing out that all that Punjab had received so far from the Centre was its own Rs 2,800 crore for January to March period, and just a few other grants. He said that GST dues for April to June were still pending. Despite repeated pleas and memorandums, no help was forthcoming from the Centre to the state government for tackling the Covid crisis, he said, adding that the centre was not giving even the state’s own share.The CM said his government was forced to manage on its own to create resources for fighting Covid. “I am sure other states are in the same unfortunate position. Nobody is listening to us,” he lamented. He said with 2.33 lakh of the total 2.52 lakh industries in Punjab were now open and migrants were also back to the state but the units were currently working at 40% capacity and would take some months to return to their full strength.Speaking of the state’s economic revival plan, Amarinder said the Montek Ahulwalia committee set up to formulate the strategy was sharing its feedback with the government, which was accordingly charting the way forward. The committee has six working teams, of which the finance team had already submitted its report and the others were expected to come in soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/galwan-valley-incident-part-of-larger-chinese-design-amarinder-tells-cwc/story-zbnzmxaaw78e1SOWkqV4ZM.html
23-06-2020||City||High court asks govt to compensate riot victims without waiting for FIR||New Delhi: The Delhi high court Tuesday has asked the authorities to look into a plea by two riot-affected victims who had said they had not got the compensation announced by the Delhi government as the government’s online portal was not working.Justice Suresh Kait directed he Delhi government to accept the application of the petitioners—Neha Fareen and Mohsin—without insisting on furnishing a copy of the FIR, after they had told the court that they are yet to get the ₹25,000 compensation, announced by the Delhi for the victims of the north-east Delhi riots this February. he then disposed of the petition.In their plea, the two petitioners contended that their house was destroyed in the violence and that they had to feel their homes and the city, to return in March 2020.The petitioners had said that they filed a complaint at the Karawal Nagar police station, but no formal FIR has been lodged yet. They then tried to file an application seeking the relief announced by the Delhi government on March 5. However, the portal where the application was to be filed was not functional.On Monday, the court was informed by the Delhi government counsel that the petitioner’s complaint has been clubbed with another FIR. He said the application for compensation can be now be processed since the FIR has been registered. He assured the court that the said grievance is being looked into and would be immediately addressed..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-asks-govt-to-compensate-riot-victims-without-waiting-for-fir/story-m1srlyuImsiMZY5q5tYjEP.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid effect: Mumbai Ka Raja to have 4-feet Ganesh idol||With Covid pandemic, this year’s Ganeshotsav celebrations are likely to attract lesser crowd in Maharashtra. Mumbai’s famous organiser in Ganesh Galli on Tuesday decided to bring in four-feet idol instead of a larger than life, 22-feet idol.“Mumbai ka Raja, also known as Ganesh Gaully Ganpati, decided to celebrate Ganeshotsav in a simple manner this year as per instruction given by the authorities,” said Swapnil Parab, Secretary, Mumbai ka Raja Mandal. Keeping environment concerns in mind and to avoid long-route procession, the idol will be immersed in artificial pond instead of the Arabian Sea. Ganesh Chaturthi, a ten-day festival which starts on the fourth day of Hindu luni-solar calendar month Bhadrapada, will start on August 22 this year. The is celebrated is celebrated with much fanfare in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra with lakhs of devotees converging into mandals to seek blessing from Lord Ganesh.But this time, Maharashtra is one of the worst virus-affected states. Till Monday, its capital, Mumbai reported 67,635 Covid-19 cases with 3,735 deaths. Meanwhile, the state has 1,35,796 confirmed cases and 6,283 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-effect-mumbai-ka-raja-to-have-4-feet-ganesh-idol/story-4GUXEbnEiRMhIIfYN9g93L.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||MC chief Sabharwal tells NHAI to expedite construction of ongoing projects in Ludhiana||Ludhiana To facilitate smooth flow of traffic in the city and pushing the authorities concerned to expedite the ongoing development works of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with various project directors (PDs) of the NHAI here on Tuesday.The focus of the meeting was on expediting the construction of service lanes on the Ferozepur Road, non-functional streetlights on national highways and the steps to be taken for draining out rainwater in the ensuing monsoon season. The ongoing construction of different NHAI projects, including the elevated road project, have resulted in traffic bottlenecks and residents are facing tough time in the absence of the service lanes.The NHAI officials also apprised the MC chief of the problems being faced in taking up construction works, including the delay in shifting the Maha Vir Chakra recipient major Bhupinder Singh’s statue outside the Government College for Girls.Punjab Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma said, “NHAI authorities have been asked to facilitate the movement of traffic by construction of service lanes at the earliest.”The MC commissioner was also apprised of the slow pace of the ongoing elevated road project.He said NHAI officials were asked to remove the construction material from the NH-44 (Jalandhar-Panipat highway) and told to repair the defunct streetlights on highways and make arrangements for road safety and draining out rainwater. Sabharwal said, “It was a review meeting and NHAI officials raised a few issues to be resolved by the MC. Officials were directed to expedite the work of constructing service lanes on the Ferozepur Road and make proper arrangements for dealing with rainwater accumulation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-chief-sabharwal-tells-nhai-to-expedite-construction-of-ongoing-projects-in-ludhiana/story-8fC5uXgNu7paVjB73cVlSL.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows police to arrest PGIMER employees going on strike||Chandigarh: Office bearers of employee unions at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research could be arrested if they go on strike, the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) ruled on Tuesday.Directing the deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police to ensure that its orders were complied with, the bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan said office bearers of unions should be prevented from going on strike.The court acted on a plea by PGIMER that in August 2019, HC had restrained employee unions from going on strike. However, in violation of its orders, Tarandeep Singh Grewal and Harbhajan Singh Bhatti had formed a new union, Ministerial and Secretarial Employees Union, PGIMER, holding offices of general secretary and president, respectively, and issuing threats to the hospital authorities of going on a hunger strike.PGIMER had also referred to a communication of April 15 sent by the union in which these two employees were said to be top leaders. The response from both the leaders has been sought by July 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-for-arrest-of-pgimer-employee-unionsthreatening-strikes/story-eUy0CY906n53OFbXu4s7fN.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Finance company looted in Mohali: Three, including employee held||Three days after two miscreants looted ₹85,000 from a finance company’s office in Sohana, Mohali police on Tuesday arrested three persons, including an employee of the company.The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar, 24, Aakash Sisodia, 25, and Vinod Kumar, 24, an employee of the company, all residents of Malout in Punjab. The trio was arrested from Mauli Baidwan village, police said.Sub-inspector Barma Singh, the investigating officer, said, “During investigation, it was found that Vinod helped the miscreants commit the crime. The cash was to be deposited in the bank that day and Vinod knew about it. He informed Ravi and Aakash it and left the office few minutes before the crime was committed. Police was investigating the possibility of an employee’s involvement since the incident took place.”The incident took place on Saturday when two miscreants decamped with ₹85,000 from Upmoney finance company’s on the Sohana-Landran road, located at a populated market in Sohana village.The miscreants looted the cash from a female employee sitting at the counter and they also took her mobile phone.The incident was captured on CCTV. The footage showed two men whose faces were covered entering the place at 11am and leaving after a few minutes.Inspector Daljit Singh, station house officer of Sohana police station said, “We have cracked the case within 48 hours by arresting all suspects. They will be produced in a local court on tomorrow.”A case has been registered under Sections 379-B (snatching and use of force) , 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finance-company-looted-in-mohali-three-including-employee-held/story-fNHitL5dx0lHg0PnIKzdDM.html
23-06-2020||City||Medical education, health dept at loggerheads in Patiala||The departments of health and medical education in Patiala are at loggerheads as doctors of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital made allegations of health department’s ‘interference’ in their working.Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association appealed to Punjab CM that the district health department is interfering in the functioning of Rajindra hospital. The doctors’ move came after health department advised the medical staff of the hospital that doctors should use personal protection equipment for their safety.Following the health department’s advisory, medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove had issued a notice that doctors and other staff will face disciplinary action if they contract coronavirus ‘due to their negligence’.Dr DS Bhullar, president of the Patiala unit of the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, said, “The faculty feels unwanted interference in functioning of Rajindra Hospital, which is a tertiary care centre, and receiving all types of cases even when government hospitals in city, which are directly in control of the health department, are not treating corona patients. The district health authorities should stop blaming doctors and medical staff of Rajindra hospital, which is demoralising.”“We strongly object to the allegations of the district health department that medical staff of Rajindra hospital is not adhering to safety guidelines and violating safety protocol,” said Dr Bhullar.Doctors criticise MS’s ordersCriticising the notice, the association leaders said the letter is demoralising for doctors and staff on duties round-the-clock and should be withdrawn. They said directly fixing the responsibility of doctors for getting infected by Covid-19 while performing their professional duties, may have strong negative repercussions.Dr Darshanjit Singh Walia, general secretary of the association, said, “The duty of the doctors and medical staff is to focus on treatment of patients and precautionary measures for public and potentials sources of infection coming to the hospital is to be looked after by the hospital administration, which is dragging its feet by issuing such dictatorial orders and shifting responsibility.”Designate RH or Mata Kaushayala Hospital as Covid hospitalDr Darshanjit Singh Walia said, “Keeping in view recent surge of positive cases in medical staff of the hospital, government should designate either Rajindra Hospital or Mata Kaushayala Hospital as covid hospital to segregate treatment of corona-related and normal patients to protect people and medical staff.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “We have only advised them to take precautionary measure. We haven’t done anything else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/medical-education-health-dept-at-loggerheads-in-patiala/story-MoID2EvLPMw4KSM9g1Mc1I.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Chandigarh to constitute planning committees for reopening of schools||With an aim to form a phase-wise plan for reopening of schools amid surging cases of Covid-19, the education department has instructed all government schools in Chandigarh to form committees comprising parents, local area councillors and other stakeholders.In a letter to all school principals, district education officer Alka Mehta directed them “To constitute a small committee of senior teachers, management members, area councillor and parents of students to suggest a plan for reopening of schools, keeping in mind guidelines issued by ministry of home affairs (MHA) and well-being of staff and students.”The DEO added that directions of MHA , ministry of health and the Chandigarh administration regarding social distancing will be followed strictly.It is pertinent to mention that only government schools in the city have been directed to form such committees while there are no guidelines for private schools so far.HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, said, “No initiative has been taken by the government to involve private schools. They find it easier to declare holidays than tackling the current situation. For the last six months, there is no coordination between the private schools and UT administration.”50% staff may attend duty from June 29 in govt schoolsGovernment schools in Chandigarh may call 50 % of their staff for duty from June 29. Principals of various city schools have already issued instructions to their staff. However, formal orders from the education department are awaited. As per the policy, the staff members will be working on alternate days.Programme for International Students’ Assessment postponed The Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) which was scheduled in 2021 has been postponed by a year and will now be held in 2022. Consequently, the field trial which was supposed to be held this year has been postponed to 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-schools-in-chandigarh-to-constitute-planning-committees-for-reopening-of-schools/story-JEAOxZuPvboL4ZZBogmF0L.html
23-06-2020||City||48 new cases take Himachal Covid-19 tally to 775||Himachal Pradesh recorded 48 fresh Covid-19 infections late on Monday and Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 775, officials said.Of these, 27 cases were reported late on Monday and 21 on Tuesday.Nineteen cases of the total cases reported Monday late night were from Hamirpur district. Chief medical officer Dr Archana Soni said six cases each were reported in Bhoranj and Nadaun medical blocks, five cases in Tauni Devi area and two in Galod.Eight cases were reported from Kangra. All of them had a travel history to Delhi.As many as 21 more people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Nine cases were reported from Kangra, four from Hamirpur, three from Shimla and two from Chamba.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said among the new cases is a family of four, including a couple from Fatehpur sub-division and their two daughters. All the patients have a travel history to Delhi.Chamba cases include a 57-year-old man who returned from Ludhiana and a 23-year-old woman who came back from Delhi.Three people tested positive in Shimla’s Sunni area. They had returned from Gurugram. As many as 148 people have tested positive for the virus in last four days. The surge in numbers has forced the state authorities to make entry into Himachal tougher. The quarantine rules have also been made stricter.With 53 cases reported on Monday, the state witnessed the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections. HAMIRPUR, KANGRA HAVE 53% CASESKangra and Hamirpur, the two worst-hit district in the state have 53% of the Covid-19 cases. Out of the total 775 infections, 413 have been reported in the two districts. The tally in Kangra has reached 208 and Hamirpur 205. The two districts have collectively 180 active cases—93 in Hamirpur and 87 in Kangra—while 231 patients have recovered. One death each has been reported in the two districts. Una has recorded a total of 96 cases, Solan 81 cases, Chamba 46, Bilaspur 37, Shimla 36, Sirmaur 34, Mandi 24, Kullu five, and Kinnaur three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.Active cases in the state stand at 324. A total of 432 patients have recovered, 11 migrated to other states and six have died due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/48-new-cases-take-himachal-covid-19-tally-to-775/story-TRitXuWaboduwXL4NLc9eJ.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Prisoners can access email to communicate with lawyers: State to HC||Apart from calling facilities, prison inmates will now also have access to email communication with their lawyers, with the prior permission of the jail superintendent. The prison authorities on Tuesday while responding to a concern raised by petitioners that inmates were unable to instruct their lawyers, said that it was decided to allow inmates email access. The decision was part of the draft modified guidelines, pertaining to the safety and well-being of inmates in light of the Covid-19, spreading in some jails.The state also informed the court that postal correspondence with prisoners would also be permitted in non-containment zones, where postal services had resumed. The guidelines also stated that relatives and families of inmates who tested positive for the virus, would be informed within 48-hours and the inmate would be shifted to the quarantine centre set up in temporary jails where he/she would be treated for the infection.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik while hearing a clutch of public interest litigation (PIL) through video conferencing, was informed by the state and prison authorities that the draft guidelines submitted in the earlier hearing had been modified, after considering the recommendations of the petitioners.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni who was assisted by additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan informed the bench that the draft guidelines were consistent with the recommendations issued by ICMR and the state health department, from time to time. Kumbhakoni informed the court that the state had also accommodated the recommendations made by the petitioners related to Covid-19.He added that some of the recommendations made by senior advocate Mihir Desai on behalf of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), the NGO petitioner was related to prison reforms and as the Supreme Court was seized of a petition in that regard, the state had not accepted those recommendations.“Lawyers duly engaged by the inmates will be allowed to seek instructions either via emails or by speaking to the inmate after getting an appointment via email, in that regard from the superintendent of the concerned jail,” said the modified draft guideline.The bench has directed the petitioners to submit their suggestions and objections before the next hearing and posted the matter for Friday, June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prisoners-can-access-email-to-communicate-with-lawyers-state-to-hc/story-WkWvPXFhVVfG2R7ZnDby6N.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Retired PU employee dies after being run over by tipper truck||A 64-year-old retired Panjab University (PU) employee, Rajinder Singh Negi, died after he was run over by a tipper truck when out for a morning walk at the Sector 39/40 light point on Tuesday.The driver, a resident of Mohali, has been arrested.Negi was a superintendent in PU’s administrative block.The speeding truck coming from the roundabout of Sector 38/38 (west) and Sector 39/40 hit Negi with such force that he died on the spot. Eyewitness Satbir Singh, a resident of Sector 39, told the police that he was exercising in his backyard when he saw the truck hit the pedestrian.The body was taken to the hospital and kept in the mortuary for identification. Police impounded has impounded the truck, registered in Mohali, and arrested the driver, Parminder Singh (43) of Abheypur village. A case under section 304(a) and 279 was registered at the Sector 39 police station.There have been 16 fatalities in 14 accidents this year. This is the third fatal accident after the lockdown was imposed in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retired-pu-employee-dies-after-being-run-over-by-tipper-truck/story-k91SZgBpRfrhqR7vvQEqsI.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Medical expert raises alarm, says next 14 days crucial to prevent Covid spread in three Punjab cities||As Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana have witnessed a quantum surge in Covid-19 cases since Unlock 1.0 was implemented, Dr Bishav Mohan, medical superintendent at Hero Dayanand Medical Heart Institute (HDHI), observed that the rate at which cases are rising, the three major cities have two weeks to control the spread.Dr Mohan is also part of the Punjab government’s task force that has been constituted to frame policies on preventing the spread of Covid-19.As per the official details, on June 1, Amritsar had 377 cases, Jalandhar had 245 and Ludhiana had 193 cases.On June 22, the figurers have multiplied, with positive cases in Amritsar reaching 786, while Jalandhar and Ludhiana recorded 786 and 589 cases respectively.He said the three cities witnessed exponential growth in the number of positive cases as soon as the curfew was lifted. He said that it was largely due to violation of social distancing norms.“We have to shun this attitude where rules are followed only if they are enforced. The number of case have risen as people started throwing parties and stopped following social distancing norms,” Dr Mohan said.Dr Bishav, who with Dr Rajesh Mahajan co-authored a book on preventing spread of the virus titled ‘Lets Defeat Covid-19’, said spreading awareness on the virus is the need of the hour.According to them, maintaining proper social distancing of at least one metre between yourself and others and wearing masks properly close to the bridge of the nose all the way under the chin are two most important factors responsible for controlling the spread of Covid-19.“The next 14 days are crucial. Everyone, including government officials, doctors and most importantly people have to show presence of mind. Besides maintaining distance, avoid large gatherings and crowded places. Regularly wash your hands, cover you face with cloth or elbow while coughing or sneezing,” Dr Mohan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-expert-raises-alarm-says-next-14-days-crucial-to-prevent-covid-spread-in-three-punjab-cities/story-xggUFpspgzudNWl5FCwLxM.html
23-06-2020||City||Pune reports 10 deaths and 467 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday||PUNE: Pune recorded 10 deaths and 467 new positive Covid-19 on Tuesday, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A health department official said 272 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals on Tuesday.The total count of Covid-19 positive patients reached 13,153 and the figure of those cured and discharged is 7,945. A total of 4,680 patients are undergoing treatment at various Covid care centres.Meanwhile, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded an increase in the testing capacity and criticised the government for not doing more tests.Fadnavis was in a city on Tuesday review the Covid-19 situation.He said, “The infection rate in the city is 18 per cent which is high. The government must need to increase the testing capacity. It will help early detection and treatment of positive patients. There is no need to worry for increasing positive numbers, but the mortality rate should be brought down.”Fadnavis also pointed out lack of coordination between various ministers and departments regarding handling the Covid-19 situation. The senior BJP leader visited Naidu and Sassoon hospitals and briefed media at teh Council Hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-10-deaths-and-467-covid-19-positive-cases-on-tuesday/story-0tJ8Kkk22MVR0MzoLgCb6J.html
23-06-2020||Jaipur||Parts of Rajasthan continue to reel under heat||Parts of Rajasthan continued to reel under heat on Tuesday with Ganganagar being recorded as the hottest place in the state with a maximum of 43.5 degree Celsius. Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Churu and Jaipur recorded a maximum of 43 degrees, 42.8 degrees, 42.1 degrees and 40.2 degrees Celsius, while in Ajmer and Kota mercury touched 39.5 degrees and 37.3 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the MeT Department here. Meanwhile, light rains also occurred at a few places in the state since Monday. The MeT department has predicted moderate to heavy rainfall in Ajmer, Udaipur, Kota, Jaipur and Bharatpur divisions during next the 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/parts-of-rajasthan-continue-to-reel-under-heat/story-smrTLg1LnG1RJeebaFCeOK.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana eateries give thumbs up to resumption of dine-in facility, but seek extension in timings||After the state government allowed dine-in facility till 8pm at restaurants and hotels in the city on Tuesday, owners have sought extension in timing.Owners said customers would not be able to avail the facility as restaurants have been allowed to open only till 8pm. Owner of Basant Restaurants Bhupinder Basant said, “It is a relief for the sector, but the government should extend the timings as customers come for dinner only after 8pm.”The government had allowed restaurants to open on May 8, but only for home delivery of food and takeaways. The operations were allowed till 8pm only.Restaurant owners rued that labour shortage was also a major concern as around 50% of labour of restaurants comes from Nepal. Labourers from the country have also gone back to their home states.Owner of Spice Cube on the Ferozepur Road Inderpal Singh said, “Labour shortage and timings are a major concern for the sector. There is also another confusion. The government has allowed a gathering of up to 50 people for a party in banquet halls. But, the government has also stated that the area of the hall in hotels should be 5,000 sq feet. But, this much space is not available in most of the banquet halls.”President of the Hotel and Restaurant Association Amarvir Singh said, “We welcome the decision. There might be some constraints, but the business would slowly come back on the track. Allowing liquor in weddings would also provide relief to the owners having stocks of liquor or beer.”DECISION GIVES US A HOPE: MARRIAGE PALACE OWNERS Allowed to organise marriages in palaces with a maximum guest limit of 50 persons, owners rued that this would not bring the business back on track, but it is a relief for the sector, which was bearing fixed expenses such as salaries of staff, electricity bills, etc during lockdown.President of the Marriage Palace Welfare Association Amarjit Singh Sant said, “Palaces have been closed shut since March and owners were forced to bear the fixed charges. The future of the sector is gloomy but, with this relief, we will be able to earn revenue for meeting the fixed expenses and it has given us a hope that business would slowly come back on the track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-eateries-give-thumbs-up-to-resumption-of-dine-in-facility-but-seek-extension-in-timings/story-paX26khsasuAdtOA2UQWmM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP to contest 2022 assembly polls with CM face, says Jarnail Singh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh on Tuesday said the party will contest the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab with a chief ministerial (CM) face.Singh announced this after a meeting with members of the state core committee and MLAs here on the party’s strategy for the next assembly elections. “The name of the CM candidate will be declared at the appropriate time,” he told reporters at a press conference.The AAP had not announced its CM candidate during the 2017 polls. Though it had emerged as the principal opposition party, the performance was much below expectations and many in the AAP had attributed it to the party’s strategy of going into the elections without a CM-face, besides other reasons.Leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema said the AAP leaders would attend the all-party meeting convened by the chief minister on Wednesday. “We will strongly register our opposition to the three anti-people ordinances passed by the central government in the name of agriculture reforms,” he said, demanding their immediate withdrawal.He also announced a protest against the state government’s move on Bathinda Thermal Power Plant and gherao of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence in the city on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-contest-2022-assembly-polls-with-cm-face-says-jarnail-singh/story-6mipNW1FqANqR1NhHyGMEL.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Volunteers go on strike in Ludhiana, accuse police of using force against them||Working tirelessly with the police during curfew and lockdown for the past three months, volunteers went on strike on Tuesday after Division number 4 policemen allegedly thrashed a volunteer and his brother on Monday night.After the volunteers huddled at the police station demanding an FIR against the accused cops, the police allegedly used force to disperse them. Most of the volunteers did not come to duty on Tuesday in protest.Volunteers lodged a complaint with commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal seeking action.Volunteer Rohit Kumar, 26, alleged the police had beaten him and his brother Shubham Kumar, 23, inside the Division number 4 police station.Rohit’s mother, Pooja, 45, of Vishkarma Colony, said, “I, along with my son, had gone to collect a payment of Rs 2lakh from Daresi on Monday evening. The police stopped us near the old vegetable market in Daresi and asked for vehicle documents. Shubham was not carrying the documents at that time, however, he called Rohit to bring them.”Pooja added, “Even after the documents were produced, the police personnel demanded Rs 200 to allow us to go. After Rohit introduced himself as a police volunteer, the cops started abusing us.”“When the police personnel used derogatory and vulgar language for me, my both sons objected to it. Meanwhile, inspector Satwant Singh, SHO of Division number 4 police station, came and took us to the police station,” she said.Rohit alleged the police personnel slapped his brother for at least 15 times at the police station and beat them up with sticks.He said as soon as other volunteers received this information, they gathered outside the police station and raised slogans. The police then used force to disperse them, he added.Inspector Satwant Singh said it was a minor misunderstanding, which was later resolved. He refuted the allegations of beating up volunteers and using force against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/volunteers-go-on-strike-in-ludhiana-accuse-police-of-using-force-against-them/story-9O2xVCIFNdemiT5Fv2A08K.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gets 8,000 rapid antigen kits||The Covid-19 test through rapid antigen kits is likely to start here soon as the local authorities have received 8,000 kits from the Haryana Health Department.Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon of Gurugram, said, here on Tuesday, “We have received 8,000 kits from the Health Department. The test can be completed in 15 minutes, which will help save time and lives.”At present, it takes around three days to finalise the report of a patient.Pathology, microbiology staff and lab technicians have been trained for use of rapid antigen kits. Patients could be detected fast with this test and sent to home or hospital isolation early. “Those, who will test negative, will have to undergo RT-PCR proceedings to cross check the status,” Yadav said.The District Health Department is sampling 250 cases a day and charge has been reduced from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,400.On Tuesday, the district administration detected 133 Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 4,645. Of this, 2,743 people have recovered and three died.The Covid-19 toll has reached 69 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gets-8-000-rapid-antigen-kits/story-YkntIxgdrAAQbnXvdQFAnM.html
23-06-2020||Bangalore||322 fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 322 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 8 deaths.According to the State Health Department, the total number of positive cases has mounted to 9,721 and 150 deaths. 6,004 people have been discharged so far.With an increase of 14,933 new cases and 312 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count reached 4,40,215 on Tuesday.According to the latest update by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), 14,011 deaths have been recorded due to the infection so far in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/322-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka/story-6To87nUNUrfuVvJtLZZNOI.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||19 covid containment zones setup in 8 dists: Balbir Sidhu||In a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus, the Punjab government has implemented a stringent containment strategy under which 19 containment zones have been established in eight districts with population of around 25,000.State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said these containment zones are clearly demarcated as a street or two adjoining streets, a mohalla or a residential society in urban areas.“Containment as well as micro-containment zones depend on the total number of Covid-19 cases in the area so as to ensure proper utilisation of manpower to conduct screening, tracing, testing and counselling of all high-risk contacts,” he said.Sidhu said that in rural areas, it can encompass the whole village or be limited to a part of village to focus on effective containment of smaller/limited areas. He said that early identification has proved successful in containing spread of an infection. The health department has issued instructions to civil surgeons that high risk patients will not be admitted at covid care centres (CCC). “Patients at CCCs will be shifted to covid health centres only if they are mild to moderately symptomatic,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-covid-containment-zones-setup-in-8-dists-balbir-sidhu/story-KdFMywgM8LC79tV2h93l6M.html
23-06-2020||City||NCP was keen for alliance with BJP two years ago: Fadnavis||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) wanted to join hands with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to be part of the government when the latter was already sharing power with the Shiv Sena. The senior BJP leader was speaking to the media after visiting various hospitals and review the Covid-19 situation in the city.Fadnavis, also a Leader of Opposition in state assembly, said when the NCP wanted to join hands with the BJP, the latter’s central leadership was against severing ties with the Shiv Sena.“They (NCP) wanted to join us two years ago. There were meetings in this regard, but our senior leaders made it clear that the BJP will not sever ties with the Shiv Sena. So, the alliance plan hit a roadblock,” he said.The former chief minister said post assembly polls last year, the NCP and the BJP made an attempt to come together.“As we all are fighting against Covid-19, I do not want to raise a political issue but it is true that both BJP and NCP tried to come together. Two meetings were held and I was present at one,” said Fadnavis, adding that currently his party is not interested in pulling down the existing state government.Fadnavis said that he is planning to come up with a book that will give details about his party’s stand and what had happened during the government formation last year post the 2019 assembly polls.“I don’t want to comment more as I plan to pen a book and elaborate the details. I will be meeting deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and share my observations on various issues related to Pune.”Reacting to Fadnavis’ claim, NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade said, “His statement is out of frustration. The NCP condemns it. As the Shiv Sena-NCP and Congress are performing well, it is an attempt to create confusion among people even as his comments will not affect the Maha Vikas Aghadhi.”Kakade accused Fadnavis of being political while appreciating the Pune Municipal Corporation and criticising the state government. He said, “Fadnavis is appreciating PMC as his party is working here and criticising the state government. If the state government is responsible for increasing positive cases, the same principle should be applied at the national level. He should blame the prime minister for increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-was-keen-for-alliance-with-bjp-two-years-ago-fadnavis/story-ktTl1GFJ3kVqUyi4gKkGwI.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC refuses to stay mini-bus permit scheme in Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday refused to stay the Punjab government scheme of granting new mini-bus permits in rural areas.The petition was filed by the existing operators arguing that the proposed policy will lead to wholesale and unchecked grant of mini-bus permits, congest the rural transport market and upset the transport scheme in state.The government on Tuesday argued that the scheme has been floated to check monopoly and undue profiteering in the transport business. Additional advocate general Rameeza Hakeem had contended that the petition was nothing but a ruse to keep new operators out, cartelise rural transport, and maintain the monopoly of current bus operators, many of whom have been operating on routes for past 25 years without healthy competition.As state told court that June 30 deadline for receipt of application was merely for the purpose of administrative convenience, and that the process for granting permits is likely to take some time, the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh deferred the hearing till August 10.The scheme announced during the budget session this year envisages grant of stage carriage permits on 1,400 rural routes to buses up to 35 seats. It was initially notified on March 16 with a deadline of April 16 but later extended up to June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-refuses-to-stay-mini-bus-permit-scheme-in-punjab/story-2jTNvJGQPCPGTplsTJklSL.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Retest negative cases if Covid-19 suspected, PGIMER tells docs||After a patient with negative status retested positive for Covid-19 at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) , doctors have been asked to retest all cases suspected to be reinfected.On June 16 as many as 32 healthcare workers were quarantined after they were exposed to Covid-19 positive patients admitted at the institute.Dr Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said necessary measures for the safety of the healthcare professionals had been taken.“A negative report in the past would be sufficient to admit the patient and doctors (treating them). However, now we have asked the doctors to go for a repeat test based on the symptoms and suspicion. Hopefully, it will help us maintain low level of infection spread among the frontline workers,” Dr Jagat Ram added. An official statement from PGIMER had said that a 42-year-old woman from Kapurthala in Punjab had been brought to the hospital in a critical condition and complaining of breathlessness on June 12. As she had a negative Covid-19 test report she was admitted to the intensive care unit for treatment.However, to verify her condition, the patient was retested at the hospital on June 14 and found to be positive in pool testing. A repeat individual test again came out positive on June 15.This led examination of 70 PGIMER staff and accordingly 17 doctors, 11 nursing officers, two operation theatre technicians and two hospital cleaners were quarantined.All high-risk contacts are quarantined for 14 days from the last day of exposure and will be tested between the seventh and 10th day of quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retest-negative-cases-if-covid-19-suspected-pgimer-tells-docs/story-yQvacM9aPEVnEYbi5JWzQM.html
23-06-2020||City||NIA grills Ajnala for 4-hrs in sedition, unlawful activities case||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday grilled Amrik Singh Ajnala, leader of a splinter group of Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal, in connection with a case registered by it under multiple charges including sedition and unlawful activities.Ajnala was called to a government-owned guest house by the NIA, where he was quizzed for around four hours. The team members visited Gurmat Vidyala Damdami Taksal, Ajnala’s base here.As per sources, the NIA registered a case on April 5 under Sections 124-A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Sources said that some persons were arrested in this case and the NIA is checking their link to the splinter group of the Sikh seminary. The NIA sleuths may further question Ajnala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-grills-ajnala-for-4-hrs-in-sedition-unlawful-activities-case/story-wG0UPBNOoOr0Y2AK7xIEMN.html
23-06-2020||Kolkata||Told over phone he is Covid-19 +ve, man walks into police station for help||Overcome by a nervous bout, a coronavirus positive man, who lives alone, walked into a police station in Kolkata to seek help.“A man approached the police station on Tuesday morning after he came to know that he has tested positive for Covid-19. We got in touch with the health department. He was shifted to the hospital in an ambulance. The entire police station has been sanitised,” said Meeraj Khalid, deputy commissioner (south division) of Kolkata Police.At around 10:30 am, the man walked up to the Tollygunge police station, which is at a distance of one kilometer from his home. When the constable at the entrance checked his temperature with a thermal scanner, he was found to be running a fever.“He then told us that he was suffering from fever and has already been tested positive for Covid-19 by a private diagnostic laboratory. The laboratory informed him over the phone which made him nervous and he approached the police station. He said that he lives alone and got so nervous that he approached the police,” said Khalid.Upon the revelation of the patient’s health condition, panic gripped the entire police station. The man was asked to sit under the shade of a tree in a corner of the garage adjacent to the police station. The health department officials were immediately informed. The area was cordoned off till the ambulance arrived. The man was then sent to a designated Covid hospital.“The place where he was asked to wait has been properly sanitised, the entire police station has been sanitised too. As no police officials came in contact with him we have not asked anyone to go in quarantine,” said a senior official of the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/told-over-phone-he-is-covid-19-ve-man-walks-into-police-station-for-help/story-QRYYziPOBs6te351qB4Q6O.html
23-06-2020||City||Official apathy row: Zadoo clan demands access to magisterial probe findings, jobs for bereaved||A day after lieutenant governor GC Murmu announced ex-gratia relief of ₹20 lakh in addition to district administration’s ₹2 lakh each to the kin of Zadoo cousins, their families on Tuesday demanded government jobs and accommodation for one of the deceased’s wife for she has to raise two daughters.The families have also demanded autopsy report and findings of magisterial probe, besides exemplary punishment to the guilty officials.“We reserve the right to get autopsy reports and findings of the magisterial probe. Also, the guilty officials should be punished for their criminal negligence that claimed two lives,” the members said.“We have been wounded for life and will die with the agonising pain that they died pleading for water. Though compensation has been announced, is it enough for a mother to raise her two little daughters. We are there for her, but she needs a job and place to live to do the same. The deaths of her husband Vimal and my younger brother Vipin will haunt us forever,” said Mimic Zadoo, the latter’s elder brother.Stating that ₹10 to 12 lakh could never compensate for a human life, Mimic said, “What about Vaibhav Zadoo? He had also fainted on that day and he not been evacuated by a relative on time, he would have also died. He is a tormented soul today because he has not only lost his father but two of his cousins. Doesn’t he deserve to be compensated,” asked Mimic.Presently based in Greater Noida, Mimic is planning to come back to Jammu to look after his 75-year-old father. His mother had passed away nine months ago. He has been out of a job due to the prolonged Covid-19 pandemic.Vimal (38) and Vipin Zadoo (34) had died of dehydration during the cremation of their uncle, a Covid-19, in Tawi riverbed last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/official-apathy-row-zadoo-clan-demands-access-to-magisterial-probe-findings-jobs-for-bereaved/story-7BQdt968NCrjw8Fpa95uzM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||BATHINDA THERMAL PLANT MOVE: Manpreet defends move, says industrial park on land a windfall for state||A day after the Opposition Aam Aadmi Party staged protest, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday said that shutting down of the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant, Bathinda, will be a windfall for Punjab, paving way for creation of the largest industrial park in state.Manpreet said the smoke-spewing power plant was shutdown three years ago due to environmental, economic, and administrative reasons. The state government had approved a comprehensive plan for setting up an industrial park or a pharmaceutical park which will revitalise and rejuvenate the economy of southern Punjab, he said during a press conference, defending the government’s move.AAP MLAs, led by leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, staged a protest near the FM’s residence on Monday, accusing the state government of doling out hundreds of acres of the power plant through PUDA.Manpreet said that the state government will make a pitch for one of the three pharma parks being setup by the Centre or establish the industrial park where companies that are relocating from China will be invited.“Water bodies and lakes are spread over 164 acre. Bathinda relies on canals for its water needs and has an existing storage capacity of 10 days of water supply. With the addition of these lakes, Bathinda will increase water supply storage by another 60 days,” he said.The finance minister said that the 280-acre power colony of the thermal power plant will be used to accommodate civil and policy administration, ranging from deputy commissioner to Class-4 employees. He added that not a single employee of the Bathinda power plant, including those on contract or employed through outsourcing, was retrenched and all were accommodated.POWER ENGINEERS OPPOSES LAND ALLOCATION TO PUDA The PSEB Engineers’ Association criticised the decision to allocate land of defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant, Bathinda, to PUDA. Association president Jasvir Singh Dhiman said, “The Bathinda unit was renovated from 2004 to 2014 as per CEA guidelines.” Association general secretary Ajay Pal Singh Atwal said the buildings constructed for power sector should have been used only for power sector activities and for further expansion to provide better services to consumers in state and not other purposes. The association said if state is determined to sell it, sufficient time should be given for disposal of valuable machinery installed in the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-thermal-plant-move-manpreet-defends-move-says-industrial-park-on-land-a-windfall-for-state/story-Aia8mOcxVL9aaBpVxTiHCJ.html
23-06-2020||City||On 87th birthday, Virbhadra Singh says he’s ready to serve people again||While celebrating his 87th birthday here on Tuesday, former chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh on Monday said he is once again ready to serve the people as his health is getting better.Due to the ongoing pandemic, Singh celebrated his birthday while maintaining social distancing.Virbhadra thanked the people for their wishes. Many prominent Congress leaders were present in his resident.Born in Sarahan, Virbhadra graduated in BA (Hons) from St Stephens College, University of Delhi, and in 1962 he won a Lok Sabha seat. In 1983, he became the chief minister of Himachal Pradesh. He had served four full terms as CM from 1985 to 1990, 1993 to 1998, 2003 to 2007 and from 2012 to 2017.He last served as CM from 2012 to 2017 and currently he is the member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Arki.Apart from state politics, Virbhadra has also been part of national politics as he was the minister of state for tourism, civil aviation from December 1976 to March 1977, minister of state for industries from September 1982 to April 1983, minister of steel from May 2009 to January, 2011 and minister for micro, small and medium enterprises from January 2011 to June 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-87th-birthday-virbhadra-singh-says-he-s-ready-to-serve-people-again/story-nz4qT8RrTnHpsbYIXJhmrL.html
23-06-2020||City||148 new cases take J&K Covid-19 tally to 6,236||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 148 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of people infected with the virus in the Union territory to 6,236, officials said. Of the new cases, 128 are from Kashmir and 20 from Jammu division. Among these, 36 patients have a travel history.Two more people have died due to the disease in Kashmir, taking the death toll in the UT to 87, officials said.An elderly man died at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical sciences, Soura, in the morning. “He had a complete heart blockage and had undergone temporary pacing,” said medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan.A woman from Natipora area of Srinagar, who was suffering with bilateral pneumonia, died at Chest Diseases Hospital late on Monday evening. She was shifted from SMHS hospital.Meanwhile, active cases stand at 2,507 after 111 more patients recovered on Tuesday. As per an official statement, 51 people were discharged in Jammu division and 60 in Kashmir. So far, 3,642 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 58 %.In Kashmir, the highest jump in cases was witnessed in Pulwama district as 45 more people tested positive for the virus. Srinagar recorded 28 cases and 16 infections each were reported in Kulgam and Baramulla districts. Single digit increase in numbers was recorded in Jammu division.Till date, 2.61 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,760 in home quarantine, 29 in hospital quarantine and 47,088 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.71 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/148-new-cases-take-j-k-covid-19-tally-to-6-236/story-FKGNExx6jSTCI2yLqWQZvI.html
23-06-2020||Education||Classes in Bengal higher educational institutions will remain suspended till July 31, says Education Minister||The West Bengal government on Tuesday said academic activities in all state-run higher educational institutions will remain suspended till July 31 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Education minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters here the heads of the universities will decide how to conduct administrative functions while safeguarding the health factor of staff.“We had previously decided on extending the suspension of academic activities in higher educational institutions till June 30. However, in view of the prevailing situation (due to coronavirus outbreak) we have decided to extend the period till July 31. I am announcing this after speaking to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on the issue,” the minister said.Chatterjee had earlier said schools in the state will remain closed till July 31 due to the pandemic situation.To a question if final semester exams will be held in universities or the students will be evaluated on basis of marks in previous semesters, the minister said: “We will take a decision on the issue of holding semester exams after June 26.” To another question, the minister said while all preparations were being made to conduct the remaining papers of the class 12 examination of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education and “we are keeping watch on the emerging situation.” The minister had earlier this month announced rescheduled dates of HS exams for remaining papers on July 2, July 6 and July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/classes-in-bengal-higher-educational-institutions-will-remain-suspended-till-july-31-minister/story-KeAmIl81koWOKXVcbxfU7N.html
23-06-2020||City||Ludhiana police exhume body of woman ‘killed’ by husband||The Basti Jodhewal police exhumed the body of a slain woman, Naju Khatoon, 38, from a graveyard in the presence of an executive magistrate at Seera village of the district on Tuesday. The woman was allegedly murdered by her husband Mohammad Mehfooz and his accomplice Mohammad Rafeeq on June 14 and they had buried the body the same day.The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. As the body was decomposed, the police have reportedly requested the health officials for conducting postmortem under the supervision of forensic experts.Murder accused Mehfooz and Rafeeq are already in police custody as a murder case had been lodged against them at the Basti Jodhewal police station.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Gurbinder Singh said, “The police had filed an application seeking permission for exhuming the body in the court of the district magistrate. The DC had appointed an executive magistrate to supervise the operation.”Mehfooz, during the investigation, told the police, “I suspected that my wife had developed illicit relations with other men. Upset at this, I, along with my relative Rafeeq, strangulated Khatoon to death on June 14 and buried the body.”The accused had also threatened his minor children, who were present at home at the time of the crime, to keep mum and not to tell anybody about the incident.However, when their maternal grandfather Mohammad Daud reached Ludhiana from Bihar on Saturday and they told him about what had happened. Later, he lodged a complaint with the police.Daud, father of the victim, said, “Naju and Mehfooz had strained relations for a long. The couple has four children from this marriage. Their two elder children live in Bihar, while two children, aged 11 and 9, live in Ludhiana.”He added, “A couple of days ago, Mehfooz had called him and said that Naju has died and he has buried the body. When I reached Ludhiana, the children told me about the incident.”The police lodged a murder case on June 20 and arrested the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-exhume-body-of-woman-killed-by-husband/story-WUGNcJDPjfAQ2qZ7n8jg2L.html
23-06-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 fatalities in Karnataka far less compared to other major states: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said Covid-19 related fatalities in the state was far less compared to other major states, as he called on people and front line corona warriors infected with the virus not to lose courage. The Chief Minister made the statement following the alleged suicide of a constable attached with the Karnataka State Reserve Police after he tested positive for Covid-19.“The total number of Covid related deaths in the state is very less compared to other major states. There is no reason for any infected citizen or government employees to lose courage. The government is always with you,” a tweet on the Chief Minister’s official twitter handle said. Of the total of 14,011 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra accounted for the highest with 6,283 fatalities, followed by Delhi with 2,233, Gujarat with 1,684 and Tamil Nadu with 794.Acknowledging that police form the frontline of corona warriors and were working putting their lives at stake, he said a special Covid testing center is being set up for them and all measures will be taken to provide the best treatment for those infected. As of June 22 evening, cumulatively 9,399 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state,which includes 142 deaths and 5,730 discharges. The constable, aged about 50 years, was attached with the Karnataka State Reserve Police and was said to be depressed after getting tested positive for Covid-19, sources said.Expressing condolence over his death, another tweet on the Chief Minister’s handle said he has directed officials to to provide all necessary compensation and facilities to the family of the deceased at the earliest. Bengaluru has in the last few days has seen a spike in the number of police personnel getting infected by the virus. At least 74 of them have tested positive in the city and are undergoing treatment, while three have died so far, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-fatalities-in-karnataka-far-less-compared-to-other-major-states-b-s-yediyurappa/story-Iwrmy1J0Ee4xyf5x0p6nKO.html
23-06-2020||City||J&K L-G reviews preparedness for Amarnath Yatra||With annual Amarnath pilgrimage likely to be held for a shorter duration from a shorter Baltal route from July 23 to August 3, lieutenant governor, GC Murmu, who is also chairman of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB), reviewed the preparedness for the yatra at a high-level meeting here on Tuesday.Official sources said that CEO of the SASB, who is principal secretary to L-G, along with AK Soni, will be performing first darshan of the ice stalagmite on July 5.“Though the decision regarding yatra shall be taken appropriately in due course of time, he insisted to make sure all basic preparations including health, infrastructure, ration/LPG supply, power, drinking water, security arrangements, telecommunication, disaster management, etc are in place,” said an official statement issued here.The base camp Baltal and the Neelgrath helipad are likely to be ready within next week.CEO further informed that the SASB is making arrangements for the live telecast of the morning and evening Aarti with Doordarshan.Baseer Ahmad Khan, advisor to the lieutenant governor said that 80% of work on the Baltal track is done. Five out of seven bridges are launched, verification of service providers by Police has been done and they are ready to be deployed.A new helipad at the lower cave (1.2 km short of the holy cave) is being constructed by Pahalgam Development Authority (PDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-reviews-preparedness-for-amarnath-yatra/story-rzfSnLAgrir64QJvpzOfdL.html
23-06-2020||City||Primary supplier of 42.05 kg cannabis seized on June 11 arrested in Kullu||Police on Tuesday arrested the primary supplier of 42.05 kg cannabis, which was seized on June 11, in Kullu.The accused, Madan Lal, 47, is a resident of Ghartsari village, Banjar tehsil, Kullu. His wife is the pradhan of Shrikot panchayat.The Himachal Police had already arrested Lal’s accomplice Leeladhar, a resident of Riwalsar, Mandi.On June 10, Madan Lal had brought 42.05 kg cannabis in his vehicle with Leeladhar and later hid the contraband in a pickup truck. Leeladhar was arrested on June 11 near Banjar while he was smuggling the contraband out of Kullu. Lal was arrested on Monday night from the forests surrounding Shrikot panchayat.Police have also arrested Paras Ram, 44, the owner of pickup truck and resident of Balh in Mandi district, who had modified his vehicle for smuggling cannabis.Kullu superintendent of police said a case under Sections of the NDPS has already been registered against all the accused. This is the largest consignment of cannabis recovered in the last 17 years by the Himachal police, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/primary-supplier-of-42-05-kg-cannabis-seized-on-june-11-arrested-in-kullu/story-HtRwDVtw452Vp2ZdoDIbCN.html
23-06-2020||City||Need to strengthen sports infrastructure in state: HP governor||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Tuesday stressed the need to strengthen sports infrastructure and provide facilities like indoor stadiums in the state.He was interacting with the office-bearers of Himachal Pradesh Olympic Association on the occasion of International Olympic Day. Rural development and panchayati raj minister Virendra Kanwar was also present on the occasion.Dattatreya said there was no dearth of sports talent in the state, but efforts should be made to facilitate them and provide them the right platform to grow.He said the sports infrastructures should be developed on public-private partnership and advised promoting indoor sports like kabaddi and volleyball in the state.The governor said more employment opportunities should be given to the players. He expressed satisfaction that women players of the state were performing well at the international level. He suggested organising camps for selected sportspersons of tribal areas.Appreciating the efforts of the organisers, Dattatreya said the initiative would help in developing a new environment of sports in the state.Vice-president of Himachal Pradesh Olympic Association Virendra Kanwar apprised the governor about various steps being taken by the state government to promote sports activities.He said every year various sports activities are conducted to encourage people to actively take part in sports and promote the spirit of Olympism on International Olympic Day. He added that this year, the association was celebrating the events online due to Covid-19 pandemic.General secretary of the association, Rajesh Bhandari, detailed the line-up of activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-strengthen-sports-infrastructure-in-the-state-says-hp-guv/story-HP4rDhjhfK7HnCcmqaRSRL.html
23-06-2020||Patna||‘Miffed’ senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh decides to step down from party post||Bihar’s main opposition party – Rashtriya Janata Dal- reeling from the defection of five of its MLCs, appeared to suffer yet another major jolt on Tuesday senior party member and former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh deciding to step down from the post of the national vice president, according to sources. Sources said the former MP, who is in hospital after falling sick recently, has communicated his decision to resign from the party post to top RJD leaders. “Yes, Raghuvansh ji has resigned from the party post. I cannot comment on it much,” said PK Choudhary, a close aide of the former MP.Earlier on Tuesday, five RJD MLCs -Radha Charan Shah, Sanjay Prasad, Dilip Rai, Md Kamar Alam and Ranvijay Kumar Singh- switched over to the ruling Janata Dal (United), leaving Lalu Prasad Yadav’s party with just thee MLCs in the state legislative Council.Prasad’s move is being seen as a ‘backlash’ as the 75-year-old leader, considered a Rajput face, is reportedly unhappy at the likely induction of former MP Rama Kishore Singh in the party in next few days.Rama Kishore Singh, another Rajput leader from Vaishali, has several criminal cases against him. Political observers feel that his entry –a move by RJD to consolidate its traditional Muslim- Yadav- Rajput combination in the forthcoming assembly polls- could further marginalise Raghuvnash Prasad in the party.On the other hand, Rama Singh said he was all set to join the RJD on June 29. “I will be joining the RJD on June 29. That is confirmed,” he said.Asked about the resignation of Raghuvansh Prasad from the party’s post apparently in protest against his induction in the party, Singh said it was just a ploy by the veteran leader to play pressure politics. “There are many good reasons why Singh is annoyed with my induction in the RJD. But it would not matter as I am a grass roots leader,” he said. He also scoffed at speculations that he or any of his family members could be given a RJD ticket from Mahnar in Vaishali. “I am not joining RJD with any conditions,” the former MP said.Reacting to the reports of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s decision to step down, leader of opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said on Tuesday evening that he will soon meet the ailing senior RJD leader once the latter recovers.“Raghuvansh ji is our guardian and nursed the RJD. He is very much in the party. I will soon meet him,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/miffed-senior-rjd-leader-raghuvansh-prasad-singh-decides-to-step-down-from-party-post/story-h8i8TAePZjIYAF6OW80jXI.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||No exams for students of higher, technical education institutions in Haryana||In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Haryana government on Tuesday decided that the examinations for final and intermediate semesters of all courses in higher and technical education institutions of the state will not be held.On June 12, the Haryana government had decided to hold final year examinations in universities, colleges and technical education institutions from July 1 to 31. The examinations were deferred after the government received a large number of representations asking it to reconsider the decision.As per an order issued by the higher and technical education principal secretary on Tuesday all students will be promoted to the next semester with 50% weightage given to internal assessment and assignments and 50% weightage given to the marks attained in previous examinations.The examination of final year students, promotion of intermediate year students to the next semester or year and award of practical examinations in all polytechnics of the state will also be held in a similar manner.The same formula will be applicable in case of distance education or private students.However, the students will have an opportunity to improve their grades once the situation normalises.VARSITIES HAVE DISCRETION TO HOLD EXAMSThe government has allowed universities to conduct online examinations at their own discretion, in case they are well-prepared and equipped.The universities must also ensure that all students are able to take online examinations after intimating the respective departments.The order said students with academic arrears in previous examinations may also be exempted from examinations and promoted to the next semester. Reappear students will be given marks on the basis of their average in previous examinations.INTERNAL ASSESSMENT FOR FIRST YEARSFirst-year students will be promoted on basis of internal assessment. As practical examinations have not been conducted, marks will be awarded as an average of all previous practical examinations or 80% average of the theory examination marks of previous semesters, whichever is higher.Admissions to university teaching departments shall be conducted at the level of individual universities.At undergraduate levels and postgraduate levels, centralised online admissions for colleges will be conducted by the higher education department, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-exams-for-students-of-higher-technical-education-institutions-in-haryana/story-BWPSAUS7RtReOYmaw9xtII.html
23-06-2020||Lucknow||Light to moderate rainfall in Uttar Pradesh||Light to moderate rainfall coupled with thundershower occurred at eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, the meteorological department said.  The state also witnessed heavy rain in isolated places, it said.  According to the meteorological department, rain and thundershower is very likely at most places over the state on June 24, 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/light-to-moderate-rainfall-in-uttar-pradesh/story-vXOHssa43kE3oiGwKk7MmK.html
23-06-2020||City||Ex-MLA Singla, former Bathinda mayor booked for violating social distancing||BATHINDA Former Bathinda legislator and senior Akali leader Sarup Chand Singla and ex-mayor Balwant Nath Rai were booked by the police for violation of social distancing during a protest on Tuesday.Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had organised a protest against the state government’s decision to convert disused land of the defunct Guru Nanak Thermal Plant. The two leaders led a gathering at Bhai Ghanaiya chowk.Deputy superintendent of police Aaswant Singh Dhaliwal said no permission was granted to the protesters by the district magistrate as there is a prohibition on public gathering in view of the pandemic.A case under sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (punishment for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Thermal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-mla-singla-former-bathinda-mayor-booked-for-violating-social-distancing/story-qmwYq6ZD3i5fGiGlts4uxJ.html
23-06-2020||City||Kashmiri Pandit migrants’ body alleges ‘sinister moves’ to thrust outsiders on J&K’s industrial ventures||Deploring the ‘sinister moves’ to force outsiders upon industrial ventures of Jammu and Kashmir, a Kashmiri Pandit migrants’ body on Tuesday censured the government for not yet framing the industrial policy in the Union territory even after the effective abrogation of article 370 of the Constitution.The reconciliation, return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandit migrants led by Satish Mahaldar, in a statement, condemned the moves to “undermine the assets” of Jammu and Kashmir. He alleged that there appears to be “sinister moves” to push profit-making ventures into loss-making liabilities and “force non-J&K people and organisations” over the ventures on the name of revival and redevelopment.“The case of Jammu and Kashmir Cements Limited (JKCL), a profit-making venture of the state government, is an example of abject mismanagement, lack of vision and apathetic attitude of the government. Because of this, the PSU has gone down the hill. For the past 16 months, the employees have not been paid. How difficult it must be for the families to live can be anybody’s guess,” it said.The body said that after Article 370 was abrogated, it was decided by the Centre that the industries will be set up and the locals will get the preference. “But, on the ground, the situation does not seem to be anywhere near. No industrial policy had been yet framed for J&K. And whatever industrial infrastructure is existing currently, even that is being destroyed. It seems that a situation is being created to show that only outsiders can help revive and rejuvenate things here. This is not true. The government had promised employment generation, but if the existing industries are choked, how can the youth in J&K get the jobs?” the body said.“While abrogating Article 370 last year, Prime Minister and home minister promised the nation and to the people of J&K that they would ensure the rights of the people and land, jobs would be protected at all cost. Let us win the hearts rather than betray,” it said.The body said that if the government was willing it can save the JKCL plant which is an asset to the UT economy and turn it into a profit-making venture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-pandit-migrants-body-alleges-sinister-moves-to-thrust-outsiders-on-j-k-s-industrial-ventures/story-iXWxeSbekN42v29ccjnAxO.html
23-06-2020||City||Amid border tensions, HP villages close to China grappling with poor phone connectivity||At a time when tensions between China and India have flared up, poor cellular connectivity in the tribal villages of Kinnaur, especially those close to the international border, has become a concern for the residents.Days after the violent face-off between India and China in Galwan Valley of Ladakh, the authorities have suspended mobile services in border areas of Kinnaur district, including Namgia village, which is just 13km from the international border.Signal issues are also being witnessed in Chango, Shalkar, Sumra Hango, Kunu Charnag and Asang Nesang villages.Bharatiya Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) is the main mobile phone service provider in these villages. In Shalkar, Jio had erected a mobile relay tower but left the work halfway after the lockdown was enforced. Other mobile service providers are yet to start erecting their towers.“Government talks high of digital India, but our plight is still worse. The country has reached the moon, but we are still lacking internet connectivity in the region,” said Puran Chand, head of Kunnu Charnag panchayat.“We were already reeling under Covid-19, and now due to India-China standoff, things are tense at Kinnaur border. Children in border villages are unable to attend their online classes and complete their home work and assignments in the absence of internet connection,” says Hishey Negi of district disaster management authority.Apart from this, due to low subscription rate and high spectrum cost, not many private cellular companies are keen on expanding their network in the region. Therefore, the government has urged BSNL to increase its mobile towers in the district.The army has also been pressing for upgrading the communication network, particularly in Shalkar and Chango villages, located close to the China border.Several army garrisons are located in remote and tribal areas of the district, and due to heavy snowfall, electricity supply often gets disrupted. As a result, they have to rely on diesel-run generators to meet their electricity needs and operate the communication systems.When contacted, Kinnaur deputy commissioner Gopal Chand said the Indo-Tibetan Border Police and Indian Army are manning the border areas of the district. “The district administration is in constant touch with the military authorities and ensuring that there is no dearth of essential commodities in the border villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-border-tensions-hp-villages-close-to-china-grappling-with-poor-phone-connectivity/story-XB3GmvSL2ZfDhmIMKOu37K.html
23-06-2020||Lucknow||UP sets out to hire consultant to achieve $1 trillion economy||The state planning department has begun the process to hire a consultant for the challenging task of boosting the state’s economy to the targeted $1 trillion by 2025. The department has floated a RFP (request for proposal) for selection of a consultant “to boost up the size of GSDP (gross state domestic product) of UP to $1 trillion in five years.”The department, in the RFP document, says: “It would be a challenging task to boost the size of the GSDP by nearly five times to attain the target of $1 trillion, which is in alignment with the central government’s target of making India a $5 trillion economy in the same time frame.”“We have invited eBids for providing consultancy services and the pre-bid meeting is scheduled on June 29,” said a senior state government officer. He added: “The bid submission start date was June 19 and the technical eBids will be opened on July 22.”The department said: “This Herculean task demands some giant steps to be taken by the state government.”Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state and contributes 8% of the national GDP. The state’s GSDP has already touched $230 billion (Rs 15.80 lakh crore). The state’s current growth rate is 7% and it will require raising it substantially for which a significant increase in the investment rate will be needed, besides improvement in basic infrastructure, the RFP document says.The consultant will have to do critical analysis of macro and micro economic sectoral data around GSDP, trade, investment, expenditure, saving, workforce participation, inflation, import and export between the four fiscals -- 2016 to 2020. The consultant will also have to compare the structural, institutional, financial and governance reforms carried out and outcomes achieved in top the three states of the country and top three countries across the world, with similarities to UP. Then it will have to develop a strategic framework for achieving the target, create implementation roadmap and design institutional reforms, also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-sets-out-to-hire-consultant-to-achieve-1-trillion-economy/story-39twTn6ha3EEz3O6CgplxI.html
23-06-2020||City||4 men held for creating ruckus in Ludhiana’s containment zone||Four residents of Prem Nagar, which has been declared a containment zone due to Covid-19 cases, have been arrested for creating ruckus in front of the house of a 50-year-old man of the locality and threatening him.The man had allegedly helped the police in installing barricades after Prem Nagar was declared a containment zone and the accused had held him responsible for barricading in the colony and restriction on their movement.The arrested have been identified as Sikandar Kuchawa of Islam Gunj, Gobind Chitara of Prem Nagar, Subhash Chauhan and Makhan Dabi. Their accomplices have yet to be identified.A case was registered against the accused following a statement of victim Dinesh Kumar.In his complaint, Dinesh said he helped the police in installing barricades after Prem Nagar was declared a containment zone.He said, “On Monday afternoon, he heard noise outside his home. When he came out of the house, he saw the accused, along with their accomplices huddling outside his home. They held him responsible for declaring the area as a containment zone and restricting their movement.”Dinesh Kumar also alleged that the accused were also not wearing masks.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Brij Lal, investigating the case, said, on being informed, the police reached the spot and found the accused huddled on the spot.A case under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-men-held-for-creating-ruckus-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zone/story-4VcCHdgUCIih1oMfe9AvUP.html
23-06-2020||City||Poll code violation case: Unable to meet Sidhu, Bihar cops paste notice on gate||AMRITSAR Unable to have an audience with Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu for six days, two cops from Bihar pasted the poll code violation notice they had come to serve at the gate of the former cricketer’s house. A case was registered against Sidhu in Bihar’s Katihar district in April 2019 on the direction of election commission after he allegedly sought votes in the name of religion at an election rally in Barsoi.Sub-inspectors Janardan Ram and Javed Ahmad reached the city on June 17 for serving the notice and granting him bail. Both have been trying to meet Sidhu at his residence-cum-office at a private township here and are being told by the staff to wait.“We waited for many days. We handed the notice over to the personal assistant of Sidhu as well on June 19, but he did not follow it up. Even Sidhu’s office staff stopped us to stay at the door of the house. So, we affixed the notice on the wall outside as per rules and regulations,” said Javed.The cops said they were to grant Sidhu bail for which his signatures are required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poll-code-violation-case-unable-to-meet-sidhu-bihar-cops-paste-notice-on-gate/story-09vXypkR5ggbndfl33JhML.html
23-06-2020||City||ASHA workers in Himachal to get ₹2,000 incentive for their work amid Covid-19: Jai Ram||The accredited social health activists (ASHA) workers in Himachal Pradesh have played a key role in the battle against Covid-19 and the state government has decided to give them ₹2,000 incentive for June and July, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday. He was addressing the ASHA workers via video-conferencing from Shimla. “Himachal Pradesh has effectively fought Covid-19 and ASHA workers have played a pivotal role in the implementation of preventive measures,” the CM said. He said the ASHA workers not only helped in detecting people with influenza-like illness symptoms, but also in effective implementation of quarantine norms.The Active Case Finding Campaign launched by the state government was also appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CM added. He said the ASHA workers are also educating the masses regarding importance of social distancing and use of face masks to prevent spread of virus.”They also sensitized people in home quarantine to strictly follow the norms to ensure that they and their family members remain safe,” he added. The CM said the state government has succeeded in checking community spread and the credit goes to the ASHA workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asha-workers-in-himachal-to-get-2-000-incentive-for-their-work-amid-covid-19-jai-ram/story-fDYLkHxE0V6h3tcVHPbmaI.html
23-06-2020||Pune||SPPU, IISER to conduct epidemiological survey in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will undertake an epidemiological and serological surveillance project in the city within the civic limits.The project will be undertaken by researchers at the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune.As of Sunday, the city’s Covid tally reached 12,474 and the overall death toll was at 510.According to officials, the data from the survey will help the civic body in decision making and planning.Dr Aarti Nagarkar, director, SPPU’s Interdisciplinary school of health sciences, said, “The survey will help us understand how many people have developed antibodies against Covid-19 infection. This proportion is important because this will give us an idea about the level of herd immunity in the community.”“In phase 1 only in high-risk areas will be covered, where the proportion of cases to the population is high. For this, we have selected randomly five wards out of the 11 high-risk wards currently in Pune city. From this wards, we have identified 61 different locations and from each location, we will be collecting data of 25 random people around the location above the age of 18,” said Dr Nagarkar.“During the project, we have a one-page questionnaire which includes questions like travel history, contact with infected people, among others. We will also be collecting 5ml blood of the persons,” said Dr Nagarkar.“The actual work of the survey will start in next 15 days. Currently, we are recruiting people for the same and the team will be of 20 people,” she added.“We are doing this project under the guidance of SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar,” she added.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “The findings will provide an insight into the effectiveness of measures and initiatives taken by PMC to combat with Covid-19. It will help us to make appropriate decisions.”The project will be funded by Persistent Systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-iiser-to-conduct-epidemiological-survey-in-pune/story-VWqScGqxNh5stAaCwbhyLM.html
23-06-2020||City||Chit fund scam: Seven booked for duping people of ₹2.75 crore in Himachal||Police on Tuesday booked seven people, including two from Fazilka of Punjab, for duping residents of Himachal Pradesh of ₹2.75 crore in a chit fund scam. Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan said a case was registered under Sections 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (act done in furtherance of common intention) on a complaint filed by assistant registrar of co-operative society Pratyush Chauhan on June 21. The accused were identified as Sucharu Bedi, Tamanna Bedi and Anmol, residents of Fazilka, Punjab; Manish Guleria and Ritika Sood of Dharamshala, Amit Kumar of Pathiyar village and Rakesh Kumar of Garh Sukkar of Kangra. In a ponzi scam, fraudsters lure people to invest small amounts of money in schemes, offering alluring rate of return. Such schemes usually target gullible investors and in this specific scheme, investors were promised 19% interest rate. The scam was run under the name of Sarv Manglam Cooperative Society Non-Trading Company, which is registered in Dharamshala. The investors filed complaints against the company management after they stopped getting returns around 10 months ago. The accused made lame excuses to repay the money and closed the social media accounts. Meanwhile, the registrar cooperative society has seized bank accounts of the company and a complete audit is being done. As per sources, total investments may be more than ₹5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chit-fund-scam-seven-booked-for-duping-people-of-2-75-crore-in-himachal/story-XnsN1DXK9FVlC7QbE3ITxK.html
23-06-2020||Lucknow||We should have won gold at Jakarta: Vandana Katariya||With over 200 international goals, Indian women’s hockey forward Vandana Katariya’s hunger for success is well-known. Gold medalist at the 2017 Asia Cup and a silver and bronze medalist at the Asian Games, a former inmate of the Girls Hockey Hostel in Lucknow Vandana has been recommended for the Arjuna award by Hockey India though, she still rues the missed chances, which could have fetched India its maiden gold, at the Jakarta Asian Games in 2018. She spoke about her success journey with the Indian team so far.Excerpts:How did you feel after your hit was thwarted twice by the Japanese goalkeeper in the Jakarta Asian Games final, which India lost?It was tough to digest. We should have won gold and qualified for the Tokyo Olympics directly. I had sleepless nights because of the chances I missed, but the senior players, Rani and Savita, told me that this happens in sport and it wasn’t entirely my fault as everything depends on how the team is playing. However, it was great to qualify for the Olympics after defeating USA in the FIH Olympic Qualifiers. Clinching an Olympic berth in front of the home crowd was magical.What did you do to keep yourself mentally strong during the lockdown at Bengaluru?I think maintaining our fitness level has played a huge role in helping us stay mentally strong during this period. Our scientific advisor Wayne Lombard has devised some fitness schedules, which have been a blessing during this tough time. We were fortunate to be staying at the Sports Authority of India campus. We are a very positive unit and all the players and coaches have kept the spirits up among the group.Was it difficult to stay calm when there were no activities and players were apprehensive about COVID 19?We have carried out a host of activities during this period. It was great to have some time to focus on our hobbies such as reading and drawing. We watched footage of matches as well to get a sense of the techniques we need to improve on. Luckily, we found ways to keep ourselves busy and that helped to deal with the apprehension of the situation. I enjoyed the Hockey India Level ‘Basic’ Coaching Course online. It was fantastic to know about the history of the game and go through the rules of hockey.The Indian women’s team has been doing well, but don’t you feel the team needs to play more attacking hockey?I think we have improved our attacking game after chief coach Sjoerd Marijne has joined us. He has focused on improving our fitness levels and ensured we attack aggressively. However, being a good defensive side is equally important. If our defense is rock-solid then we have a chance to be more attacking and subsequently create more scoring opportunities. We have to work hard to maintain a balance in the side which helps the evolvement of the entire team.You have been named for the Arjuna award…It is fantastic to be nominated for the Arjuna Award. It’s a huge honour for me. I have been able to perform consistently only because of my teammates. They have always been there for me through ups and downs. How were your days at the Lucknow hockey hostel?I used to play hockey at the Roshnabad stadium in Haridwar before moving to the hostel in Lucknow. Unfortunately, we didn’t have a lot of facilities for hockey in Roshnabad at that time so it was great to start practicing in Lucknow where the facilities were much better. However, we still practiced on grass pitches in Lucknow, so it was a bit difficult to get used to the Astroturf, once I started moving up the ranks. But now we carry out most of our practice during national camps, so it’s great for me. I value my time in the Lucknow hostel. I honed my skills there and I have been able to achieve great heights only because of practicing there.Your take on the improving hockey standard in UP?Hockey has grown in Uttar Pradesh since the time I joined the Indian team. Many young girls from my village and nearby places like Aurangabad have started playing the sport. I have noticed that a majority of the players who have taken up hockey in that area are girls. Hockey has been one of the popular sports in UP as one of the greatest players in the history of the game, Major Dhyan Chand, is from our state. I am sure the game will grow even more in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/we-should-have-won-gold-at-jakarta-vandana-katariya/story-GLrRJ46aB818AkQx3ibxWO.html
23-06-2020||City||Abduction case against ex-DGP Saini: Hearing on plea seeking transfer of case deferred to June 29||Mohali The district and sessions court of Mohali on Tuesday deferred to June 29 the hearing on an application seeking transfer of case against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini from the court of additional district and sessions judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal. The case pertains to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh.On Tuesday, Saini filed his reply through his counsel HS Dhanoa.In his reply Saini alleged that the application for transfer of case is not maintainable and must be dismissed. “We have filed our reply and the sessions court adjourned the case for June 29 for the arguments. We have prayed before the court that the transfer application is not maintainable and requested the court to dismiss the same,” Dhanoa said.The application for transfer of case was filed after ADJ Monika Goyal’s court allowed interim bail to Saini in anticipation of the SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to the earlier FIR.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abduction-case-against-ex-dgp-saini-hearing-on-plea-seeking-transfer-of-case-deferred-to-june-29/story-svwUv7R0dzkgg2IJhraDSP.html
23-06-2020||Kolkata||Bengal private bus operators demand fare hike due to diesel price hike, Covid restrictions||Private bus operators of West Bengal on Tuesday demanded immediate hike in fares owing to mounting diesel cost and Covid-19 related restrictions on the number of passengers that each bus can carry.Joint Council of Bus Syndicate’s General Secretary Tapan Banerjee said that the passenger transport business in West Bengal is facing a “natural death” owing to the situation where revenue from tickets sales is far lower than daily fuel cost.“In addition to this, there are other expenses like staff salary, insurance, road tax and bank EMI,” Banerjee said.He said that the state governments stipulation that only seating capacity passengers can be allowed to board a bus has led to a huge reduction in income.Now, the rising fuel prices are a further blow to the already ailing passenger transport business, Banerjee said.“In the present situation, bus fares need to be increased immediately. Otherwise, operators of private buses, who provide the bulk of passenger transportation facilities in the state, will have no choice but to take their vehicles off the roads,” he said.State transport undertakings the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), North Bengal State Transport Corporation and the South Bengal State Transport Corporation - are also suffering because of a huge gap in daily income from ticket sales and expenditure, an official said.The WBTC is, at present, plying buses in 135 routes in the city and the suburbs, the official said.Various private bus operators’ associations in West Bengal last week met an expert committee set up by the state government to discuss demands made by them, including a fare hike, for the survival of the private passenger transport business.The operators told the committee that running private buses with only seating capacity passengers as mandated by the government for maintaining social distancing norms, and rising fuel costs are causing operating losses for the owners, General Secretary of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity, Rahul Chatterjee, said.The associations also asked for waiver of road tax during the lockdown period when no income was generated, saying it is difficult for the owners to pay it.Chatterjee said they have other expenses to meet such as bank EMI and vehicle insurance.The expert committee, which was set up on June 5, has been asked to submit its report to the government within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-private-bus-operators-demand-fare-hike-due-to-diesel-price-hike-covid-restrictions/story-hiBKjwtI3oxgtm8hngYinO.html
23-06-2020||City||Protesters of Chinese products booked for violating prohibition order in Pimpri||PUNE: The police booked at least eight persons for staging a rally in protest of Chinese products in Pimpri on Monday afternoon.Two of the protestors have been identified as Nitin Vatkar and Kunal Sathe.“They held a rally to promote boycott of Chinese products. They raised slogans and broke old cellphones,” said inspector (crime) Rajendra Nikalje of Pimpri police station.The protest was held in the light of the rising sentiment against Chinese products due to the Galwan Valley face-off that claimed lives of 20 Indian soldiers on June 15.The protestors were booked as per the order of Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner prohibiting assembly of more than four persons. The police are yet to arrested any of them. A case under Sections 188 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesters-of-chinese-products-booked-for-violating-prohibition-order-in-pimpri/story-LR2Or66WE2zOFRvqRWrH4M.html
23-06-2020||City||Himachal likely to receive heavy rainfall from June 24 to 29||Himachal Pradesh is likely to be lashed by heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms, hailstorms, lightning and gusty winds, as the state’s meterological department has issued an orange warning for Shimla, Solan, Sirmaur, Mandi, Kangra and Chamba districts and yellow warning for Kullu, Una, Hamirpur and Bilaspur districts for June 24.A yellow weather warning for Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts has also been issued for June 25. An orange warning signifies heavy rainfall and advises people to stay alert. State MeT director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to continue throughout the state till June 29 after which the weather will be dry.The state received rain at isolated places during the last 24 hours. Minimum temperatures were one to two degrees above normal and maximum temperatures were one to two degrees below normal.Maximum temperature in Shimla was 25.7°C and 16.4°C in Kufri. Prominent hill stations including Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 29.6°C, 28.6°C and 20.8°C respectively.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 31.5°C, 34.0°C, 33.8°C and 30.9°C maximum temperatures respectively. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest at 10.8°C while Una was the hottest at 37.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-likely-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-from-june-24-to-29/story-KX4jqftpxN1T13lJuAwnnJ.html
23-06-2020||City||L-G conducts whirlwind tour of Purmandal-Utterbehni area in J&K’s Samba district||Lieutenant Governor, Girish Chandra Murmu on Tuesday conducted a whirlwind tour of Purmandal- Utterbehni area in Samba district.He was accompanied by Samba deputy commissioner Rohit Khajuria, SSP Shakti Pathak and other senior officers.After remaining a subject of abject neglect at the hands of successive Kashmir centric regimes, the Centre’s assurance of holistically developing the two ancient pilgrimages of Purmandal and Uttarbehni has rekindled a ray of hope among people.In January, the Surinsar Mansar Development Authority of Jammu and Kashmir administration had prepared a detailed project report (DPR) of ₹50 crore.During his visit, Murmu enquired about the project for the development of the Purmandal-Utterbehni religious tourism circuit. It was informed that the project with an estimated cost of ₹50 crore under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) has been submitted to the Centre for approval and funding.Murmu said that the UT administration is laying a special focus on the development of the places of spiritual and religious importance and called for synergised efforts by all stakeholders in this direction.Amid the prevailing situation due to Covid-19 pandemic, the religious places have been closed down for the devotees, but soon after the situation gets normal, the government will expedite the development process of religious places, he added.He said that the development of religious places like Purmandal and Utterbehni will attract more tourists which will ultimately give a fillip to the economy of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-conducts-whirlwind-tour-of-purmandal-utterbehni-area-in-j-k-s-samba-district/story-gOih89rICFonVHAfRQWBfK.html
23-06-2020||Pune||MPs’ report card: Pune district’s LS reps first in nation for raising questions||PUNE Three out of four members of parliament (MPs) from Pune district have remained in the top-five ranking for raising issues in the Lok Sabha during 2019-20, according to a report by city-based non-profit organisation (NGO) Parivartan.The NGO released a “report card” for 543 MPs across the country for the year 2019-20 on Monday.Supriya Sule, MP, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) from Baramati,took the top position for raising 212 questions in the Lok Sabha.Subhash Bhamare, BJP MP from Dhule, stood second in the country and asked 202 questions, while Amol Kolhe, NCP MP from Shirur, asked 202 questions.The MP in fourth spot is Pune’s Girish Bapat.The performance of these MPs was judged based on five parameters – attendance, number of questions asked, participating in debates, bills presented and utilisation of MP local area development (LAD) fund.Tanmay Kanitkar, project coordinator, Parivartan, said, “We have made the report card based on information available on government and parliament websites. All this information is available on authorised websites loksabha.nic.in and mplads.gov.in website.”Parivartan’s Ankita Abhyankar and Sayali Dodke were part of the team involved in preparing the report.As per the report, among those in Maharashtra who asked maximum questions are three MPs from Pune district, one from Mumbai and one from Dhule. Besides Sule, Kolhe and Maval MP Shrirang Barne, Dhule MP Bhamare and north Mumbai MP Gajanan Kirtikar also made the list.Though for participating in discussions, none of the Maharashtra MPs were among the first five nationally.Gopal Shetty from Mumbai has been ranked first for presenting private bills. He presented nine bills, according to Parivartan.As per the data available, a total of three parliament sessions were held this year and the House ran for 80 days. “At least 26 MPs from various parties remained present for all 80 days, which is satisfactory,” said Kanitkar.Top five MPs from state who raised maximum questionsFirst three MPs are also first in the country, according to the report by ParivartanMP/ Party/ LS constituency/ question numbersSupriya Sule/NCP/Baramati/212Subhash Bhamare/BJP/Dhule/202Amol Kolhe/NCP/Shirur/202Gajanan Kirtikar/Shiv Sena/Mumbai North-western/195Srirang Barne/ Shiv Sena/ Maval/194||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mps-report-card-pune-district-s-ls-reps-first-in-nation-for-raising-questions/story-r9KJXquEyoxaCLHKthAscJ.html
23-06-2020||Pune||77 unauthorised constructions identified as one of the reasons for Pune flash floods 2019 still stand||One hundred mm of rain in two hours in September 2019 set the Ambil Odha up to burst its banks and overflow. In a detailed post-mortem of the scenario in the aftermath of the devastating flash floods that killed 26 and destroyed property along the banks of the stream, it was found that illegal encroachments and unauthorised structures on, and along the stream, were a key factor in causing the flash floods.Nine months later, the monsoon has arrived in the city, on schedule, and most unauthorised structures are still standing. The situation, according to activists and local residents, is a perfect mix for inviting “havoc” again.After the floods, which caused a loss of Rs 400 crore, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed a private firm, Pri-Move, to survey the stream. The firm identified 77 structures alongside the Ambil Odha which aggravated the floods. A separate committee of environmental activists and residents then prepared a report pointing to specific unauthorised constructions that contributed to the floods.Based on the Pri-Move report, the PMC served notices to all 77 unauthorised structures and razed 12 of them.“We had served notices to the 77 unauthorised structures which surfaced in the report and 12 such structures have been demolished so far. Action has been taken based on the recommendations made in the report,” said PMC’s engineering superintendent Rajendra Raut.Civic activists, however, questioned the PMC figure of 77 unauthorised structures along the Ambil Odha.“This is definitely not an honest assessment as 77 is too low a number. The illegal tenements are linked to a deeper nexus, which makes effective action difficult,” said RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar.Besides the PMC’s survey, a group of environmental activists independently surveyed a four-kilometre stretch, starting from Katraj lake till Sahakarnagar. The group, known as ‘Bhavtal’, found that illegal encroachments along with garbage had choked drains that created a hindrance to the flow of water during the floods.“Most illegal structures have been there for years and some of them were found to be the main obstacles to free flowing water,” said Abhijit Ghorpade, founder of Bhavtal, “Things cannot improve unless effective steps are taken for encroachment removal from the nallah beds by the PMC.”Stream width the hurdleThe Pune development plan (DP) of 1987 states that the width of Ambil Odha is 18 metres and permission for construction was granted accordingly.During its survey, Pri-Move considered the width of the stream as 20 metres, and used it as a baseline to calculate which structures were unauthorised.“In 2020, the width used in the survey became a legal issue with the PMC finding it difficult to take action against illegal structures due to political pressure,” said a PMC official, requesting anonymity.Civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad disagreed. “It’s not that PMC is not acting against unauthorised structures and illegal encroachments. We have already initiated the action before the monsoon; though because of the Covid pandemic now the focus has shifted. We plan to resume action once the Covid tide subsides,” said Gaikwad.Ground realityLocal corporators are squarely blaming the civic body for the inaction, citing “corruption”.The NCP’s Ashwini Kadam, corporator of Dhankawdi- Sahakarnagar, said, “It is the rampant corruption in PMC which has caused rolling back of tenders and inaction for the past one year against such structures. The monsoon has already set in and there is every possibility of flooding in the area.”Residents of areas affected by the 2019 flash floods agree. Shantanu Khilare, a resident of Gururaj Society in Sahakarnagar said, “These structures blocked the flow of water which led to the flooding of our residential societies. The PMC sat idle for an entire year and now the officials are saying that they are facing the Covid crisis.”Dhananjay Gaikwad, a resident of the Dandekar bridge area claimed that the PMC cannot evict residents from the tenements as they had voter IDs and paid taxes. “Any action by the PMC against the slums will destroy their homes and livelihoods and lead to a humanitarian crisis,” Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/77-unauthorised-constructions-identified-as-one-of-the-reasons-for-pune-flash-floods-2019-still-stand/story-tSQR4yOhSBtZUGywbhzBfI.html
23-06-2020||Pune||PMC to review containment zone lists every week||The spurt of Covid-19 cases in the city, 620 on Sunday, has moved the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to review its containment zones every seven days, instead of the current 15 days.The PMC has also decided to bear the costs of all Covid-19 tests it commissions to private laboratories.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, along with Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar and district collector Naval Kishore Ram, held a joint press conference on Monday, where Gaikwad announced that the civic body has also changed its strategy for reviewing containment zones.“As per the existing policy, PMC is taking the review of containment zones every 15 days, but as the numbers are increase rapidly in non-containment zones, a review will be taken every week. This way, we will announce new containment zones every week,” said Gaikwad.PMC also plans to restrict the entry of citizens at its headquarters, with more employees are testing positive.“I have given instructions to the security guard not to allow citizens into the headquarters. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has also banned visitors to its headquarters,” Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-review-containment-zone-lists-every-week/story-heRnRIarQqltLaXe3pMfwL.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Employees cannot seek enforcement of ‘normal’ employment terms: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a petition claiming that the Air Force Civil Cooks are being forced to stay away from their homes for 28 days in a month observing that employees cannot seek the enforcement of “normal” employment terms amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.A division bench of Justice Rajiv Sahay Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon said that it appears that the petition has been filed without regard to the prevalent circumstances and the large-scale loss of employment and hardships being faced by those without assurance of employment.“The members of the petitioner though having a surety of employment are making grievances of inconveniences allegedly being suffered by them, again forgetting that the members of the petitioner, as cooks, if permitted to return to their respective residences after duty hours every day, are likely to bring with them the Covid-19 infection, when reporting back for duty, endangering the personnel of the Air Force,” the bench said in its order on Monday.“They cannot thus seek enforcement of employment terms as in the normal time when the entire country is going through abnormal times,” the bench said while dismissing the plea.The court was hearing a plea, filed by All India Association of Air Force Civil Cooks, claiming that the cooks are being made to reside at the Air Force Stations of their posting and a roster of 14+14+7 is being followed.“For the first 14 days they are kept in quarantine; for the next 14 days they are made to work as cooks and thereafter they are given seven days at home in which they visit their respective residences and thereafter again report to work,” the plea had submitted.It contended that it is not the term of their employment that they will be made to so stay away from their respective families and added that they are not being treated as ‘Corona Warriors’ and being thus not conferred benefits to which ‘Corona Warriors’ are entitled.The plea sought directions to allow the employees to be quarantined for 14 days at their respective residences.The court, however, observed that petition seeking to permit the members of the petitioner to home quarantine is again without application of mind as to how many members of the family are there, what kind of residential accommodation is available and whether home quarantine is even possible for each of the members.The suggestion made during the hearing, of the members of the petitioner being made to work in the kitchens wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is again totally illogical and without knowledge of conditions in the kitchen and the viability of using PPE, the court held.“We are also unable to see as to how the civilian cooks of the Air Force who are during the hearing described as Group ‘C’ non-industrial employees of Air Force, are entitled to be treated as ‘Corona Warriors’ and entitled to benefits thereof,” the order said.It said that while working in the kitchen at the Air Force Stations, the members of the petitioner cannot be said to be exposed in any manner to the coronavirus to claim themselves to be “frontline workers”.Meanwhile, the court also enquired from the counsel for the Centre, why the members of the petitioners cannot be made to reside at the respective stations for a longer period to reduce the time spent in quarantine.It also asked the counsel for the respondents whether a better arrangement can be worked out or the charges for the meals be dispensed on the petitioner’s grievance that they, while being made to reside at the stations, are charged for their meals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/employees-cannot-seek-enforcement-of-normal-employment-terms-delhi-hc/story-uqNUXnwqI2hhvQVcMJPxHK.html
23-06-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka caps Covid-19 treatment tariffs in private hospitals,reserves beds||Karnataka government has fixed private hospitals’ Covid treatment price under multiple packages and ordered them to reserve 50 per cent of the beds for cases referred by public health authorities, an official said on Tuesday.“Fifty per cent of the beds in private hospitals having facilities to treat Covid patients shall be reserved for the treatment of patients referred by public health authorities,” said Chief Secretary T. M. Vijay Bhaskar.The reserved 50 per cent beds will include both HDU and ICU beds equipped with and without ventilators while the hospitals may utilize the remaining 50 per cent beds to admit Covid patients privately who are not referred by public authorities.The beds will be counted irrespective of the fact whether they are located in general, sharing or private wards.According to the tariffs fixed by the government, package rate per day for patients referred by public authorities in the general ward will cost Rs 5,200, HDU (Rs 7,000), Isolation ICU without ventilator (Rs 8,500) and Isolation ICU with ventilator (Rs 10,000).In case of patients joining private hospitals directly without being referred by public authorities, making cash payment and falling under the non-insurance category, the price has been fixed at Rs 10,000 per day for general ward.Daily charges for HDU admissions, Rs 12,000, Isolation ICU without ventilator (Rs 15,000) and Isolation ICU with ventilator (Rs 25,000).All the package prices will be inclusive of personal protective equipment (PPEs) while other consumables charges will be added.These tariffs will not apply to patients who have subscribed to insurance packages as well as agreements entered into between hospitals and corporates.“The package rate ceilings for private patients are for general wards or multi-sharing wards. An additional 10 per cent may be charged for twin sharing and 25 per cent more for single rooms. There will be no ceiling for suites,” said Bhaskar.Public authorities authorized to refer patients to private hospitals include BBMP commissioner in Bengaluru Rural and Urban and respective deputy commissioners in the districts.In case of an eventuality or unforeseen complications such as surgeries, comorbidities and pregnancies in the patients, additional packages under AB-ArK will apply.In view of the prevailing unprecedented pandemic, all Covid patients belonging to the BPL and APL categories, migrant labourers and interstate returnees without PDS cards shall be considered eligible.The Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust will be the nodal agency to settle the claims arising out of the treatment in public hospitals referred by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-caps-covid-19-treatment-tariffs-in-private-hospitals-reserves-beds/story-4331EoOuM0mIL3Dp6NHwYJ.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||748 Indians stranded in Pak to return from June 25 via Wagah||About 748 Indians, including 402 students from Kashmir, who were stranded in Pakistan due to the Covid-19 outbreak, will return from the Attari Wagah border, 32 km from Amritsar over three days from June 25, it has been learnt. Three batches, the first two with 250 persons and the rest in the third, will be returning over three days from Thursday to Saturday, Amritsar administration officials have said. A team of about six doctors will be at the border to screen them at the integrated check post (ICP) at Attari which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, and movement of passengers from Pakistan to India and vice-versa. Officials of customs, immigration, Border Security Force (BSF) and Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) have reportedly held several meetings to ensure all health department safety measures are followed while allowing the Indians back into the country. The groups will include 402 students from Kashmir who have been studying in various universities of Pakistan. Others, on pilgrimage to various religious spots or visiting relatives, include 70 persons from Gujarat; 61 from Maharashtra, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 38 from Rajasthan, 36 from Punjab, 26 from Delhi, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Haryana, 11 from Telangana, six each from Karnataka and Chandigarh, five from Chhattisgarh, four from Tamil Nadu, three from West Bengal, two each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and one from Bihar. Himanshu Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner (ADC-general), Amritsar, said the Kashmiri students will be escorted to their state by Jammu and Kashmir government officials: Assistant directors Amir Chaudhary and Muneeb Umar of the hospitality and protocol department. The others will be quarantined in Amritsar for the next 14 days. Earlier, on May 27, the Indian government had facilitated the return of 179 Pakistanis to their country through the land border. They were stranded in various states of India due to the Covid-19 lockdown. After restrictions were partially lifted 400 Pakistanis again returned home from the Wagah border. On March 14, India had suspended cross-border movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border after the Covid-19 outbreak. Pakistan closed its borders on March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/748-indians-stranded-in-pak-to-return-from-june-25-via-wagah/story-ffgEEW8mYNuSOwDTK7sP1I.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab eases lockdown norms for restaurants, hotels, allows dine-in with 50% occupancy||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Tuesday relaxed the lockdown conditions for restaurants, hotels and other hospitality services.In fresh guidelines for the phased reopening of businesses, the department of home affairs allowed dine-in facility at restaurants till 8pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less, from June 24, provided they comply with social distancing and other guidelines prescribed by the Union health ministry in the standard operating procedure (SOP) to contain the spread of Covid-19.So far, standalone restaurants were permitted to remain open till 8pm for takeaway and home delivery.Restaurants in hotels have been permitted to serve food, including buffet meals, up to 50% of their seating capacity, said additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra.Restaurants would also be open to persons other than hotel guests but the timings, for both the hotel guests and persons from outside would be till 8pm, read the revised guidelines sent to all district civil and police chiefs, administrative secretaries and divisional commissioners across the state.Though bars will remain closed, liquor can be served in the rooms and restaurants as permitted under the excise policy of the state.Similarly, wedding functions, social functions and ‘open-air’ parties have been allowed in banquet halls, marriage palaces, hotels and open venues can be organised up to 50 people. The number of guests excluding catering staff would not exceed 50 people, according to the revised guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-eases-lockdown-norms-for-restaurants-hotels-allows-dine-in-with-50-occupancy/story-8HYEvNGBIwDEfDwkdoBsJJ.html
23-06-2020||Ranchi||Officials trace nine cases to Covid-19 patient, hit a wall||Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) district administration is now focussed at contact tracing to break the chain of coronavirus infection after nine persons have tested positive after coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient with unknown source of infection, officials said on Monday.“During contact tracing of Tata Steel’s Tube Division employee, who tested positive recently, it was found that nine more persons were also infected. His source of contracting coronavirus infection is still not known and our surveillance team is working hard to find it. He, however, has a medical history of visiting Tata Main Hospital (TMH) on June 6 and 10, before testing positive. There’s no threat of community transmission in the city as of now because that happens when the source of infection is conclusively not known of any positive patient,” Ravishankar Shukla, Jamshedpur deputy commissioner (DC), said Monday.Jamshedpur civil surgeon, Dr Maheshwar Prasad, however, said the Tube Division employee from Kamdhenu Apartment was still not revealing his travel and contact history.“It is still not known as to where or from whom he contacted the infection. We have deputed IDSP district nodal officer Dr Asad to trace his travel history, if any, and contacts so that his source of infection can be ascertained. Dr Asad met with him on Monday personally and we hope to have a breakthrough shortly,” said Dr Prasad.Jamshedpur had 322 Covid-19 patients, of which 172 have recovered so far , leaving 150 active cases till Sunday night.The said Covid-19 patient had tested positive on Wednesday after which samples of his family members were collected on Thursday and three of his relatives tested positive on Friday. “Three more Tube Division employees – found during the contact tracing exercise– tested positive on Saturday. Three relatives of these three Tube Division workers tested positive on Sunday, making it 10 patients on a single link,” added Dr Prasad.The administration has collected samples of the domestic maid working in the flat of N-1 Tube Division employee and contact tracing exercise was currently on for the two permanent Tube Division employees and a contract employee and their three relatives who tested positive on Sunday.Tube Division has also sealed the canteen, toilet and common passage used by these four positive employees for 48 hours.Among the 13 Covid-19 patients detected in Jamshedpur on Sunday, 10 didn’t have travel history, taking the total number of positive cases without travel history to 17 in the city.Two of the 13 positive patients on Sunday had a travel history of Delhi, while another had returned from Mumbai.Seven members of a family from Baheragora also tested positive on Sunday.One of the family members, however, has a travel history of Tamil Nadu and he was quarantined in Baragariya quarantine centre in Baheragora block of the district.His test report came positive after he was released from the quarantine centre following completion of 14-day quarantine period.All his six relatives were brought to the city late on Sunday night and admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Covid-19 ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/officials-trace-nine-cases-to-covid-19-patient-hit-a-wall/story-ydptnYcQsyMlcrvJfP1DyO.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Pregnant Jamia student Safoora Zargar granted bail in Delhi violence case||Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to a student of Jamia Millia Islamia who was charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the riots in northeast Delhi earlier this year.Safoora Zargar, an MPhil student, was granted bail on a personal and surety bond of Rs 10,000. The high court said Zargar shall not indulge in activities for which she is being investigated and will also refrain from influencing, hampering and interfering in the ongoing probe.In case she requires to leave the city, she will seek the permission of the concerned court, it said. She will also have to remain in touch with the investigation officer over the phone once in 15 days.Zargar approached the court seeking bail on the ground that she is pregnant and has severe medical complications.On Monday, the Delhi Police asked the high court for a day to “seek instructions” on Zargar’s bail plea.Justice Rajiv Shakdher, hearing the case through a video conference, allowed this after Zargar’s counsel said she has no objection to it.The police claimed in the court that Zargar is not entitled to bail on the grounds of pregnancy as the law does not make any distinction in this regard.Police told the court that Delhi’s jails have had many pregnant inmates and that 39 deliveries have taken place inside the prison in the past 10 years.She was arrested on April 10 for allegedly conspiring with other persons to instigate and start riots in northeast Delhi. At least 53 people had died and 400 others were injured in the riots in February. Zargar earlier told the court she was only part of the protests and has denied the police allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-violence-jamia-student-safoora-zargar-granted-bail/story-SOWaOJniFY7yia74O7uvmJ.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Twelve people test positive for Covid-19 in Moga, Faridkot||Eleven people, including six relatives of a cancer patient who had succumbed to the deadly virus on June 18, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Moga district on Tuesday.Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Kaur said one Punjab Police personnel, one female migrant labourer, two Holland returnees and one person who had returned from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh had tested positive. “Among the six relatives of the deceased Covid-19 positive patient, three are residents of Moga, two of Ludhiana and one of Jalandhar,” she said. Eight patients have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Moga civil hospital while others are isolated in Ludhiana and Jalandhar. COP TESTS POSITIVE IN FARIDKOT One Punjab Police commando, who was posted in Ludhiana and had returned home a couple of days ago, tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “We have initiated contact tracing. The patient has been admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot. He had also visited Amritsar last week. His sample was collected at Patiala.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/twelve-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga-faridkot/story-XdNO8PhbxPfgaDJVEaKS9N.html
23-06-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren seeks Jaishankar’s help in bringing body of state resident from Dubai||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday urged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to facilitate bringing the body of a Bokaro resident, who died in an accident in Dubai.Soren approached the External Affairs Minister after he was informed by the family of the deceased that he died in an accident recently in Dubai during the lockdown, a press release from the Chief Ministers Office said.The family members informed the chief minister that they were waiting for the body of, Mohammad Zahid Akhtar, to perform the last rites.He was working as a labourer in Dubai, the family members said.Soren also asked Bokaro Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar to coordinate with the Ministry of External Affairs and lend the family members all necessary support, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-seeks-jaishankar-s-help-in-bringing-body-of-state-resident-from-dubai/story-iUfVzWlKZr9fDIQfhs56HN.html
23-06-2020||Ranchi||42 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally goes up to 2,140||Forty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,140, a government bulletin said.Sixty-three people recovered from Covid-19 in the state on Monday and were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 1,469, it said.Of the total 2,140 Covid-19 cases, 660 are active as 1,469 have recovered and 11 have died of the coronavirus.Out of the 11 Covid-19 fatalities, four were reported from Ranchi, two from Bokaro and one each from Giridih, Gumla, Hazaribag, Koderma and Simdega, the bulletin said.It said that of the total 2,140 Covid-19 cases, 1,755 are migrants.Till date, 1,24,665 swab samples have been collected with 1,24,008 tests completed, the bulletin said. PTI PVR RG 06222246 ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/42-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-goes-up-to-2-140/story-YliB7OyjD9uOJOpuK7uS3M.html
23-06-2020||Bangalore||Elderly people account for 78.87 percent of Covid deaths in Karnataka: Minister||Over three fourths of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka were in the above 50 age group and people should take special care of their elderly relatives at home, state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday.“Elderly are most vulnerable to #Covid19. 16.24 per cent of total positive cases in Karnataka are of people above 50.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBut people above 50 constitute 78.87 per cent of total Covid deaths. I urge people to take special care of their elderly at home & ensure they stay home & stay safe,” Sudhakar tweeted. As per the state Covid-19 war room data released last evening, out of the 9,399 positive cases in the state, a total of 841 were between the age group of 50-60 years and 686 are above 60 years of age. Among the total 142 Covid related deaths so far in the state, the data showed 35 were of patients in the age group of 50-60, while 77 of them were above 60 years. The state, especially the capital city, has been witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases in the past several days, prompting the government to focus on strict implementation of lockdown in clusters with more cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/elderly-people-account-for-78-87-percent-of-covid-deaths-in-karnataka-minister/story-PDiGyaqEIRLFl6ID2vypXM.html
23-06-2020||Pune||8,900 labourers arrived in Pune in last few days: Collector||Over 8,900 labourers arrived in Pune in last few days and the labour department is monitoring the movement of migrant workers who are returning to the city, district Collector Naval Kishore Ram said.After the lockdown was enforced in March and Covid-19 cases started increasing in Maharashtra’s Pune district, scores of migrant labourers working here in various industrial belts, construction sites, hotels and othercommercial establishments went back to their native states.Following the resumption of rail services recently on some key routes, total 144 trains crossed the Pune railway station and nearly 23,000 passengers deboarded here, the collector told reporters on Monday.“Of the 23,000 passengers who deboarded at the Pune station, over 8,900 were identified as labourers belonging to various states,” he said.“Even if the numbers are not that big, the labour departmentis keeping a close watch on the movement of migrant labourers who are returning to the city,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/8-900-labourers-arrived-in-pune-in-last-few-days-collector/story-ZwSaP7tHJNog9PBedQqnnM.html
23-06-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to launch Indira Rasoi Yojna: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday announced that his government will soon launch the Indira Rasoi Yojna for the poor to ensure that ‘‘no one sleeps hungry’‘ in the state.Under this scheme, pure and nutritious food on concessional rates will be provided to the needy twice a day, the chief minister said.He said the state government will spend Rs 100 crore every year on the Indira Rasoi Yojna (Indira Kitchen Scheme).Local NGOs will also be roped in for the successful implementation of the scheme and its effective monitoring will be done with the help of information technology, Gehlot said.The chief minister was addressing a state-level inauguration meeting for the Covid-19 awareness campaign through video conference from his official residence. During the meeting, he launched five different types of posters, audio jingles and video films on the campaign.He also flagged-off five mobile vans loaded with publicity material and equipment for the awareness campaign by the National Health Mission and UNFPA. People from all over the state attended the virtual meet and listened to the chief minister’s message.The chief minister said the coronavirus pandemic was not yet over and, therefore, self-discipline and self-control is required to be safe and healthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-to-launch-indira-rasoi-yojna-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-iSK9MQWrO0nz4ZAV8mJf4O.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||ED raids premises of Delhi riots accused Tahir Hussain, several other places in money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday conducted raids at premises of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with money laundering probe in northeast Delhi riots earlier in February this year.The ED officials said that at least six premises in Delhi, Noida and few other locations in the national capital region were searched. The raids are aimed at collecting evidence in the case, they said.The agency in March had filed two cases to investigate the alleged funding of the Delhi riots - one against Hussain and another against Popular Front of India (PFI).Hussain, who is facing charges of killing an Intelligence Bureau official, has been booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Hussain, who was an AAP corporator from ward number 59 under the Mustafabad assembly seat in Delhi, was booked by the police in the murder case of Intelligence Bureau (IB) staffer Ankit Sharma in North-East Delhi amid the violence over the new citizenship law that degenerated into a communal riot.He was arrested in March after an FIR was filed against him by Sharma’s family. The ED is probing Hussain’s alleged links with PFI.The Delhi Police’s crime branch had earlier this month filed charge sheets in connection with riots in North-East district of the city stating that Hussain had led the mob that killed IB staffer Ankit Sharma on February 25.One of the charge sheets alleges a “deep rooted conspiracy” behind Sharma’s murder in which 10 people have been arrested so far.Ankit Sharma, an intelligence bureau staffer, was killed by a mob during riots that broke out in north east Delhi on February 25 this year, when groups supporting and opposing the Citizens Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens clashed with each other for close to three days leading to at least 53 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ed-raids-premises-of-aap-s-tahir-hussain-and-several-places-in-city-in-connection-with-delhi-riots/story-wDBkht7pz2pqRAU4lG19BL.html
23-06-2020||Jaipur||302 new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan||With 302 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan on Monday, the total coronavirus cases in the state has risen to 15,232.Seven more Covid-19 deaths were reported on Monday taking the toll to 356.The state has 2,966 active cases. The number of recovered patients in the state stands at 11,910 after 313 patients recovered from the disease on Monday.According to the state Health Department, 709,592 samples have been tested and 691,507 have tested negative for Covid-19. The results of 2,853 samples are awaited.India’s Covid-19 count reached 4,25,282 on Monday with an increase of 14,821 new cases and 445 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/302-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan/story-6e8mKht9WqJnIX89l7kRgP.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patients left in a lurch in Ludhiana as doctors protest against Clinical Establishments Act||Doctors in Ludhiana observed a complete medical bandh on Tuesday to oppose the implementation of the Clinical Establishments Act (CEA) in Punjab.Senior vice-president of the Ludhiana branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Gaurav Sachdeva said all private hospitals and diagnostic centres, except Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H), Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) and Civil Hospital Ludhiana, had been closed to oppose the ‘draconian law’.IMA (Ludhiana) president Dr Sunil Katyal said the new act, which will be implemented on July 1, was uncalled for and wrongly timed.He said doctors were already governed by the Punjab Medical Council (PMC) and National Medical Council (NMC/MCI) and hospital buildings were governed by building regulations. Many hospitals are also getting accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH). “The introduction of this act will achieve nothing except the harassment of doctors,” Katyal added. IMA Ludhiana honorary secretary Dr Dheeraj Aggarwal said the act was against people, patients, the poor and doctors.“It will lead to an increase in hospital charges and treatment costs. Private health care delivery in Punjab is already of a high quality as over 70% of the patients seek treatment from private setups than from government hospitals,” Aggarwal said. Punjab State governing Council joint action committee co-chairperson Dr Manoj K Sobti said, “The act will encourage inspector raj. The states where it has been implemented do not show any improvement in health care delivery.”“We had informed the authorities about the medical bandh on June 23. If the government does not address our issues, we will hold a meeting on June 28 to discuss further course of action,” said Dr Sobti.PATIENTS AT RECEIVING ENDThe strike inconvenienced several patients. Hajuria, a migrant labourer of Tibba Road, who was visiting Arora Neuro Centre on Mall Road with her seven-year-old son to collect a CT scan report was asked to return.“We have travelled almost 10km on foot to collect my son’s CT report but I have been told to return home as the hospital is closed. My son is suffering from a liver disease and is in great pain. I need the report urgently so that the further treatment can be determined,” Hajuria said.One Chander Kishore, who had come to the hospital from Jamalpur, said, “I had an appointment but on reaching here, I was told that the hospital was closed. All major hospitals are full of Covid-19 patients while the smaller hospitals are on strike. Where should a patient go?” 67-year-old Harish Kumar also faced a similar predicament. “I came to Deep Hospital in Model Town for treatment of my prostate. I was to be diagnosed today but on reaching here I was told to return on Wednesday.”WHAT IS THE CLINICAL ESTABLISHMENTS ACT?The notification under sub-section three of Section 1 of the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, brings all clinical establishments with a capacity of at least 50 beds under the provisions of the ordinance.This is in line with the decision taken by the council of ministers during its April 10 meeting.As per the official statement, “The ordinance will provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner, to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services, as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patients-left-in-a-lurch-in-ludhiana-as-doctors-protest-against-clinical-establishment-act/story-fNfmt1PQwZXRHcSMdKiJOO.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patients left in the lurch as pvt hospitals remain shut in state||JALANDHAR/LUDHIANA/PATIALAPatients were at the receiving end as private hospitals and clinics remained closed across Punjab on Tuesday in protest against the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, that is coming into force from July 1. Terming the ordinance “anti-doctor” and “anti-public”, the protesters, under the banner of the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association, said the government was trying to control the private healthcare sector.The Punjab cabinet had last month notified the ordinance, which would be applicable to clinical establishments having more than 50 beds. The ordinance provides registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.IMA president Dr Navjot Singh Dahyia said: “Around 10,000 doctors affiliated with the association are unhappy over two recent decisions of the state government - the PCE ordinance and the hike in MBBS fee.”“We want both decisions revoked and had issued an ultimatum to the government two weeks ago. A memorandum was also submitted to the administration and MLAs. However, the government failed to address our demands,” said Dr Rakesh Vig, convener of the IMA action committee.The agitating doctors said there was no need for this law as they were already regulated by the Punjab Medical Council and other laws.The government doctors could not join the protest owing to the Epidemic Act, but they expressed solidarity with their fellow doctors by donating blood at some places, including the Jalandhar civil hospital in Jalandhar.Senior vice-president of Ludhiana branch of the IMA Dr Gaurav Sachdeva said all private hospitals, diagnostic centres, except Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H), Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) and Ludhiana civil hospital, remained closed. BOXXCM TO MEET IMA DELEGATION ON FRIDAYChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will listen to the grievances of the IMA on Friday.“The CM will interact with our delegation through video-conference on Friday. We would request the CM to withdraw the Clinical Establishment Ordinance, which would only promote inspector raj,” said state president of IMA’s Punjab chapter, Dr Navjot Dahiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-hospitals-suspend-services-in-protest-of-punjab-clinical-establishment-ordinance/story-hgsQdNh6eV1Ol8ws0RWyuN.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER nursing officer among 7 fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old nursing officer of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is among seven people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the Union Territory to 418. As many as 90 of these cases are still active.The nurse is a resident of Sector 38 West and was posted at the Emergency OPD of the hospital. After developing symptoms, she was sampled on Monday evening and shifted to the Covid ward. She suspects to have got the infection from a patient in the emergency ward, who was later tested positive.Two of her workplace contacts — a junior resident and staff nurse — have been quarantined while her three family contacts have been sampled.According to health officials, around 20 healthcare professionals have contracted the infection while working at the PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. At the PGIMER, three nurses and five ward attendants have tested positive so far.Cases scattered across cityThe remaining cases include a 48-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran. She is undergoing treatment at the GMSH, Sector 16. Mauli Jagran has seen a spike in cases after 12 members of a family and their two community contacts were found infected on June 20. A pregnant woman from the locality, who was tested before delivery, was also found infected on June 21.Other patients found Covid-19 positive are a 29-year-old woman of Sector 38; two men, aged 27 and 53, and a woman, aged 24, of Sector 29; and a 30-year-old resident of Sector 22. Most of them have contact history. 5 test +ve in Mohali, PanchkulaFour members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Tuesday, taking the district’s count to 226.The patients — two men, aged 36 and 43, besides a 15-year-old boy and 16-year-old girl — live in Sector 91.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the family had recently returned from Himachal Pradesh, where they came in contact with an infected person. They have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, he said.Three people were also discharged, taking the number of recovered patients to 171 and active cases to 52Meanwhile, in Panchkula, a 67-year-old resident of Sector 7 has tested positive. Health authorities said he was on dialysis and was sampled at a private lab. The authorities are tracing his contacts. With this, the district’s total count has reached 97, of whom 43 people have been cured and the remaining 54 are still hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chandigarh/story-aaKch4nkWy7K44qkKo0XiP.html
23-06-2020||Patna||RJD in turmoil, Grand Alliance in disarray ahead of legislative council polls||Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal appeared to be in turmoil on Monday when a large number of disgruntled party leaders created a ruckus in front of the residence of his wife Rabri Devi, demanding ticket for legislative council elections in Bihar for a veteran leader.Biennial elections to the Upper House, for nine seats falling under the Vidhan Sabha constituency, are underway and the RJD has announced that it will be fielding three candidates whose names would be made public upon approval from Prasad who is currently in Ranchi, serving sentences in fodder scam cases.Speculations are rife that the party may give one ticket each to the upper castes, non-Yadav OBCs and the minorities in a bid to project an inclusive image ahead of the assembly elections due in a few months.However, hundreds of angry supporters from Raghopur the assembly segment formerly represented by Prasad and now by his heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav staged a demonstration in front of 10, Circular Road, the government bungalow allotted to Rabri Devi in her capacity as a former Chief Minister.The party workers were demanding that the RJD fulfil its “promise” of a Vidhan Parishad berth to Uday Narain Rai alias Bhola babu who had represented Raghopur several times in the 1970s and 1980s and given up his claim on the seat in the 2015 assembly polls to enable Tejashwi Yadav make his debut at the young age of 25.They got livid upon being told that Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Yadav, who lives at her mothers place, were ready to hold talks with a delegation comprising “not more than 15 people”.Terming the gesture as an “insult” the RJD workers left but told journalists present at the spot that they would have to reconsider their ties with the party and that “Tejashwi Yadav may have to pay the price in assembly polls”.Filing of nomination papers for the election will come to a close on June 25 and neither the opposition camp led by the RJD, nor the ruling NDA have revealed the names of their candidates.The election is scheduled for July 6.However, a broad understanding seems to have been arrived at in the NDA that Chief Minister Nitish Kumars JD(U) will field three candidates, and the BJP will contest two seats.In the five-party Grand Alliance headed by the RJD, the Congress is also expected to get one seat.However, developments are taking place which may queer the pitch for the opposition camp.Sulking Grand Alliance partner Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is the founding president of Hindustani Awam Morcha, held a meeting of his party at his residence amid speculations that he was planning a return to the NDA.A former JD(U) leader who fell apart with Nitish Kumar when made to step down as Chief Minister to make way for his patron, Manjhi fought the 2015 assembly polls as an NDA constituent, winning only one of the two seats he contested while all candidates of his party lost.He crossed over to the Grand Alliance in March, 2018 apparently discomfited by Kumars return to the NDA. Although the RJD rewarded him with a legislative council berth for his son Santosh Manjhi from its own quota, the septuagenarian enjoys a less than cordial relationship with Tejashwi Yadav.Bihar minister and JD(U) leader Ashok Choudhary said, “Nitish Kumar is a dependable leader and it should surprise nobody if people join us in the run up to assembly elections.If Manjhi returns, it will be homecoming for him though a final decision is to be taken by our national president”.Earlier in the day, Manjhi had dropped ample hints that his aversion to Nitish Kumar was passe, saying “nobody is a permanent friend or foe in politics”.He is, however, said to be hesitant over the condition put up by the JD(U) for his return that he merge HAM with the parent outfit.“I hope things will be sorted out in the Grand Alliance till June 25. If not, our party will meet on June 26 and I will follow whatever decision it takes”, Manjhi said cryptically.Meanwhile, the RLSP headed by former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha, raised alarm over the happenings in the Grand Alliance.“All is not well in the Grand Alliance. We must act before it is too late. Candidates for the legislative council must be announced while taking care that promises made by parties to each other were fulfilled”, RLSP national general secretary Madhaw Anand said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/rjd-in-turmoil-grand-alliance-in-disarray-ahead-of-legislative-council-polls/story-EHUbjZp2WH6mQJM5HKqe4J.html
23-06-2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid toll rises to 52, tally climbs to 7,893||A 51-year-old home guard succumbed to Covid-19 in Bihar on Monday, taking the state’s toll to 52, while 228 fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,893, the state health department said.The deceased had comorbidities. He was recently admitted to a hospital here and had tested positive for Covid-19 in the course of examination, department sources said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith this, the death toll in Patna district has risen to three.Only Darbhanga (five), Begusarai and Siwan (four each) have reported a higher number of deaths. Khagaria, Nalanda and Vaishali districts have also reported three deaths each so far.All 38 districts in the state have reported Covid-19 cases.Patna has the maximum number of cases at 426, followed by 375 in Madhubani, 367 in Bhagalpur, 347 in Begusarai and 324 in Siwan.Till date, 5,767 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state, while 1.63 lakh samples have been tested.Bihar began reporting Covid-19 cases in the last week of March. Its tally has grown by more than 6,000 since the beginning of May, largely due to the return of the state’s migrant workers who were stranded away from their homes during the lockdown.Since May 3, 5,010 people have tested positive upon returning to Bihar from other parts of the country, according to state Health Secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-s-covid-toll-rises-to-52-tally-climbs-to-7-893/story-03M5PbWTgIOJmMTTzdiTGK.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder lauds 2 Covid-19 positive nurses who appeared for exam from quarantine facility||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday saluted the spirit of two nurses from Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital, who despite testing positive for Covid-19, requested to appear for their exam from the isolation ward.“Salute the spirit of these 2 young nurses from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala who tested positive for Covid-19. This, however, did not dishearten them and the Government agreed to their request to appear for their exam from the isolation facility itself,” the chief minister tweeted. Salute the spirit of these 2 young nurses from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala who tested positive for #Covid19. This, however, did not dishearten them and the Government agreed to their request to appear for their exam from the isolation facility itself. #MissionFateh pic.twitter.com/iyb5FBYBELSo far, Punjab has recorded 4,235 coronavirus cases and 101 deaths.As many as 2,825 people have recovered from the illness while 21,300 have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-amarinder-lauds-2-covid-19-positive-nurses-who-appeared-for-exam-from-quarantine-facility/story-1YbgfLu6SCWbDX0NykEIpM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Land compensation for road: Panel indicts minister Sodhi’s family for pocketing double compensation||A sub-committee constituted by Punjab government indicted the cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi’s family for pocketing double compensation against a piece of land acquired by the state government for a road project. The family received ₹1.83 crore compensation in 2013 for the land after re-acquisition in 2012, which, as per records, was also acquired in 1962 and a sum of ₹7,384 paid. The said land at Mohanki Attar village had been acquired for the Ferozepur-Fazilka-Gurharsahai road.The land — 55 kanal and 6 marla of Rana Sodhi and 38 kanal of his nephew Jasdeep Sodhi (son of Hardeep Singh) — was re-acquired by the Punjab government and compensation was paid after the owners approached the court.The panel has recommended probe into the role of public works department (PWD) and revenue department officials to fix responsibility as the “whole matter smells of willful connivance with the beneficiaries”.“The land at Mohanki Attar was acquired twice, in 1962 and then in 2011-12, as the record were not updated,” says the report.The Milestones 2005 Rana Gurmit Singh files a suit in the court of civil judge (senior division), Ferozepur, demanding acquisition and compensation for the land. The suit was decided in his favour in April 2006. 2006 Department files appeal against the orders, which was dismissed in October 2007.2008 Guru Gurmit Singh, his nephews Prabhjot Singh and Jasdeep Singh through their special power of attorney Hardeep Singh make a representation with the government seeking compensation.2011 Punjab government issues acquisition notification; compensation awarded in 2012.2014 Family receives ₹1.83-crore compensation.As per the report, Hardeep Singh had given four representations to government as Special Power of Attorney (of his brother Rana Sodhi and three sons) in the year 2008 that the land on which road had been constructed was neither acquired nor compensation paid to them.The committee found that Hardeep Singh was in the know that the land was acquired in 1962 and he himself had admitted in his two letters to the public works department in 1963 that they had received the compensation. “…then how could he give a representations...this means that he held back the facts while giving representations,” points out the report.The report puts a questionmark on the role PWD and revenue officials. “Intentional negligence reflects on every aspect and the case has been grossly mishandled since beginning,” it says.“As far as beneficiaries are concerned, it has been established that at least Hardeep Singh was in the knowledge of all the facts regarding acquisition of land in 1962 since he himself had handled that acquisition on behalf of the family,” the report says.“Therefore, legal remedy should be sought from the court of competent jurisdiction to annul the subsequent acquisition proceedings,” concludes the report.In March this year, Punjab government formed a five-member sub-committee comprising special secretary, PWD; director consolidation-cum-director land records; land acquisition officer PWD (B&R), Jalandhar; district revenue officer, Ferozepur, and executive engineer, construction Division-1, PWD (B&R), Ferozepur, to examine the records.When reached over the phone, Hardeep Singh said, “We have neither any information about any sub-committee formed by the government nor aware of its findings. We were not even called by the committee. If they have facts then they should produce in the court as it is legal matter now.” He categorically denied having received any compensation in 1962 from the state.Cabinet minister Rana Sodhi didn’t respond to the calls and messages. Principal secretary, PWD, Vikas Pratap, too was incommunicado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/land-compensation-for-road-panel-indicts-minister-sodhi-s-family-for-pocketing-double-compensation/story-1SMMSyz7N8aGgmsI1gYmyJ.html
23-06-2020||City||Odisha: Puri prepares to hold Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra||Preparations were made for Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra with the fire and disaster management department sanitising the grand road in Puri, Odisha on Monday night. The local administration is ensuring that all health guidelines are followed during the yatra. Balwant Singh, District Magistrate of Puri told ANI, “We are taking all precautions to ensure the restrictions imposed by Supreme Court on Covid-19 management during this unprecedented Rath Yatra.”To contain the spread of Covid-19, the state has imposed restriction of movement starting from Monday 9 pm to Wednesday 2 pm.“Only authorised people who will be participating in rituals, rath pulling and service providers will be given passes. Whereas no devotees will be allowed on the road until the Chariot reaches the Gundicha temple,” said Singh. “We will be ensuring that the participants are wearing masks and are following social distancing norms,” he added.Singh also informed that the authorities will be performing the Covid-19 test for the participants as the temple administration is taking care of the rituals.“It is challenging but with the help of stakeholders and people of the state, we’ll be able to do the rituals on time. I would appeal that we have to ensure the guidelines and conditions imposed by SC in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, “ Singh further said.The Supreme Court on Monday modified its earlier order and allowed the annual Jagannath Rath Yatra in Odisha’s Puri to be held with the coordination of the Temple committee, State and Central government without compromising with the health issue pertaining to Covid-19.Apex had earlier stayed the annual Rath Yatra at Jagannath Temple in Puri, which is slated to be held on June 23, and all activities related to the gathering in view of the coronavirus pandemic this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-puri-prepares-to-hold-lord-jagannath-s-rath-yatra/story-qoFKYvlYLDZPuSWpVOo0VJ.html
23-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru should be shut down for 20 days to curb Covid-19 spread: Kumaraswamy||Instead of sealing a few areas, the entire state capital should be shut down for 20 days in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Tuesday. In a series of tweets, the JD(S) leader said sealing some areas would not serve any purpose and that weaker sections of the society should be taken care of immediately.“Stop playing with human lives. It will not serve any purpose to seal a few areas. If you care for the human lives in Bengaluru, shut down the city totally for 20 days. Else, Bengaluru will become another Brazil. People’s lives are more important than the economy,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.Follow latest coronavirus updates here Asserting that “mere announcement” of relief package by the state government for drivers, weavers, washermen and various other sections was not enough, he asked it to immediately supply groceries to the weaker section and transfer at least Rs 5,000 to 50 lakh workers.“Mere announcement of the package will not be sufficient. It should be implemented immediately. The government should not sit idly by showing a rosy picture,” Kumaraswamy tweeted.The Karnataka government on Monday decided to seal five places in the city from where the maximum number of coronavirus cases have been reported. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa took the decision at a meeting with ministers and officials on Monday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Yediyurappa had expressed his dissatisfaction over people “misusing” the relaxation after the two-month lockdown. He had also put the blame on inter-state travellers as well as those who violated quarantine rules.The chief minister instructed officials to initiate police cases against those violating the rules mandated to prevent the spread of the disease.Karnataka reported 249 new Covid-19 cases and five fatalities on Monday, taking the total tally of infections in the state to 9,399 and the death toll to 142. Of the five dead, three were from Bengaluru urban and one each from Ramanagara and Ballari. Among the districts from where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 126, followed by Kalaburagi 27, Vijayapura 15, Udupi 14, Dakshina Kannada 12, Davangere 9, six each from Uttara Kannada and Bagalkote and five each from Bidar and Chikkamagaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-should-be-shut-down-for-20-days-to-curb-covid-19-spread-kumaraswamy/story-MFLWOFMRwhvxZQPW0GmwQI.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at scrap compound in Mumbai’s Mankhurd||A major fire broke out at a scrap compound in Mankhurd area here on Tuesday, a fire brigade official said.The fire was confined to scrap material and waste oil drums, the official said.Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said, adding the cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained.There are no reports of casualties, the official said.  #WATCH Mumbai: Level-3 fire breaks out at a scrap godown in Mandala on Mankhurd-Ghatkopar Link Road. Four fire tenders present at the spot. Fire-fighting operation underway. More details awaited. #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/SoCanyxnWB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-compound-in-mumbai-s-in-mankhurd/story-eOJtsO7TQ1ZsGGBlpVqVoM.html
23-06-2020||Lifestyle||WFH in summer: Comfy shorts, frappés, finding cool corners||The unbearable heat and humidity is draining denizens, and how! Since the coronavirus scare has forced many to work from home, even after the lockdown, many are feeling trapped indoors sans the free AC of office and chilled drinks from the cafeteria. From whipping up frappés to wearing comfy clothes and even switching rooms to find cooler spots, they are doing it all! Recently, reports of maximum temperature breaching the 46 degree celsius mark, in some areas of Delhi, came in from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). For Manohar Venugopal, who works in Gurugram, it was all about changing into a comfortable ganji and shorts, and beating the heat in style. “The AC environment is certainly a miss but this can be beaten by working smartly and efficiently. Having said this, must admit that the afternoon hours are just unbearable! I ensure to find the coolest corner of the house to work, and also consume cooling foods that help such as salads and lemonade. The saving grace is to not to be asked to commute to office or be out in the heat, and having the flexibility to work in comfy casuals!”Badly missing the office AC, a tech executive, Vibhesh Kapoor, says, “I really miss the free office AC. Making do with a cooler at home for now. My AC required servicing and the guys were charging a bomb. Now, I barely get to switch it on during the night, usmein bhi light chali jaaye toh woh alag. Keeping cool by having khus sharbat.” And Mohit Chauhan, a banker, adds, “On one hand we have been saved from the scorching sun, especially those who have a sales or field-job profile like me, on the other hand we are missing the comfort that office air conditioning renders. Not everyone has aircons at home and thus looked forward to spending a few non-sweaty hours within the plush and comfortable office premises.”   45 degrees ☀️🔥☄️ . . . . . #ipadpro #summer #delhi #dillikigarmi #art #arte #artist #artwork #illustrationart #illustration #illustrationgram #dr#drowsy #drawing #littlestupid #fan #drawdaily #girl #india #instadraw #instagram #instalike #likesforlikes #likesforfollow #buzzfeed #buzzfeedindiaA post shared by  Rashi (@little_stupid) on May 14, 2017 at 1:36am PDTSwitching between one cool place in the house to another, Supriya Maulick, a city-based lawyer, says, “I was working at the dining table till the weather permitted, but finally moved into the bedroom when the heat got unbearable, since I don’t have an AC in the dining room. I tried put permutation and combinations of armchair, bed, side table etc. I’ve finally moved a console table which was by the entry door into the room which is a comfortable height and set up shop there to get enough air from the AC!”It’s all about sip and stay cool for some like Sandeep Parwal, a city-based photographer. Summer for him means “swimming and frappé”. Parwal says, “They were my oxygen and energy bar to brace summer scorching days. This time for #WorkFromHome, well I’m just putting rainy jazz in the background and ensuring I prepare enough frappé to brace the summer for effectively carry out WFH.”Echoing a similar sentiment, Ritu Mehta, a Delhi-based academician, says, “I’m keeping myself hydrated by drinking adequate water and healthy summer drinks like chaas, aam panna and nimbu paani. A regular intake of fruits and salads also helps me in maintaining my cool. The summer heat is scorching, and I have to ensure that I work productively and efficiently to provide online classes to kids; which is quite a draining process!”   Garmi mein to roz nahaliye karo frands 😂 Follow @bhakkk_you for Original Content. . . . . . #garmi #hayegarmi #indiansummers #garammasala #heatwaveindia #dillikigarmi #delhisummers #mumbaisummer #indiansummerA post shared by  Bhak You Memes! 😠 (@bhakkk_you) on Jun 15, 2020 at 8:52am PDTAnother city-based corporate Rohan Sethi, says WFH in is a “challenge” and more so in this weather. “Because of lack of proper infra and environment, and this peak, it becomes further tiring for people like us to work from home. I need to keep switching rooms in my house as we cannot keep just one AC working continuously from the morning to the night, as these equipments are for home use and can’t be made to run continuously. Also, as the domestic helps are not available or not allowed within societies, all the house work that is divided among family members leaves you completely exhausted and sweaty. Wish our office life resumes soon!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/wfh-in-summer-comfy-shorts-frappes-finding-cool-corners/story-9ytSVLQTfvMyvWbiCYA9GP.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Mango Festival 2020: Log onto social media to get a slice of the king of fruits||Mango – name it and the king of fruits brings memories of one of the most-loved festivals of Delhi, that is, Mango Festival. For those who have been to this annual affair, at Dilli Haat INA or Janak Puri, know that for more than three decades it has been a crowd-puller. But this time around, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the organisers have decided to take the fun-filled celebrations online. “While people will miss the thrill and sheer joy of the mango eating competition, ‘Sau hai daam, jitne khao aam’, we have decided to prioritise the safety of the visitors and mango growers; who have brought hundreds of varieties from across the nation,” says Manoj Kumar, manager, PR & Publicity, Delhi Tourism, adding that the festival is “going virtual” in its 32nd edition. It was a common sight to see almost 500 varieties of mangoes at this event every year. Devyn Kumar, a budding chef, says, “Sharing mangoes at the dinner table has been a vivid part of my childhood nostalgia. The event has been something we shared as a family for the last six years. My father was looking forward to the festival this time, and the quirky names that sellers give to their mangoes. But we’ll make do with the virtual event.”  So those of you who want to stay safe indoors and yet relish the vast variety of mangoes, check out the social media handles of Delhi Tourism. Manoj Kumar adds, “The mango eating contest has been a staple favourite for years. This year, people can cherish mangoes from the safety of their homes via our social media handles from June 24 to July 15. We have plans to share trivia on different varieties of mangoes with our social media users. Alongside, mango lovers can also indulge in fun contests and recipes that we will run online.” Mango lovers, who would earlier make a beeline for the cultural event, are tad disappointed with the festival going virtual. Take for instance a Noida-based student Purnima Verma, who loved participating in the various contests at the festival. “I come from a family of mango lovers! I remember memorising trivia for the contest where my friends and I would participate and try to outdo each other. We used to make a day out of it, taste as many varieties of mangoes as we could gorge on. It’s sad that the event has been called off this year. However, in the current scenario it is only logical to avoid crowded gatherings,” says Verma.So until next year, keep an eye for mangoes such as Modi aam or Virat aam, which had not just unique names – in the previous years of the festival – but even delicious taste to leave you wanting for more! Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mango-festival-2020-log-onto-social-media-to-get-a-slice-of-the-king-of-fruits/story-HT0ysVwVer2U5CQnEneJ8J.html
23-06-2020||City||Covid positive accused flees from quarantine centre||A Covid positive accused, arrested in connection with a murder case, fled from the Tata Amantra quarantine centre located on Kalyan-Bhiwandi Road on Monday. Kongaon police have registered a case against the accused and initiated a search operation.The accused, Balu Kharat, 49, was arrested by Khadakpada police earlier this month. He was first sent to police custody and then to Judicial custody. According to police, he tested positive for Covid-19 on June 16.“After he tested positive, he was taken to the quarantine centre. The quarantine centre has a number of patients from across Kalyan and Dombivli, and we have learnt there was a lack of manpower as well. The accused took advantage of the situation and fled. When he was not found at the centre, the police were informed. We checked CCTV footages and found him moving out of the centre in the afternoon,” said a police officer.Kongaon police have registered a case against Kharat under sections 244, 188, 269, 271 of the Indian Penal Code for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and disobedience of quarantine rule.“Our team has initiated a search to find the accused,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-accused-flees-from-quarantine-centre/story-azQUNit43mXIVbO3S9BJGK.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Housing society in Mumbai converts flat into Covid-19 isolation centre||In view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in high-rises, a society in Dahisar has converted one of its empty flats in to an isolation centre. Gurukul Housing Society can utilise two more flats to quarantine residents if needed, its members said. The isolation centre was inaugurated by local parliamentarian Gopal Shetty on Monday.The office-bearers of Gurukul Housing Society had come up with the idea after many members, including doctors, started stepping out for work after ‘Mission Begin Again’ was announced. Though the society has not seen any case until now, they have decided to utilise the empty flat as an isolation centre with three beds, which can be extended to five beds if needed. Society secretary Rashmin Parikh said, “Some of us had visited a society in Kandivli [which has set up an isolation centre on its premises] to understand what precautions need to be followed and the standard operating procedure. We then converted one of the three empty flats into an isolation centre.”Manish Vora, one of the residents of Gurukul Housing Society, said, “Our society consists of around 200 members. Though there are no coronavirus cases among residents, we decided to take the step as a precautionary measure as a considerable number of members have resumed work. So any member showing Covid-19 symptoms can be isolated in the rescue flat for 14 days.”Last week, the civic body had decided to permit housing societies and complexes to set up isolation facilities in gyms and club houses inside their premises to quarantine Covid-19 residents who are either asymptomatic or showed mild symptoms. The civic authority had then stated that this move, in addition to helping authorities, will also give a homely feeling to the residents who are quarantined.“It is better to take precautions, especially because of the monsoon along with the outbreak. As of now, eight societies in my constituency have opened such centres on their premises,” said Shetty. HT had earlier reported that this society, which comprises of 190 flats in three wings, had removed chairs from the sitting area and increased security personnel during the lockdown in a bid to prevent a possibility of transmission in the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housing-society-in-mumbai-converts-flat-into-covid-19-isolation-centre/story-YKS1OnNbHmROOyYt8yOGtM.html
23-06-2020||City||Navi Mumbai inches towards 5,000-case mark; 120 new Covid cases reported on Monday||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Monday reported 120 new Covid-19 cases, bringing it closer to the 5,000-case mark with a total of 4,961 cases so far. Four deaths were also reported on the day, taking the toll to 164. Sixty-two people were discharged on the day after testing negative. However, the recovery rate has dropped to 57% from 60%. In Navi Mumbai, 17,289 people have been tested so far, of whom 11,542 tested negative and results of 786 are pending.Of the 120 new cases, 10 are from Belapur, 26 from Nerul, 11 from Vashi, nine from Turbhe, 32 from Kopar Khairane, 13 from Ghansoli, 14 from Airoli and five from Digha. There are also eight children among the new cases. Meanwhile, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 53 new cases on Monday, taking the total to 1,382. The city also reported two deaths, taking the toll to 58. As many as 56 people also recovered from the disease and were discharged on Monday.Of the 53 new cases, Panvel reported eight, New Panvel two, Khanda colony one, Kalamboli 12, Kamothe 11, Kharghar 13 and Taloja reported six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-inches-towards-5-000-case-mark-120-new-covid-cases-reported-on-monday/story-y1RJg3bqNZkAvwiJRCdfFI.html
23-06-2020||City||State, Centre launched schemes, but the poor don’t know about it, reveals survey||Even as the Centre and the state have announced several schemes for low-income groups to tide over the current crises owing to the lockdown, a ground report by non-profit organisation Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (Yuva) has revealed that many households are either not among the beneficiaries or are unaware about them.Yuva surveyed 7,515 households across six civic corporations – Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Panvel and Ulhasnagar – between March 20 and April 28. The observations were revealed in the interim report ‘Access to entitlements and relief among the urban poor in the Mumbai Metropolitan region during Covid-19,’ which was released on Monday. The report has stated that while the Centre had directed states to utilise ₹3,100 crore under the Building and Construction Workers Welfare Fund to support construction workers who have been left without any income owing to the lockdown, only 5.29% of those surveyed in 1,237 households had been registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BoCW) Welfare Board. It also stated that 94% of the workers surveyed found themselves unable to avail the benefits of this scheme.The state had also announced a payment of ₹2,000 to workers registered with BoCW through direct transfer in April. State labour commissioner Mahendra Kalyankar, however, said till date the state has disbursed ₹175 crore by depositing ₹2,000 in the accounts of construction workers. “We have also run many campaigns to get workers registered,” Kalyankar said. S Srirangam, chief executive officer of the state BoCW, said till June 12, more than 8 lakh workers have benefitted from the scheme.Pankaj Kumar, state development commissioner (unorganised sector), said, “As per the government’s directions, we had surveyed around 2 lakh migrant workers who were housed in relief camps across the state. We have also given 1.15 lakh workers temporary registration numbers. Once they are back from their villages, they will be registered with BoCW to avail benefits.” The report stated that in the 3,873 households surveyed, only 32.27% members had bank accounts in the names of women to avail the direct cash transfers announced by the Centre for women (as well as senior citizens, the disabled and widows) in March. The report further stated that although the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, which provides free cylinders to women, had been expanded in March as a relief measure during the lockdown, merely 6.36% of the 3,646 houses surveyed had availed of the scheme.In the six municipal corporations, only 1.13% of the more than 3,000 households surveyed have members who have been registered with the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM).Pointing at the apparent limited outreach of these schemes, Yuva has also provided mid-term and long-term recommendations. Some of these include provision of emergency ration cards to help workers secure food and fast-track registration of construction and domestic workers to enable direct transfers. Marina Joseph from Yuva said, “No society, despite the best of funding or outreach can help all citizens. However, the state’s relief measures have to be strengthened. Despite introducing good schemes, the execution on ground is poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-centre-launched-schemes-but-the-poor-don-t-know-about-it-reveals-survey/story-k0Wmm5NdNj8V4rCTKSmx7N.html
23-06-2020||City||2 Kalyan-Dombivli corporators test positive for Covid-19||Two Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) corporators tested positive for Covid-19 last week. One of the corporators is admitted to Lilavati Hospital, while the other is home quarantined.“One of them has been tested positive on Friday, while the other on Saturday. We have traced the high-risk contacts of the corporators and asked them to remain in isolation. They will undergo tests. The low-risk contacts have also been quarantined and will go for tests on showing symptoms,” KDMC epidemic officer Pratiba Panpatil said.The duo had attended the standing committee meeting at the KDMC headquarters near Shivaji Chowk in Kalyan (West) on June 17. “We had followed social distancing norms in the meeting room, which was sanitised, but as a precautionary measure, all 15 of us will get tested. The two corporators had undertaken several activities in their wards to help the locals and may have contracted the virus there,” standing committee chairman Vikas Mhatre said.Meanwhile on Monday, 256 new Covid-19 cases had been reported in KDMC, taking the total number to 3,767, of which 2,092 patients are undergoing treatment, while 1,598 patients have been discharged. The four deaths reported on Monday has taken the death toll in the twin cities to 77.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-kalyan-dombivli-corporators-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Wnv2VSxsCy1DUZkJkNRiFK.html
23-06-2020||City||Over 6 lakh passengers travelled by Mumbai local within a week after services resumed: Railways||week after the city’s lifeline was back on tracks on June 15, more than six lakh employees in essential services travelled to their workplaces on trains, the railways has said. Of these, around 2.8 lakh passengers travelled on Central Railway (CR) routes, owing to which it earned ₹1.06 crore, after issuing 91,000 tickets from June 15 to 22. Meanwhile, around 3.2 lakh passengers travelled on Western Railway, and it earned ₹52.13 lakh, after issuing 72,424 tickets during the same period.The railways has permitted only 700 passengers on one local, with around 58 passengers inside each compartment. However, it has been difficult to maintain social distancing inside the trains. “It is necessary to have staggered office timings to maintain social distancing, as fewer crowds will be seen inside compartments. More trains must also be operated,” said Subhash Gupta, president, of Rail Yatri Parishad, a passengers’ body. Meanwhile, there is no clarity over permitting bank and postal employees to travel on locals. CR officials said only employees who are eligible as per the list given by the state government are permitted. “However, only after an electronic pass is issued, will the passengers be streamlined,” said a senior CR official. The employees permitted by the state government for local train travel include those working with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), government and private hospitals, state government, collector’s office, municipal teachers, the police, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) and the railways. The local train services had been suspended for 84 days owing to the coronavirus outbreak. On June 15, the services resumed with the first train operating at 4.03am between Panvel and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-6-lakh-passengers-travelled-by-mumbai-local-within-a-week-after-services-resumed-railways/story-u7L0o5ycHaXQEZ9niVnscJ.html
23-06-2020||City||1 of 5 major Covid-19 centres in Mumbai to be used as dengue, malaria facilities||With the arrival of monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to convert one of the five jumbo Covid-19 centres into treatment facilities for dengue and malaria patients. BMC is in the process of establishing a centralised facility with around 800-1,000 beds for monsoon-related ailments at one of the centres. The five centres with 4,000-5,000 beds are located at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), NSCI in Worli, Nesco in Goregaon, Dahisar and Mulund. “As a large number of beds in jumbo facilities are lying vacant, we are planning to utilise the existing facilities to treat rain-related diseases under a single roof. However, we are most likely to reserve the beds with oxygen facilities for Covid-19 patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The civic body has also allocated eight of its hospitals to treat only non-Covid cases and handle monsoon-related ailments, which are expected to surge by the end of June. At least 8,000 beds have been reserved in these hospitals to treat leptospirosis, dengue, malaria, typhoid and gastroenteritis patients.Kakani said non-Covid hospitals have also been instructed to set up a separate monsoon ward with necessary precautions. “Some hospitals, which partially cater to Covid-19 and non-Covid patients, have been asked to create a separate ward for monsoon-related diseases by following proper protocols to maintain sanitisation in the wards,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-of-5-major-covid-19-centres-in-mumbai-to-be-used-as-dengue-malaria-facilities/story-mzjhgNsvNxjiWU5W5UD6rL.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi fixes home isolation SOP but concerns remain||The Delhi health department on Monday issued a new set of guidelines for how patients will be assessed, requiring anyone who tests positive through a lab-based swab test to be taken to a Covid care centre where a medical officer will determine whether they are eligible for home isolation, and anyone who tests positive through a rapid antigen test be assessed on the spot at testing centres or in their localities. The guidelines ended confusion over the status of mild and asymptomatic patients after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, first made it mandatory on Friday that all Covid patients stay in institutional quarantine for at least five days, and then retracted the order the following day amid opposition from the Delhi government.Monday’s new guidelines – signed by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) -- appeared to reconcile some differences between DDMA and the state government on the issue of home isolation. “The new SOPs have been issued to ensure that everyone who qualifies for home isolation gets the best medical attention and anyone who doesn’t have facilities to do the same, gets moved to Covid care centres. Even if the patients are asymptomatic, we want to ensure they get regular medical attention and all the assistance they need,” said a statement issued by the government late on Monday.Just hours before that, however, the Delhi government (which has consistently pushed home isolation as a sustainable treatment option, particularly since a surge in cases could overwhelm the city’s hospitals), and DDMA appeared to be at odds over how to resolve two key questions surrounding home isolation.The first was whether all positive patients need to make at least one mandatory visit to a Covid care centre — it was part of the DDMA’s Saturday order but the Delhi government felt that it would potentially lead to a spread in infections. And the second was about a private firm that was so far handling the routine care management of Covid patients under home isolation, but whose contract was cancelled. The Delhi government roped in Portea Medical for the follow-up process with home isolation cases before the arrangement was called off by the DDMA. As part of a stop-gap arrangement, the private agency continued its followup calls till the SOP was announced on Monday.According Monday’s guidelines, follow-ups will now be carried out via telephone calls by a team “outsourced/from linked health centre/medical students from various medical colleges” for a period of nine days after a person tests positive. It was not immediately clear if the order paves the way for Portea to be engaged again. This difference in opinion manifested itself early on Monday, when deputy CM and interim health minister Manish Sisodia described DDMA’s Saturday order of mandatory assessment at a Covid care centre as impractical. “The L-G’s rule of taking all patients to CCCs is not practically possible. The district magistrates (DMs) have reported to us that they do not have enough ambulances to take patients to the CCCs. Their concern is valid also because in the entire city, we currently have only 250 government ambulances,” he said. Sisodia also said that the health department and DDMA was scheduled for a meeting around midday -- which the LG’s office denied. “There was no meeting notice issued. It is wrong on the part to the government to talk about an agenda on their own with the media first and later put it on the L-G,” said a spokesperson of the L-G office. Sisodia, the deputy chief minister, is temporarily looking after the health department after his colleague Satyendar Jain had to be hospitalised with the virus.Since Saturday, local health officials followed different rules. “Some have devised their own plan where they are continuing with the old system which was valid until Friday where a team led by the district surveillance officer (DSO) visits the house of the Covid positive patients and do all the required assessment. So, there is a lot of confusion, not just with the local teams, but more importantly, patients are also clueless,” Sisodia said earlier on Monday.While the new guidelines will likely bring uniformity on what the correct protocol is, officials at the district level say the logistical challenge will persist.“This order was given without any consultation with us. We are likely to face practical problems on ground,” said an official from one of Delhi’s 11 districts, asking not to be named. “Moving over 100 patients in each district to CCC (Covid care centre) and back will likely be a challenge. But, we will try to follow the guidelines given to us to the best of our abilities,” a second official added.The DGHS guidelines suggest every Covid positive patient will need to be assessed at a facility at least once. For those that test positive using the rapid antigen test kit – for which they are likely to have been at the testing centre or in their localities – the assessment of whether their health permits them will be made on the spot. A medical officer will determine in which category the patient’s Covid infection is – mild, moderate or severe – and check for any comorbidities. A patient with no symptoms but with an underlying health condition such as heart disease, diabetes or lung ailment will be made to stay at a Covid care centre. A separate team from the district surveillance office will determine if a person’s residence is adequate for home isolation. For people who test positive through a lab-based RT-PCR, district officials will first establish contact by phone. The patient will then be taken to a CCC for assessment, while a separate team will do a house visit.Experts said there are valid concerns on both sides of the debate on the mandatory assessments. “Home isolation is essential for managing Covid-19. The kind of care a patient gets at home he/ she will never get at a hospital. However, this is not fit for all and that is where the problem came in. 30% of Delhi lives in slums, where several people stay in the same rooms, home isolation is not feasible in such cases,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“But, you cannot have ten patients coming into the Covid centres just to get assessed. You would be exposing ten vehicles, ten ambulance drivers, and ten attendants to the infection. So for every ten cases, you are exposing 30 people. What is the point? Instead, sending one team with a doctor to a patient’s house is logistically more sound,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-fixes-home-isolation-sop-but-concerns-remain/story-9eMy0n0QgEfNmdT6TYxKCN.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC starts drone disinfection drive||In a first-of-its-kind effort, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is using a drone to carry out disinfection of mosquito-breeding spots in the city which are located in congested areas and are inaccessible to humans. The drone disinfection drive started on Monday in Worli. Aaditya Thackeray, MLA from Worli, tweeted about the drive late on Monday. “A drone survey (to identify the sopts) was conducted last week to disinfect Vector-borne diseases (like dengue and malaria),” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-drone-disinfection-drive/story-WrT9C5gqAPVT6qcXxAxhpK.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||After defeating Covid-19, Mumbai’s Wockhardt Hospital medicos donate blood for plasma therapy||Wockhardt Hospital, which was declared a containment zone in April after 82 members of its medical staff contracted Covid-19, has received approval from the Central government to conduct a controlled trial of convalescent plasma therapy.In April, Wockhardt Hospital was declared a containment zone after 82 members of its medical staff contracted Covid-19. More than 50 nurses were accidentally exposed to an asymptomatic Covid-positive patient. The hospital’s non-emergency services were closed till end-April. Earlier this month, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the hospital’s request for the trial of convalescent plasma therapy on 20 patients of Covid-19.Convalescent plasma therapy involves transfusion of plasma from the blood of recovered patients into those who are moderately or critically-ill. The plasma of the recovered patient contains antibodies that fight the infection. At present, 123 patients of Covid-19 are undergoing treatment at Wockhardt Hospital. Of these, 30 are in the intensive care unit (ICU).“Convalescent plasma therapy has been previously used in treating various infectious diseases such as Ebola virus outbreaks based on which we decided to initiate the trial,” said Dr Behram Pardiwala, principal investigator of the plasma trial at the hospital. “We haven’t selected a patient for the trial yet, but we will start the process soon.”Wockhardt Hospital has tied up with a blood bank where donors can donate their plasma. “We collect around 500ml plasma per donor and the dosing will be given by our clinicians asper our approved protocol. Moreover, a person can donate plasma once a month,” said Dr Parag Rindani of Wockhardt Hospital. So far, two doctors of the 82 recovered medical staffers from the hospital have donated their blood for plasma therapy.HT spoke to nurse Clera Menezes, 43, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 through cross transmission at the hospital on April 16. She resumed work on May 28 and on June 16, donated her blood. Menezes, who was asymptomatic, isolated herself at the hospital for almost 10 days and then returned to her home in Mira Road, where she again isolated herself. Menezes has two children, aged five and 12. “Every time I opened the door to keep my dishes outside, my children would come running to see me. My husband had placed the washing machine on the passage to my room as a boundary. It was so challenging to stop myself from hugging them,” she said. When she heard about the hospital conducting the plasma trial, she agreed to donate her blood. “I know the feeling of staying alone in an isolation ward. I decided to donate my blood for patients so that they can go home early to their families. I request other recovered patients come forward and donate their blood,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-defeating-covid-19-mumbai-s-wockhardt-hospital-medicos-donate-blood-for-plasma-therapy/story-MQKG8aWYHrzWFDWMzGXHmK.html
23-06-2020||City||Thane to cancel dahi handi celebrations||Sanskruti Yuva Prathishtan, spearheaded by MLA Pratap Sarnaik, has cancelled dahi handi celebrations this year in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The organising body is well-known for their annual dahi handi celebrations in Vartak Nagar and have also entered the Guinness Book of Records for the highest nine-tier formation.With the celebrations cancelled this year, the organisation has decided to donate the money to help battle the pandemic. “We have taken this decision for the betterment of the society at large. A meeting was held with all the heads of the Govinda groups in the vicinity. The prize money will now be used to help those affected by the disease,” Pratap Sarnaik, a member, said on Monday.“Every year hundreds step out to view the dahi handi celebrations, which would make it difficult to maintain social distancing,” said Mayuresh Kolhatkar, president of Shiv Sai Govinda Mandal in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-to-cancel-dahi-handi-celebrations/story-S3CB6xUMmbH6mWyJH33h8N.html
23-06-2020||City||Ambernath to impose complete lockdown till June 30||With the spike in number of Covid-19 cases in Ambernath, a complete lockdown will be imposed in the city with restrictions on shops and public movement from Tuesday till June 30.Ambernath city recorded 130 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,261.In a notification issued by the Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC), shops selling groceries, milk, and vegetables will be allowed to provide home delivery between 8am and 5pm while all other shops will remain shut in the city.As per the Mission Begin Again guidelines, shops can remain open under odd-even system. However, with the increasing number of cases, the municipal council has decided to keep only essential services open.Hospitals and medicals can remain open throughout the day without any restrictions. “We need to break the chain of the infection. Hence we are taking these measures from our level. If someone is found violating these directions, they will face legal action, “said Shridhar Pathankar, chief officer, AMC.“With the lockdown 5.0 imposed with relaxations, the number of cases have increased in the city. This lockdown will help control it to some extent. Residents should rely on home delivery for essential items,” added Pathankar. Meanwhile, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), which has already imposed a lockdown for 15 days since June 18, saw 72 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 1,117 till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambernath-to-impose-complete-lockdown-till-june-30/story-eFQ60bDFfyAVwJQP0cZziN.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||TISS begins online interviews for MPhil, PhD candidates||With many parts of the country still under lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai on Monday began conducting online interviews of candidates for MPhil and PhD courses for the new academic session. The institute has already conducted online interviews of candidates for admissions to its postgraduate courses and has now adopted the same model for its MPhil and PhD courses. This is the first time that the institute held personal interviews of selected candidates online. According to a new notice on the institute’s website, the institute will interview candidates for MPhil and PhD courses across its four campuses — Tuljapur, Guwahati, Hyderabad and Mumbai — till June 25.An official from the institute said special arrangements were being made for candidates with limited resources for the online interview process. Candidates are informed about their interview slot well in advance, said the official. A dedicated team of telecallers are in touch with candidates about the schedule and availability of internet facilities. Candidates are asked to move to a place where they have access to internet. They are also allowed to reschedule their interviews if they fail to get online for their allocated interview schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tiss-begins-online-interviews-for-mphil-phd-candidates/story-ONKnWhiqdiogd5GtrwrfvJ.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||State defers CET for engineering, pharmacy, architecture||The state common entrance test (CET) cell on Monday announced that entrance exam for admissions to engineering, pharmacy and architecture colleges in Maharashtra has been postponed till further notice. The tests were supposed to be conducted between July and August. In a tweet, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that new dates will be announced soon. “Conducting entrance exams for professional courses is important. Looking at the current situation of Covid-19 in our state, we have decided to push the exam date till further notice,” said Samant.Close to 5.24 lakh students registered for the entrance exams this year. Earlier this month, around 60,000 applicants had changed their examination centres after CET cell provided the option of picking centres closer to students’ home.Last week, in a Facebook live, Samant had announced that exams for final-year students studying non-professional courses across 14 state universities were made optional. However, the status of final-year exams for professional courses and status of ATKT backlog of final-year students are yet to be clarified by the state.“Our first duty is to ensure safety of all...For professional courses, the chief minister has already written to the prime minister seeking guidance as these exams are national in nature and our students should not lose out,” tweeted cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-defers-cet-for-engineering-pharmacy-architecture/story-cyp155R0d9ZeMQuPaUpK1J.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Jio TV, Sahyadri channel for online classes||The state government plans to use Jio TV and Sahyadri channel to impart online lectures to students from Class 1 to 12 amid the pandemic. The online teaching will begin in all state schools, aided as well as unaided, from the first week of July, using television channels, radio and other online platforms, including Google Meet, the state education department said in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday.Thackeray reviewed the status of online teaching and asked the department to begin these modules soon and ensure hassle-free connectivity. He was given a presentation on classes conducted using Google Meet. He has directed to take all the stakeholders into confidence before rolling out online education. This would be in addition to opening of the schools from July 1 for Classes 9, 10 and 12 in remote areas where the spread of Covid-19 is less. CM Thackeray directed the department to check the compatibility of online teaching on all electronic platforms. “The platforms should be technically foolproof with capability to resolve technical glitches immediately,” he said.“We will finalise the telecast of recorded lectures through these channels in the next four-five days. Sahyadri is charging us ₹5,000 an hour with an offer of free hours equal to the number of paid ones. Jio has dedicated two separate channels for Class 10 and 12 and has a provision of five separate channels for students from Class 1 to 12. Similarly, radio channels, too, are being engaged for online lectures, besides the use of Google Meet platform, where 250 students can join at a time,” said an official from the school education department.Shakuntala Kale, chairman, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said the HSC and SSC results will be announced by mid-July and end of July, respectively.At least 54% of Maharashtra households have smart phones required to conduct online classes, while 80% have television sets and 10% have radio sets. “We are covering almost all households with one or medium or the other, covering all 1.08 lakh schools in the state. The schools that are opening from July 1 are mostly private schools, including aided ones. Most of the areas with low Internet connectivity or no television are areas with minimum spread of the virus and the schools can open there,” the official said.The department told the CM that the Maharashtra State Council of Education Training and Research has started training teachers to conduct the classes online, at its Pune studios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jio-tv-sahyadri-channel-for-online-classes/story-BOjEL4WNsxBUvxa9VZwdSJ.html
23-06-2020||City||Wear a mask every time you step out of your flat: Mumbai civic body||After noticing that a high number of cases are now being recorded from high-rises or housing colonies, as opposed to the earlier trend of more cases in slum or congested settlements, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to issue frequent directions to such residents.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “Many cases are now coming from high-rises. This is true. Take for example Mulund and Bhandup. The main reason is there are many townships in these areas with big campuses. Residents walk and jog around in these campuses without masks. That is why the infection is spreading fast.”Chahal said the main advisory is wear masks even when stepping out of flats. He said, “Masks are not just for going out on the street. Masks are for when you leave your flat.”Residents must not interact with public without a mask other than family members living in the same household while still inside the house.Two days ago, BMC officials met with the registrar of co-operative societies that have direct control over these cooperative housing societies and townships. Chahal said the civic body has connected with the registrar over mobile messaging applications and on email, and will stay in regular touch with them.Another senior civic officer had told HT on Sunday that one of the main reasons for rise in cases in buildings is the easing of restrictions, and opening of several offices. “More people have started going to offices, and have begun taking their cars out. Interaction has increased. For example, they don’t know who is touching their car during the day. This is one of the reasons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wear-a-mask-every-time-you-step-out-of-your-flat-mumbai-civic-body/story-n1pa7CrB4g31WRnhQt5qYN.html
23-06-2020||City||Mumbai civic body on Mission Zero for 6 wards in city’s suburbs to curb Covid-19 cases||Civic chief IS Chahal on Monday launched ‘Mission Zero’, as part of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) rapid action plan to curb rising Covid-19 cases in the suburbs. He also inaugurated 50 ambulances given to BMC as part of a public-private partnership.Mission Zero is a 35-day action plan to increase surveillance in six suburban wards corresponding to areas of Mulund, Bhandup, Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Malad and Dindoshi. It aims to reduce the growth rate of Covid-19 cases in these areas to around 1%- 1.7%, from the current 3%-3.7%.With the onset of the monsoon, BMC anticipates the number of cases will go up. “Corona cases are likely to rise in the monsoon. We are anticipating that and are prepared to handle it in terms of our bed capacity,” Chahal said.On the other hand, Chahal also said a large number of cases will be brought under control by July-end, through the rapid action plan.Speaking at the inauguration of the ambulances given by a collaboration of Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana, CREDAI-MCHI, and Desh Apanayen, Chahal said, “Over 60% of Mumbai’s cases come from these six-seven wards. The remaining 40% cases come from the other 18 wards. It will not be beneficial for us in the long run if we do not curb the rise in these areas. Cases from these suburbs will eventually travel to south Mumbai.”Chahal said BMC has instructions from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to pay more attention to these areas. He attributed the rise to Thane’s proximity to Bhandup and Mulund, and Mira Bhayander’s proximity to Dahisar and Borivli, especially since easing of restrictions has increased contact and travel. The ambulances will be operated in the suburbs by three organisations – Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana, CREDAI-MCHI and Desh Apanayen. They will act as mobile dispensaries, carrying out door-to-door screening of all residents in the suburbs for early detection of cases, and their separation from the community.Each ambulance will have a doctor and a laboratory technician. Screening will be done with an oximeter and a thermal gun. Swabs of any suspected patient will be taken immediately, and will be reported to BMC. At least 30,000 to 40,000 patients will be screened every week.“For every positive patient, we will trace up to 20 contacts. In the rest of Mumbai’s hotspots, contact tracing has been in the ratio of 1:15,” Chahal said. Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana is a Pune based non-government organisation working in the area of natural disaster response. It is headed by Shantilal Muttha. In Pune, and in rural Maharashtra, mobile dispensaries were started on April 1, and have so far screened 14 lakh citizens in 288 dispensaries. Eighteen mobile dispensaries are specially deployed for Dharavi alone.Chahal said, “Mr Muttha has promised to reduce growth rate in suburbs exactly like Dharavi and in other hotspots, and bring it to around 1.7% to 1.8%. If we contain the virus in these six to seven wards, then I think the battle is won. And our target is by June 30, it should be contained. We will have to be vigilant for four to six months for life to come back to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-on-mission-zero-for-6-wards-in-city-s-suburbs-to-curb-covid-19-cases/story-fX04AANxCrXAc43YQSJhVJ.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Grant provisional admission to RTE students: State||To ensure that more than one lakh students who have been allotted seats under the Right To Education (RTE) quota across the state do not stay out of school, the education department has asked schools to complete their admission process and grant them provisional admissions. Of the total seats in a school, 25% seats are reserved under RTE quota.In a circular issued last week, the department has asked schools to call parents of such students in phases, check their documents and grant provisional admissions as the new academic year has already begun on June 15. Conventionally, a screening committee scrutinises documents of students before sending them to respective schools. However, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the department has decided to admit students for now and complete detailed verification later. “Parents of these students can be sent messages on their phones stating the date and time to report for submitting documents. Three chances should be given to them in case they are not able to be present on the first given date. Students should be enrolled for online classes even if the actual admission will take place later after verification of documents,” stated the letter issued by the department. For schools that fall under containment zones and those which were used for quarantining people, the process could take place a little later after the situation improves and the schools are sanitised, added the circular. An official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s education department said admissions have not started yet. “It may take a week to start the process as the centralised online system is still being updated,” said the official. This year a total of 14,135 students applied for RTE seats in Mumbai, of whom 5,371 have been allotted schools through the online lottery. Over one lakh students were selected in a lottery for admissions to Senior KG and Class 1 under the quota across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grant-provisional-admission-to-rte-students-state/story-wC0LUIALoPOY9Ycm8fFDGM.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||State, Centre asked to clarify stand on ICSE and ISC exams||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government to make it clear whether it would allow the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to conduct its rescheduled ICSE and ISC board exams for Class 10 and 12, respectively, in July. The court has also asked the Centre to inform it about the decision of the home ministry which was directed by the Allahabad high court to decide on a representation seeking cancellation of rescheduled board exams in view of the pandemic. The high court also added that though CISCE has set June 24 as the deadline for students in Maharashtra to choose if they wanted to appear for the pending exams or be graded based on their previous performance, the interests of the students would be safeguarded regardless of the option they chose.A division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta while hearing the petition filed by Arvind Tiwari, a parent and advocate, was informed by the counsel for CISCE that it had not prepared the formula for marking students as directed by the court in the earlier hearing. The council sought time which the bench allowed.The court had directed the board to clarify on the marking or grading method that they would adopt if students opt out of the rescheduled exams in July. The council had said either the students appear for the rescheduled exams or they would get marks for the board exams based on internal assessment or the pre-board exams conducted by the respective schools. Tiwari had, however, sought clarity on the same.The court then asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to convey to the bench the state’s stand on whether it would allow the council to conduct the exams.The bench then directed the Central government, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, to inform the bench as to what decision was taken by the ministry of home affairs after a writ petition filed before the Allahabad high court seeking cancellation of pending CBSE and CISCE board exams was referred to the ministry.Thereafter, while expressing apprehension about conducting exams amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the bench said till the CISCE submits the methodology, the parents and students need not take any decision on the options given by the board. The bench further assured that even if the students and parents do or do not decide on the option by June 24, they need not worry and posted the matter for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-centre-asked-to-clarify-stand-on-icse-and-isc-exams/story-sc8EEZGJdc4Ilr1zNZAjwL.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||BMC set to increase bed capacity to 1 lakh||Anticipating a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to increase Mumbai’s hospital bed capacity to 1 lakh by the end of this month. This number would include all beds in quarantine centres, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres; beds in intensive care units (ICU) and oxygen-supported beds. BMC estimates Covid-positive cases in the city may go up to 80,000 by the end of June.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 1, 098 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infected cases in the city to 67, 586; and 630 patients were discharged. Dharavi reported 14 new cases on Monday, taking its total to 2,184. The city also recorded 66 deaths, taking the death toll to 3, 737. Of the 66 deaths, 20 were recorded in last 48 hours and 46 were from before June 19. The city’s doubling rate — the time taken for cases to double — has gone up to 37. According to BMC, 2.69 lakh tests for Covid-19 had been conducted till Sunday.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said on Monday that BMC will increase bed capacity in the city from the current 84,000 to 1 lakh. “We are planning it in such a way that even if our cases double, our beds should be sufficient,” said Chahal. “Actual number of people admitted to hospitals and symptomatic is nearly 9, 500 out of the total active patients,” he added.Chahal said the strength of ICU beds in the city would be increased to 300 by June 25 and by July 5, another 200 beds would be added. “When I took charge, we had 3,500 beds including dedicated Covid-19 health centres (DCHC) and dedicated Covid-19 hospitals (DCH). Today, we have 12,000 beds. By June 31, it will increase to 15,000 and later we will scale it up to 20,000 by July 31,” said Chahal. DCHC are for those with mild to moderate cases of Covid-19 and DCH are for critical patients with comorbidity.Of the 84,000 beds for Covid-19 patients, 60,000 are at Covid care centres (CCC) 1 and 2. All high-risk contacts are being shifted to CCC 1, which are located in hotels, newly-constructed buildings and similar structures. Under the new rules, asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are in CCC 2, which are government-run centres with doctors and nurses on duty round the clock.As per the new rules, patients get test results from the local ward office which also allots beds at a health centre. Chahal said, “The ward team then starts calling people, informing them of their test results and by 3pm of the same day, a bed is allotted to the patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-set-to-increase-bed-capacity-to-1-lakh/story-SjUJLPecDsLZqRO2RsswYJ.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 patients to be allotted beds at private hospitals first, says BMC||To give a breather to doctors and staff at municipal hospitals and ensure all beds in private hospitals that have been handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are occupied, the civic body has decided to prioritise allotting beds at private hospital to Covid-19 patients first. Only after beds at private hospitals — 80% of their capacity — are occupied will beds at municipal hospital beds be allotted.“Private hospitals told BMC their beds are vacant often and they suffer financial loss. We told them BMC will fill private hospital beds first, and once 100% of the 80% beds are occupied, we will move on to allotting municipal hospital beds to patients. My municipal doctors are over-burdened. They will be relieved of some stress. Both will be happy this way,” said municipal commissioner IS Chahal on Monday.Chahal also recounted a recent conversation he’d had with the dean of BYL Nair Hospital. “The dean called me yesterday [Sunday] to tell me they had vacant Covid beds for the first time on Sunday. I told him, ‘By first week of July, you will have 25% beds vacant’. Whatever private hospital beds there are in BMC’s control, will be utilised first. Our doctors need rest. Our hospitals need to be relieved of stress,” he said.All doctors at war rooms at the ward level, who are in charge of calling patients who have tested positive and coordinating with them for hospitalisation or quarantine, have been given an ascending order: First fill up local beds; then private hospital beds; then semi-government beds; and then municipal hospital beds.Dr V Ravishankar, chief executive officer and consultant cardiac surgeon at Lilavati Hospital, said, “We are already accepting all BMC patients to full capacity, which is 80% of general Covid ward beds and 80% of Covid ICU beds. There is maximum utilisation as per notification and BMC auditors are in hospital every day to monitor this.”Dr Gautam Bhansali, chief coordinator of private hospitals with BMC, said, “Since the last two weeks, we have been managing bed allocation to patients this way. First, private hospital beds are utilised. When they are full, municipal hospital beds are allotted, through the main BMC dashboard. None of the private hospitals turn down any walk-in patient. The only condition is to inform BMC to reduce one vacant bed against the hospital’s name on the dashboard because it has been utilised.”Bhansali said this has ensured every patient is given a bed and there is no wait time for any patient. “No deaths should occur because a patient did not get a bed on time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-patients-to-be-allotted-beds-at-private-hospitals-first-says-bmc/story-0Au1E5OMggQKOZcO923VfP.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn put on notice on schools’ plea against collection of fee only||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday put the Chandigarh administration on notice after a plea was received from the city’s private schools, challenging UT’s move to allow schools to only charge tuition fee during the lockdown.The high court bench of justice BS Walia has sought response from UT by July 1. The plea has been filed by Independent Schools’ Association Chandigarh, a body of 78 private schools of the city.The body has sought quashing of the notification issued on June 3 by the UT adviser to the administrator under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, directing schools to collect only monthly tuition fee from students till further orders, without increasing it for the academic year 2020-21. The schools were also directed to neither stop payment nor reduce the monthly salary of the teaching and non-teaching staff.The association told the court that to ensure the students did not suffer, they had been making painstaking efforts in providing education and holding classes online. The members said the UT’s orders were without competence, as though the fees could be regulated, the UT had no legislative power under the 2005 Act and the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, directing schools to not increase the fee.The schools said that the fee regulatory body was a lawfully created entity, and in case of violations, it was the body that must act against the violator, and not the education department, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-put-on-notice-on-schools-plea-against-collection-of-fee-only/story-QumFOhkFHceZkBDZLGWp2N.html
23-06-2020||City||GMADA allots ₹83 crore for development of Pearl City’s Sectors 100, 104 in Mohali||The 1,300 allottees of the Pearl City project covering Sectors 100 and 104 of Mohali can now heave a sigh of relief as the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has finally prepared estimates of around ₹83 crore for internal development works in the two sectors.The fate of the allottees had been hanging in the balance since 2014, after its chairman-cum-managing director Nirmal Singh Bhangoo was booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a ₹45,000-crore Ponzi scam.The CBI had also attached all properties of Pearls Agrotech Corporation Limited (PACL), including the mega housing project launched in 2006. After that the Supreme Court had tasked GMADA to develop the society.Around 160 families reside in both the sectors spread over 450 acres, where people have invested around ₹600 crore in plots. Yet these sectors neither have a sewerage system, nor proper roads, nor streetlights.BUDGET TO BE SUBMITTED IN SC SOON A senior GMADA official said, “We have prepared a budget of ₹83 crore for the internal development of both the sectors. The budget will be submitted in the apex court soon.”On March 4 this year, acting on the petition filed by the Pearl City Mohali Residents’ Welfare Association, the apex court had directed GMADA to prepare a detailed estimate plan for internal development works in the two sectors. During the hearing, the court also asked GMADA to submit details of members with pending payments and other related documents.Internal development comprises construction of internal roads, laying of sewerage lines, landscaping, electrification, construction of a sewage treatment plant and water supply lines.Association president Kulbir Singh Sidhu said: “We are hopeful that GMADA will soon start the internal development works of both sectors.”In February this year, GMADA had filed an affidavit in the apex court, stating that it is ready to do internal development works if the Lodha Committee provides them the funds. Following this, the court had directed GMADA to prepare detailed estimates and submit the report within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-allots-83-crore-for-development-of-pearl-city-s-sectors-100-104-in-mohali/story-SxXduFP5IRdJi15orr66lM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||5 fresh Covid-19 cases take Chandigarh’s tally to 411||Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from three different localities in Chandigarh on Monday, taking the total count to 411. As many as 83 of these cases are active.UT health officials said while two cases were reported from Khuda Alisher and Dadumajra each, one surfaced in Sector 50.The Sector-50 man, aged 37, works in Delhi and had returned home on June 16. He has three family contacts, one of whom lives in Sector 50, and the other two in Mohali. They have been sampled.In Khuda Alisher, two men, aged 31 and 48 and unrelated to each other, have tested positive. The younger one works in a local firm and has nine family contacts. The 48-year-old one is a workplace contact of an already positive case of Sector 43. He has four family contacts. All of them will be sampled.A 62-year-old woman suffering from multiple ailments, including asthma, has tested positive in Dadumajra Colony. She has six household contacts and all are being sampled. A 36-year-old man from Dadumajra, who is a family contact of a previous case from Sector 24, has also been found infected. His three other family contacts have tested negative.Meanwhile, six patients have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital and shifted to the post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala. With this, 322 people have recovered so far.2 test positive in Panchkula Two people, including a property consultant residing in Sector 20, tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Monday, taking the district’s count of confirmed cases to 96.The 46-year-old man has no travel history and had come for testing on his own. Health authorities suspect he came in contact with an asymptomatic person during field visits with his clients. Meanwhile, a 21-year-old Nepalese woman residing in Buddanpur village in Panchkula also tested positive. She is a contact of a woman who was found infected last week. There are 53 active cases in the district.No case in Mohali, 17 cured With 13 positive cases of Covid-19 surfacing in Baltana, Zirakpur, within three days, the Mohali administration on Monday declared parts of the locality as micro-containment zone.The development comes even as no fresh case was reported in Baltana or any other part of Mohali district on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said one lane in Harmilap Nagar in Baltana, where seven members of a family residing in a cluster of 10 houses have tested positive, was declared micro-containment zone. All seven are contacts of a positive patient of Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, 17 people were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Monday, taking the number of cured patients in the district to 168. Those recovered include four from Kurali, three each from Dera Bassi and Lalru, two each from Baltana and Nayagaon, and one each from Zirakpur, Mohali and Dhakoli.The total number of cases stands at 222, with 51 still active. Three people have succumbed to the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarh-s-tally-to-411/story-NuuROoRQ5zMMmLK2cLjmeI.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows rapid antigen tests||In a significant move, the Maharashtra government on Monday allowed rapid antigen tests. It has been allowed on patients with severe coronavirus symptoms, comorbidities and pregnant women, stated the order issued by health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas. The rapid antigen kits, called Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, provides results in only half-an-hour, which will help decide the further course of treatment for a serious patient at the earliest. It will also be used to know the prevalence of the pandemic among masses, officials said. The health department has also authorised municipal corporations to decide about using rapid antigen tests in large numbers in containment zones or hotspots. It is developed by South Korean company SD Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies, which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogenApart from being quicker than lab-based RT-PCR tests, antigen tests are cheaper — one kit costs ₹450 — and differ in technology as they look for the specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The lab tests look for the exact nucleic signatures of the virus.Meanwhile, the number of testing laboratories has also increased in the state to 104 from 95. This has also led to increase in sample testing capacity of the state to over 25,000 tests a day. State health minister Rajesh Tope made the announcement.“We are preparing for the peak, which is yet to come. We will further increase our testing capacity to be prepared for any situation,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.Wedding halls set to openThe state allowed wedding ceremonies at non air-conditioned wedding halls, open lawns, banquet halls and in the backyards of houses, in the presence of less than 50 people. “All social distancing norms should be strictly followed,” the order said. According to officials, it was issued after demands by various organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-rapid-antigen-tests/story-0prCW39Omta4imNQEiBOGK.html
23-06-2020||City||Now, Chandigarh has no containment zone||Chandigarh: After more than a month and a half, the UT administration denotified the last remaining containment zone in the city — Pocket No. 15 in Sector 26’s Bapu Dham Colony — on Monday.With this, no area in the city is a designated containment zone, though some house blocks, including in Bapu Dham Colony, continue to be quarantined after fresh Covid-19 cases have been reported there recently.For containing the spread of the virus, the administration had declared six areas as containment zones on May 2. Strict perimeter control was enforced in these areas, which included parts of Sectors 30, 38 and 52 besides Shastri Nagar in Manimajra, Kachi Colony in Dhanas and Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26.On the basis of a report submitted by the affected area committee, UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday decided to open up all pockets in Bapu Dham Colony, except for a few house blocks. With this order, perimeter control has also been removed from Pockets No. 7, 13 and 20, which were buffer zone. However, a few house blocks in Pockets No. 4, 5, 15 and 16 continue to be under strict perimeter control.Norms flouted as credit war ensues While barricades were being removed from Pocket No. 15, heavy jostling and sloganeering were witnessed with supporters of both the Congress and BJP trying to take the credit for relaxations.During the melee, social distancing norms were flouted with impunity. Police had intervene and separate supporters of both parties.City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said, “The local councillor failed to turn up here for nearly three months while people were in trouble. Now, he has come to take all the credit for opening up of the area.”On the other hand, councillor Dalip Sharma, who belongs to the BJP, said: “Congress workers and their city president didn’t help Bapu Dham Colony residents all these months. We have worked for all the 20 pockets of the colony. Now, they want to take all the credit, where none is due.”Meanwhile, keeping in view reports of frequent violation of social distancing norms, the administration will start a special drive to impose on-the-spot fines on people found not wearing masks in public places and violating other rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-chandigarh-has-no-containment-zone/story-DJoE58X0zDeSdB9b5X3AQI.html
23-06-2020||Mumbai||87.92% Covid cases in Maha are from 19 cities||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally on Monday jumped to 135,796 after 3,721 more infections were reported. The state currently has 61,793 active cases, the health department said, as officials expect cases to peak in July with the number of fresh infections likely to rise in the coming days. Monday was the 13th day the state reported over 3,000 cases.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 113 deaths, taking the toll to 6,283. Sixty-two deaths were from the past 48 hours, while 51 were over the past few days, health officials said.Mumbai, the worst-hit city across the country, recorded 1,098 cases as its count reached 67,586. Of them, 29,720 are active cases. The city toll stands at 3,737 after 66 deaths were reported. Most of the fresh Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are coming from 19 cities — the nine municipal corporations of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur. They constitute 87.92% of the total cases in the state.These cities have also reported a surge of over 50,000 cases in the past 19 days, since lockdown restrictions were eased. On June 3, the cities that were earmarked as red zones had 67,885 cases and on June 22, they had 1,19,402.As part of its ‘Mission Begin Again’ to ease the lockdown, the state government from June 3 had allowed outdoor activities such as jogging, running, cycling in open grounds and stadium. From June 5, it allowed shops and marketplaces to be opened and from June 8, it also allowed private offices to open with a strength of maximum 10 people.It further allowed inter-district movement in MMR and allowed BEST buses to ply in the region from June 5.“Going by the fresh projections, the peak is likely to come in July. If that happens, it will take another month for the cases to decline and by September, the situation may come under complete control. It also means that cases will rise further for the time being,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“You know lockdown cannot be imposed forever and unlocking was the need of the hour. The state government was under tremendous pressure from all sides for relaxing restrictions. So, we augmented the health infrastructure and also allowed graded relaxations to ensure situation will remain under control,” said a senior official who was a member of the task force formed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to tackle the pandemic.Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said that the situation is in under control and the rise in number is also static. “I can say that the situation of Maharashtra is in control. After relaxations were allowed, fresh cases did rise, but by and large they are static in nature. I don’t think they will increase until more relaxations will be allowed,” Mehta told Marathi news channel ABPMajha on Monday.Another concerning issue is the rising case fatality rate (CFR) that reached 4.67% on Sunday. 45.59% of the total deaths in the country are registered in Maharashtra alone. By the end of May, the state had successfully brought down the CFR to 3.26% from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13. But it has started rising again.“Our CFR is increasing, but a lot of work is silently going on to control it. Clear instructions have been issued to admit patients immediately if found any symptoms. If patients are admitted early then the treatment can be started in the golden hour and he or she can be saved from slipping into a serious condition. Our taskforce of expert doctors is updating the line of treatment on a regular basis and very soon CFR will come down,” the chief secretary said.Last week, Thackeray, in a review meeting, directed the constitution of a taskforce comprising experts and senior doctors at district or division level to bring down CFR “The highest single-day toll of 186 deaths was recorded on June 21. According to the state, barring Mumbai, reconciliation of deaths in all districts and municipal corporations has been completed.The recovery rate reached 49.86% after 1,962 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of recovered patients is 67,706 On June 16, the state’s recovery rate was 50.99%The health department declared it has conducted 7,87,419 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 651,623 people tested negative. It means 17.2% of the total samples tested positive, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/87-92-covid-cases-in-maha-are-from-19-cities/story-IpsN004v4EwUTvKsy0cPKI.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, 14-day home quarantine must for people visiting Chandigarh for over 72 hours||The UT administration on Monday made 14-day self home quarantine mandatory for all visitors to Chandigarh who intend to stay here for more than 72 hours. A visitor violating home quarantine will be shifted to institutional quarantine, and can face fine or even jail under provisions of the Disaster Management Act.The mandatory home quarantine will not be applicable to Mohali or Panchkula residents travelling to the city.Currently, the UT has open borders with only random screening at the city’s entry points and an advise for self quarantine. Those visiting the city from outside the tricity have to register themselves with the administration on its website, and carry an online self-generated form detailing their antecedents. Police can penalise visitors without the forms.WHY CHANGE IN POLICYThe decision came after, in the daily review meeting, UT administrator VPS Badnore expressed concern over the rise in number of Covid-19 cases. He noted that in the recent past, most positive cases have been found among people coming from outside.More than 50% of cases reported in the city in the past week have either been of those with travel history or their contacts. Also, with the lockdown restrictions removed, tracing community contacts of positive patients has become a tough task for municipal corporation teams.“Many casual visitors are coming here, keeping in view easy availability of medical facility and absence of mandatory quarantine conditions. We need to discourage such avoidable visits. Chandigarh hospitals need not get congested by crowds overflowing from outside the tricity,” said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida.DETAILED ORDER AWAITEDBadnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, to issue specific orders regarding the mandatory self-home quarantine for visitors. These are expected on Tuesday.Stating that visitors who violate the mandatory quarantine will be penalised, Parida said, “We will pick them up and put them in institutional quarantine. Under the Disaster Management Act, they can be fined and jailed too. Police will keep a tab on movement of visitors and on any such violation.”However, the administration is unlikely to paste quarantine notices outside houses of such visitors, said an official.Badnore also appealed to residents’ welfare associations, voluntary agencies and social activists to co-operate with the health and police authorities in monitoring the stay and movement of persons coming from outside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-14-day-home-quarantine-must-for-people-visiting-chandigarh-for-over-72-hours/story-HLEWrY1neu241NKsj56qON.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram city has 100 containment zones||Gurugram city had a total 100 containment zones in the city as on Monday, as per the latest order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner. Health officials said that 20 new containment zones have been added to the list, while 10 areas had been de-notified. On Monday, 85 new Covid-18 cases were reported, taking the total tally of infected persons in the district to 4,512. Out of these, 1,820 are active cases. The death count in the district stands at 66.Besides 100 in the city ,there were seven other containment zones in the district located in Pataudi, Sohna and in Farrukh Nagar. Some of the new areas added to the city’s list are Jal Vayu Vihar, sector 56, 37, 49, DLF Phase 3, Uniworld Garden sector 47, Parsavnath Towers Sohna Road among others. Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, said, “We are increasing the enforcement of norms in containment zones, as we have seen strict compliance often goes a long way in containing the disease. We are increasing the awareness campaign in the affected areas also.”A lane in a gated society or a tower in condominium is defined as a containment zone if five Covid-19 cases are reported within one kilometre perimetre of the area where the case is reported.By Monday, only 10 areas were de-notified. An area is de-notfied after a tentative period of 28 days post the discharge of the last Covid-19 patient. Dr MP Singh, nodal officer for containment zones said, “The list prepared by the health department is different from the one issued by the administration. It would be difficult to comment on which areas have been de-notified.” The district administration has also launched awareness vehicles – autorickshaws – that will roam in Covid-affected parts of the city creating awareness about preventing the spread of the virus. Twenty such autos will ply, out of which 10 will be covering thein containment zones of Gurugram, while five each will be deputed in Sohna and Pataudi.Last week, Vijay Vardhan, Haryana home secretary, also visited the city and directed the district administration to focus on strict vigilance in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-city-has-100-containment-zones/story-5s8I13oT3mcfjw1SBMQjrI.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Positivity-rate falls sharply in five days due to increase in private testing||The district’s test-positivity rate (TPR) between June 18 and June 22 dipped to between 12 and 18 percent, as opposed to significantly higher positivity —between 46 to 77 percent— between June 10 and June 17.This, experts and officials said, can be attributed to a sharp increase in private testing, which Gurugram has witnessed over the past five days.Between June 18 and June 21, around 69 percent of 2,027 samples collected from the district were by private laboratories, shows the district health bulletin data. During this period, Gurugram began testing upwards of 500 samples per day, as opposed to the preceding several weeks, when the district was testing between 300 to 350 samples per day. For comparison, between June 10 to June 17, only about 39 percent of the 1833 samples were collected privately (excluding data for two days when this metric did not figure in the bulletin).“The data suggests that the daily pool of samples being tested is growing, owing mainly to the private labs pitching in. If the government were to enhance its testing capabilities and do more targeted tests through contact tracing, you will likely see the test-positivity rate rise again,” said Dheeraj Singh, a data scientist who has been tracking Gurugram’s Covid-19 data.Health department officials seemed to agree. “We have seen that more and more people are choosing to get independently tested at private labs, especially over the last three to four days. This is a positive step. It shows that citizens are not averse to being tested. With Haryana reducing the price from Rs 4500 to Rs 2400 for a test, we expect private labs to be reporting even more samples in coming days,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.At present, there are seven private laboratories empaneled to conduct tests in the district, of which all are now operational, according to a ‘preparedness report’ submitted by the deputy commissioner to the Centre’s National Health Mission on June 18. A copy of the report was obtained by Hindustan Times on Monday. It states that these seven private labs are expected to have a capacity of 5,000 RT-PCR tests by the same date.“At present, private laboratories in the city have the capacity to test between 700 to 1,000 samples per day. By July end, they will be able to do up to 3,000 RT PCR tests per day, then 5,000 per day after that. If more people opt to get tested on their own, it would significantly complement the health department’s efforts,” said a district level official with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program.Health department officials also stated that they are on their way to augmenting government testing facilities in the district as well. According to the deputy commissioner’s preparedness report, the health department is aiming to conduct 2,000 confirmatory RT-PCR tests daily by July 15. In addition to this, the department also plans to conduct at least 20,000 antigen tests per day by July end, with 46,000 tests per day by July 15, the deputy commissioner’s report shows.The representative of two private labs could not be connected for a comment by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-positivity-rate-falls-sharply-in-five-days-due-to-increase-in-private-testing/story-XPYbGvpDYed8oechr1gHPJ.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Police’s Special Task Force arrests four people involved in stealing luxury cars||The special task force (STF) of Haryana Police, on Sunday, arrested four people — including three officials of the Regional Transport Office(RTO) posted in Meham in Haryana — for allegedly preparing fake documents and selling stolen cars in at least six states. They were involved in stealing cars in Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan, said the police.The suspects were identified as Praveen Kumar of Dadri, along with Anil Kumar, Krishan Kumar and Sombir Singh of Rohtak. Kumar was allegedly driving a stolen car when he was arrested and revealed the names of the other gang members, who were arrested the same night, the police said. According to the police, there are at least 15 more gang members who re yet to be arrested. The police have allegedly recovered 14 SUVs from various locations that were stolen from Meerut, Delhi, and Rajasthan and have found forged documents from the possession of the gang members.The incident came to light after several people complained to the police of their respective areas that their newly bought cars had been stolen. During the investigation, it was found that stolen cars were sold with forged documents after their engine, chassis and registration numbers were changed.Satheesh Balan, deputy inspector-general, STF, said that they have seized documents from several agents which were prepared from the office of the RTO. “Investigation of these documents revealed that three RTO officers, including the computer operator, were preparing forged documents and were helping the suspects in selling their stolen luxury cars,” he said adding that they have been arrested. According to the police, the gang would conduct a reconnaissance of the residential areas in different cities and target newly bought luxury cars, which were sold at 50% of the original cost.“The gang members used to train agents to approach car dealers dealing in second-hand cars and even gave them a commission of ₹50,000 on each sale. They also used to upload pictures of second-hand cars on online advertisement platforms, and would sometimes place advertisements in newspapers in different states,” said Balan.The police said the suspects used to drive cars to Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan and sold them for at least ₹5 lakh each. Balan said several cases of vehicle theft have been filed against them in different states and they have sold nearly 2,000 cars so far. We do not have exact details of all cases, but the arrested men revealed that only a few vehicle- lifting cases were of Gurugram. We are yet to arrest 15 more members of the gang involved in vehicle-lifting who were part of this gang,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-police-s-special-task-force-arrests-four-people-involved-in-stealing-luxury-cars/story-NQHBK9wBzCP3C9RaFw9NHI.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to initiate action against illegal commercial encroachments||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to take action against illegal vends, kiosks and other such commercial encroachments in the plots owned by the authority. Officials said that the decision was taken after complaints were lodged by concerned residents that milk booths and other such illegal vends had been set up in various HSVP plots without taking due permission from the authority. According to officials a survey has revealed that there are at least two dozen such booths across various sectors, such as 27, 28, 30, 31, 42, 43, 45, 47, 51 and 52. These booths and vends are being identified and soon action would be taken against them, said HSVP officials privy to the matter. HS Jakhar, sub-divisional engineer, said that no encroachment on the authority’s land would be allowed and strict action will be taken against such establishments. Earlier, the authority had taken action against similar encroachments in Sector 29, where people were found to be using HSVP land to run illegal commercial operations. According to HSVP officials, several city residents have lodged complaints against such illegal encroachments, especially in the green belts of the city. The chief administrator of HSVP will also hold a meeting with officials on June 25 to discuss various measures that have been taken in their respective jurisdictions to remove illegal encroachments and ensure the security of properties owned by the authority, said officials. “Several illegal vends and kiosks have been identified across the city and action is being initiated against them,” said Jakhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-initiate-action-against-illegal-commercial-encroachments/story-h2bCxTRmfrTxoLPyBfm3SN.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Only 60 patients in Gurugram under institutional isolation facilities||Gurugram may be witnessing an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases, but its isolation facilities — set up by the district administration in different hotels and guest houses of the city — have found very few takers.Data shows that only 60 — of Gurugram’s 1,820 active cases — are under isolation in selected hotels, where the district administration has already reserved more than 1,100 beds on a paid basis.As per the district health bulletin, 4,512 coronavirus cases have been reported in the city so far. Out of these, 1,820 are active cases. Out of the active cases, nearly 65% — 1,193 patients — are under home isolation, 106 are in the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, and 461 are hospitalised in other private hospitals of the city. Only 60 patients — 3.2% of the total active cases — are in institutional isolation facilities set up at hotels as Covid Care Centres.Of the 60, at least 15 are in private paid hotels, while 45 are in government paid hotels. As reported by HT on June 21, senior doctors believe that reluctance of Covid-19 patients to stay in institutional facilities is adding to the number of patients requiring critical care. An institutional isolation facility is set up for Covid-19 patients who do not have enough space at home or can’t be home isolated, especially those with mild symptoms. It can also be opted for by those patients who do not want to transmit the virus to their family members or others in the neighbourhood. Recently, Delhi government had issued orders for five-day institutional isolation for all Covid-19 patients. The order was later retracted by the government as it was against the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. As per a district administration order, there are 13 designated hotels for self-paid isolation facilities. Over 464 beds have been reserved in these hotels for Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms. Also, these facilities can also be used by patients who are asymptomatic but can’t be home isolated due to lack of space in their houses. Likewise, 1,132 beds have been kept aside in 26 hotels of the city, which are to act like government paid isolation facilities. As per the data shared by the health department, only 45 Covid-19 patients are availing the facility. In the government paid facilities, the charges are nominal and is set at Rs 700, including taxes, which includes three meal. In the self -paid facilities the charges vary from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,200. Patients who have opted for self-paid service are currently kept in Ginger hotel, sector 14, while others are in hotels of old Gurugram. Ashok Sangwan, divisional commissioner, who is also the monitoring in-charge for Covid-19 situation in Gurugram, admitted that people were hesitant in opting for institutional isolation.“Nearly 85% patients are asymptomatic and prefer home isolation. Our teams advise them for institutional isolation. Some people think it is expensive. Others have issues like homecare and home cooked meals. We will be advertising about our government-paid facilities to break the chain of transmission and to avoid patients becoming critical.” Currently, 129 patients are in a critical condition and on ventilator support in the city. The number of patients requiring critical care has increased in the city. Till June 15, there were 48 patients on life support system. Officials said that the figures were low due to poor feeding of data by private hospitals on the common portal, which is now being streamlined.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary of PGIMS Rohtak, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 tertiary care in the state, said, “Citizens are still getting an understanding of the disease. It is for this reason that they are confused where to be admitted if they test positive. Mandatory institutional isolation of patients with mild symptoms would prevent transmission along with better management of positive cases.”Nitin, owner of a hotel in sector 18, which has been turned into a government-paid isolation facility, said he has not had a single patient come stay till now. “Patients are referred to hotels by the health team. To avoid transmission of Covid-19, patients are put in one facility instead of being kept in several locations.”Health policy expert, Dr Preeti Kumar of Public Health Foundation of India, said, “Ideally home isolation is best for most Covid positive people as the large majority will have mild symptoms and can makefull recovery. Good home compliance will ensure that the infection is not transmitted to family members or to the community and is also good for the patients overall well being and mental health. This also does not put unnecessary strain on the already stretched healthcare system. However, in some cases, if the treating doctor feels that certain patients may not be able to self isolate, or have existing serious co-comorbidities, or are elderly, then they may take the decision to provide institutional or facility based isolation for better management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-60-patients-in-gurugram-under-institutional-isolation-facilities/story-LDTmacozG8mr57mGtk5QEM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nearly half of those who succumbed to virus in Haryana were below 55||Elderly persons in the age group 55-84 years constituted 49% of Covid-19 patients who succumbed to the respiratory illness till June 21 in Haryana. Due to decreased immunity, body reserves and multiple associated diseases, elderly persons being at an increased risk of infection and higher mortality is now an established fact. However, what has come as a surprise is that 40% (see graphic) of those who died due to Covid-19 in the state were relatively young (in 35-54 age group), according to the data analysed by the Haryana health department.Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), said it is suspected that many relatively younger patients succumbed to the infection because of prevalence of comorbidities (an existing disease or medical condition) like diabetes and tuberculosis. “Also, there was an instance of a young drug addict dying due to coronavirus disease in Panipat,” she said indicating the role of substance abuse in fatality of young patients. About 60% of the total patients who died due to Covid-19 infection had comorbidites. However, Dr Gupta said a final conclusion in this regard will be drawn after an audit of the deaths is conducted.YOUNGER POPULATION MORE AFFECTEDQuoting statistics, health officials said 3,713 persons in 35-54 age group and 3,068 persons in 25-34 age group were infected by the contagion between March 17 and June 21. In comparison, only 1,623 elderly (55-84 years) got infected.“Younger persons are relatively more active and have higher mobility making them vulnerable to the infection. Most persons in the 25-34 and 35-54 age groups have to go out for work and have a higher rate of exposure,” said a health sector expert.PRIVATE EMPLOYEES, TRADERS MOST INFECTEDStatistics show that about 37% of the persons infected so far were either employed in the private sector or had their own enterprise.About 14% of those infected were housewives, 9% were students and 6 % were the health staff.About 6% government employees, including those in the police and defence forces, contracted the disease. About 3% farmers and labourers, 1% each vendors and drivers and 6% health staff were infected in the state. The department is still investigating the occupations of 12% patients, while 10% have been categorised in the miscellaneous occupations group.Health officials said 13 districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Ambala, Palwal, Bhiwani, Karnal, Hisar, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Rewari and Nuh — constituted the major part of total coronavirus cases in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nearly-half-of-those-who-succumbed-to-virus-in-haryana-were-below-55/story-Mk8kPvLXIqyi6icJIXusYM.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||HSVP plans for online auction of commercial and residential plots in mid-July||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has identified 163 commercial plots, 137 residential plots and 27 institutional plots across the city for a proposed auction, which the authority plans to hold in the middle of July.This is the first online auction to be held for residential plots after a gap of almost two years as they were put on hold due to legal issues. A meeting of the chief administrator of HSVP with other administrators and estate officers across the state would be held on June 25. The officials are likely to discuss various issues relating to the online auction for approval. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, said that a committee has been formed to identify and vet the plots that shall be put on auction so that the possession can be handed over to the owners at the earliest. “This exercise has already begun and we plan to hold the first auction next month once the proposal is approved,” he said.In Gurugram, the authority has identified a total of 163 commercial plots in sectors 4,5,7, 9, 9A, 10, 10A, 14, 15 Part 1 and 2 for the auction. These commercial plots include booths, kiosks and shops-cum-commercial offices in the markets developed by the HSVP. The authority has also identified 26 institutional sites for schools that include two high schools, eight primary schools and 15 nurseries spread across the city. Additionally, 137 residential plots spread across various HSVP sectors have also been identified and verified so that these can be included in the auction. The rates of these plots would be range between ₹50,000 per sq metre to ₹90,000 sq metre depending upon the location, said officials. As per the directions issued by chief administrator, the authority will discuss the proposals with regards to plots available in residential, commercial and institutional categories that are available for auction in the meeting on June 25. The authority will discuss the steps taken by HSVP officials to remove the illegal encroachments from their respective jurisdictions. For years now, the HSVP has been suffering from a crippling financial crisis due the large compensation amounts being paid to the land owners in the form of enhancements. The authority now plans to monetise its land assets spread across the city and the state to improve its financial condition.According to HSVP officials, the list of plots would be uploaded on its website. The officials will fix a date for auction and invite allottees to apply online and submit their bids on the day of the auction. Applicants who want to participate in this auction, will be required to apply through an online registration process. Submission of applications can be made through the official website of the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-plans-for-online-auction-of-commercial-and-residential-plots-in-mid-july/story-5uzrVt6RZGWw5vaCj3A09L.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police crack down on people not wearing masks in public||Gurugram police on Monday launched a massive drive to penalise people for not wearing masks in public places in the city. Each offender nabbed without a mask was penalised and given five masks by the police personnel, officers said.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that despite regular patrolling and public announcements, many people were not wearing masks due to which they were forced to crackdown and start a drive to penalize them. Every offender was given masks to keep in their vehicles, office and home so that they never venture out without one. “Earlier also we were distributing masks to the public. People, often after getting caught, claim that they forgot their masks at their home or in office,” Akil said. The offence is punishable with a fine up to Rs 500.A senior police officer said that at least 1,200 people were penalised on the spot on Monday. The aim of the drive, he added. was to ensure that everyone follows protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Akil said he has passed an order in the district asking all officers to ensure all offenders are penalised on the spot and their family members are informed about their carelessness.The order stated that officials need to collect Rs 500 fine on the spot from the violator and hand him/her a set of five masks . They are also to be sensitised them about the importance of wearing masks.According to the police, since May 1 this year, at least 10,427 people have been booked under sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act, 1897 and the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 for not wearing masks while stepping out of their residences.The civic agencies had also started taking action against the offender under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant. Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) had issued nearly 500 challans between May 15 and June 20, and collected a sum of Rs 2.50 lakh from people not wearing masks in public places.“We are fining people who are not wearing a face masks in public places. We want to ensure that this acts as a deterrent and people are more careful amid the coronavirus outbreak. We have also launched a seven-day drive starting Monday to fine people on a larger scale,” said Akil.On June 22, at least 85 new cases of Covid-19 were reported, taking the total tally of cases in the district to 4512. Gurugram has so far witnessed 66 fatalities from the disease. The district administration made wearing of masks mandatory on April 10. However,crackdowns were only launched after May 6, when a direction was issued to all municipal corporations across the state by the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB), to start fining violators.The municipal corporations can fine a person Rs 500 if he or she doesn’t wear a mask under Section 381 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. Officials said that action under Section 188 of IPC, which invites a penalty of Rs 200 and/or imprisonment of up to one month, could also be initiated, if the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-crack-down-on-people-not-wearing-masks-in-public/story-n7Wx4qOJscw5ghHiLSvoAM.html
23-06-2020||City||Murdered man cremated as Covid-19 victim in Faridabad||Gurugram: The body of a 28-year-old man, who was allegedly murdered three days ago, was cremated by the Faridabad municipal workers who were handed over the body by the hospital staff, mistaking it of a Covid-19 patient, said police on Monday.KK Rao, commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that the man was murdered and his five relatives were seriously injured after they were allegedly attacked with iron rods, sticks and knives by a group in Subhash Colony of Ballabhgarh on Friday evening. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Sonu Khan, was rushed to a government hospital in Faridabad, where doctors declared him brought dead and his body was kept in the mortuary for postmortem.The next day when the deceased’s family members reached the mortuary, they found the body missing, said the police.“The family members have complained against the hospital staff for their alleged involvement in accidentally cremating the body of Khan. They are suspecting that the accused party had conspired with hospital staff and have demanded action against them,” said Rao.A case under sections 166 (whoever, being a public servant, knowingly disobeys any direction of the law), 166A (government official disobeying law) and 201 ( destroying evidence) of Indian Penal Code against the hospital staff and principal medical officer at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Nagar police station on Saturday, the police said. Rao said they have handed over the investigation to crime investigation agency on Sunday and have asked to submit the report within 15 days.Raju Khan, brother of the deceased, said that his brother was stabbed to death by a rival group. He further said that the body was disappeared from the mortuary overnight. “When we reached the mortuary with investigating officer, initially they tried to mislead us and later informed us that they have cremated the body after being mistaken for Covid-19 death and started apologizing. The hospital staff told us that officials of the health department had taken the body for cremation,” he said.The police said that the body was mistaken for that of a coronavirus patient and handed over to the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) for cremation on Saturday morning. “We are conducting further investigations to confirm this,” said Rao.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said that if any doctor or medical staff are found involved in the incident, strict action will be taken against them. “We are conducting investigation. The case has been handed over to the crime agency to investigate if any foul play is there in it,” he said. Notably, MCF comes under the office of deputy commissioner.Meanwhile, the police arrested four men in connection with the murder of Sonu on Saturday, said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murdered-man-cremated-as-covid-19-victim-in-faridabad/story-zfHKCBk8AZ2B71tbadFwcP.html
23-06-2020||Gurugram||RWAs in Gurugram unclear on norms for isolation centres||Even as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the district administration, over the last two weeks, have repeatedly encouraged RWAs in the city to set up isolation centres of their own, the lack of knowledge of the publication of prescribed guidelines has left the residents’ bodies in a lurch. The district administration, on Friday, formulated a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed and released it on select WhatsApp groups on late Sunday night. The absence of any proper media release or public notification regarding the same meant that several RWAs in the city were still unaware of their existence on Monday, when HT reached out to them regarding the matter. The district currently has 4,512 cases of Covid-19. Notably, the guidelines to be followed by the RWAs for establishing the isolation centres constitute a 19-page document, which is in possession of HT. Members of various RWAs (resident welfare associations) said they were procuring items for isolation centres and setting them up purely based on assumptions, and were uncertain about whether their facilities are appropriately equipped, even as cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to rise in the city. In addition, the absence of clarity on who will foot the bills for the items and other facilities at the isolation centres for Covid-19 patients, and who will be held accountable in the event of any mishap in these centres has also added to the RWAs’ confusion.As many as 4,512 Covid-19 cases have reported in Gurugram so far.According to an estimate made by Vivek Kalia, nodal officer, hospital and ventilator management, if the number of cases increase to almost a lakh in August, the city would then require at least 37,000 beds and more than 2,000 ventilators.“The administration and the MCG are the ones who are on-ground and hence will know about all items that need to be stocked up in an isolation centre to ensure a Covid-19 is looked after properly. We have procured only those items for our own centre which we think are the most basic and essential. We weren’t aware of the administration’s SOP or else we would have arranged or procured any items that may have been left out before any resident needs this facility in our society,” said Puneet Goyal, president of Tulip Violet RWA.The RWA has reserved a four-bedroom vacant apartment as an isolation centre, which can accommodate eight people. The association, which has procured items such as— beds, masks, thermometers, a blood pressure monitor, a pulse oximeter, an oxygen cylinder, PPE kits, gloves, face shield, sanitisers—is also looking to identify one more apartment for the same purpose.Sudhir Sachdeva, a member of the Sushant Lok-1 RWA said although their governing body has started tying up with hotel chains and guest houses in their locality for setting up isolation centres, the uncertainty over the revenue model has had them scratching their heads. The RWAs has reserved at least 110 rooms for isolating residents in various hospitality centres so far.“There are a lot of issues on which the RWAs wants clarifications from the administration. Among them, the most important point is regarding the revenue model. We want to know from the SOP on who will bear the expenses for the isolation centre: will it be the administration themselves, the RWA or the person who will need to be isolated at the centre? We want clarity at the earliest so that we can arrange necessary funds for the same if the RWA has to bear partial or a significant amount of the total sum,” said Sachdeva.Another point of contention raised by RWAs was regarding accountability. “We are only building isolation centres in our respective areas as the administration has asked us to volunteer for it. However, we are not medical professionals. In the eventuality that a person dies inside the isolation centre or develops any health complications, we don’t want to be in a situation where we may face legal issues or our blamed for any mishap. The administration hence needs to issue the SOP and clarify who will be held accountable in such a scenario,” said Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco Apartments RWA.All three RWAs said they were unaware of any official SOP issued by the administration.“We have released the SOP and have started circulating it in official WhatsApp groups where RWA representatives are also present. We have requested people to circulate it further,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rwas-demand-clarity-on-norms-for-setting-up-isolation-centres/story-x8aqdtyOSTidnsM5cQ6DGJ.html
23-06-2020||Noida||Noida to create database of all non-coronavirus patients||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided to prepare a database of all non-Covid patients, including senior citizens, across the district. The objective is to identify if they have Covid-19 symptoms and provide timely medical help, officials said.“We have asked all 300 small or big private and government hospitals to keep details of all those patients who come to them for treatment of ailments other than Covid-19. Our aim is to detect people with Covid-19 symptoms at an early stage, so that we can treat them on time and save lives. Also, we have asked residents’ welfare associations, apartment owners’ associations and other social groups to prepare data of non-Covid-19 patients in their respective areas,” said Narendra Bhooshan, who is nodal officer for Covid-19 preparations in GB Nagar.Bhooshan, who is also chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, has interacted with office bearers of various social groups as to how they can help in fight with Covid-19 pandemic.“They can easily prepare a database of patients of non-Covid diseases and pass it on to us. We have set up a control room in Noida from where our teams will stay in touch with these patients and provide aid if need arises,” said Bhooshan.The administration has emphasized on collecting details of senior citizens who have ailments such as diabetes, high blood pressure, asthma, kidney problem and any cardiovascular disease.“Senior citizens who have non-Covid disease and have to visit a hospital are vulnerable to the infection. We need to take care of all of them. We are maintaining data of all of them with the help of social groups. Later, we plan to collect data from chemists too,” said the nodal officer. Residents’ bodies said that they had an interaction with the nodal officer about various issues related to Covid-19. “We have assured them of any help required in data collection. Apart from data collection, AOAs are ready to help the administration in handling the outbreak. We have appealed to AOAs to create a Covid-19 task force that will work in tandem with the health department teams,” said Rajiva Singh, president of Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of at least 70 housing societies’ apartment owners associations.“We will work together with the district administration for the safety of our residents. We have requested the administration to keep residents’ welfare associations of each sector in loop while taking decisions related with Covid-19 and measures to contain spread of the deadly virus,” said NP Singh, president of District Development Residents Welfare Association (DDRWA), which represents RWAs of GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-to-create-database-of-all-non-covid-patients-across-district/story-gqEPMu4u20seiZXaIpizqM.html
23-06-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 21-year-old TikTok ‘star’ arrested for killing woman days before her marriage||The Ghaziabad police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old man for allegedly killing a 19-year-old woman near Tila Morh in Sahibabad on June 17, days before the victim was supposed to get married. The police said the suspect is a ‘star’ on the content generation app TikTok with a following of over 4 lakh people.The suspect, identified as Sher Khan, was arrested with two alleged accomplices, Imran and Rizwan (single name), who were accused of sheltering Khan as he remained on the run since the murder. The police said on June 17, Khan had come with several other men on motorcycles to an area in Tila Morh where the victim was with her family and had a scuffle with her family members following which she sustained multiple stabbing wounds and succumbed to her injuries in a hospital in Delhi a day later.The police said Khan was a ‘stalker’ and killed the woman because she was getting married to someone else.“The man had been on the run since the day of murder and had been taking shelter in different parts of Delhi-NCR. The crime branch was also tracking him and eventually nabbed him in Sahibabad when he came to Ghaziabad. He told the police that he murdered the woman as he wanted to marry her, but she was getting married to someone else,” said Keshav Kumar, circle officer (Sahibabad). “The suspect had uploaded about 961 videos and has over four lakh followers on TikTok. During the period he was on the run, he had changed his dressing style and also had a hair cut to evade being arrested by police,” he added.The woman, Naina Kaur, was to leave for Indore with her family on June 22 for her marriage. After she was attacked, her mother Neelma Kaur had identified Sher Khan as the prime suspect in the complaint to the police. Khan had fled the crime scene along with his accomplices, police said. Naina, who lived with her family in Tulsi Niketan, was pursuing a nursing course from Delhi and had got engaged to a man from Indore. Upon complaint, the Tila Morh police lodged an FIR for murder against Khan, who is a resident Sundar Nagri in Delhi, and several of his accomplices. The added that soon after the murder, they had earlier arrested three more of the prime suspects’ accomplices— Salman, Asif, and Aamir.The police added that before the murder Khan had also prepared a video showing him holding a slate with words “Crime: murder” scribbled on it with his date of birth and other details. They added that in the video he portrayed himself as a Bollywood star who would break free from jail on a certain date and flee.The police also recovered a knife used in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-21-year-old-tik-tok-star-arrested-for-killing-woman-days-before-her-marriage/story-WunTwuQCviIjWSgRuhOQJJ.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt told to come up with fresh strategy for containment zones by Friday||The Delhi government on Monday issued an order which directed the district administration to come up with a revised plan for containment zones in the city by June 26 – an exercise for which the government has sought help of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).The order, issued by Dr Nutan Mundeja, the director general of health services in Delhi, on Monday asked the district administration to implement a “revised covid response plan”, which brings into effect a list of recommendations by Union home minister Amit Shah, who chaired a meeting on Covid-19 strategy on Sunday with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal.In the meeting, Shah had recommended the Delhi government to come up with a fresh strategy for the containment zones by Monday – a date that was later modified in the order to June 26 – in light of the fact that over Friday and Saturday, Delhi accounted for around 24% of the total number of fresh cases and 25% of deaths in the country, senior government officials said.It was observed in the meeting that a fresh plan for containment zones was required since the city was reporting such a high number of cases. The home minister had also asked the Delhi government to set up district-level teams by Tuesday, to implement the fresh delineation exercise by Friday (June 26) and complete health survey of all individuals residing in containment zones by June 30. These dates find mention in Monday’s order without any change.“The divisional commissioner will prepare the plan in consultation with NCDC,” said a senior government official who did not want to be identified.NCDC is an institute for research on epidemiology and control of communicable diseases.The official further said, “District teams are ready for implementation of the new guidelines. The final plan will be ready by June 26 (Friday) and it will be implemented on the same day if needed. That way, we will not miss the deadline in terms of implementation. The deadline for the survey also remains unaffected. The order was drafted after consultation with members of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).”The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and the chief minister is the vice-chairman.As on Monday, Delhi had 261 containment zones – with the highest number of them in southwest Delhi (39) and the lowest in northeast Delhi (3).Earlier on Monday, suggestions were sought from the district magistrates in all 11 revenue districts of the Capital, and several of them have recommended that the strategy of fresh delineation should apply to the new containment zones and the existing ones should be left untouched for effective monitoring, said a second senior official who is privy to the details of a government meeting held on Monday.Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “It is good that the government will consult the NCDC. The institute is better equipped with the knowledge of managing Covid cases. Containment zone demarcation strategy is a dynamic process and the requirements keep changing from time to time. The aim is to maintain an equilibrium between containing the disease by causing minimum inconvenience to people. This demands a scientific approach.”The director general of health services has also directed the Delhi government to strengthen district level surveillance teams and oversight system by roping in district commissioners of police, the commissioner of the concerned municipal body and epidemiologists registered with the government; to strengthen the surveillance and contact tracing activities; to use input of Aarogya Setu app and the Itihaas app, which was developed by the Union ministry of electronics and information technology.The government has been asked to conduct sero-survey of 20,000 individuals between June 27 and July 10 to gauge the burden of the disease; to engage civil society groups in the process and take adequate measures to protect transmission of Covid among healthcare workers. The district administration has been told to prepare a plan for house-to-house screening exercise to be conducted in the entire city (outside containment zones) by July 7. It also stated that cluster cases in highly dense areas will be sent to covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-told-to-come-up-with-fresh-strategy-for-containment-zones-by-friday/story-2gKoE9gCQgc6hb5vHBBfUO.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Doctors apprehensive about issuing ‘Covid-19 recovery’ certificates||Doctors have expressed reservations about issuing Covid-recovery certificates as mandated by the state government — the certificates state that a person “does not pose a risk to the community” — while discharging them from Covid-19 hospitals. The certificates,the Delhi government says, will help in countering the stigma that’s become attached to the disease. According to the June 15 order by the Delhi government, the certificate must mention, “This is to certify that I have examined …. He/She has recovered from Covid and does not pose a risk to the community. He/ She is asymptomatic at the time of discharge.”Under the Union health ministry’s discharge policy, those with mild to moderate symptoms can be discharged without testing after 10 days of symptoms appearing and/or being symptom free for three days.“How can a doctor certify whether a person is infectious or not without testing them? Although collective evidence from the cases, which have been treated so far, show that after 10 days the virus does not usually transmit the disease, but a microbiologist has to do a test in order to verify this,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta from the department of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.“In Delhi, we discharge asymptomatic and mild cases after their test reports come back and advice home isolation. Sometimes people are admitted for a couple of days and then advised home isolation. How can we give these people a certificate that states they are not a risk to the society?” asked Dr Mahesh Gupta, a city-based gastroenterologist .Even for those who stay at the hospital for longer, there is no way health care experts can determine whether or not patients will transmit the infection.“I can say a patient is free of symptoms at the time when he/she was examined. But, how can I say that they pose no risk to the society, especially when we are not even testing them at the time of discharge? The science on whether an asymptomatic person can transmit the infection is still unclear. Governments are going back and forth on what the ideal isolation or quarantine duration should be. In such a scenario, how can I issue such a certificate?” asked Delhi-based neurologist Dr Amit Shrivastav. “This is a legal document and doctors might be held liable in case even one of the discharged patients passes on the infection to their families or co-workers.”Issuing false medical certificate is an offence under the Delhi Medical Council Act, punishable by striking a doctor’s name from the state’s medical register and barring them from practicing medicine for a given period. “This is such a novel issue, there is no clarity on the rules about anything. However, if the doctors are following the government guidelines there shouldn’t be any reason for taking action against them,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, registrar, Delhi Medical Council. The government hoped that the certificate would reduce stigma against those who recovered from the disease. “People living in the same (housing) society and resident welfare associations become apprehensive, after a person living among or near them is discharged from the hospital. The certificate will help ease such situations,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said on June 15 when the order was issued.Some officials also said that the certificate would help facilitate the rail and air travel of recovered patients. This is along the lines of immunity certificate, which the World Health Organisation warned against in April-end stating that there was no evidence to show that people who have recovered are protected from getting the infection a second time. Allowing immunity certificates for easing out of strict social distancing norms might fuel continued spread of the infection, WHO said then.Contacted, the Delhi government did not comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctors-apprehensive-about-issuing-covid-19-recovery-certificates/story-tUT41Hk7VkDpTud3oA1yzK.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Out of work, Delhi govt guest teachers selling fruits on cart, repairing bicycles to make ends meet||An English teacher is forced to sell vegetables on the road; a natural science teacher has set up a bicycle puncture repair shop; and a Sanskrit teacher has returned to his village to work on wheat fields. Many guest teachers working on a contractual basis in Delhi government schools and paid on a daily basis have been forced to find alternative livelihoods to make their ends meet after being rendered out of work for two-three months as schools remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and amid little signs of them reopening in the immediate future.More than 20,000 guest teachers are employed in 1,030 government schools across Delhi. Paid between Rs 1,040 and Rs 1,400 per day, their contracts are renewed every year. They are not paid for Sundays, summer and winter vacations, or any national holiday. Some of them, though, do manage to find work even during summer vacation as teachers are engaged in summer camps and other activities. But the Covid-induced lockdown has made matters worse for them this year.On May 5, the Delhi government’s education department issued an order stating, “All guest teachers shall be paid up to May 8, 2020, and in summer vacation only if they are called for duties”. This time, however, no guest teacher has been called back to duty as schools are shut.Schools have been shut since March 19 in Delhi. Classes were shifted online and some guest teachers took part in virtual learning till May 8. The government declared summer vacations from May 11 to June 30 but online classes for classes 9 to 12 continued till May 28 and those who were taking part were paid on a daily basis till May 8.Then there are around 1000 teachers whose contracts were not extended after March 31 as they have not cleared the mandatory Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET). The test is generally conducted twice a year and next scheduled for July but this year there is uncertainty if it will be held due to the pandemic, forcing the teachers to stare at an uncertain future.Wazir Singh, 34 -- who was working at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Sultanpuri H-block as an English teacher till May 8 – is an MA in English, and cleared BEd and the CTET. “We are being paid on a daily basis, due to which we are unable to save money. When our principal sent us a message on a WhatsApp group, saying we were relieved from duty till further orders, I had no savings. It was like a bolt from the blue. I am the sole earner for my family of five in Haryana’s Panipat,” he said.To feed his family, Singh hired a cart for Rs 2,000 per month and started selling fruits from 10 am to 6 pm near his rented one-room set in Sultanpuri last month. “I am earning Rs 400 to Rs 500 per day. I have to work to support my family. My father does not keep well and needs medicine. My three younger brothers are studying. I will continue to sell vegetables and fruits until the department calls me back. At least there will be some income,” he said.Among the non-CTET teachers who have been out of work since March 31 is Devesh Kumar, 40, who was teaching natural science at the government boys’ senior secondary school in Mehrauli. Kumar, who has done his BSc, MA and Bed, has set up a bicycle puncture repair shop near his rented accommodation in Ghaziabad. “I am the only earning member for the family of four -- parents, wife and a son. My son studies in class 3 at a private school. I could not pay his fee this academic session as I am out of work since April. I am repairing tyres to make our ends meet,” he said. Kumar, who runs a YouTube channel that imparts lessons on natural science, has been working with the Delhi government school since 2014.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said many such guest teachers have been struggling to make ends meet amid the pandemic and the lockdown.“We have written to the education department and the education minister multiple times highlighting the plight of guest teachers. We had requested them to make some arrangements for the guest teachers during the lockdown since many of them are the only earning members. The government should also give some time to teachers to clear the CTET since it is expected to get postponed due to the prevailing situation,” he said. The next CTET is scheduled on July 5.Sanjeev Kumar, 34, a double MA in astronomy and Sanskrit from Banaras Hindu University, who has cleared the BEd, is out of work since March 31.Kumar was teaching Sanskrit at the government boys’ school in Nangloi before returning to his village in Himachal’s Bilaspur district in April. He has been working on his wheat fields since then. “I have not been paid since April even though I took online classes after the schools were shut. We don’t even have money to hire help for farming here. I’ve been working day and night to grow vegetables at home so that we do not need to spend on it. I have to support my wife and two kids,” he said. A senior DoE official, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to the prevailing situation government cannot accommodate so many teachers and pay them. These teachers will be called back when there is a requirement. There is enough time for them to clear CTET till then.”The Delhi government new norms make it mandatory for its teachers to qualify CTET, Binay Bhushan, director of education, said. “The guest teachers have never been paid during summer vacation. We will have to see if they are needed in July. We will call them back accordingly,” he said. Shoeb Rana, president of the all-India guest teachers’ association, said many guest teachers used to get work during the summer break at summer camps for Mission Buniyaad classes and remedial classes. “Around 70% guest teachers would be called for duty every year and were paid on a per-day basis. But this year, schools are shut and thousands of teachers are going through a tough time. There is uncertainty over the reopening of schools. Guest teachers will not get work until the schools reopen physically. The government should provide some assurance for our re-joining,” he said.Asked about the government’s plan to take back guest teachers, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “The matter is to be taken by the services department, which is under the Lieutenant-Governor of Delhi. Service matters are not discussed with us.”Despite several attempts, the L-G’s office did not respond to calls and texts sent for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-work-delhi-govt-guest-teachers-selling-fruits-on-cart-repairing-bicycles-to-make-ends-meet/story-iYL0YWV6Myr6eSXY7nvy3O.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||At Lok Nayak, patients’ families wait hours for update on their condition||Prabha Singh claims it took her three days to get an update on the status of her 63-year-old father who has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Lok Nayak Hospital. “My father is a sugar patient and has severe breathing issues. All I need to know is whether a doctor is periodically checking on him and he is receiving medicines on time,” said Singh. On Monday, she was finally able to talk to a doctor treating her father after a person on the helpdesk called her from her father’s mobile phone and made the doctor speak to her. Singh’s experience isn’t unique. Despite a temporary helpdesk created to provide updates on the condition of patients, relatives of people admitted to the Covid wards of Lok Nayak say that it’s still very difficult to get one.Lok Nayak Hospital is Delhi’s biggest Covid hospital with 2,000 beds, of which 37% were occupied on Monday, according to data provided on the Delhi Corona mobile app. The 2,000 beds account for nearly 15% of all 13,377 beds currently available in Delhi’s hospitals. The hospital also has 64 ventilators, the maximum at any single Covid facility in Delhi. Over 78% of the ventilators at the hospital are under use.Rohit Kumar, said he had to wait for two hours before a security guard took him near the Covid ward where he handed over a bag of clothes for his 26-year-old sister, Rachna Verma, who has been admitted for 20 days.“I got a slip made at the helpdesk, but I couldn’t find the guard who was assigned to me,” Rohit Kumar said after finally meeting the guard and sending across the bag.A senior doctor serving in the Covid ward of the hospital said that while government doctors are trained to take on heavy case load and work for long hours, demands for updates from the relatives of patients are overwhelming. “The phone numbers of doctors are not shared with patients’ relatives, but we receive requests for updates from the coordination cell that caters to relatives,” added this doctor who asked not to be named. “But there are so many patients that it is not possible to repeatedly respond to each of their queries. Yet, we are doing all we can to inform them, and even help get across things they want to send to their patients,” said the doctor.A Delhi government spokesperson said that from Tuesday a “full-fledged” helpdesk will start operating from the hospital. “ From Tuesday, we’ll have a proper helpdesk where at least half-a-dozen people, from representatives of the chief minister to hospital doctors, will be stationed to cater to the queries of the kin of the patients.”The spokesperson added that a WhatsApp helpline number has been launched to cater to the relatives. On Monday, while posters of the WhatsApp helpline numbers were pasted near the helpdesk, relatives of many patients were seen waiting to collect slips from the temporary helpdesk so that they could either send across clothers or food, or have a word with the doctors.“We are doing our best under the current circumstances,” said a staff member at the desk, refusing to identify herself or speak any further. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director (MD) of the hospital, said clothes are not allowed to be taken to the wards since there is a risk of them bringing infection. “We only allow eatables and water, etc brought by the family members.”As for the patients facing problem in speaking to their family members, he said most patients have their cell phones with them. “The problem occurs when they are on oxygen on ventilator support, which is true for most of our patients. We cannot remove the oxygen to allow the patients to talk to the family members.” The hospital MD said that with 10 tablets being pressed into service, relatives will be able to interact with their kin over video. “We have purchased ten tablets -- half of which will remain in the wards and the rest will be kept at the help desk. The relatives of the patients can come to the helpdesk for say two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening and communicate with them over video call. If successful, we will add the tablets to each ward,” said Dr Kumar.Many relatives said they frequently try the helpline numbers to receive an update on their kin. While some succeed, others said they often have to wait for hours to hear back.Nitin Kumar, whose 70-year-old father Hoshiyaar Singh, is in the hospital’s ICU, said the number is often busy, but admits that he does eventually get an update from the doctor. “They just tell me that he is stable and that he is eating well. In these times, that is all I want to hear.”  Pradeep Kumar, whose uncle is in the Covid ward of the same hospital, said he doesn’t receive a response despite waiting for hours.“I am told that I’ll receive a response in two minutes. That two minutes turn into two hours, but the response never arrives. My uncle has told me that there are two dozen wards, but only half-a-dozen doctors tending to them. So, I have decided to visit the hospital to directly seek response rather than dialling the helpline number.”Kumar requested staff at the helpdesk to give him a PPE kit and then take him to his uncle, but the staff turned his request down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-lok-nayak-patients-families-wait-hours-for-update-on-their-condition/story-wjVKFcs0bh24BlD1eGWhcM.html
23-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lags behind UTs in Covid-19 testing||A comparison of tests being conducted by all union territories (UTs) across India shows Chandigarh at the bottom of the list with the lowest number of Covid-19 tests. Among the UTs with a population of less than 15 lakh, Ladakh has conducted the maximum, with 43,816 tests per million and 837 positive cases till Sunday.Puducherry, with a population bracket similar to Chandigarh’s has conducted almost double the number of tests.Chandigarh, which is a major transit point for populations of at least three adjoining states is the only UT which has conducted less than 10,000 tests, averaging 68 tests a day, even though it’s close to the 100-day mark since the first case was reported here.‘Following ICMR guidelines’The UT health department has in its defence reiterated that tests are being done according to Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. “Testing is as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research and those fulfilling the criteria are being tested,” UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta had said recently.However, the poor testing rates have been criticised. “It’s beyond understanding why the testing numbers are being kept low, it should be made accessible to citizens” said Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convenor, Medico Action Legal Group.“This administration should understand that if the outbreak is not contained within the areas or clusters it can spread to the whole city. One possible solution is making testing accessible to all,” he added. Ramping up testing makes sense, says former PGIMER directorIn an ideal scenario where money is not a problem, as many people as possible should be tested, said Dr Yogesh Chawla, former director, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).“Till now symptomatic cases and their contacts are being tested but since the infection has spread, ideally we should test all keeping in view whether our resources permit it. But, its feasibility is an issue not only in India but abroad too. Still, we have some successful stories from South Korea and Taiwan. So, we should test as much as possible to stop the transmission,” Dr Chawla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-lags-behind-uts-in-covid-19-testing/story-frumZ35NFFJJsv2zfUw5fJ.html
23-06-2020||Pune||Real estate broker held for allegedly stalking, sexually harassing woman||A real estate broker was arrested and released on bail on Monday for allegedly stalking and sexually harassing a 50-year-old lawyer who had hired his services for buying property in the city.In August 2019, the complainant had bought a property in the city after hiring him as a broker. In the form of commission, she claims to have paid Rs 53,375 through bank cheque. However, she submitted in the complaint that the man was demanding Rs 53,750 more.Over the past four to five months, the man had installed multiple banners in various parts of the city with defamatory comments about the complainant.He also allegedly sent her obscene emails and posted abusive comments on social media. She has also alleged that the man sent her text messages threatening to kill her if she does not give him the money.“He was arrested today (Monday) and was granted bail by the court. We had warned him once before as well. But he didn’t stop sending messages, emails to her. She had paid a certain amount and he wanted double the amount.,” said senior police inspector Dadasaheb Chudappa of Vishrambaug police station.A case under Sections 354(a) (sexual harassment), 354(d) (stalking), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (insult with intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 67 of Information Technology Act was registered at Vishrambaug police station against the accused man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/real-estate-broker-held-for-allegedly-stalking-sexually-harassing-woman/story-RMWAH014NHJBVPSu8s2Z0L.html
23-06-2020||Pune||Technical glitch affects Pune RTO work on first day of operation after lockdown||The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), which had been shut for three months due to the Covid-19 lockdown, resumed its operations on Monday. Learning and permanent licence tests along with other administrative services were offered to the residents. However, many had to wait for three hours for the learning licence tests due to technical problems at the transport office along with internet connectivity issues. Applicants who had reached the RTO at 10am, had to wait till 1pm when the tests began. “I work with a private company and had taken a half-day leave in order to appear for the learning licence test. When I came here at around 10am, I was told to wait as there was some system issue. However, I had to wait for three hours and at 12.30pm, the document verification, biometrics and other process started. I had to extend my leave to a full day due to the mismanagement of the RTO,” said Payal Sagale, an applicant.Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, said, “All the licence related works, tests and other administrative services were offered today (Monday). There was some technical internet connectivity issue due to which the learning licence tests were delayed. We resolved the issue and around 35 applicants appeared for the test today.”Another applicant Aryan Misal, a student, said, “If the RTO was planning to start the learning licence tests today, they should have made the arrangements for it before. During this pandemic, we need to reduce the amount of time we stay out of our homes and take necessary precautions. Such delays make us wait unnecessarily.”Meanwhile, other RTO-related works of transport and non-transport vehicles also started at the main office building at Pune RTO, Sangamwadi. However, common public was not allowed to enter the office premises and their applications and documents were submitted at the entry gate. Every person had to undergo thermal scanning and was given a sanitiser at the entrance gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/technical-glitch-affects-pune-rto-work-on-first-day-of-operation-after-lockdown/story-JM443mjgm2wzp58QIaVDEL.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||Man arrested for duping Delhi Speaker on pretext of donating plasma||Delhi Police have arrested a 23-year-old man who allegedly duped Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel and a friend on the pretext of donating blood plasma for the Covid-19 treatment of one of the friend’s family members.Police said the man targeted those looking for plasma donors on social media. He would claim to be a doctor who recently recovered from Covid-19, offer to donate blood plasma, and ask people for money to be transferred into his account for travel expenses. Once he got the money, he would be untraceable.The accused has been identified as Abdul Karim Rana, a resident of Pul Prahladpur in south-east Delhi, police said. The amount in the incident involving the Speaker was Rs 950.Police added that Rana confessed to cheating several people for petty cash using the same modus operandi soon after the national lockdown was imposed in March. “The forgery in terms of money may not be big, but the suffering that the patient had to face is what bothered us. When the man assured us that he will donate plasma, we were satisfied that we’ve got a donor, unaware of his real motives. I would advise people that they should be aware of such fraudsters and be extra cautious when dealing with such a situation,” Goel said.These days several people are looking for plasma donors for the treatment of their friends or family members, and “anyone manipulating such a situation in an illegal manner for his personal benefits, must face action”, he added.Goel filed a written complaint in the Civil Lines police station on June 20, detailing the sequence of events. “In his complaint, the Speaker said that his nephew had sought help in a social media post for the treatment of his father-in-law, and a person called Rahul Thakur contacted him. Thakur claimed that he was a doctor from Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital, and told Goel’s nephew that he recently recovered from Covid-19. In the meantime, however, Goel’s nephew got another plasma donor,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.But, on June 19, when one of Goel’s friends was looking for a plasma donor for his father, who was admitted to a hospital in Gurugram, the name of Thakur, supposedly a doctor from RML, came up, the officer said. “When his nephew told him about Rahul Thakur, Goel contacted the man, who asked for Rs 450 as travel expenses to meet them in the hospital. The money was transferred to the account number given by Thakur,” the officer added.According to the police, Thakur later called Goel and said he did not receive the money, and had another Rs 500 transferred to his account by the friend. “After receiving Rs 950, Thakur could not be contacted,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Monika Bhardwaj, said the details of the mobile phone numbers given by the accused showed that they belonged to Abdul Karim Rana, a native of Muzaffarnagar, who lived in south-east Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur. “His address was identified and he was arrested from his house,” Bhardwaj said. During interrogation, Rana said he made got fake identity cards made in the name of Rahul Thakur. Police said Rana’s bank accounts and mobile phone data were being examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-duping-delhi-speaker-on-pretext-of-donating-plasma/story-xIce6OsgvMUIaXJo73xVBJ.html
23-06-2020||Pune||PMC to bear cost of Covid-19 tests in private labs||The spurt of Covid-19 cases in the city, 620 on Sunday, has moved the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to review its containment zones every seven days, instead of the current 15 days.The PMC has also decided to bear the costs of of all Covid-19 tests it commissions to private laboratories.According to municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, the Pune civic body has scheduled a meeting with the private labs to discuss bringing the costs of the tests down even further.“The Maharashtra government has fixed the cost of the Covid-19 test at Rs 2,200 for private labs. The PMC is planning to bring it down in Pune and has invited quotations from the labs. The PMC plans to bear the whole cost. A meeting for the same will take place on Tuesday,” said Gaikwad, who along with Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar and district collector Naval Kishore Ram, held a joint press conference on Monday.The move will help the civic body increase its daily testing capacity by 500 samples, according to Gaikwad.Currently there is an average of 3,000 tests being conducted in Pune district daily, of which 1,500 to 2,000 take place in the city.The civic body has also changed its strategy for reviewing containment zones.“As per the existing policy, PMC is taking the review of containment zones every 15 days, but as the numbers are increase rapidly in non-containment zones, it has been decided to take a review every week. This way, we will announce new containment zones every week,” said Gaikwad.PMC also plans to restrict the entry for citizens at its headquarters, as more employees are testing positive.“I have given instructions to the security guard not to allow citizens into the headquarters. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has also banned visitors to its headquarters,” Gaikwad said.Migrants returningAccording to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, as many as 23,000 passengers de-boarded 144 trains passing through Pune, after the Centre started train services, partially.Of these 23,000 passengers, 8,963 have been identified as migrant workers returning to Pune.“As the city has started witnessing an influx of migrant workers, we have asked the labour department to keep a tab on labourers returning,” said Ram.Strict action for not wearing masksAction will be initiated in the city against the citizens not wearing masks,” said divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar. Mhaisekar added, “The additional secretary has raised the same concern about the relaxation of citizens and instructed us to enforce mask wearing.”According to the divisional commissioner, the city police and the PMC will jointly start the drive in the city and impose the fine (Rs 500) against those not wearing a mask.District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “It is a must to wear the mask. It is helpful for everyone and the government has asked citizens to wear masks. Despite making it mandatory, if the citizens are not using it, action needs to be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-bear-cost-of-covid-19-tests-in-private-labs/story-rL3MFRsu1AmyrburL1mO2N.html
23-06-2020||Delhi||17 inmates in Delhi’s Mandoli jail test Covid-19 positive||As many as 17 inmates who were lodged at east Delhi’s Mandoli Jail with an inmate who died of coronavirus on June 15 have tested positive for the virus, jail authorities said on Monday. Twelve others who were in the same barrack have tested negative but have been kept in isolation under medical supervision, officials said. Kanwar Singh, who was lodged in central Jail number 14 of the Mandoli jail complex, was found dead on the morning of June 15 when his co-residents tried to wake him up but he was unresponsive. When jail officials took him to hospital, he was declared dead. Singh’s medical examination revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. There were 29 other inmates in the same barrack and all of them were tested for Covid-19. “Their test result came on Monday, which said 17 inmates are positive and the rest 12 negative,” said a jail official who wished not to be named. The officer said the 17 positive inmates have been shifted to a separate barrack in central jail number 14 and their health is being closely monitored by the jail doctor. “So far, their health is alright. The remaining 12 who have tested negative for the virus have been separately quarantined and they are under medical supervision,” the official said.Delhi Prison comprises the Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. With the new cases, the cumulative figure of Covid-19 positive cases among inmates in Delhi prisons is now 40. Of them 16 have recovered so far while one inmate has died.Among the prison staff, 46 have tested positive so far out of which 12 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-mandoli-jail-inmates-test-positive/story-V4Da2MtplDBzusJRq0uNQK.html
23-06-2020||Pune||Woman jumps off from fifth-floor hospital window in Pune||PUNE: A 36-year-old housewife on Monday morning jumped from the window of the fifth-floor room of a hospital, where her 13-year-old diabetic son was undergoing treatment, according to police. The deceased left a note saying “no one to be blamed for her act”, said a police official.The woman had lost her husband to cancer three months ago, according to the information provided to the police by the deceased’s mother. The family, according to police, had recently returned from abroad.The victim’s 62-year-old mother was with her in the hospital room when the former’s 13-year-old son started complaining of discomfort, according to senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Samarth police station.“When the child complained of physical pain, the woman sent her mother out of the room to seek medical help before taking the extreme step in front of her son. The family is in shock to give more details,” said Kadam.According to the police, the husband of the deceased, was a businessman and their teenage son, a diabetic, had been in hospital for the past 2-3 days.“The 13-year-old boy, son of the deceased woman, is under our care for the management of steroid dependent nephrotic syndrome since 2016. He was diagnosed to have diabetes mellitus in 2015, for which he is being managed by a paediatric endocrinologist. On June 21, he was brought to the paediatric emergency department with complaints of neck pain. He was admitted for observation and monitoring and appropriate management was started,” read a statement from the hospital. The hospital staff provided an isolated cubicle and a nasal swab test for Covid-19 was performed on him.The fifth-floor window of the hospital room did not have a safety grill. The incident was recorded at Samarth police station in an accidental death report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-jumps-off-from-hospital-window-in-pune/story-uOZfG5RIWh0OSFjelDxXUI.html
23-06-2020||Pune||Four arrested for killing, burning, disposing of remains of 19-year-old in Pune||PUNE: Four men were remanded by a local court in Pimpri on Monday to police custody till June 25 for murder of a 19-year-old and destruction of evidence. The incident took place in March, but the murder came to light when the police were investigating a missing person case lodged by the parents of the deceased.The deceased was identified as Jasbeersingh alias Billu alias Vicky Gulzarsingh Virdhi (19), a resident of Milindnagar area along River road near Durga Mata Mandir in Pimpri.The arrested were identified as Niraj alias Dhosa Ashok Jangiyani (26), a resident of Pimpri Main Bazar area; Lalit Lalchand Thakur (21) Kamla Niwas in Pimpri; Yogesh alias Yogi Keshav Panjwani (31) Sanjay Library lane in Pimpri; and Harjotsingh Ranjitsingh Lohit (22) a resident of area near Vaishnav Devi temple in Pimpri, according to the police.“They all used to smoke marijuana together. The deceased and his elder brother had been in a fight with one of the accused hours before the murder. After that fight, the accused had lodged a complaint and a non-cognisable case was registered against the two Virdhi brothers that night. The fight was for a trivial reason,” said sub-inspector (PSI) DN Nikam of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case.Upon initial investigation, the four accused confessed to the crime. On March 7 at 11:30pm, the deceased and his brother, Sunny Virdi, had roughed up Jangiyani for reasons that are yet to be known. Jangiyani was hurt on his head. Enraged by the fight, at 12:30am on March 8, Lohit, who was at a paan stall located near Virdhi’s house, dragged the latter to a cowshed owned by Panjwani where the three others were waiting.On March 19, a missing person’s case was registered at Pimpri police station by Jasbeersingh’s mother Amreen Kaur Virdhi (34), who works as a domestic help and lived with the deceased.“The accused are habitual drug users. One of them has a history of drug possession case,” said inspector Rajendra Nikalje of Pimpri police station.According to the complaint, once they reached the cowshed, Jangiyani strangled Jasbeersingh while Thakur held his hands and Panjwani smashed the victim’s head with a stone. After the victim fell on the ground, one of the men hit him on the head again, causing his death. Lohit fled the spot when the three started hitting the 19-year-old.“The men sourced diesel and poured it on the body covered with dry grass, twigs, and dried cow dung from the cowshed, and burnt it. The body was half charred,” said PI Nikalje.The three men covered the remains with more dry grass and fled the spot only to return on the next day and wait until the pyre had cooled down, according to an official who is part of the investigation.“The exact number of days before they threw the body is still unclear,” said PSI Nikam.After the pyre had cooled down, the ashes were wrapped in a cloth and dropped in a river at Dapodi area. The police are trying to retrieve the remains and probing involvement of more people in the crime.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-killing-burning-disposing-of-remains-of-19-year-old-in-pune/story-gnTkQwlV1erHYuz5sjnEvN.html
23-06-2020||World||Massive 7.7 earthquake shakes Mexico||A very strong earthquake hit southern Mexico on Tuesday, shaking buildings in the center of the capital Mexico City hundreds of miles away and sending hundreds of people fleeing their homes into the streets.The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake’s magnitude was 7.7, while Mexico’s seismological institute put its strength at 7.1. Quakes of such size can be devastating.The earthquake was centered in the southern state of Oaxaca, the Mexican institute said.Reuters witnesses in Mexico City saw no initial signs of injuries or damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/massive-7-7-earthquake-shakes-mexico/story-Uuzq57YchCCHl9EC0IzNqM.html
23-06-2020||World||China has an ‘obligation’ to join nuclear arms talks: US||Beijing has an “obligation” to join Washington and Moscow at negotiations to replace a nuclear disarmament treaty, the United States said Tuesday, a day after talks with Russia in Vienna.“They (China) have an obligation to negotiate in good faith with us and the Russians,” American envoy to the negotiations Marshall Billingslea told reporters.“They stood up not just the United States and Russia but they stood up the entire world,” he said.On Monday American and Russian delegations met in Vienna to discuss the New START treaty, which limits each side to 1,550 deployed nuclear warheads but which is due to run out in February.US President Donald Trump has insisted China should be involved in the talks, but Beijing has shown no interest in taking part.Billingslea said another round of negotiations could take place towards the end of July but admitted it could once again be restricted to Washington and Moscow and didn’t rule out an extension of the bilateral accord.“The Russian Federation did not agree with my request to pressure China to join as a responsible party into these talks, but they also... are not opposed to China joining,” Billingslea said.However, on Tuesday the Russian envoy to the talks Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said it was “unrealistic to count on China’s participation”.Billingslea said the American delegation “had the opportunity to spend a great deal of time presenting detailed intelligence -- the first time in fact in recent memory that we have done so with Russia -- regarding... the destabilising and worrisome crash programmes of third parties,” Billingslea said, in another oblique reference to China.He said that the US delegation had been left with the “clear impression” that Russia would favour a multilateral format that would include European nuclear powers France and the United Kingdom.The US would not rule out this prospect, Billingslea said, but stressed that “the United Kingdom and France are in a very different situation than the arms-racing Chinese”.He also confirmed that the US delegation had put out Chinese flags in the negotiating room before the Russian delegation arrived.Shortly before talks started on Monday, Billingslea tweeted a picture of an empty negotiating table decked with Chinese flags, prompting a scornful reaction from Chinese diplomats.Experts say the Trump administration’s insistence that China should be a part of the talks casts doubt on whether it is serious about reaching an accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-has-an-obligation-to-join-nuclear-arms-talks-us/story-NkBdWwRMsi7KqPWI8DMJWL.html
23-06-2020||World||After dwindling infections, UK PM Boris eases coronavirus lockdown from July 4||Keen to kick-start economy crippled by the lockdown, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday announced a reduction of the 2-metre social distancing rule, allowing restaurants, museums, pubs and galleries to re-open with some curbs, but experts advised caution.The relaxation from July 4, seen as a high-stakes moment, applies only to England, with separate announcements for Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales in early July. The UK – the worst affected European country with over 42,000 deaths – has recorded dwindling numbers of infections in recent days.The development was welcomed by Labour as Johnson told the House of Commons: “Today, we can say that our long national hibernation is beginning to come to an end and life is returning to our shops, streets and homes and a new, but cautious, optimism is palpable”.“But it would be all too easy for that frost to return and that is why we will continue to trust in the common sense and the community spirit of the British people to follow this guidance, to carry us through and see us to victory over this virus”.“Thanks to our progress, we can now go further and safely ease the lockdown in England. At every stage, caution will remain our watchword, and each step will be conditional and reversible…Almost as eagerly awaited as a pint will be a haircut, particularly by me, and so we will re-open hairdressers, with appropriate precautions, including the use of visors”.World Health Organisation expert Margaret Harris advised caution: “The lesson is for people to understand this is the year of living differently. Not, ‘OK, it’s over’. You haven’t just been let out of school. You have done well. You have really brought down your numbers”.“The UK has brought a very difficult outbreak right down. Very good news in the last couple of days about the limitation in cases, and far, far fewer people dying. So, now is the moment to celebrate that by being super-careful”, she told BBC.David King, former chief scientific adviser, added that easing the lockdown is “far too early…far too premature…extremely risky” because the UK still does not have an operational ‘test and trace’ system. He feared a spike in the number of cases in the near future.The reduction of 2-metre distancing rule to 1-metre enables the hospitality industry and other sectors to re-open with some curbs but it is uncertain if the people will immediately flock to pubs, cinemas, restaurants and other venues. Concern and caution over the virus remain.Setting out figures behind the relaxation, Johnson said that in the first half of May, nearly 69,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 across the UK; by the first half of June, that total had fallen by nearly 70 percent to just under 22,000.“The number of new infections is now declining by between 2 and 4 percent every day. Four weeks ago, an average of 1 in 400 people in the community in England had Covid-19; in the first half of June, this figure was 1 in 1,700”, he said.On May 11, 1,073 people were admitted to hospital in England, Wales and Northern Ireland; by June 20, this had fallen by 74 per cent to 283. Measured by a seven-day rolling average, the number of daily deaths peaked at 943 on April 14; on May 11 it was 476; and on Monday, the rolling average stood at 130.Johnson added: “And while we remain vigilant, we do not believe there is currently a risk of a second peak of infections that might overwhelm the National Health Service”. “Taking everything together, we continue to meet our five tests and the Chief Medical Officers of all four home nations have downgraded the UK’s Covid Alert Level from four to three, meaning that we no longer face a virus spreading exponentially, though it remains in general circulation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-dwindling-infections-uk-pm-boris-eases-coronavirus-lockdown-from-july-4/story-TDLvwoQEoro3ckFQUyj1xM.html
23-06-2020||World||Imran Khan’s anti-graft crusade hits the glass ceiling. It is Made in China||For those who remember the memorable courtroom scene from the Tom Cruise blockbuster, “A few good men”, in which Jack Nicholson, in a moment of extreme provocation, exclaims “you can’t handle the truth’, the situation in Pakistan today is a grim reminder of the opacity with which the deep state operates to protect its interests. Even Imran Khan, the poster boy of the establishment, didn’t realise how deeply vested the interests of the Army are in the matters of the State when he decided to move his crusade against corruption to the next level by going after entrenched businesses. The initial euphoria around the leaked report on the modus operandi of the independent power producers in April suddenly evaporated even as the government and the NAB continued to relentlessly hound the opposition and some of its own allies on the sugar and other scams. What was different about the power sector scam that the government was forced to suppress the report?Imran Khan is not new to taking embarrassing U-turns on the diktat of his mentors. His hopes of scoring a diplomatic coup were dashed late last year when he was made to cancel his participation at the Kuala Lumpur Summit in view of Riyadh and Abu Dhabi’s sensitivities. The suppression of the power sector report also reeks of a similar intervention. After all, the report had unambiguously exposed the extreme profiteering built into the contracts with the Independent Power Producer, or IPPs, two of who happened to be Chinese companies under the glorified flagship China–Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC extravaganza.Commenting on the two CPEC projects, Sahiwal and Port Qasim coal plants, the IPP report revealed that “excess set-up cost of Rs 32.46 billion was allowed to the two coal-based plants due to misrepresentation by sponsors regarding Interest During Construction, or IDC as well as non-consideration of earlier completion of plants...”.IDC was allowed for 48 months whereas the plants were completed within 27-29 months leading to entitlement of an excess Return on Equity (RoE) of $ 2.7 million annually over the entire project life of 30 years in the case of the Sahiwal plant, also known as Huaneng Shandong Ruyi (Pak) Energy or HSR. The estimated excess payment keeping in mind a 6 percent annual rupee depreciation against the dollar works out to a whopping Rs 291.04 billion.The report further revealed the underhand nature of HSR’s financial misrepresentations by brazenly claiming IDC based on markup on long term loan at the London InterBank Offered Rate, the benchmark interest rate at which major global lend to one another in the international interbank market for short-term loan, + 4.5 per cent during the entire construction period despite the Chinese company not borrowing any funds during the first year of construction and only short term loans at substantially lower interest rates during the second year.The proceeds of profiteering are way too large for the common mind to have been missed as oversight. The complicity of government authorities in negotiating such profitable deals for the Chinese is the unwritten corollary to the report.For just two projects that were examined, the report found over payment of Rs 484.84 billion or approximately $ 3 billion. Official acknowledgement of the IPP report would have opened a Pandora’s box. The public would have demanded similar auditing of all CPEC projects estimated at nearly $ 62 billion.Imran Khan’s U-turn and the deafening silence of the media tells a sordid tale of how the deep state uses fear as an instrument of coercion to manipulate the public discourse, or in this case, make it disappear altogether. Notwithstanding the fact that the report has already been leaked, it is incredible how an entire nation has shut its eyes to its existence.People can perhaps handle the truth about corruption in high places. Some might even argue that they are by now immune to it. What they may not be able to handle with as much ease though, is the truth about the spineless character of its establishment that would rather make common Pakistanis pay through the nose to shield ‘friends’ in Islamabad and Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-s-crusade-against-corruption-hits-the-glass-ceiling-it-is-made-in-china/story-W4UBLLxK1yg6kRFspatmKM.html
23-06-2020||World||Pompeo compares ex-security advisor John Bolton to Edward Snowden||John Bolton’s explosive tell-all account of his time as National Security Advisor is comparable to Edward Snowden’s disclosure of state-backed mass surveillance of US citizens, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Monday. Pompeo’s comments come the night before the release of Bolton’s book “The Room Where It Happened,” which contains many damning allegations against President Donald Trump.“Frankly, the information he has released puts criminal liability squarely on him,” the top US diplomat told Fox News.“We all saw what’s happened when people leak classified information like Edward Snowden. What John Bolton did here is not dissimilar to that,” Pompeo said.Edward Snowden is a former US intelligence contractor who revealed in 2013 that US agents from the National Security Agency (NSA) were carrying out widespread surveillance on citizens.Snowden has been living in exile in Russia since his revelation. He has been charged in the US with espionage and theft of state secrets and faces up to 30 years in prison.“This kind of information getting out, it presents real risk and real harm to the United States of America,” Pompeo added.Bolton’s book is an account of his 17 months serving as National Security Advisor.The book contends that Trump is not “fit for office” and describes the president “pleading” with his Chinese counterpart President Xi Jinping to help boost his chances of re-election in November.Over the past few days, Trump and his team, including Pompeo, have vacillated between two courses of action: denouncing the book as “fiction,” but also claiming it is full of highly sensitive, classified information.The White House had sought to halt the book’s publication, but a US judge refused Saturday to block its release, saying it was too late for a restraining order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-compares-ex-security-advisor-john-bolton-to-edward-snowden/story-kS9COrcwWsGgq6XXjgbwCN.html
23-06-2020||World||Patagonia joins The North Face in Facebook ad boycott||Outdoor apparel brand Patagonia Inc will pause its ads on Facebook Inc and Facebook’s photo-sharing app, Instagram, making it the latest company to join a boycott campaign organized by US civil rights groups. “We will pull all ads on Facebook and Instagram, effective immediately, through at least the end of July, pending meaningful action from the social media giant,” the company said in a series of tweets on Sunday attributed to its head of marketing, Cory Bayers. The Stop Hate for Profit campaign was started last week by several US civil rights groups who said the social network was doing too little to stop hate speech on its platforms.Patagonia, which has been politically vocal in the past, joins companies including clothing maker VF Corp’s outdoor brand The North Face, Recreational Equipment Inc, or REI, and recruiting company Upwork in pausing Facebook ads. A VF Corp spokesman told Reuters other brands in its portfolio were actively discussing whether to take the same action.“From secure elections to a global pandemic to racial justice, the stakes are too high to sit back and let the company continue to be complicit in spreading disinformation and fomenting fear and hatred,” said one of Patagonia’s tweets.The campaign follows the death of George Floyd, a US Black man who died in police custody, which has triggered worldwide protests against racism and police brutality. Floyd died after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for nearly nine minutes while detaining him on May 25. Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, was criticized after the company, unlike Twitter Inc, decided not to take action on an inflammatory post by US President Donald Trump about the protests. “We deeply respect any brand’s decision, and remain focused on the important work of removing hate speech and providing critical voting information,” Carolyn Everson, vice president of Facebook’s global business group, said in a statement on Monday. “Our conversations with marketers and civil rights organizations are about how, together, we can be a force for good.”Facebook is the second-largest US digital ad player after Alphabet Inc’s Google, according to eMarketer. Patagonia and VF Corp did not immediately respond to Reuters questions about how much they spend on Facebook advertising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/patagonia-joins-the-north-face-in-facebook-ad-boycott/story-KVbBwFy7i75tkqKALkURVO.html
23-06-2020||World||Former Pakistan president Zardari, others to be indicted in money laundering case on July 7||Former Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari and others accused in a money laundering case will be indicted by the accountability court here on July 7.Accountability Judge Mohammad Azam Khan on Tuesday announced that the accused who are already in jail can attend the hearing through video link, while others will have to appear in person during the framing of the charges against them.Zardai, who is the president of Pakistan Peoples Party, was arrested last year for probe in two cases of money laundering and Park Lane but was later set free on bail.The 64-year-old former president has rejected all the charges against him and termed them politically motivated.Those who are in prison include Khawaja Anwar Majeed, who is in judicial custody at the district jail in Karachi, and Hussain Lawai, Taha Raza and Mohammad Umair, who are in judicial custody in Adiala jail, Rawalpindi.An FIR in the case was lodged on July 6, 2018 by the Federal Investigation Agency, alleging that a huge amount of money was being laundered through fake and forged accounts.The companies and persons involved in the forged accounts were named in the FIR and it was alleged that the scam is worth about Rs 4.145 billion.Separately, the accountability court is scheduled to indict Zardari and others in the Park Lane case on June 26.The Park Lane land case is being investigated against Zardari for his alleged involvement in extending loan and its misappropriation by M/s Parthenon Private Limited, M/s Park Lane Estate Private Limited and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-pakistan-president-zardari-others-to-be-indicted-in-money-laundering-case-on-july-7/story-WGHFkIXIAGMpB8R4NIROdI.html
23-06-2020||World||Germany imposes local lockdown after virus outbreak at meat plant||The premier of the western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia said on Tuesday he was putting the Guetersloh area back into lockdown until June 30 after a coronavirus outbreak at a meatpacking plant there.Guetersloh, with about 360,000 residents, is the first area in Germany to go back into lockdown after the authorities began gradually lifting restrictive measures at the end of April.State premier Armin Laschet, who had led calls for Germany to ease lockdown measures, said bars, museums, galleries, cinemas, sports halls, gyms and swimming pools in Guetersloh would be closed, and picnics and barbecues prohibited.“We will lift the measure as soon as possible, when we have certainty about the safety of the infection,” Laschet told a news conference. “It is a preventative measure.”More than 1,500 workers at a meat processing plant in Guetersloh had tested positive for the coronavirus, plus some of their family members and 24 people with no connection to the plant, he said.Laschet is a leading contender to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel when her fourth term in office expires next year. Further outbreaks of the virus in his state, Germany’s most populous, could damage his chances.State premiers had agreed to act locally where possible to suppress the virus and there was no justification now for broader action, Laschet said. Earlier on Tuesday, the head of the Robert Koch Institute for public health, Lothar Wieler, said local outbreaks had been a major factor behind a spike in the last few days in the coronavirus reproduction rate, currently estimated at 2.76.A reproduction rate, or ‘R’, of 2.76 means that 100 people who have contracted the virus infect, on average, 276 others.While Germany was at risk of a second coronavirus wave, Wieler said he was optimistic it could be prevented. (Reporting by Paul Carrel and Thomas Seythal; Editing by Madeline Chambers and Catherine Evans)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-imposes-local-lockdown-after-virus-outbreak-at-meat-plant/story-CtLCqsdtBRcholznTak2PK.html
23-06-2020||World||Trump risks scaring off GOP voters as he bashes mail-in ballots||President Donald Trump has repeatedly said vote-by-mail could cost him re-election. Some Republican strategists think he’s right, but more because the president’s words risk scaring away his own voters than because of fraud.Trump argues, without citing evidence, that mail-in balloting is open to manipulation, vulnerable to foreign forgeries and beneficial to rival Joe Biden. On Monday, Trump tweeted, without evidence, that “millions of mail-in ballots will be printed by foreign countries” and that the election will be “rigged” against him if voting by mail persists.Experts say it would be extremely difficult to forge mail-in ballots given security measures in place in local and state elections offices.But although research has shown that vote-by-mail gives no inherent advantage to either party, some Republican strategists say Trump’s repeated attacks are turning off GOP voters at a time when coronavirus adds risk to in-person voting, giving Democrats an opening to organize this fall.Trump’s rhetoric comes as polls show him losing to Biden. As he resumed campaigning after a virus-prompted hold with Saturday’s Tulsa rally, Trump got his first indication that his campaign may be in trouble when 6,200 people showed up in an arena that holds 19,000.Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon dismissed Trump’s accusations Monday night, saying the president and his allies were pursuing a “program of voter suppression.”“Voters should have more options for voting, not fewer, and no American should have to choose between their health and exercising their right to vote,” she said. “That means expanding options for participation, including no-excuse absentee ballots, increased in-person early voting, and safe in-person voting on Election Day.”As many states have expanded vote-by-mail, polls show a partisan gap for the first time, with Republicans much less confident in absentee ballots than Democrats. In one extreme example, some of the president’s supporters gathered to burn vote-by-mail applications at a protest near Grand Rapids, Michigan.On Sunday, Attorney General William Barr repeated a claim that absentee ballots are open to fraud in an interview with Fox News Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures.”“When government, state governments, start adopting these practices like mail-in ballots that open the floodgates of potential fraud, then people’s confidence in the outcome of the election is going to be undermined,” he said. “And that could take the country to a very dark place, if we lose confidence in the outcomes of our elections.”A Quinnipiac University poll this month found that Republicans opposed mail-in ballots 73% to 23% and Democrats supported them 90% to 8%. Overall, 59% of Americans favored allowing all voters to vote by mail in November due to the coronavirus pandemic, 38% were opposed. Other polls show Republicans are now much less confident than Democrats that their own mail-in ballots will be counted.Increasing PartisanshipRecent primaries show the divide between Democrats and Republicans over mail-in ballots may extend to how they actually vote.In the key swing state of Pennsylvania, which began allowing no-excuse absentee voting this year, 1.3 million Democrats requested a mail-in ballot for the June 2 primary, nearly two-and-a-half times the number of Republican voters who did so.Democrats also outpaced Republicans in absentee voting in Iowa’s primary that same day, and pulled even with Republicans in Georgia’s primary on June 9 after years of running behind.Rob Stutzman, a Republican consultant in California, said the administration’s arguments are scaring everyday Republican voters away from using absentee ballots.“He is disadvantaging Republican candidates and campaigns,” he said. “I don’t know any strategist that thinks it’s a good idea to be pooh-poohing vote-by-mail.”Researchers who have studied vote-by-mail have found no evidence to support Trump’s assertion that it is rife with fraud or that more people using it would mean “you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again.”An April study by Stanford University found that in states that shifted to entirely vote-by-mail from 1996 to 2018, neither party gained in its share of either votes or turnout, even as overall turnout increased.If anything, Democrats may face a disadvantage, as other research has shown that young, black and Hispanic voters – three Democratic-leaning groups -- are more likely to have their mail-in ballots rejected by elections officials.But the research doesn’t mean vote-by-mail can’t be decisive in a specific election.Former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge, a Republican who co-chairs VoteSafe, a bipartisan group advocating vote-by-mail, said that either party could gain an advantage on mail-in voting if they worked at it hard enough, especially if their opponent didn’t.“It’s like blocking and tackling in football,” he said. “There’s certain things you can do to improve your performance. You want to get people to the polls, and if they can’t get there for a variety of reasons, you want to have safe and secure options. The party that realizes that does have an advantage.”Ridge said Trump’s attacks are “counterintuitive” and out of step with campaign managers and grassroots organizers from his own party, and he worries that Trump may be affecting the views of Republican voters as well. Trump’s attacks have fueled a broader Republican effort to prevent voting by mail, including millions of dollars earmarked for lawsuits and advertising.Greater AccessBut it may already be too late to stop absentee voting on a wide scale in November. Thirty-four states and the District of Columbia allow any voter to cast an absentee ballot. Many other states have eased restrictions in response to the pandemic, leaving just four that currently require an excuse to vote absentee: Missouri, Mississippi, Tennessee and Texas. All have Republican governors.Because of the pandemic, elections officials from both parties in several states have decided to automatically send every voter an application for an absentee ballot to make the process smoother. But when Michigan’s Democratic secretary of state announced she would do so, Trump harshly criticized her and threatened to pull federal funding from the state.In Iowa, a similar effort by the Republican secretary of state in the recent primary led to more than 10 times the number of mail-in ballots as the state had in its 2016 primary, helping break a turnout record set in 1994.But eight days later, the Republican-led state Senate passed a wide-ranging bill that would limit the secretary of state’s ability to send similar letters in future elections.Vote-by-mail advocates say that efforts to restrict it will only add to the strain on in-person voting during a pandemic, as seen in the Wisconsin, Washington, D.C., and Georgia primaries, which saw long lines at polling places, problems with voting equipment and election worker shortages.While Democrats worry that Election Day problems will hurt voters in big cities, Stutzman said Republican campaigns should also consider that a resurgence in the coronavirus could keep older Republican voters away from the polls on Election Day because they are more at risk from the virus.“If you haven’t already been banking these mail ballots, you run a huge risk of losing some of your vote,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-risks-scaring-off-gop-voters-as-he-bashes-mail-in-ballots/story-MGPjEwwcy9mxoheg8wVPiM.html
23-06-2020||World||PIA plane crashed due to human error, says preliminary probe report||The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crash last month was caused by the negligence of the cockpit crew and the air control tower and not due to any technical fault, according to a preliminary investigation report on the tragedy that killed 97 people onboard.The domestic flight from Lahore to Karachi crashed in a residential area near the Jinnah International Airport in Karachi on May 22.The Airbus A320 aircraft of the national carrier had 91 passengers and a crew of eight when it crashed into the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir on Friday, minutes before its landing. One girl died on the ground after suffering burn injuries.Two passengers miraculously survived the crash.A probe was commissioned by the government with the commitment that the initial report would be shared with Parliament on June 22.But Aviation Minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan handed the report to Prime Minister Imran Khan instead of Parliament.The report showed that pilot and air traffic control officials were primarily responsible, according to officials.The Express Tribune reported that the initial probe showed that the CAA officials, the cockpit crew, the control tower and the air traffic control repeatedly made mistakes. It reported the aircraft’s black box has so far not indicated the possibility of any technical fault.The report said both the speed and the altitude of the aircraft was more than the recommended parameters when the pilot tried first landing.In the first landing, the aircraft touched the ground at the middle of a 9,000-meter long runway.The control tower permitted landing despite the greater speed and altitude. The air traffic control also did not provide the control tower with the radio frequency.The pilot also did not inform the control tower about jamming of the landing gears. It was also the wrong decision on part of the pilot to attempt a second landing.The plane stayed in the air for 17 minutes after the first landing attempt, a crucial time during which both the engines of the aircraft failed.It said fragments of the PIA aircraft’s engine stayed on the runway for 12 hours but the air site unit did not collect them and later other aircraft were allowed to land on the runway.This was a violation of the standard operating procedure as it could cause damage to other aircraft.According to the report, the air traffic control officials should have been relieved after the incident but they continued to perform their duties till 7pm.It said the aircraft’s first engine was installed on February 25, 2019 while its second engine was installed on May 27, 2019.All three landing gears of the aircraft were installed on October 18, 2014. The fateful plane was 16-year-old and was manufactured in 2004. The plane was included in the PIA fleet in October 2014, according to the Express Tribune. The aviation minister told the National Assembly on Monday that the report will be shared with parliament on Wednesday as he confirmed sharing it with the Prime Minister.Official sources said that the report was shared with the aviation ministry on Monday and investigation team head Air Commodore Usman Ghani gave a detailed briefing while submitting the report.The minister said other reports on different air incidents since 2010, including Air Blue and Bhoja airlines’ plane crashes in Islamabad and PIA plane crash near Haripur etc would also be shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pia-plane-crashed-due-to-human-error-says-preliminary-probe-report/story-a6YVQxZ3uygaHB9b3gM12O.html
23-06-2020||World||UK to lay out more reopening plans as coronavirus toll eases||Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to outline plans Tuesday to allow Britons to go to a movie, enjoy pints in a pub and get a haircut — the latest easing of lockdown measures imposed three months ago to slow the spread of the new coronavirus.Johnson will speak to Parliament on Tuesday afternoon after meeting his Cabinet in the morning.The lockdown loosening, expected to take effect on July 4, comes amid intense pressure from businesses to relax a government requirement that people who are indoors must stay 2 meters (6 1/2 feet) apart.Britain’s pubs and restaurants, many of which operate in small spaces, are urging a reduction to 1 meter (3 feet) — the minimum recommended by the World Health Organization — saying without it many will go under.The social distancing requirement is also a concern for educators hoping to safely open British schools in the fall.The Conservative government is desperate to restart the stalled British economy, and that desire is likely to be reflected in guidance to re-open businesses ranging from hotels to hairdressers.But some scientists are worried that the government is reopening the economy too fast and that a track-and-trace system meant to quickly stamp out any outbreaks is not fully functional.Britain has Europe’s highest death toll from the virus, with almost 42,700 confirmed dead. That is also the third-highest death toll in the world after the United States and Brazil, which both have much larger populations.The number of daily deaths and new infections in the U.K. has fallen significantly from its April peak, but the country is still confirming 1,000 or more new Covid-19 cases a day.WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris urged the British government to use caution.“The U.K. has brought a very difficult outbreak right down,” she told the BBC. “Very good news in the last couple of days about the limitation in cases, and far, far fewer people dying. So now is the moment to celebrate that by being super careful.”The measures being announced by Johnson apply only in England. Other parts of the U.K. —Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — are all following slightly different lockdown plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-lay-out-more-reopening-plans-as-coronavirus-toll-eases/story-iWa6Vht2TquiT3fpQVN51K.html
23-06-2020||World||Pig trial of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine shows promise with two shots||A trial of AstraZeneca’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine in pigs has found that two doses of the Oxford University-developed shot produced a greater antibody response than a single dose, scientists said on Tuesday.Research released by Britain’s Pirbright Institute found that giving an initial prime dose followed by a booster dose of the shot elicited a greater immune response than a single dose - suggesting a two-dose approach may be more effective in getting protection against the disease caused by the new coronavirus.The ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine was originally developed by researchers at the University of Oxford, who are now working with AstraZeneca on development and production.The vaccine is already in mid-stage human trials, and AstraZeneca has said it hopes to have data showing efficacy later this year. Pigs are a useful research model for this type of vaccine and other trials have been able to predict vaccine outcomes in humans, particularly in studies of flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pig-trial-of-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-shows-promise-with-two-shots/story-sr2ETubG6PNNO5DjXDKhcM.html
23-06-2020||World||Beijing says mass testing for Covid-19 to enter ‘fast track’||Beijing’s mass testing for the new coronavirus will soon enter a “fast track” as the city’s testing capacity expands, a senior municipal health official said on Tuesday, following a sudden return of COVID-19 nearly two weeks ago. The city of more than 20 million residents reported its first case in the latest outbreak on June 11. The infections were linked to the sprawling Xinfadi wholesale food centre in the southwest of Beijing, which had until then reported no new cases for nearly two months. In the 12 days since, 249 people have been infected in the worst outbreak in Beijing since the novel coronavirus was identified at a seafood market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year. Beijing can now administer more than 300,000 nucleic acid tests per day compared with 40,000 in March, Zhang Hua, deputy director at the Beijing Municipal Health Commission, told reporters. Beijing took samples from 2.95 million people between June 12 and June 22, Zhang said.“The strategy of Beijing’s nucleic acid screening is mainly based on the level of risk and on severity,” Zhang said, when asked if everyone in Beijing would be tested. Testing will be done in batches and according to the profile of individuals, he said. “We’ll give priority to testing high-risk groups in Xinfadi and other markets involved in the outbreak as well as surrounding communities,” Zhang said. “On this basis, we’ve tested workers in restaurants, supermarkets, marketplaces, as well as residents in high-risk neighbourhoods. Food delivery workers and parcel couriers have also undergone large-scale testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-says-mass-testing-for-covid-19-to-enter-fast-track/story-sPQYX6iVjvgeVsfn8zjcpL.html
23-06-2020||World||Anthony Fauci to testify at a fraught time for US Covid-19 pandemic response||With coronavirus cases rising in about half the states and political polarization competing for attention with public health recommendations, Dr. Anthony Fauci returns to Capitol Hill on Tuesday at a fraught moment in the nation’s pandemic response.The government’s top infectious disease expert will testify before a House committee, along with the heads of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, and a top official at the Department of Health and Human Services.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Since Fauci’s last appearance at a high-profile hearing more than a month ago, the US is emerging from weeks of stay-at-home orders and business shutdowns. But it’s being done in an uneven way, with some states far less cautious than others. A trio of states with Republican governors who are bullish on reopening — Arizona, Florida and Texas — are among those seeing worrisome increases in cases.Last week, Vice President Mike Pence published an opinion article in The Wall Street Journal saying the administration’s efforts have strengthened the nation’s ability to counter the virus and should be “a cause for celebration.” Then President Donald Trump said at his weekend rally in Tulsa that he had asked administration officials to slow down testing, because too many positive cases are turning up.Many rally goers did not wear masks, and for some that was an act of defiance against what they see as government intrusion. White House officials later tried to walk back Trump’s comment on testing, suggesting it wasn’t meant to be taken literally.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Fauci has recently warned that the US is still in the first wave of the pandemic and has continued to urge the American public to practice social distancing. And, in a recent ABC News interview, he said political demonstrations such as protests against racial injustice are “risky” to all involved. Asked if that applied to Trump rallies, he said it did. Fauci continues to recognize widespread testing as critical for catching clusters of Covid-19 cases before they turn into full outbreaks in a given community.About 2.3 million Americans have been sickened in the pandemic, and some 120,000 have died, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.As head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Fauci will be joined before the House Energy and Commerce Committee by CDC director Dr. Robert Redfield, FDA chief Dr. Stephen Hahn, and Adm. Brett Giroir, head of the U.S. Public Health Service.Giroir was tapped by the White House to oversee the expansion of coronavirus testing. But he gained notoriety after a whistleblower complaint flagged him for trying to push a malaria drug touted by Trump to treat Covid-19 without conclusive scientific evidence. The FDA has since withdrawn its emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine.“There have been a lot of unfortunate missteps in the Trump administration’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic,” said committee Chairman Frank Pallone, D-N.J. “As communities across the country ease social distancing guidance and reopen their economies, it is critically important that both the administration and Congress remain focused on containing the spread of the coronavirus and providing the resources and support Americans need during this time of crisis.” There is still no vaccine for Covid-19, and there are no treatments specifically developed for the disease, although the antiviral drug remdesivir has been shown to help some patients, as well as a steroid called dexamethasone, and plasma from patients who have recovered.Fauci remains optimistic that a vaccine will be found, noting that patients develop antibodies to the virus — a sign that the human immune system is able to battle back. However, he shies away from promising results by the end of the year, as Trump has done.The Energy and Commerce panel has oversight over drugs and vaccines, among other facets of the U.S. health care system. Committee Democrats have been harshly critical of the administration. However, not all Republicans have lined up to defend the White House. Some GOP members started growing concerned early in the year that the administration wasn’t doing enough to prepare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-to-testify-at-a-fraught-time-for-us-covid-19-pandemic-response/story-q6qYwblJuHrultBGCaFOQJ.html
23-06-2020||World||UK PM to set July 4 date to end Covid-19 lockdown with bars reopening||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is on Tuesday set to announce July 4 as the date for a significant lifting of lockdown restrictions in the country, with cinemas, museums, bars, pubs and restaurants being allowed to open their doors to the public once again.The venues, which have been closed for at least three months since the UK went into its official coronavirus-induced lockdown on March 23, will be required to have safety measures set out under government guidance in place to be able to operate. The Cabinet will meet on Tuesday to officially rubber-stamp the decision to allow public venues, including theatres and businesses such as hairdressers, to reopen from July 4, effectively marking an end to the lockdown in what some British MPs have dubbed “Super Saturday”.Johnson is then due to set out some details in the House of Commons on how pubs and other social venues can safely reopen, following a review of the 2-metre mandatory social distancing rule by the UK’s Covid-19 strategy group on Monday. The UK prime minister is expected to tell Parliament that the 2-metre social distancing rule will also be halved to 1 metre (3ft 3in) from July 4, with some mitigating measures. The government had come under pressure from the hospitality sector, and some MPs from within the ruling Conservative Party, to relax the 2m rule, with many saying it would be impossible to trade under the current measures.The Opposition Labour Party has said its support would depend on employees having adequate protective equipment, such as face shields, and there being an effective testing and tracing system in place. The devolved administrations of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will set out their own lockdown easing plans, though the government is pushing for a UK-wide approach.On Monday, the UK saw its lowest daily death toll from the deadly virus at 15 deaths to hit a total figure of 42, 647, prompting UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock to declare that the virus was “in retreat” in the country. The minister also said that from July 6, the people in the vulnerable health category who have been shielding behind closed doors will be able to spend time outdoors in a group of up to six people, including those outside of their household, while maintaining social distancing. “Now, with infection rates continuing to fall in our communities, our medical experts have advised that we can now ease some of these measures, while keeping people safe,” said Hancock.From August 1, the guidance will then be relaxed so clinically extremely vulnerable people will no longer be advised to shield, but support will remain available from National Health Service (NHS) volunteers and local councils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-to-set-july-4-date-to-end-covid-19-lockdown-with-bars-reopening/story-GmbTnUCWCp7RqAFV3rZkhI.html
23-06-2020||World||China threatens ‘appropriate response’ to US over media curbs||China on Tuesday threatened to launch an “appropriate response” after Washington cracked down on four more Chinese state media outlets in the United States.Beijing decried Monday’s move by the US State Department as “bare-faced political suppression of Chinese media” which “further exposes the hypocrisy of the so-called freedom of speech and press which the US likes to flaunt”.“We strongly urge the US to reject this Cold War mindset and ideological bias... otherwise China will have no choice but to make an appropriate response,” said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a routine briefing.The escalating media row has added to tensions between the two superpowers, with China expelling more than a dozen US journalists from the country this year. The State Department denounced four organisations -- China Central Television, the China News Service, the People’s Daily and the Global Times -- as foreign missions and “propaganda outlets”, adding to five others designated in February.Beijing hit back in March by expelling US citizens working for three major American newspapers -- The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-threatens-appropriate-response-to-us-over-media-curbs/story-cTIl5w5YakZGkNMLeK8bBN.html
23-06-2020||World||Nestle pulls Beso de Negra, Red Skins candy in racial review||Nestle SA will rename brands including Beso de Negra and Red Skins as the global food giant goes through its 25,000 products to eliminate marketing that contains racial stereotypes.Nestle is reviewing all the products made by its more than 2,000 brands and will rename and redesign Beso de Negra, said a spokeswoman for the Swiss company. Colombian label Beso de Negra translates as kiss from a black woman.In Australia, Nestle said Red Skins raspberry-flavored candy and chocolate jelly Chicos will be “quickly” renamed. Redskin is a pejorative term for Native Americans.“This decision acknowledges the need to ensure that nothing we do marginalizes our friends, neighbors and colleagues,” Nestle said in a statement in Sydney on Tuesday. “These names have overtones which are out of step with Nestlé’s values, which are rooted in respect.”An increasing number of consumer-goods companies are re-branding old trademarks following weeks of anti-racism protests in the U.S. that spilled over to the rest of the world. PepsiCo Inc. is changing the name of its Aunt Jemima pancake mix and syrup, while Mars Inc. is evaluating the Uncle Ben’s rice brand.Dreyer’s, which Nestle recently transferred to its Froneri ice cream joint venture with PAI Partners, is also taking action on its Eskimo Pie business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nestle-pulls-beso-de-negra-red-skins-candy-in-racial-review/story-uxeW5g0hjGg48nKbyGnzeP.html
23-06-2020||World||China dog meat festival goes ahead but virus takes a toll||Volunteers at a Beijing dog shelter hand out treats to dozens of rescued animals which had been bound for a controversial dog meat festival under way this week in southern China. The annual event in Yulin city always provokes outrage from animal rights activists, but this year they hope the coronavirus epidemic will be the death knell of a tradition they see as cruel.It is “inhumane and barbaric”, said Jeffrey Bari, founder of the No Dogs Left Behind organisation, which keeps around 200 canines in large wire enclosures on the outskirts of the Chinese capital and re-homes them.Activists save hundreds of dogs every year by raiding slaughterhouses and intercepting trucks. They say traders steal pets and strays and transport them long distances, mostly to the country’s south. “You feel a kind of achievement because you’ve changed some dog’s life,” said Ling, who volunteers at the centre.Dog meat is traditionally believed to be good for the health in certain parts of China, but the habit has been in steady decline as more and more affluent urban dwellers choose to keep the animals as pets.The Covid-19 outbreak appears to have further reduced the appetite for dog meat after the disease was linked to a market in the central city of Wuhan selling animals for food.Amid growing concerns about hygiene, China fast-tracked laws banning the consumption and trade of wildlife.While the law does not apply to dog meat, Shenzhen and Zhuhai -- southern cities not far from Yulin -- banned the consumption of dogs in April, becoming the first cities in China to do so.And last month the agriculture ministry reclassified dogs as companion animals, not livestock, though it did not explicitly prohibit eating them.Falling attendanceVideo footage of this year’s Yulin dog meat festival verified by AFP shows dozens of animals crammed in small, dirty cages and butchers at several large stalls piled high with dog carcasses.But restaurant workers involved in the week-long event, which they say started Sunday and has been renamed the “Yulin Summer Solstice Festival”, told AFP that attendance was down.“The number of arriving customers has dropped a lot,” said a man surnamed Chen.He said the dog meat restaurant where he works would open as normal this festival without any special events or pricing like in past years.Some posts on the Chinese social network Weibo called for the festival to be cancelled entirely after COVID-19 and a recent fresh outbreak of the disease in Beijing linked to a wholesale food market.“Is it not enough that (the festival) is infamous throughout the world? Where will food safety become a reality... Stop this damn festival at once,” one user wrote.Experts pointed to a shift in public attitudes towards dog meat consumption and food safety in the wake of the virus. A proposal for China’s first nationwide law banning animal cruelty received wide public support during the annual parliamentary session in May, while a viral video of a Chinese university student torturing a cat sparked mass public outcry in April.Chen said neither police nor the government had ordered his restaurant to stop selling dog meat as a result of the animal’s reclassification as pets. “I would say that (the rule) impacted the rest of the country and people were talking about it, but I did not see it having an immediate impact on the dog meat trade in Yulin,” said Peter Li of the animal rights group Humane Society International.Despite the efforts of activists and concerns about hygiene, the Yulin event has persisted with the local government’s tacit permission. “Most of the activities related to the sale of dog meat there are in violation of existing Chinese food safety regulations,” said Deborah Cao, professor of animal law and ethics at Griffith University in Australia.But she said “existing food safety laws in China are not enforced in most instances” and there is “no accountability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-dog-meat-festival-goes-ahead-but-virus-takes-a-toll/story-EmDeHjo3JITjxdYFJbMENL.html
23-06-2020||World||Global investors demand to meet Brazil diplomats over deforestation||A group of 29 global investment firms that manage $3.7 trillion are demanding meetings with Brazilian diplomats around the world to call on right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro’s government to stop soaring deforestation in the Amazon rainforest.The investors, led by Norwegian insurance and pension firm Storebrand Asset Management, sent letters to Brazilian embassies in seven countries, calling for meetings and expressing concern that Brazil is rolling back environmental protections, according to a statement that included a copy of the letter.“The escalating deforestation in recent years, combined with reports of a dismantling of environmental and human rights policies and enforcement agencies, are creating widespread uncertainty about the conditions for investing in or providing financial services to Brazil,” the letter said.Environmental advocates blame Bolsonaro for weakening protections and causing a surge in deforestation and forest fires since he took office in 2019.Bolsonaro has argued Brazil is a model of conservation, while calling for more mining and farming in the Amazon region.Brazil’s Foreign Ministry did not respond to a request for comment.Storebrand Asset Management CEO Jan Erik Saugestad said in an interview that while previous initiatives focused on pressuring Brazilian companies, this new effort is aimed squarely at the government.The 25 European firms that signed on include Norway’s Nordea Asset Management and the Church of England, which has a 2.8 billion pound ($3.5 billion) pension fund. The UK’s Legal & General Investment Management (LGIM) is among the largest investors with 1.2 trillion pounds under management.U.S.-based firms Domini Impact Investment and Pax World Funds have also signed the letter, while Sao Paulo-based Fram Capital is the only Brazilian signatory.While Europe has traditionally been the most vocal critic of Amazon deforestation, Japan’s Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management signed the letter, and Senior Sustainability Officer Seiji Kawazoe said he expects more Japanese firms to take issue with deforestation in the future.The letter does not spell out consequences if Brazil’s government does not take action, but seven European financial firms told Reuters last week they could divest from Brazil-linked holdings if environmental destruction continues. Many of those firms also signed the letter to embassies.($1 = 0.8094 pounds) (Reporting by Jake Spring; editing by Richard Pullin)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-investors-demand-to-meet-brazil-diplomats-over-deforestation/story-Mw4PrxbBLOtlLKpeV5vFXN.html
23-06-2020||World||Sanofi eyes approval of Covid-19 vaccine by first half of 2021||French drugmaker Sanofi SA said on Tuesday it expects to get approval for the potential Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with Britain’s GlaxoSmithKline Plc by the first half of next year, faster than previously anticipated.Sanofi, which is hosting a virtual research and development event, and GSK had said in April the vaccine, if successful, would be available in the second half of 2021.“We are being guided by our dialogue with regulatory authorities,” Sanofi research chief John Reed told reporters, when asked about the accelerated time frame.There are currently no vaccines to prevent the coronavirus that has infected more than 9 million people and killed over 469,000 globally, and only a couple of medicines that have demonstrated benefit in hospitalized Covid-19 patients in clinical trials.Many drugmakers are racing to come up with a safe and effective vaccine that can be produced at large scale.Moderna Inc, the University of Oxford in collaboration with AstraZeneca Plc, and an alliance of BioNTech and Pfizer Inc grabbed headlines by moving to human trials as early as March.Sanofi Chief Executive Paul Hudson said the firsts in the race now were not assured of securing victory.“There are companies moving faster, but let us be brutally clear, speed has three downsides,” he said of competition.“They are using existing work, in many cases done for SARS; it is likely not to be as efficacious; and there is no guarantee on supply in large volumes,” Hudson said.The probability of success for Sanofi is “higher than anybody else,” the CEO said.The comments echoed those of GSK, whose chief medical officer for vaccines told Reuters on Friday the company was aiming at quality before speed.Sanofi, whose Pasteur vaccines division has a long established reputation, notably in flu, is currently working on two vaccine projects. One uses an adjuvant made by GSK to potentially boost its efficacy. It has received financial support from the US Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).The other, being developed with U.S. company Translate Bio Inc, relies on a different technology known as mRNA, similar to the Moderna approach.Clinical trials of the vaccine developed with GSK, described as a recombinant vaccine because of the use of GSK’s boosting adjuvant, are to start in September. Trials of the mRNA vaccine candidate should begin around the end of the year, the company said.Sanofi said it had capacity to produce up to 1 billion doses a year of its recombinant vaccine, and that it would be able to supply up to 360 million doses of its mRNA vaccine annually. In April, Sanofi said it had manufacturing capacity for 600 million doses for its recombinant vaccine, with the ambition to double production by mid-2021.The company also said it would expand its collaboration with Translate Bio on developing vaccines, in a deal which will give the U.S. group $425 million in upfront payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sanofi-eyes-approval-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-first-half-of-2021/story-G7tkil8NupGC8HKxhyY67N.html
23-06-2020||World||Coronavirus surge threatens poor nations exiting lockdown||Developing countries face an explosion in coronavirus infections as they exit lockdowns amid worsening outbreaks because the economic cost of remaining shuttered is too great.From Pakistan to the Philippines, Brazil to South Africa, governments have been choosing to end orders confining people to their homes even as the global pandemic envelopes the developing world. Researchers at the University of Michigan predict India’s infections could almost double from current levels to more than 750,000 by mid-July, while Brazil just hit 1 million cases -- the second-highest tally globally - with more increases forecast for this month.Soaring unemployment and even starvation are forcing many countries to end sometimes months-long lockdowns that largely failed to stymie the virus like they did in Europe and China. With a coronavirus vaccine still months -- maybe even years -- away, these escalating outbreaks risk fueling the wider pandemic just as richer countries start to open up their economies and nations including China and the US see resurgences.Policy makers in poorer countries are now left with few potent tools to combat a virus that has the potential to overwhelm their health-care systems. In many places, those systems remain fragile despite efforts to add hospital beds and testing facilities when citizens were compelled to stay at home.“There’s a de-facto realization that we’re going to have to live with this virus at infection levels that up to this point had been seen as dangerous and unacceptable, and couple it with a different strategy,” said Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “The lockdown and social distancing practices don’t work or have limited utility in so many developing countries.”With more than 2.3 million cases, the US remains the nation with the world’s largest number of infections. But data compiled by Bloomberg show that the US and U.K. now account for about 29% of global cases, down from 37% two months ago.Meanwhile, Latin American and South Asia are emerging as hotspots. The 10 countries from those regions with the most number of infections accounted for 29% of infections globally as of Sunday. Two months ago, they comprised only 5% of the world’s cases.Working to EatIn the US, some states have also come out of lockdown while the virus has been spreading, but the challenges of managing widespread shutdowns are particularly severe in poorer nations.In the Philippines, the experience of house cleaner Yolanda, who didn’t want to be publicly identified by her full name, shows why lockdowns weren’t as effective in halting the virus in developing countries. When the stay-at-home order came down in March, her husband, three children and five grandchildren all depended on her to put food on the table.Staying home would have put the entire family at risk of starvation. Yolanda said she applied for aid to a local government center, but even though her neighbors received packages of canned sardines, noodles and rice, she got none and was given no explanation.“I can’t afford not to work,” said the 52-year-old, who is among the millions that make up the informal workforce in metropolitan Manila. “I couldn’t have stayed at home. Bills were mounting. We can’t rely on the government for aid.”Surging InfectionsThe government of President Rodrigo Duterte has allowed businesses and transportation to resume and eased other restrictions since June 1.Since then, infections have surged. The University of the Philippines forecasts cases will rise 50% to top 40,000 by the end of June. While that is substantially lower than the hundreds of thousands in the US, Brazil and India, the increases are substantial for the Philippines which has a population of 108 million and has tested about 0.5% of its residents, based on estimates from its health department.Shutting down businesses, telling people to stay at home and enforcing lockdowns helped prevent half a billion infections in China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, France, and the US, according to a recent study published in the journal Nature. But such steps aren’t as effective in poorer countries because housing is typically much denser, a challenge to social distancing. Also, much more of their workforce are employed in informal labor, reliant on daily wages.India imposed its lockdown almost three months ago, and some restrictions like bans on international flights remain in place. While the country has ramped up manufacturing of face masks, ventilators and testing kits, and sports stadiums and railway cars have been set up as isolation centers, it still may not be enough.“The public and government almost had an expectation that the lockdown was going to eradicate the disease,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist and biostatistics chair at Michigan University’s School of Public Health that’s part of the team modeling India’s epidemic. “It is becoming evident that the virus is not going away. This pandemic is like a wave and when one cascade of waves subside, others emerge.”Mega-cities like New Delhi and Mumbai are already showing signs of being overwhelmed, with bodies piling up in hospital corridors and patients turned away for lack of beds. India currently has about 425,000 cases and 13,699 deaths, for a fatality rate of 3%. That compares to 5% in the US, which Indian officials say shows their approach is paying off.India’s health ministry didn’t respond to a request for comment. But officials in India and Indonesia, which has the highest case tally in Southeast Asia, have said that people may have to learn to live with the virus. Countries like India and the Philippines are now relying on other tactics such as using lockdowns only in specific communities where the virus is spreading vociferously.A study on São Paulo, home to about 45 million Brazilians, conducted by the Solidary Research Network, a group of researchers from institutions including Universidade de São Paulo, found that if the state had kept the same social distancing rules that were in place in May for another 30 days, deaths would have risen at a slower pace to about 14,600 by July 8.But these restrictions -- which included closing businesses, schools and many public places -- were eased in June. The research group now estimates deaths could reach nearly 25,000 by July 8.While Brazil did not have a nationwide lockdown, various states imposed restrictions on people’s movements and some have now begun to ease quarantine orders. But there are a confluence of factors working against countries like Brazil, beyond a president who has been criticized for dismissing the seriousness of the pandemic. In the slums of São Paulo and elsewhere, extended families share one-room shanties and social distancing is a nearly impossible task. Lack of reliable clean water and sanitation systems also allowed the virus to take root.Estimates from PUC University in Rio de Janeiro show Brazil’s infections will likely surpass 1.4 million by late June, with more than 60,000 deaths.“We have epidemics at different stages now depending on the location,” said epidemiologist Gulnar Azevedo e Silva of the Institute of Social Medicine at Rio de Janeiro State University. “We need to solve the problem of the first wave still.”Economic HitEmerging economies have already been among the hardest-hit from lockdowns, and worsening outbreaks could see further pressure on consumer spending and growth. The Philippines’ gross domestic product will likely contract as much as 3.4% this year, while India is facing its first economic contraction in 40 years.The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development sees Brazil’s GDP contracting 7.4% this year, though it could shrink by as much as 9.1% if there’s a resurgence of the virus as the country reopens, the OECD says.In sub-Saharan Africa, the region is reeling from its first recession in 25 years, according to the World Bank.Nigeria, Ghana and Senegal have all seen virus cases spike over the past month. South Africa has more than 101,000 confirmed coronavirus infections and 1,990 fatalities.South Africa’s government has also eased restrictions to salvage its economy. A court in the country also ruled that some lockdown regulations were unconstitutional. The case was filed by a human-rights group that said millions of already impoverished people were being deprived of an income by the curbs.“Governments are faced with choosing between potential surges in infections and the potential starvation and deprivation of their population,” said Kobi Annan, an analyst at risk consultancy Songhai Advisory, based in Ghana and the UK. “Longer-term lockdowns in developing countries are just not an option -- we don’t have social safety nets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-surge-threatens-poor-nations-exiting-lockdown/story-OREDancwGyWc0GvawGIpFP.html
23-06-2020||World||‘Very negative consequences’: EU presses China over trade, warns on Hong Kong law||The European Union told China on Monday to make good on a promise to open up its economy and warned of “very negative consequences” if Beijing goes ahead with a new security law on Hong Kong that the West says will curtail basic rights.Speaking after video calls with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and President Xi Jinping, the EU’s chief executive and chairman said they had repeated accusations that Beijing has spread disinformation about the coronavirus.“The relationship between the EU and China is simultaneously one of the most strategically important and one of the most challenging that we have,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told a news conference.European Council President Charles Michel said China was not reciprocating the welcome that Chinese companies receive in Europe.Calling China a partner and a rival, von der Leyen said Beijing had not followed up on a 2019 deal to allow greater access for European companies in China or drop rules requiring investors to share their know-how in Chinese joint ventures.When asked about von der Leyen’s comments on the 2019 deal on Tuesday, Wang Lutong, the head of the Chinese foreign ministry’s Europe office, said that tangible progress has been made on areas like green financing and government procurement, and that patience was needed.Even before the coronavirus pandemic worsened Sino-European ties, the EU found itself caught between China and the United States, needing both and reluctant to alienate either.Li expressed optimism about the relationship, according to Chinese state media, saying China and the EU are more partners than competitors. But the EU wants to see progress on an investment agreement under negotiation since 2014. EU officials say they want to see movement in areas such as autos, biotech and micro-electronics and see Beijing limit subsidies for state-run companies.Germany has postponed an EU leaders’ summit with Xi in September, citing the coronavirus, though diplomats said it was in part because of the impasse in investment negotiations.HONG KONGMichel and von der Leyen said they told Li and Xi of their concerns over China’s security law for Hong Kong, which democracy activists, diplomats and some businesses say will jeopardise its semi-autonomous status and role as a global financial hub.China’s parliament reacted angrily on Saturday to a resolution by the EU assembly protesting against the security law.“We also conveyed that China risks very negative consequences if it goes forward with imposing this law,” von der Leyen said, without giving details. “The European Union is in touch with our G7 partners on this topic and we’ve made our position very clear to the Chinese leadership today and urged them to reconsider.”Wang of China’s foreign ministry told a news conference in Beijing that “security legislation in Hong Kong is a domestic affair of China” and that it opposed “any foreign interference.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/very-negative-consequences-eu-presses-china-over-trade-warns-on-hong-kong-law/story-44FNL8P72pKJPj6tWXIeeN.html
23-06-2020||World||Europe wants your medical data in its fight for an edge in AI||When thousands in Europe caught Covid-19 in March, France began collecting information on everything from early symptoms and drug sales to lab tests.In a country noted for its strict approach to data protection, these efforts have gained the attention of regulators. On Friday, France’s top court cited these concerns when it asked Microsoft Corp., which is hosting the hub project, to hand over details on what data is migrating to the US and whether it can assure confidentiality.“The virus forced us to accelerate things,” Stephanie Combes, the hub’s director, said in an interview. “This crisis shows us why we were created: to have actionable data. But we have to go much further. We need to rethink how we collect health data.”France’s data project project began in March 2019 after a Fields medal-winning mathematician warned that the country needed to up its AI game. The hub, created in December, inherited 20 years of pharmacy and hospital data, and in April an emergency law was signed for gathering virus data.The hub will be the central point for data from the country’s clinical trials, prescriptions and disabilities research. For a fee, academics, private companies, and health authorities will be able to analyze the data. EY’s health expert Loic Chabanier said France’s data value could be “potentially colossal” -- from benefits for the health-care system to royalties on molecules and licenses.Governments from France and Finland to Germany and Italy have been collecting health data for decades, but the pandemic focused attention on the need to use the data to make medical and economic decisions in weeks rather then years.“All this is a competitive advantage, eventually,” Jukka Lahesmaa, a senior adviser to Finland’s Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, said in an interview. “It will change the economy of health data in Europe. The EU data space will bring clarity and standards.”Now the hub is being criticized. Privacy lawyers and activists too much data was taken concerning Covid-19 data from hospitals, pharmacies, labs and care-house records. The privacy watchdog CNIL said it was worried about potential data transfers to the US after the hub picked Microsoft to host the data.“We’ve made sure it can be reversible, to be able to change tomorrow, if needed,” Combes said, alluding to the Microsoft contract following queries from France’s top court.In the UK, which is ahead in its health data digitization, the NHS started issuing licenses about two years ago -- without sufficient privacy safeguards, critics say. Transfers of UK health data are also in the balance of trade talks with the US Amazon, Google, Microsoft and Palantir Technologies Inc. have signed contracts with the NHS to process virus-related data, and attracted the attention of privacy activists.Similar projects are emerging elsewhere in Europe. Findata has been up and running in Finland since April, allowing permits and licences to be bought to use the data -- something pharmaceutical company Oriola, telemedicine firms Terveystalo and Mehilainen and Helsinki University are doing. In Germany -- the other country with potentially huge data sets -- the Medical Informatics Initiatives is expected to be operational before mid-2021.Meanwhile, France is just getting started, Combes says.“The (hub) is just in its beginning stages,” she said. “We’ve identified missing data links through this crisis, data collection that needs to be upgraded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-wants-your-medical-data-in-its-fight-for-an-edge-in-ai/story-0WrigsD3vvuWVOZjudiQZI.html
23-06-2020||World||After Tulsa, Trump heads to virus hotspot Arizona and border||Regrouping after a humbling weekend rally, President Donald Trump faces another test of his ability to draw a crowd during a pandemic Tuesday as he visits Arizona and tries to remind voters of one of his key 2016 campaign promises.Trump’s weekend rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, had been meant to be a sign of the nation’s reopening and a show of political force but instead generated thousands of empty seats and swirling questions about the president’s campaign leadership and his case for another four years in office. The low turnout has sharpened the focus on Trump’s visit to Arizona, which doubles as both a 2020 battleground state and a surging coronavirus hotspot.First, the president will travel to Yuma to mark the construction of more than 200 miles of wall along the US-Mexico border, an issue that he built his campaign on four years ago. Later, he’ll address a group of young Republicans at a Phoenix megachurch, where event organizers have pledged thousands will attend.Throughout the trip, the Covid-19 pandemic will shadow Trump. The Democratic mayor of Phoenix made clear that she does not believe the speech can be safely held in her city — and urged the president to wear a face mask.“Everyone attending tomorrow’s event, particularly any elected official, should set an example to residents by wearing a mask,” said Mayor Kate Gallego. “This includes the President.”Trump has refused to wear a mask in public, instead turning it into a red-vs.-blue cultural issue. Polling suggests that Republican are far less likely to wear a face covering than Democrats despite health experts’ warnings that it dramatically reduces the risk of transmitting the virus.The “Students for Trump” event will be held at the Dream City Church and broadcast to groups across the nation. It is being hosted by Turning Point USA, a group founded by Trump ally Charlie Kirk. Organizers said health and safety measures still were being finalized and it was not clear if attendees would be asked to wear masks or keep socially distant.Since late May, Arizona has emerged as one of the nation’s most active hotspots for the spread of Covid-19. Use of hospitals, intensive care units and ventilators has set daily records over the past week.Photos of restaurants and bars crowded with unmasked patrons ignited controversy. Republican Gov. Doug Ducey, a Trump supporter, reversed himself last week and allowed cities and counties to require people to wear masks in public places. Most have, including Phoenix and Yuma and the counties that surround them.Arizona is seeing disturbing trends in several benchmarks, including the percentage of tests that prove positive for the virus, which is the highest in the nation.The state’s positive test rate is at a seven-day average of 20.4%, well above the national average of 8.4% and the 10% level that public health officials say is a problem.Campaign officials are still assessing the fallout from low turnout in Tulsa amid concern about the virus.Campaign officials stressed that rallies would remain a staple of the president’s reelection strategy but allowed that they may, in certain states, need to change slightly. Discussions were under way about having them in more modest venues or outdoors, perhaps in airplane hangers and amphitheaters, or in smaller cities away from likely protesters.But officials believe that Trump’s ability to draw thousands of supporters out during a pandemic sets up a favorable contrasting image with Democratic rival Joe Biden. Still, the campaign has struggled to find effective attack lines on Biden.Biden, like Trump, has had struggles with young voters but the former vice president’s campaign has expressed hope that the national protests against racial injustice may change that.Trump’s visit to the Phoenix megachurch will come on the same day that Pence kicks off a faith-centered tour, highlighting the central position that religious conservatives -– particularly white evangelicals, but also right-leaning Catholics -– continue to occupy in the president’s base. Yet even as Trump’s campaign overtly courts religious voters, there are signs of softening support among voting blocs the president can’t afford to lose.A poll released earlier this month by the nonprofit Public Religion Research Institute found that the share of white Catholics viewing Trump favorably had fallen by double digits since last year, measuring 37% in the last week of May compared with 49% across 2019. The same poll found Trump’s favorability among white evangelicals at 62% in May, a level comparable to 2019’s — but 15% less than it was in March.Trump’s focus on construction of his long-promised border wall also is meant to shore up support with his most loyal supporters.His administration has promised to build 450 miles by the end of the year, but that’s not very likely. The government has awarded more than $6.1 billion in construction contracts since April 2019 for various projects along the border. It has also waived procurement rules that critics say make the process of awarding multi-million dollar contracts secretive and opaque.The White House this month floated a theory that travel from Mexico may be contributing to a new wave of coronavirus infections, rather than states’ efforts to reopen their economies. It was not clear that the evidence supports the theory.Trump’s first visit to the border in more than a year comes a day after another hardline immigration move. The Trump administration said Monday that it was extending a ban on green cards issued outside the United States until the end of the year and adding many temporary work visas to the freeze, including those used heavily by technology companies and multinational corporations.The administration cast the effort as a way to free up jobs in an economy reeling from the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-tulsa-trump-heads-to-virus-hotspot-arizona-and-border/story-Uun0bij7JXGuCtNGOV2vYM.html
23-06-2020||World||Russia stares down World War II controversies 75 years on||The Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in 1945 is a pillar of national pride in Russia, used by the Kremlin to stir patriotic sentiment and rebuff criticism of the USSR and its army.Yet Russia’s state-backed narratives about the war and its legacy regularly lead to disagreements with other European countries.Russia celebrates its victory in World War II every year on May 9 with a massive military parade on Red Square in front of the president and other world leaders.Ahead of this year’s parade on Wednesday, postponed from May because of the coronavirus pandemic, here are five World War II episodes that continue to fuel tensions. Pact with HitlerThe 1939 Molotov-Ribbentrop pact between Soviet leader Joseph Stalin and Nazi leader Adolf Hitler remains a point of contention between Moscow and European countries to this day.World War II erupted after Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union invaded and carved up Poland in September 1939 under a secret clause of the pact.The agreement, which remained classified in the Soviet Union until 1989, has been described by Putin as necessary because Western powers had abandoned the USSR to face Germany alone.He has also lauded the pact as a triumph of Stalin-era diplomacy.Putin was angered last year by a text published by the European Parliament saying the pact helped pave the way for World War II.Invasion or liberation?Soviet soldiers are celebrated in Russia for liberating Europe from Nazism, but for some countries in eastern Europe the Red Army is remembered as an occupying force.The Baltic countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were forcibly integrated into the Soviet Union, and revile Nazi and Soviet forces alike.Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda said last month that the war did not end until 1993 “when the last Russian soldier left” his country. Russia says this narrative is an unacceptable rewriting of history and routinely protests at the removal of Soviet-era military monuments in eastern and central Europe.Polish massacreOne of many points of friction with Poland is the massacre at Katyn, named after a forest near the Russian city of Smolensk where Soviet secret police shot thousands of Polish officers in 1940 on Stalin’s orders.Until 1990, the Soviet Union claimed the executions were carried out by the Nazis.Moscow has since admitted responsibility, but the legacy of the massacre has been overshadowed in Russia by wider Stalinist repressions.In 2010, during a thaw in relations between Moscow and Warsaw, the plane carrying Poland’s president to a commemorative event in Smolensk crashed, killing all 96 people on board.Investigations into the accident have become a new source of tension between the two countries.Mass deportationsDuring the war, Stalin accused minority ethnic groups of collaborating with the Nazis and deported hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars, Kalmyks, Chechens, Balkars, Germans and others to Central Asia in harsh conditions.Deported populations were rehabilitated after Stalin’s death, but tensions linger with those that returned.Crimean Tatars, for instance, were deported from their homes and as a result opposed Russia’s annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in 2014.Many Soviet soldiers and officers returning home after captivity in Germany were also likened to traitors and sent to forced labour camps.Rape in GermanyRapes committed by Soviet soldiers as they captured Berlin in April 1945 permeated German collective memory, but are largely overlooked in Russia.A Russian blogger in January was charged with “Nazi apologism” for satirical social media posts that referenced Soviet abuses committed in Germany.In 2016, a newspaper in the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad was handed an official warning over an article about atrocities committed by the Red Army during the takeover of the German city in 1945.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-stares-down-world-war-ii-controversies-75-years-on/story-G90hBGMGqOGhQzXBpSwgPN.html
23-06-2020||World||US accuses India of unfair practices on charter flights||The US Transportation Department on Monday accused the Indian government of engaging in “unfair and discriminatory practices” on charter air transportation services to and from India and issued an order requiring Indian air carriers to apply for authorization prior to conducting charter flights.The order will allow US officials “to scrutinize charter flights by Indian carriers on a case-by-case basis.” The department said it “seeks to restore a level playing field for US airlines” under the US-India Air Transport Agreement. The Indian government, citing the coronavirus, has banned all scheduled services and failed to approve US carriers for charter operations, the department said.The Indian embassy in Washington did not immediately comment. The order is effective July 22.The department previously accused China of unfairly denying US air carriers the ability to conduct flights and also demanded China seek preapproval for some charter flights.The US government said Air India has been operating what it calls “repatriation” charter flights between India and the United States in both directions since May 7.Air India is advertising flights “that would constitute a rate of 53% of the scheduled services it operated before the onset of the current public health emergency,” the department said.“Considering this rate of flying, and that Air India is selling tickets on the market, the charters go beyond true repatriations, and it appears that Air India may be using repatriation charters as a way of circumventing the GoI-imposed prohibition of scheduled services.”The US government first raised objections with the Indian government through engagement by the US Embassy New Delhi on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-accuses-india-of-unfair-practices-on-charter-flights/story-YM5c2Iu4R9RazKxxNWqr2L.html
23-06-2020||World||Trump says China trade deal still on after adviser Peter Navarro’s remarks||President Donald Trump is tweeting that an initial trade agreement with China is still on after a top White House adviser’s comments seemed to suggest it was over, spooking markets late Monday.Trump tweeted: “The China Trade Deal is fully intact. Hopefully they will continue to live up to the terms of the Agreement!”The Trump administration has been extremely critical of China’s efforts to contain the novel coronavirus early on and the president repeatedly blames China for the pandemic in his remarks, leading to questions about future cooperation in areas such as trade.Peter Navarro, director of trade and manufacturing policy at the White House, told Fox News “it’s over,” when asked a question that was focused on the China trade deal.“(Trump) obviously really wanted to hang onto this trade deal as much as possible. And he wanted them to make good on the promises, because there had been progress made on that trade deal, but given everything that’s happened and all the things you just listed, is that over?” Navarro was asked.“It’s over, yes,” Navarro replied.But when contacted by The Associated Press, Navarro said his comments had been taken out of context and had nothing to do with the deal.“I was simply speaking to the lack of trust we now have of the Chinese Communist Party after they lied about the origins of the China virus and foisted a pandemic upon the world,” said Navarro, a longtime critic of the Asian country.In January, the US and China reached an interim trade deal to reduce tariff tensions. China agreed to buy massive amounts of US products.United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer testified on Capitol Hill last week that he is confident China will live up to its purchase commitments even though its economy has been weakened by the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdowns and travel restrictions imposed to contain it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-china-trade-deal-still-on-after-adviser-peter-navarro-s-remarks/story-KPgj54j9ACpcYHrw57X2rO.html
23-06-2020||World||Trump targets foreign workers with new visa freeze: Who is affected||US President Donald Trump on Monday signed an executive order suspending the entry of certain foreign workers by extending the pause on some Green Cards. The new order also covers H-1B, the most sought-after visa programme by Indians to gain entry in the United States as skilled immigrants.The move came as Republican Trump launches his re-election bid for presidential polls scheduled in November. Her has made immigration as his poll pitch.The White House said that this pause will benefit workers in America where job losses due to the coronavirus pandemic are at record high. The government data says nearly 50 million Americans have lost jobs due to Covid-19, and this new order will free up just 5.25 lakh jobs.Apart from the H-1B visa holders, Trump’s new order will also affect other categories of workers. These are:H2-B: This visa programme is for seasonal non-agricultural labour. The United States issues 66,000 H2-B visas per year. The US media reports that this category is Trump’s favourite and visas under this programme are valid for up to three years. Food processing, hotel work and landscaping industries make use of the H2-B visa programme to employ workers for companies in these sectors. In 2019, the US issued 97,623 H-2B visas for both new applicants and renewals.H-4: This programme is for the spouses of H1-B and H2-B visa holders. The H-4 visas are valid for the duration of the H1-B visa. THe US government issued 1,25,999 H-4 visas last year. Out of these, nearly 1,06,162 were for Indian citizens, followed by 5,701 for Chinese citizens.J-1: These are meant for people who want to visit the United States for cultural and educational exchange. They are valid for up to seven years, depending on programme type, and there is no annual cap. In 2019, the US government issued 3,53,279 J-1 visas for both new applicants and renewals.J-2: Like H2-B, this visa is for the spouses and dependents of J-1 holders. It is valid for the duration of the J-1 visa. Over 38,000 J-2 visas were issued by the Trump administration in 2019, according to government data.L-1: These are the visas are for high-level and specialised company employees. They are generally valid for up to seven years and there is no annual cap. In 2019, the US government issued 76,988 L-1 visas. Out of these, 18,354 were taken by Indian citizens.L-2: The L-2 visas are given to the dependents of L-1 holders. They are valid for the duration of the associated L-1 visa. The Indians got 23,169 L-2 visas out of the totl 80,720 issued by the US government last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-targets-foreign-workers-with-new-visa-freeze-who-is-affected/story-k8GSbelbTSjJMk7RI3Z9oL.html
23-06-2020||World||South Korean activist floats leaflets to North amid high tensions||A South Korean activist on Tuesday said hundreds of thousands of leaflets had been launched by balloon across the border with North Korea overnight, after the North repeatedly warned it would retaliate against such actions.The move is certain to intensify tensions between the Koreas, after the North abruptly raised its rhetoric against South Korean civilian leafleting and pushed to resume its psychological warfare against the South.Police in the South Korean border town of Paju said Tuesday they were checking into details about the reported leafleting.Activist Park Sang-hak said his organization flew huge balloons carrying 500,000 leaflets, 2,000 one-dollar bills and small books on North Korea from Paju on Monday night.Park, formerly a North Korean who fled to South Korea, said in a statement his leafleting is “a struggle for justice for the sake of liberation of” North Korean residents.Calling North Korean leader Kim Jong Un “an evil” and his rule “barbarism,” Park said he’ll keep sending anti-Kim leaflets despite worries about his safety. “Though North Korean residents have become modern-day slaves with no basic rights, don’t they have the rights to know the truth?” he said.South Korean officials have vowed to ban leafleting and said they would press charges against Park, who has sent leaflets toward North Korea for years.Authorities said Park’s activities are unnecessarily raising animosities between the Koreas and potentially endangering residents in border areas. In 2014, North Korean troops opened fire at propaganda balloons flying toward their territory, triggering an exchange of fire that caused no known causalities.Last week, North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office on its territory and threatened to take unspecified steps to nullify 2018 agreements aimed at lowering front-line military tensions. On Monday, North Korea’s state media said it had manufactured 12 million propaganda leaflets to be floated toward South Korea in what it said would be the largest-ever anti-Seoul leafleting campaign.Experts say North Korea is likely using the South Korean civilian leafleting as a chance to boost its internal unity and apply more pressures on Seoul and Washington amid stalled nuclear diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korean-activist-floats-leaflets-to-north-amid-high-tensions/story-5s6t4RdfHWjyJ8tNcPjorM.html
23-06-2020||World||China launches final satellite in GPS-like Beidou system||China on Tuesday launched the final satellite in its Beidou constellation that emulates the US Global Positioning System, marking a further step in the country’s advance as a major space power.The launch of the satellite onboard a Long March-3 rocket was broadcast live from the satellite launch base of Xichang, deep in the mountains of southwestern China, shortly before 10 a.m. About half an hour later, the satellite was deployed in orbit and extended its solar panels to provide its energy.An initial launch scheduled for last week was scrubbed after checks revealed unspecified technical problems.The third iteration of the Beidou Navigation Satellite System promises to provide global coverage for timing and navigation, offering an alternative to Russia’s GLONASS and the European Galileo systems, as well as America’s GPS.China’s space program has developed rapidly over the past two decades as the government devotes major resources toward developing independent high-tech capabilities — and even dominating in fields such as 5G data processing.The first version of Beidou, meaning “Big Dipper,” was decommissioned in 2012. Future plans call for a smarter, more accessible and more integrated system with Beidou at its core, to come online by 2035.In 2003, China became just the third country to independently launch a crewed space mission and has since constructed an experimental space station and sent a pair of rovers to the surface of the moon.Future plans call for a fully functioning permanent space station and a possible crewed flight to the moon, with its first attempt to send an orbiter and rover to Mars possibly coming as early as next month. If successful, it would be the only other country besides the US to land on Earth’s closest planetary neighbor.The program has suffered some setbacks, including launch failures, and has had limited cooperation with other countries’ space efforts, in part because of US objections to its close connections to the Chinese military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-final-satellite-in-gps-like-beidou-system/story-W96CRnCNdU46ADnLAO5JgK.html
23-06-2020||World||Protesters try to bring down Andrew Jackson statue near White House||Protesters tried to tear down a statue of former US President Andrew Jackson on Monday near the White House, scrawling “killer scum” on the base and pulling at ropes around the figure of Jackson on a horse before police intervened.Video footage posted to social media also showed demonstrators climbing on the bronze monument in Lafayette Square, across the street from the White House, in the latest bid to destroy images of historical figures considered racist or divisive.Police in riot gear are then seen moving in to drive the crowd back and form a protective ring around the statue, which was erected in 1852 on a white marble base and depicts Jackson astride a rearing horse.Earlier, protesters clashed with police in the nearby streets, the latest in a string of demonstrations against police brutality and racism following the death of a 46-year-old Black man, George Floyd, under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer.Jackson, the seventh US president, was a former general in the US Army and a populist politician nicknamed “Old Hickory,” whose political style has sometimes been compared with that of President Donald Trump.Native American activists have long criticized Jackson, a Democrat, for signing during his 1829-37 presidency the Indian Removal Act, in which thousands of people were driven from their land by the US government.Forced to march West in what was described as the “Trail of Tears,” thousands of Native Americans died before reaching their intended destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-try-to-bring-down-andrew-jackson-statue-near-white-house/story-Ba5ct9gMZ0m5Ypr4i2kqtM.html
23-06-2020||World||H-1B visa programme explained and what it means for Indians||US President Donald Trump has decided to extend the suspension of immigration and expand it to cover H-1B, most sought-after visa programme among the Indians.The decision has been taken to ensure Americans have the first shot at the jobs in the wake of record job losses due to the coronavirus pandemic.The executive order signed by Trump will be in place at least until the end of the year. Critics of the measure say Trump is using the pandemic to enact his long standing goal to limit immigration into the United States. Republican Trump is running for re-election on November 3 and has made his tough immigration stance a central pitch to voters.A senior Department of Homeland Security official said the proclamation will not affect valid visa holders already in the United States.What is the H-1B visa programme?It is a non-immigrant visa programme for highly skilled foreign workers. Indians are the largest beneficiaries of the programme, getting more than 70 per cent of the 85,000 given out annually by the United States.The H-1B is the largest guest worker programme in the United States, and an important channel for high-skilled immigrants to get into the country. It allows companies to employ foreign workers in occupations that require technical expertise in areas that are difficult to fill. The H-1B programme has benefitted the tech industry enormously.The process to get the H-1B visasThe programme is employer-driven. This means that companies tell the US government that they need these visas for certain specialised roles. The companies also promise the new workers under the programme will not be given salaries less than their American counterparts. And that the foreign workers will not adversely affect the working condition of other workers.The criticismPresident Trump and immigration hardliners argue that the present system is being abused to bring foreign workers on low wages to displace Americans, instead of attracting the really talented as its original mandate. The Trump administration also points towards a “loophole” in the system that allowed companies to hire foreign workers and then “domestically outsource” them to other companies, replacing their American workers. They do so by bypassing a rule prohibiting the hiring of a foreign worker if it directly led to the firing of an American worker. Outsourcing through a third-party personnel system is critical to the business model of Indian IT services companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/h1-b-visa-programme-explained-and-what-it-means-for-indians/story-OJa6FGO4DysWoyIp1noztI.html
23-06-2020||World||Mexican triplets test positive for virus on day of birth||Mexico’s novel coronavirus cases mounted and added their youngest infections Monday, when triplets tested positive for the virus on the day they were born.Monica Rangel, the health secretary of the northern state of San Luis Potosi, said the triplets were born May 8 to a mother who was also positive but asymptomatic.Rangel said the triplets are not believed to be in danger. She said the case was being studied to see whether the triplets were infected before or after birth was being conducted, but said it appeared improbable they could have been infected outside the womb so quickly.It is not the first time newborns have tested positive for the virus, but it is rare.Nationwide, Mexico’s confirmed coronavirus cases rose by 4,577 to 185,122, and the confirmed death toll rose by 759 to 22,584.Both numbers are considered significant undercounts due to Mexico’s very low levels of testing. Officials said that levels of infections appear to have stabilized, and held out hopes, as they have many times before, that the numbers may start declining soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-triplets-test-positive-for-virus-on-day-of-birth/story-mtMhFLBbgKyKc7elTNvpIN.html
23-06-2020||World||Google CEO Sundar Pichai disappointed by Trump’s move to suspend foreign work visas||Google CEO Sundar Pichai has expressed disappointment over the proclamation issued by President Donald Trump that temporary suspends foreign work visas including H-1B. “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today,” Pichai said in a tweet hours after Trump issued his proclamation in this regard. “Disappointed by today’s proclamation - we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all,” Pichai said. In a separate statement, Vanita Gupta, president and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, slammed the latest move of the Trump administration. “The latest travel ban is a new season of the same racist, xenophobic show put on by Donald Trump and Stephen Miller,” she said.Also read: Suspension of foreign work visas to free up to 5.25 lakh jobs in US, says White House “But Trump’s transparent effort to rally his base and distract from his innumerable failures, including his disastrous response to COVID-19, will not work. Indeed, the courts will stop his unlawful actions targeting immigrants,” Gupta said. “Like the past versions of this overused script using a pandemic to justify white nationalist policies, it deserves to be cancelled,” she said.Also read: Top US lawmakers urge Donald Trump to revoke suspension of H-1B visas Alice G Wells, who till a few weeks ago was the point person of the Trump administration for South and Central Asia, also opposed the move. “Being able to attract the best and the brightest through the H1-B visa programme has made America more successful and resilient. Knowing how to tap foreign talent is a US strength, not a weakness!” Wells said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-ceo-sundar-pichai-disappointed-by-trump-s-move-to-suspend-foreign-work-visas/story-85danx6WusiY76F2dd99IK.html
23-06-2020||World||Joe Biden’s campaign commits to 3 general election debates||Joe Biden’s campaign said Monday that the presumptive Democratic nominee would commit to participating in three debates, and slammed a push by President Trump’s advisers for an additional debate as an “effort to change the subject.”“Our position is straightforward and clear: Joe Biden will accept the Commission’s debates, on the Commission’s dates, under the Commission’s established format and the Commission’s independent choice of moderators,” said Biden Campaign Manager Jen O’Malley Dillon in a letter to the Commission on Presidential Debates, the nonprofit group that sponsors general election debates, which was obtained by The Associated Press. “Donald Trump and Mike Pence should do the same.”“Any ‘debate proposals’ in lieu of that are just an effort to change the subject, avoid debates, or create a distracting ‘debate about debates,’” she added.The letter, which was first reported by The Washington Post, came in response to a request made by Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani to add another, earlier debate to the current schedule of three. They also proposed that each campaign have a role in selecting the debate moderators.Trump’s team noted absentee and mail voting is being expanded because of the Covid-19 pandemic and expressed concern that some ballots — especially those by elderly voters most at risk to the virus — could be cast before the first debate. The first is scheduled for Sept. 29 at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana, the second on October 15 at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and the third for a week later, Oct. 22, at Belmont University in Nashville, Tenn.The seeming acceptance that a vast number of this year’s votes will be cast by mail marks a change for the campaign. Both Giuliani and Trump have criticized widespread mail voting and claimed without evidence that mail ballots are ripe for fraud.In the Monday letter, O’Malley Dillon also pointed out that the Trump campaign’s request for more debates marked a shift from December, when advisers were threatening that Trump might skip the debates altogether.That shift comes as Trump’s campaign has been seeking to paint Biden as mentally unsuited for the presidency, pointing to some of his verbal flubs on the campaign trail and lambasting the former vice president for campaigning “from his basement” during the pandemic, as Trump hit the campaign trail for his first rally during the pandemic this past weekend.Indeed, in a statement on the Biden campaign’s refusal to engage in additional debates, Trump campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh charged that his aides were “afraid” to send the Democrat out in unscripted situations, noting it’s been more than 80 days since Biden held a press conference.“An earlier and longer debate schedule is necessary so Americans can see the clear difference between President Trump’s vibrant leadership and Biden’s confused meandering,” he said.In the Monday letter, O’Malley also asked that the CPD confirm that it’s formulating safety plans to ensure that the debates will go on despite the coronavirus pandemic, and that the second debate be held in a town hall format, which would allow voters to ask questions of each candidate.“The Trump campaign proposal for elaborate negotiations is merely an effort to dodge fair, even-handed debates,” O’Malley Dillon wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-campaign-commits-to-3-general-election-debates/story-Zo8Zn30GFULA9vWVnS6MnJ.html
23-06-2020||World||Canadian PM Trudeau says China using detentions to advance political goals||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau strongly reacted to China’s “arbitrary” imprisonment of two Canadian citizens, including a former diplomat accusing the nation of using these detentions to advance its “political goals.”China has denied that the detentions of Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig are not connected to the arrest of Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei’s CFO Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver in December 2018. Analysts have continued to accuse China of using the detentions as a lever to try and get her freed. Meng, daughter of Huawei’s founder Ren Zhengfei, is facing a trial that may culminate in her extradition to the United States, in a case related to defrauding a bank to illegally conduct business with the Iranian regime.Ren Zhengfei, is facing a trial that may culminate in her extradition to the United States, in a case related to defrauding a bank to illegally conduct business with the Iranian regime.While Trudeau did not react to a query related to ‘hostage diplomacy’ during the daily media briefing, he was far more direct than in the past in confronting China, as he said, “It has been obvious since the beginning this was a political decision by the Chinese government, and we deplore it.”He stressed that China had made those “links” between the Meng case and those involving the two Canadians, who were charged with spying last week by Chinese prosecutors, and “continue to put political pressure on Canada” by connecting them. He asserted that the “use of arbitrary detentions as a means to advance political goals is fully unacceptable in a world based on rules.”How the escalation of friction between Ottawa and Beijing has become a major political matter in Canada and has featured prominently in Trudeau’s interaction with other world leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It figured in his discussions on Monday with the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. A statement from the Canadian PMO noted, “Prime Minister Trudeau thanked President von der Leyen for the European Union’s expressions of concern for two Canadians who have been arbitrarily detained in China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-pm-trudeau-says-china-using-detentions-to-advance-political-goals/story-W7vlb0JVgjuqWC7jmlLz8H.html
23-06-2020||World||With unsubstantiated claim, Trump sows doubt on US election||President Donald Trump opened a new front Monday in his fight against mail-in voting, making unsubstantiated assertions that foreign countries will print up millions of bogus ballots to rig the results and create what he called the “scandal of our times.”The claims not only ignore safeguards that states have implemented to prevent against widespread fraud but they also risk undermining Americans’ faith in the election, spreading the very kind of disinformation US authorities have warned foreign adversaries could exploit to foment doubt in the voting process.Trump accelerated his attacks following a bruising weekend for his reelection campaign, when a lower-than-expected turnout at a rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, left him seething, and as he fights for a second term during the worst unemployment since the Great Depression. The rhetoric, coming as states scramble to adjust voting processes because of the coronavirus pandemic, represents a two-track approach of trying to both block mail-in balloting in advance and setting the stage for challenging the results once it’s over.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It’s a way of trying to turn the foreign interference claims that have been made on their head,” said Richard Hasen, an election law expert at the University of California, Irvine. “Typically we’ve heard that the Russian government and others were working to help elect Trump, and here is Trump using fears of foreign interference as a way of bolstering his own side.”“This potentially lays the groundwork,” he added, “for him contesting election results.”Though election records obtained by The Associated Press show that a half-dozen senior advisers to the president have voted by mail, others in the administration have recently promoted the notion that states could be inundated with fraudulent ballots from overseas.Attorney General William Barr raised that prospect in interviews in recent weeks with The New York Times Magazine and Fox News.“Right now, a foreign country could print up tens of thousands of counterfeit ballots, and be very hard for us to detect which was the right and which was the wrong ballot,” Barr told Fox in an interview that aired Sunday.The president tweeted Monday a news report on Barr’s remarks as well as a separate message that said: “RIGGED 2020 ELECTION: MILLIONS OF MAIL-IN BALLOTS WILL BE PRINTED BY FOREIGN COUNTRIES, AND OTHERS. IT WILL BE THE SCANDAL OF OUR TIMES!”But experts say that doomsday scenario is far-fetched.“Comments like that demonstrate an ignorance of by-mail voting and the technology associated with how it actually works,” said Eddie Perez, global director of technology development at the OSET Institute, a nonprofit technology research corporation.“There are more protocols than people are probably aware of, which would make such an attack rather difficult,” he added.Though fraud in absentee balloting is rare, that’s not to say that there aren’t more pedestrian problems that could arise as people vote by the mail, including ballots that are intercepted in a mailbox and tampered with. The National Conference of State Legislatures lists on its website multiple disadvantages to the process, including slower reporting of results and the possibility that voters could be coerced by family or friends.But the list doesn’t broach the idea of foreign countries manufacturing their own ballots — a type of fraud that would encounter significant practical obstacles, not least because states say they are adept at differentiating legitimate ballots from inauthentic ones.The ballots used by Colorado’s 64 individual counties are printed exclusively in the United States, distinguished by specific colors and target areas and processed through sensitive scanners designed to weed out the inauthentic, said Secretary of State Jena Griswold. A bipartisan team of election judges conducts signature verification and refers for further investigation suspected instances of double-voting.And in Washington state, each county is responsible for printing its own ballots and distributing them to voters, whose signatures on the return ballot are cross-checked against the signature on voter registration applications.“My experience doing this is that usually when people get creative with things like that, you can tell,” Washington Secretary of State Kim Wyman said in an interview.Five states — Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Washington — conduct elections entirely by mail, according to the NCSL. But nearly all states, led by Democratic and Republican governors alike, offer some form of the option.With health officials saying that voting by mail can help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, many states are moving ahead with plans that ease access to mail-in ballots. Wisconsin recently decided this week to send absentee ballot requests to nearly all voters. Michigan, another swing state, has taken that step as well.That trend has agitated Trump, who even before Monday has openly railed against absentee voting. He told Politico in an interview published Friday that the “biggest risk” to his reelection is the growing use of mail-in ballots, and suggested that his chances may hinge on whether he can prevail in court against efforts to make absentee voting easier.By Monday, he was tweeting that this year would be the “most RIGGED election” in American history and blasted unspecified people or states who he said were “using Covid in order to cheat by using Mail-Ins!”It was the type of rhetoric that alarmed election security experts, but was even cautioned against by a Republican-led Senate committee in a report earlier this year on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.“Sitting officials and candidates should use the absolute greatest amount of restraint and caution if they are considering publicly calling the validity of an upcoming election into question,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-unsubstantiated-claim-trump-sows-doubt-on-us-election/story-7JshnWPKWnN5n9Muk2ctBO.html
23-06-2020||World||Seattle to move to dismantle protest zone, says mayor||Seattle’s mayor says the city will move to wind down the “occupied” protest zone following two recent shootings, including one that left a man dead.Mayor Jenny Durkan said at a news conference Monday that officials are working with the community to bring the “Capitol Hill Occupied Protest” zone to an end after two weeks.The mayor said the violence was distracting from changes sought by thousands of peaceful protesters seeking to address racial inequity and police brutality. The area has drawn President Donald Trump’s scorn.On Sunday night, a 17-year-old was shot in the arm at the edge of the area known as CHOP, named for the Capitol Hill neighborhood near downtown. It followed a shooting Saturday that left a 19-year-old man dead and another person critically wounded.Protesters cordoned off the several-block area near a police station after clashes with officers following the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Seattle riot squads unleashed tear gas, pepper spray and flash-bangs on large crowds of mostly peaceful protesters, drawing condemnation from many city leaders and a federal court order temporarily banning the use of the weapons on demonstrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seattle-to-move-to-dismantle-protest-zone-mayor-says/story-NArd1hmYTSGm9K7DA3pdON.html
23-06-2020||World||Mexico’s confirms 4,577 new coronavirus infections, 759 deaths||Mexico on Monday reported 4,577 new infections and 759 additional deaths from the coronavirus, the health ministry said, bringing the total number in the country to 185,122 cases and 22,584 deaths.The government has said the real number of infected people is likely significantly higher than the confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-s-confirms-4-577-new-coronavirus-infections-759-deaths/story-l8Hzjpt0w7kZgDHVALfcMJ.html
23-06-2020||World||Suspension of foreign work visas to free up to 5.25 lakh jobs in US: White House||The temporary suspension of foreign work visas including H-1B and L1, that benefit Indian IT professionals, is expected to free up to 5,25,000 jobs in the US, senior administration officials said after President Donald Trump issued a proclamation in this regard. “The sum total of what these actions will do in terms of freeing up jobs over the course of the rest of 2020 is about 5,25,000 jobs,” a senior administration official told reporters during a conference call. “Quite a significant number, where President Trump is focusing on getting Americans back to work as quickly as possible after we’ve suffered this hit to our economy based on the coronavirus and the harm it’s done,” the official said. A proclamation of Trump on Monday temporarily suspended till the end of the current year a number of popular non-immigrant visas including the H-1B, H-4, H-2B visa, J and L visas. “The H-1B is the high-tech visa. H-4 is the spouses of certain other visa holders, including H-1B and H-2B. H-2B is a bit of a low-skill catchall. The only ones that’ll come in under the H-2B will be those in the food service industry, which is less than 15 per cent of all H-2Bs.” “Then, almost all working J visas will be excluded, and then all L visas. Ls are intra-company transfers from, say, company X, their facility in Germany to their facility in Michigan,” the official said. While maintaining the integrity of the asylum system, the president has closed a bunch of those loopholes, which, in addition to cleaning up the asylum system, will also free up more jobs for Americans. “That is done by regulation, however, not by the executive order,” the official said. Trump in his lengthy proclamation has directed the Department of Homeland Security to eliminate work permits of those who have final orders of removal or commit crimes in the United States or are deportable. The category alone is in excess of 50,000 jobs a year that will be opened up for Americans, the official said. The White House later said that the proclamation is part of the ‘America first recovery’ effort of Trump as he is expanding the suspension of certain visas through the end of the year to ensure American workers take first priority as the country recovers from the economic effects of the coronavirus. Noting that Trump is extending the pause on new immigrant visas through the end of the year to ensure that the US continues putting American workers first during the ongoing coronavirus recovery, the White House said the president is building on this measure with an additional pause on several job-related nonimmigrant visas—H-1Bs, H-2Bs without a nexus to the food-supply chain, certain H-4s, as well as Ls and certain Js—preserving jobs for American citizens. Asserting that this will ensure businesses look to American workers first when hiring, the White House said that many workers have been hurt through no fault of their own due to coronavirus and they should not remain on the sidelines while being replaced by new foreign labour. “The Trump administration has also finalised regulations to eliminate the incentive to file an asylum application for the primary purpose of obtaining an employment authorisation document. With some exceptions, we should not permit large numbers of foreign workers to enter the United States at a time when so many Americans are out of work,” the White House said. The White House asserted that American people stand by Trump as he takes commonsense action to preserve jobs for American citizens. “Polls show that the overwhelming majority of Americans support pausing immigration as we recover as a nation from the coronavirus pandemic,” it said. A Washington Post-University of Maryland poll found that 65 per cent of those polled support pausing immigration into the country, including 61 per cent of minority respondents. A Pew Research Center poll found that 81 percent of Americans see mass immigration as a threat as we confront the challenges posed by the coronavirus, it added. “Democrats and liberal commentators used to support such commonsense efforts to protect American jobs,” the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspension-of-foreign-work-visas-to-free-up-to-5-25-lakh-jobs-in-us-white-house/story-891XusqbXCBR3whgt5zamJ.html
23-06-2020||World||Saudi Arabia to hold ‘very limited’ hajj due to Covid-19 pandemic||Saudi Arabia said Tuesday that because of the coronavirus only “very limited numbers” of people will be allowed to perform the annual hajj pilgrimage that traditionally draws around 2 million Muslims from around the world.The decision comes after weeks of speculation over whether Saudi Arabia would cancel the pilgrimage altogether or allow the hajj to be held in symbolic numbers. It’s unclear why the government waited until just five weeks before the hajj to announce its decision, but the timing indicates the sensitivity around major decisions concerning the hajj that affect Muslims around the world.Saudi kings have for generations assumed titles as custodians of Islam’s holiest sites, and their oversight of the hajj is a source of prestige and influence among Muslims globally. The hajj also generates around $6 billion in revenue for the government every year.Saudi Arabia has never cancelled the hajj in the nearly 90 years since the country was founded.The government said its decision to drastically limit the number of pilgrims was aimed at preserving global public health due to the lack of a vaccine for the virus or a cure for those infected, as well as the risks associated with large gatherings of people.The hajj is one of the biggest gatherings on earth, with pilgrims staying in close confines and walking and praying shoulder-to-shoulder. A stampede in 2015 caused more than 2,400 deaths.“This decision was taken to ensure hajj is performed in a safe manner from a public health perspective,” the government statement said.The kingdom’s Ministry of Hajj said only people of various nationalities already residing in the country would be allowed to perform the large pilgrimage, which is set to begin this year at the end of July.The government did not specify how many people would be permitted to take part.The hajj centers around five intense days of worship and rituals in Mecca, however pilgrims typically begin arriving to Saudi Arabia through its main gateway city of Jiddah weeks and even months in advance.Saudi Arabia said its “top priority is to always enable Muslim pilgrims to perform the hajj and umrah rites safely and securely.”It defended its decision on religious grounds, as well, saying that the teachings of Islam require the preservation of human life. Saudi Arabia’s top council of clerics swiftly issued a statement saying the decision is line with Islamic Shariah law.Performing the hajj is central to Islam and one of the religion’s five pillars. All able-bodied Muslims are required to perform the hajj once in their lifetime, with many saving money their entire lives to afford the journey.The hajj is seen as a chance to wipe clean past sins and start fresh. Pilgrims shed symbols of materialism, as women forgo makeup and perfume and wear loose-fitting clothing and a head covering, while men dress in seamless, white terrycloth garments meant to emphasize the equality of all Muslims before God.Despite taking early and unprecedented measures to control the spread of the virus domestically, Saudi Arabia has one of the highest rates of coronavirus infections in the Middle East, with more than 161,000 total confirmed cases and 1,307 deaths.The virus causes mild to moderate symptoms in most people, who recover within a few weeks. But it is highly contagious and can cause severe illness or death, particularly in older patients or those with underlying health problems.Saudi Arabia had already suspended the smaller year-round umrah pilgrimage earlier this year and closed the Grand Mosque in Mecca, home to Islam’s holiest site, to the public. The city of Mecca was also under a strict 24-hour curfew for more than two months.Although Saudi Arabia has lifted some restrictions in recent days, the umrah continues to be suspended and the country’s borders remain shut to visitors and tourists.Indonesia and Malaysia, which combined send around a quarter-million Muslims to the hajj each year, had already announced they would not be sending their citizens to the pilgrimage this year, in part because it had become too late to prepare for it.In an early indication of the uncertainty around this year’s hajj, the kingdom had asked Muslims in early April to delay making plans for the pilgrimage as the virus grew into a global pandemic, infecting millions around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-to-hold-very-limited-hajj-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-CYTssUi4Yb7XyxBKht4vaM.html
23-06-2020||World||US doing ‘too good a job’ on Covid-19 testing, says Donald Trump||President Donald Trump said Monday the United States has done “too good a job” on testing for cases of Covid-19, even as his staff insisted the president was only joking when he said over the weekend that he had instructed aides to “slow the testing down, please.”The president’s comments at a campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Saturday brought quick rebukes from the campaign of likely Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden as well as scores of Democratic lawmakers.In an interview with Scripps for its local TV stations, Trump was asked Monday whether he did indeed tell aides to “slow it down.” He did not directly answer the question.“If it did slow down, frankly, I think we’re way ahead of ourselves, if you want to know the truth,” Trump said. “We’ve done too good a job,” adding that the reason the United States has more coronavirus cases is that it does more testing.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said any suggestion that testing has been curtailed is not rooted in fact, saying Trump made the slow-it-down comment “in jest.”She said that Trump’s comments were an effort to criticize the media for its coverage of the coronavirus and its “failure” to understand that “when you test more, you also find more cases.”However, the US is seeing disturbing trends in several benchmarks, including the percentage of tests that prove positive for the virus.Health officials say that testing in the United States early on was insufficient for optimal containment. In early March, Dr. Anthony Fauci, a member of the White House coronavirus task force, testified that the nation’s testing system was “not really geared to what we need right now” and added, “it is a failing. Let’s admit it.”But now, about a half-million people per day are being tested, and the president and his aides have been repeatedly touting the United States as leading the world in testing.Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak of Nevada told Vice President Mike Pence in a conference call with governors on Monday that the president’s comments were not helpful and wanted assurances there is not a federal mandate to slow down testing. Pence told Sisolak and other governors on the call that the administration looked forward to continuing to partner with them on testing.The administration also stressed to governors on the call that states should be focusing resources on “hard to test” communities and that counties with high positivity rates should be saturated with more testing.Lawmakers are expected to have several questions about testing and the president’s comments on Tuesday when members of the administration’s coronavirus task force testify at a House hearing.“The American people are owed answers about why President Trump wants less testing when experts say much more is needed,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said.Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson called Trump’s rally remarks on discouraging testing “somewhat of a flippant comment” and said it’s not in line with what he’s heard from the administration.“It’s clear the national policy is to expand testing,” said Hutchinson, a Republican. “There again, you have to look at what is the action, what is the true policy versus just what the words are.”The United States has confirmed nearly 2.3 million Covid-19 cases, which represents about a quarter of the world’s cases. More than 120,000 people in the US with Covid-19 have died. The next closest nation is Brazil, with 50,600 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-doing-too-good-a-job-on-covid-19-testing-says-donald-trump/story-oJwfIpwiF3O2irQbO8UbuO.html
23-06-2020||World||Did TikTok teens, K-pop fans cause poor show at Trump campaign rally?||Several US media outlets, citing multiple sources close to the White House, said President Donald Trump was “furious” after his re-election campaign in Tulsa, Oklahoma was marred by empty seats. The White House had promised Saturday’s much-hyped event - Trump’s first rally in three months - would be flooded with up to 100,000 people, but large sections of the 19,000-capacity BOK Center were empty.The local fire department said only about 6,200 people were present, according to US media, but campaign officials claimed at least 12,000 attended.An outdoor event for the overflow crowd was cancelled because no one showed up, despite Trump’s team boasting of huge interest ahead of time and more than a million ticket requests.Did teens, TikTok users and fans of Korean pop music troll the president of the United States?For more than a week before Donald Trump’s first campaign rally in three months on Saturday in Tulsa, Oklahoma, these tech-savvy groups opposing the president mobilised to reserve tickets for an event they had no intention of attending.While it’s unlikely they were responsible for the low turnout, their antics may have inflated the campaign’s expectations for attendance numbers that led to Saturday’s disappointing show.“My 16 year old daughter and her friends in Park City Utah have hundreds of tickets. You have been rolled by America’s teens,” veteran Republican campaign strategist Steve Schmidt tweeted on Saturday.The tweet garnered more than 100,000 likes and many responses from people who say they or their kids did the same. Reached by telephone on Sunday, Schmidt called the rally an “unmitigated disaster” .CNN had reported last Tuesday that a TikTok video posted by Mary Jo Laupp, who uses the hashtag #TikTokGrandma, was helping lead the charge. The video now has more than 700,000 likes.Two K-pop fans who spoke to Reuters in Skype and phone interviews on Sunday said they had each registered for two spots, not using their real names and numbers. Em, a 17-year-old student in Kansas who only wanted to be identified by her username, said she had first heard about the effort on TikTok. She said many of the original tweets sharing information about the rally had been deleted. “I think it was partially the TikTokers and the K-pop fans but also people are not as interested in Trump as he thinks they are,” she said. Andrew Bates, a spokesperson for Trump’s Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, said the turnout was a sign of weakening voter support. “Donald Trump has abdicated leadership and it is no surprise that his supporters have responded by abandoning him,” he said.The Trump campaign blamed the “fake news media” for “warning people away from the rally”. “Leftists and online trolls doing a victory lap, thinking they somehow impacted rally attendance, don’t know what they’re talking about or how our rallies work,” Trump campaign chairman Brad Parscale wrote.  “Reporters who wrote gleefully about TikTok and K-Pop fans — without contacting the campaign for comment — behaved unprofessionally and were willing dupes to the charade,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-tiktok-teens-k-pop-fans-cause-poor-show-at-trump-campaign-rally/story-5StXvO1JxMRVMulpmgMmcJ.html
23-06-2020||World||US moves to restrict Chinese media outlets as ‘propaganda’||The Trump administration added four Chinese media outlets Monday to a list of organizations that should be considered “foreign missions” because of their ties to the government and the Communist Party, a move that could force some to cut staff in the U.S. and is likely to further aggravate relations between the two countries.State Department officials said the four organizations, including state-run CCTV, would be required to submit a list of everyone who works for them in the U.S. and any real estate holdings just as they would if they were foreign embassies or consulates.None are being ordered to leave the U.S. and no limits on their activities were announced. But five other Chinese organizations were directed to cap the number of people who could work in the United States in March — a month after they were designated as foreign missions.State Department officials said the organizations are essentially mouthpieces for the Communist Party and Chinese government, not legitimate news outlets.“The Communist Party does not just exercise operational control over these propaganda entities but has full editorial control over their content,” said Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific Affairs David Stilwell. “This foreign mission designation is an obvious step in increasing transparency of these and other PRC government propaganda activities in the United States.”The other three added to the list of foreign missions are the China News Service, the People’s Daily newspaper and the Global Times.It was not yet clear how many journalists work in the U.S. for the organizations designated Monday.The U.S. designated Soviet outlets as foreign missions during the Cold War. That precedent reflects the bitter state of relations between the United States and China, which are at odds over the origin and response to the coronavirus, trade, human rights and other issues.President Donald Trump highlighted the dispute over the coronavirus when he spoke to a rally over the weekend in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and used a racist term for COVID-19, calling it the “kung flu.”White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany defended Trump’s use of the term Monday, telling reporters that the president was merely pointing out that the origin of the virus is China. “It’s a fair thing to point out as China tries to ridiculously rewrite history,” she said. “What President Trump is saying, ’no China, I will label this virus for its place of origin.’”U.S. officials say the designated media outlets should be considered foreign missions under American law because they are “substantially owned or effectively controlled” by the government of the People’s Republic of China and shouldn’t be treated like traditional news organizations.“These aren’t journalists. These are members of the propaganda apparatus in the PRC,” Stilwell said in a conference call with reporters.Asked about potential Chinese retaliation, Stilwell noted that American journalists working in China already faced tight restrictions on their activities.China had no immediate reaction to the announcement but the foreign ministry accused the administration of harboring a “Cold War mentality and ideological prejudice” when it applied the same designation to five media organizations earlier this year.At that time, the administration applied the label to the Xinhua News Agency, China Global Television Network, China Radio International, the China Daily Distribution Corporation, which distributes the newspaper of the same name, and Hai Tian Development USA, which distributes the People’s Daily newspaper.Then the U.S. administration capped the number of journalists from the five allowed to work in the U.S. at 100, down from about 160. At the time, the U.S. cited China’s increasingly harsh surveillance, harassment and intimidation of American and other foreign journalists in China.China announced in response that it would revoke the media credentials of all American journalists at The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post.___Associated Press writer Kevin Freking contributed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-moves-to-restrict-chinese-media-outlets-as-propaganda/story-rlOFV6ZquUsCabGn8ejzxO.html
23-06-2020||World||US President Donald Trump suspends H-1B and sets it up for overhaul||US President Donald Trump issued an executive order on Monday to extend the suspension of green cards till the end of the year and expand it to cover non-immigrant work visas such as H-1B, which, through a separate reform regulation at some future date, will also undergo a series of permanent overhauls to make it merit-based by prioritising highest paid applicants.Senior Trump administration officials said the suspended work visas included H-1B, H-4 for some H-1B spouses, H-2B for low skill workers, some categories of J visas for cultural and education workers and L-1 for intra-company transfers. They were intended to ensure Americans had the first shot at jobs in the aftermath of record job losses caused by Covid-19 related lockdowns, and are expected to free up 5,25,000 jobs.Also Read: H1-B visa programme explained and what it means for IndiansThe suspension of H-1B non-immigrant visas for highly skilled foreign workers had been widely expected and, as reported earlier by Hindustan Times, will impact Indians disproportionately as the largest beneficiaries of the programme, accounting for more than 70 per cent of the 85,000 given out annually. Vikram Desai, an IT professional cleared for green card, says he and his wife had looked at each other with dread when they first heard of the suspension order. “We have parents in the high-risk category of those vulnerable to Covid-19 and our first thoughts were that if one of us had to leave the US for India, we may not be able to return until the end of the year,” he said.Hundreds of Indians on H-1B or those approved for green cards had already been living away from their family or spouse for months now, stranded in India because of travel restrictions in force on either side, compounded by the closure of consular operations at US missions.Also read: Google CEO Sundar Pichai disappointed by Trump’s move to suspend foreign work visas“This is a Hindu Ban much like the Muslim Ban,” said one of them on condition of anonymity. The person was referring to the controversial ban imposed on the entry of people from some Muslim majority countries by Trump early on in his presidency, which remains in force, in a version diluted by legal challenges.It’s more like an India ban, actually. The H-1B suspension will affect Indians as the main beneficiaries, as stated earlier, and it will be Indians once again who will be hit the hardest by the suspension of H-4s that allow spouses of H-1B visa holders cleared for green card to work. Indians are the largest beneficiaries of this visa because the queue for green cards is the longest for Indians, current waiting time is statistically estimated to be over 100 years. H-4 was introduced by President Barack Obama in 2015 as an incentive for these green card hopefuls. The Trump administration wants to rescind it.Political observers linked the suspensions to Trump’s desire to seal the support of his base ahead of his re-election bid in November. Some conservatives have long viewed the work visa programmes, specially H-1B, as a threat for Americans, and Trump is tapping into it with these suspensions.Activists campaigning for a better deal for India H-1B visa holders in line for green card say an estimated two million Indians will be impacted by the suspensions, including H-1B visa holders, those waiting for their green cards and those on L-1. They claimed these were conservative estimated.Also Read: Suspension of foreign work visas to free up to 5.25 lakh jobs in US: White HouseLeon Fresco, a consultant for Immigration Voice, an advocacy group for green card hopefuls, wrote on Twitter legal that the suspension orders could be challenged in court.Chinese are the second largest beneficiaries of these programmes but they are already on notice from the Trump administration for Covid-19.Equally significant with lasting impact for Indian professionals wanting to work in the United States and Indian IT services companies will be the permanent changes that the US president is ordering, such as the way H-1B applicants are selected from among the hundreds of thousands that apply.The electronic lottery system, which is used to pick the 85,000 successful applicants from the total number of applicants that was three times more last year at 2,25,000, will now be replaced by a merit-based system that will prioritise highest salary applicants to “get the best and the brightest”, a senior Trump administration official told reporters in a background briefing ahead the issuance of the order.“So the top 85 (thousand) salary offers among the 2,25,000 or so applicants for those visas will get those visas,” the official added.President Trump has been calling for reforms in the H-1B visa programme to attract the best and brightest, echoing immigration hardliners who have argued that the present system is being abused to bring foreign workers on low wages to displace Americans, instead of attracting the really talented as its original mandate.The Trump administration will also seek to plug a “loophole” in the existing H-1B programme that allowed companies to hire foreign workers and then “domestically outsource” them to other companies, replacing their American workers. They do so by bypassing a rule prohibiting the hiring of a foreign worker if it directly led to the firing of an American worker. Outsourcing through a third-party system is critical to the business model of Indian IT services companies.The officials did not name any Indian companies, but did mention two American companies that have gone on to become controversial face of this practice, Disney and AT&T. Most egregiously for the critics of this practice, Americans workers were forced to train the foreign workers who replaced them.“The President has instructed us to end that practice and will do so by regulation as soon as we possibly can,” said one of the officials who briefed reporters.The H-1B reforms will also include a change in the way the department of labour calculated prevailing wages so that foreign workers are in the upper end of the salary scale and don’t end up undercutting American workers. The labour department will also be empowered to investigate H-1B abuse.“Without regulatory language on changing the H-1B lottery to a system based on highest salary it is not possible to know whether such a regulation would be lawful and not struck down by a court,” said Stuart Andersen, whose non-partisan think tank National Foundation for American Policy closely tracks immigration issues, of the proposed changes in the H-1B selection system.The text or the timing of the regulation is not known.About the suspension of H-1B and other work visa, Andersen said, “it will encourage companies to conduct more work outside the United States and are much more likely to harm the US economic recovery than to aid it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-sign-order-to-suspend-and-partly-overhaul-h-1b-visa/story-FmGEP5QPAjMU3SvQ8dVhsK.html
23-06-2020||World||Donald Trump to extend US work visa freeze to year-end: Report||US President Donald Trump will prolong a ban on US employment permits to year-end and broaden it to include H1-B visas used widely in the tech industry, the White House said Monday.A senior administration official who spoke to journalists on condition on anonymity said that the move would free up 525,000 jobs, making a dent in the high unemployment rate caused by the coronavirus pandemic.“President Trump is focused on getting Americans back to work as quickly as possible,” the official said, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-extend-us-work-visa-freeze-to-year-end-white-house/story-tSkvc36nBuyyrkd7cC9EjJ.html
23-06-2020||World||With highest single-day spike of 183,000 cases, world Covid-19 tally reaches 8,708,008: WHO||The World Health Organization on Sunday reported the largest single-day increase in coronavirus cases by its count, at more than 183,000 new cases in the latest 24 hours.The UN health agency said Brazil led the way with 54,771 cases tallied and the US next at 36,617. Over 15,400 came in India.Experts said rising case counts can reflect multiple factors including more widespread testing as well as broader infection.Overall in the pandemic, WHO reported 8,708,008 cases — 183,020 in the last 24 hours — with 461,715 deaths worldwide, with a daily increase of 4,743.More than two-thirds of those new deaths were reported in the Americas.In Spain, officials ended a national state of emergency after three months of lockdown, allowing its 47 million residents to freely travel around the country for the first time since March 14. The country also dropped a 14-day quarantine for visitors from Britain and the 26 European countries that allow visa-free travel.But there was only a trickle of travelers at Madrid-Barajas Airport, which on a normal June day would be bustling.“This freedom that we now have, not having to justify our journey to see our family and friends, this was something that we were really looking forward to,” Pedro Delgado, 23, said after arriving from Spain’s Canary Islands.Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez urged people to take maximum precautions: “The virus can return and it can hit us again in a second wave, and we have to do whatever we can to avoid that at all cost.” At a campaign rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Trump said Saturday the US has tested 25 million people, but the “bad part” is that it found more cases.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “When you do testing to that extent, you’re going to find more people, you’re going to find more cases,” Trump said. “So I said to my people, ‘Slow the testing down, please.’ ″ White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said on CNN that Trump was being “tongue-in-cheek” and made the comment in a “light mood.” Democratic rival Joe Biden’s campaign accused Trump of “putting politics ahead of the safety and economic well-being of the American people.” The US has the world’s highest number of reported infections, over 2.2 million, and the highest death toll, at about 120,000, according to Johns Hopkins. Health officials say robust testing is vital for tracking outbreaks and keeping the virus in check.In England, lockdown restrictions prevented druids, pagans and party-goers on Sunday from watching the sun rise at the ancient circle of Stonehenge to mark the summer solstice, the longest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere. English Heritage, which runs the site, livestreamed it instead. A few people gathered outside the fence.“You can’t cancel the sunrise,” druid Arthur Pendragon told the BBC.The number of confirmed virus cases is still growing rapidly not only in the U.S. but in Brazil, South Africa and other countries, especially in Latin America.Brazil’s Health Ministry said the total number of cases had risen by more than 50,000 in a day. President Jair Bolsonaro has been downplaying the risks even as his country has seen nearly 50,000 fatalities, the second-highest death toll in the world.South Africa reported a one-day high of almost 5,000 new cases on Saturday and 46 deaths. Despite the increase, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a further loosening of one of the world’s strictest lockdowns. Casinos, beauty salons and sit-down restaurant service will reopen.In the United States, the virus appears to be spreading across the West and South. Arizona reported over 3,100 new infections, just short of Friday’s record, and 26 deaths. Nevada also reported a new high of 445 cases.In Europe, a single meatpacking plant in Germany has had over 1,000 cases, so the regional government issued a quarantine for all 6,500 workers, managers and family members.In Asia, China and South Korea reported new coronavirus cases Sunday in outbreaks that threatened to set back their recoveries.Chinese authorities recorded 25 new confirmed cases — 22 in Beijing. In the past week, Beijing tightened travel controls by requiring anyone who wants to leave the Chinese capital, a city of 20 million people, to show proof they tested negative for the virus.In South Korea, nearly 200 infections have been traced to employees at a door-to-door sales company in Seoul, and at least 70 other infections are tied to a table tennis club there. But South Korean officials are reluctant to enforce stronger social distancing to avoid hurting the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-83-lakh-cases-world-covid-19-tally-over-8-7-million-who/story-yh5Ub0DH7YL9fNEA8dJ3OO.html
23-06-2020||India||In a setback to RJD, 5 MLCs join JD(U)||PATNA: In a major jolt to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) ahead of Legislative Council polls in Bihar, five sitting party MLCs joined chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) on Tuesday. The assembly polls in the state are also due in October-November.The RJD, which has eight MLCs, is now left with only three MLCs. The MLCs who defected to JD(U) are Radha Charan Shah (2015), Sanjay Prasad (2015), Dilip Rai (2015), Md Kamar Alam (2016) and Ranvijay Kumar Singh (2016).All the MLCs who joined the JD(U) do not face the anti-defection law as they form the two-third of the total number of MLCs of the RJD. A letter about formal joining of the RJD MLCs was forwarded by chief whip of the JD(U) Reena Devi to acting chairman of the legislative council.Tuesday’s development has made the JD(U) with 21 MLCs as the single largest party in the 75-member council, which presently has a strength of 46 as 29 seats are lying vacant. The BJP has 16 MLCs in the council and also has the support of an independent MLC. The polling for nine seats is schedule on July 6.The development also means that former chief minister Rabri Devi would lose the status of leader of opposition in legislative council.RJD state president Jagdanand Singh reacted strongly to the defection and warned JD (U) of a “befitting reply.” “Nitish Kumar has lured legistarors through money. The war has started. He will get a befitting reply,” said Singh.However, RJD’s alliance partner, HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan advised RJD that “instead of giving tickets to capitalists, the party (RJD) should respect its workers.”JD (U) also took a dig at the RJD. “The party hardly respects its workers whereas Nitish Kumar respects all,” said JD (U) Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-setback-to-rjd-5-mlcs-join-jd-u/story-4OOGMM2NhQPUSpOWbTAv1N.html
23-06-2020||India||CBI files new case against Videocon’s Dhoot||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday filed a new case against Videocon Group chairman and managing director Venugopal Dhoot and unknown officials of a consortium of banks, including State Bank of India (SBI), ICICI Bank and IDBI Bank for alleged irregularities in loans provided to a group company for its oil and gas assets in Mozambique, Indonesia and Brazil, officials said.Dhoot is already under the CBI investigation along with former CEO and MD of ICICI Bank, Chanda Kochhar, for two years over alleged loan fraud worth Rs 1,875 crore. Kochhar has not been named in the fresh case but “unknown” officials of three consortium banks are under probe.The agency’s First Information Report (FIR) on Tuesday was filed against Dhoot, unknown officials of consortium banks led by SBI and other unknown persons, under the Prevention of Corruption Act. They have been accused of cheating and criminal conspiracy.The agency conducted a preliminary inquiry in the matter first against unknown officials of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, ONGC Videsh, Oil India Limited, Bharat Petro Resources Ltd (a subsidiary of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd) and the consortium of banks including SBI, IDBI, and ICICI Bank, led by SBI Cap. They were suspected to have colluded with directors of Videocon Mozambique Rovuma 1 Ltd (VMRL), a subsidiary of Videocon Hydrocarbons Holding Ltd (VHHL), a company registered in Cayman Islands, with an intent to cause undue pecuniary gain to Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL).Venugopal Dhoot told HT, “I do not know about the case. I will check and get back to you.” SBI and ICICI did not respond to queries until the filing of this report.The VHHL had acquired 10% participating interest in an oil and gas block in Rovuma Area 1 Block Mozambique from a US-based petroleum company Anadarko in 2008. It had oil and gas assets in Indonesia and Brazil.In April 2012, the consortium of banks led by SBI sanctioned Standby Letter of Credit (SBLC) facility of $ 2773.60 million to Videocon Hydrocarbons Holding Ltd (VHHL) for appraisal and development of overseas oil and gas asset in Mozambique, Brazil and Indonesia and other funding requirements in relation to the oil and gas asset and for refinancing the existing facilities, according to CBI FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-new-case-against-videocon-s-dhoot/story-DHxtbkXLNjOWUT4579wFeL.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Break the Chain’ music video launched in Tripura to spread awareness on Covid-19||Amidst rise in Covid-19 figures in India, some videographers and movie enthusiasts from Tripura made a music video ‘Break the Chain’ to spread awareness against Covid-19. The music video, the first of its kind in the state, was made in Kokborok, an indigenous language and also in Malayalam, spoken mostly in Kerala.Besides entertainment, the music video showed pandemics of the past like cholera, Spanish flu, plague while asking people to deal bravely with the pandemic. The seven minutes video was shot both in Tripura and Kerala. Performers of ‘Jaduni Khorang’, a music band from Tripura, are associated with the music video. In Kokborok, Jaduni Khorang means ‘in the beloved’s voice’.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Govind Debbarma, a Jaduni Khorang vocalist, said, “The video will be available in local TV channels in Tripura and Kerala besides social media like Facebook, YouTube. The government’s awareness campaign is lacking in the villages. That’s where I felt we needed to do something.” He added that another Kerala-based musician Rajiv Thomas sang the song in Malayalam. “The music video will help in enhancing awareness against the coronavirus in the villages,” said Lok Sabha MP Rebati Tripura after launching the music video on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/break-the-chain-music-video-launched-in-tripura-to-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/story-2e35BzT5syI6Ki9aPDZrSN.html
23-06-2020||India||Call on scrapping board exams likely today: CBSE to SC||New Delhi: Discussions on cancelling remaining Class 10 and 12 board exams are at an advanced stage and a final decision in this regard is likely to be made on Wednesday, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.CBSE on May 18 issued a notification on holding the examinations that were put on hold two months earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari, and Sanjiv Khanna said they will wait for CBSE’s decision and posted the matter for hearing on Thursday. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, who appeared for the Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE), told the court they would like to know what CBSE decides before deciding what to do. The bench told Gupta, “In the interest of the children, if the government takes a decision for CBSE, it should be adopted by you too. You must take this seriously as we are in an unprecedented situation.”The Supreme Court last week asked CBSE, which is scheduled to conduct the exams from July 1 to 15, to consider scrapping the exams. The suggestion came in response to a plea from a group of parents, who have sought the cancellation of the exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic. In their plea, the parents cited the pandemic and said conducting the examinations across over 15,000 centres would unnecessarily expose children to the risk of contracting Covid-19. It asked CBSE to allot marks to students for the remaining papers on the basis of their internal assessment and performance in practicals and examinations they took in March. The petitioners pointed out tat CBSE had cancelled Class 10 and 12 board examinations for students enrolled at 250 odd schools abroad.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBSE, said discussions on this are at an advanced stage. “We will apprise the court by Thursday. By tomorrow [Wednesday], it will be finalised.” Advocate Rishi Malhotra, who represented the petitioners, said CBSE should not delay the decision any further as anxiety among students was increasing with every passing day.The bench also asked Mehta to take instructions with regard to another petition seeking the cancellation of ICSE Class 10 and 12 papers exams scheduled from July 2-11. Mehta told the court ICSE is an autonomous board and the Centre cannot take a decision on its behalf. Gupta told the court that ICSE would follow the decision of CBSE. “Let this matter be heard along with CBSE petition on Thursday.” He said a petition in this regard was also pending in the Bombay High Court .The states of Maharashtra, Delhi and Odisha have asked CBSE to scrap the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-on-scrapping-board-exams-likely-today-cbse-to-sc/story-12GO5co9zcDWObND9JOHnO.html
23-06-2020||India||IAS officer accused of graft in IMA scam dies by suicide in Bengaluru||A senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) official B M Vijay Shankar against whom CBI had registered a case of corruption in the I Monetary Advisors (IMA) ponzi scam, allegedly died by suicide at his residence in Bengaluru’s Jaynagar area on Tuesday night, police said.The officer who was under suspension had been arrested and jailed in July 2019.Tilaknagar police station officials said that his wife and daughters were present in the house when he ended his life. No suicide note has been recovered. “We have taken up a case of unnatural death and are investigating,” said Bhaskar Rao police commissioner of Bangalore. The IMA ponzi scheme run by its founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan and his associates had duped lakhs of people by promising higher returns using Islamic way of investment.Vijay Shankar a former District Commissioner of Bangalore was accused of accepting a bribe of at least Rs 1.5 crore from IMA’s Khan by a special investigative team constituted by the state government but the case was subsequently transferred to the CBI. The SIT which had arrested him had also recovered Rs 2.5 crore cash from his residence. The amount allegedly included the bribe money. At the time of his arrest, Shankar was heading the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments and allegedly accepted the bribe to give a clean chit to IMA and its main promoter Khan.More than 41,000 complaints were filed by investors alleging fraud in IMA after the firm closed in May 2019 and ceased to pay dividends. Shankar was arrested with several other officials and was lodged at Parapanna Agrahara jail before he got bail. He had earlier been discharged by a court in a separate disproportionate case filed by the state Lok Ayukta for lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-accused-of-graft-in-ima-scam-dies-by-suicide-in-bengaluru/story-EGTMESABbAaQTWIg03iVDI.html
23-06-2020||India||CBI files new case against Videocon’s Venugopal Dhoot and unknown bank officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday filed a new case against Videocon group chairman and managing director Venugopal Dhoot and unknown officials of a consortium of banks that includes the State Bank of India, ICICI Bank and IDBI Bank for alleged irregularities in loans provided to a group company for its oil and gas assets in Mozambique, Indonesia and Brazil, officials said.The CBI is already investigating Dhoot along with former CEO and MD of ICICI Bank – Chanda Kochhar for the past two years for an alleged loan fraud of Rs 1,875 crore. Kochhar hasn’t been named in the fresh case but “unknown” officials of three consortium banks are under the scanner.The agency’s FIR on Tuesday named Venugopal Dhoot, unknown officials of consortium banks led by SBI and other unknown persons under prevention of corruption Act, cheating and criminal conspiracy.The agency had conducted a preliminary enquiry (PE) in the matter first against unknown officials of ministry of petroleum and natural gas, ONGC Videsh, Oil India Limited, Bharat Petro Resources Ltd (a subsidiary of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd) and consortium of banks including SBI, IDBI and ICICI Bank, led by SBI Cap, on suspicion that they colluded with directors of Videocon Mozambique Rovuma 1 Ltd (VMRL), a subsidiary of Videocon Hydrocarbons Holding Ltd (VHHL), a company registered in Cayman Islands, with an intent to cause undue pecuniary gain to Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL).Venugopal Dhoot told HT, “I don’t know about the case. I will check and come back to you.” SBI and ICICI didn’t respond till filing of the report.The VHHL had acquired 10% participating interest in oil and gas block in Rovuma Area 1 Block Mozambique from a US based petroleum company Anadarko in 2008 and it had oil and gas assets in Indonesia and Brazil.In April 2012, the consortium of banks led by State Bank of India sanctioned Standby Letter of Credit (SBLC) facility of $2773.60 million to Videocon Hydrocarbons Holding Ltd (VHHL) for appraisal and development of overseas oil and gas asset in Mozambique, Brazil and Indonesia and other funding requirement in relation to the said oil and gas asset and for refinancing the existing facilities, according to CBI FIR.The SBLC facility of $1103 million was refinanced which includes an outstanding amount of $400 million of Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), London. The first charge on VIL’s oil and gas asset was part of SCB’s security.The VIL in February 2013 informed the consortium of banks that loan of SCB had increased from $400 million to $530 million asking the banks to pay off the loan and take over the charge of oil and gas assets after paying the same.“The SBI led consortium, without any verification/inquiry, approved and paid the loan of $530 million to SCB, London. After paying the outstanding to SCB, the charge on the VIL’s oil and gas assets was required to be taken over by Indian consortium led by SBI. Further, the loan account of SCB was required to be closed by VHHL. However, the SBI consortium in connivance with VIL didn’t create the charge on the oil and gas assets with dishonest intention to facilitate VHHL, which continued to avail the facility from SCB London backed by Mozambique oil and gas asset,” the CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, said.“Videocon didn’t inform about the continued availing of the facility from the SCB to its lenders neither the lenders asked for submitting the closure/No Objection Certificate (NOC) to VIL. The SBI led consortium never took charge of Mozambique asset and the charge of Indonesia and Brazil assets was taken by it in November 2013 from SCB,” the FIR adds.CBI enquiry further revealed that the ONGC Videsh Limited and Oil India Limited, which had acquired the Mozambique asset for $2519 million in January 2014, needed the NOC from consortium banks of VIL before making payments for the asset. The VIL asked the consortium to pay $ 650 million to SCB from sale proceeds but the banks paid $ 705 million and they didn’t even raise objection that outstanding of SCB had already been cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-new-case-against-videocon-s-venugopal-dhoot-and-unknown-bank-officials/story-avMTD3cBfUcPkuxZ2UM0FO.html
23-06-2020||India||There’s nothing Chinese on your plate||There has been a growing anti-China sentiment among Indians in the past few months. And while that’s justified, it is important to acknowledge that some are just baseless and outright nonsensical – most importantly the call for shutting down Chinese restaurants and banning Chinese food.Before WhatsApp forwards start spreading false claims about Chinese restaurants, Chef Nishant Choubey feels it is important for people to realise that “this cuisine restriction won’t help the cause.” Choubey adds that this will only affect the Indian restaurateur who owns the place. The Chinese food that’s served in numerous restaurants and most importantly at the road-side stalls, have been developed as per Indian taste. “The Chinese food in India is very much inspired and made according to the local taste. In my dishes, I incorporate local spices and is loved by people.”Choubey adds that if there is any way in which the culinary community in India can contribute towards this growing resentment, it is by banning the imports of Chinese spices. This sentiment is reiterated by Chef Harpal Singh Sikka, too. “To me whatever we call Chinese, is an all Indian adaptation suitable to our palate and has nothing to do with China. What we should do is put some embargo on products that are being imported from China, but that is purely the Government’s decision,” says Sikka.Moreover, many youngsters, who’ve made this Indo-Chinese cuisine their staple, understand that the China has nothing to do with what’s on their plate. “I’ve been a frequent costumer to the Chinese restaurant next to my college,” says Jay Shetty, adding, “and while I feel people might start ridiculing Chinese food from now on, I really don’t see the point as the owner is a Maharashtrian and he’s the only one they’re going to hurt, which is quite foolish.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/there-s-nothing-chinese-on-your-plate/story-SryWx2ub0dtDKttXZI7QBK.html
23-06-2020||India||Puri’s Jagannath Rath Yatra goes off smoothly without devotees||For the first time in its history, the famous Rath Yatra of Jagannath temple in Odisha’s Puri saw a large number of priests pulling the three colourful chariots as lakhs of devotees stayed away from the festival following a Supreme Court order.Around noon, about 1,500 priests of the 12th century temple began pulling the three colourfully-decorated wooden chariots towards the Gundicha temple amid beating of cymbals and drums in praise of Lord Jagannath and his siblings- Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra.The three chariots reached the Gundicha temple by 5.30 pm. All the priests who pulled the chariots - Nandighosh, Taladhwaja and Darpadalana – had tested negative for Covid-19 on Monday.Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, Puri’s titular king, who is also the first servitor of Lord Jagannath, carried out the Chhera Panhara, a ritual sweeping of the chariots before they are pulled. Puri Govardhan Peeth Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati paid obeisance to the trinity atop the chariots along with his disciples.“It’s hard to imagine Rath Yatra without devotees on Badadanda(Grand Road). But Lord Jagannath stepped out of the temple for the whole universe,” said Deb. There is a long-held belief among devotees is that one who pulls the chariot of the Lord gets salvation and is freed from the cycle of births and rebirths.Till Monday afternoon, uncertainty clouded the Rath Yatra before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court led by chief justice of India SA Bobde modified its order of June 18 staying the festival to allow it to be held with several preconditions.The pre-conditions included the absence of any devotees and pulling of the three chariots by not more than 1,500 priests.After the Rath Yatra ended in the evening, the Shree Jagannath Temple administration said servitors would be rewarded for ensuring its timely completion..In the morning, the district administration had disinfected the 2.5 km long road from the main temple leading to Gundicha temple, where the three deities will stay for the next 9 days.From Monday 9 pm, the police had enforced a curfew around the temple town restricting anyone’s entry or exit for the next 41 hours. Before the break of dawn, there were a flurry of activities in the temple as rituals like Mangal Alati, Tadaplagi, Dwarpala Puja, Besha Sesha, Rath Prathishtha and Mangalarpana started one after another. It was followed by Pahandi rituals of the three deities and Lord Sudarshan where they were carried by the priests from the main temple to the chariots.The devotees, who are an intrinsic part of the festival,had to watch in on television but they were not unhappy at missing the action. It’s all the wish of Lord Jagannath. I am happy with the decision of the Supreme Court. I will see my Lord after the lockdown is over,” said Binapani Mallik, a housewife in Bhubaneswar.Another senior citizen said he was happy to see the Lord come out of the temple. “After the SC order last week, I had given up hope. But I knew that the Lord of Universe would do a miracle to come out on the road and show his face to his millions of devotees,” said Prabodh Mishra, a septuagenarian.On Monday, 1,143 servitors of the temple were tested for Covid-19 of which one tested positive. The servitor who tested positive has been shifted to a Covid hospital before the beginning of the Rath Yatra rituals.After the event, the Puri district administration relaxed curfew in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-s-jagannath-rath-yatra-goes-off-smoothly-without-devotees/story-Q2sqyozdsKAXwKJ47h7KHI.html
23-06-2020||India||Ex-Andhra top poll officer meets BJP leaders at hotel, sparks political row||Even as the issue of reinstatement of retired IAS officer Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) is pending before the Supreme Court, a video footage showing the former top poll official meeting two senior BJP leaders at a hotel in Hyderabad 10 days ago has kicked up a political storm in the state.The video clip, obtained from closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras of the hotel, went viral on social and electronic media on Tuesday.It shows the former Union minister and present BJP MP YS Chowdary entering into a room on the eighth floor of the hotel, followed by former BJP minister in Andhra cabinet Kamineni Srinivas and Ramesh Kumar one after the other within a gap of two hours.The ruling YSR Congress Party, led by YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, was quick in alleging that the meeting exposed the political and caste connections of Ramesh Kumar. YSRCP parliamentary party leader V Vijaya Sai Reddy tweeted without naming anybody, saying: “Details of the fourth person who spoke through Facetime? Details soon.”Ambati Rambabu, YSRCP official spokesman and lawmaker, demanded that the government order a detailed inquiry into secret meeting held by Ramesh Kumar with YS Chowdary and Kamineni Srinivas. Rambabu said it reeks of a conspiracy against the Jagan government. He demanded that Ramesh Kumar be arrested immediately.While Ramesh Kumar did not respond to the calls and messages, Chowdary said there was nothing secret about the meeting. He said Kamineni Srinivas and Ramesh Kumar had met him at different hours in the hotel room, from which he had been carrying out official and business activities since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Kamineni had come to my room first and we briefly discussed the BJP activities in the state. After he left the room, Ramesh Kumar had dropped in to meet me and we spent a little time over a cup of coffee. Our conversation had nothing to do with our official or political roles. Our families have known each other for more than one generation,” he said.He condemned the attempts of some vested interests in the media and political circles to show - on the basis of CCTV footage acquired by questionable means - that the three had met.It may be recalled that the Jagan government had removed Ramesh Kumar from the post of SEC on April 10 by promulgating an ordinance to amend AP Panchayat Raj Act, after the latter postponed the local body elections stating Covid-19 as the reason.Subsequently, Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the high court, which struck it down on May 29. The Jagan government moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on high court order, but the SC did not grant the same while posting the case to a later date for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ex-andhra-top-poll-officer-meets-bjp-leaders-at-hotel-sparks-political-row/story-KioDRNDtztavyAAa3MADRJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Movie on Malabar rebellion hero triggers right wing’s furyIn Kerala||A Malayalam film project on Malabar Mappila rebellion hero Variyankunnathu Kunajahmed Haji has triggered a controversy and many Sangh Parivar outfits have asked actor Prithviraj Sukumaran not to accept the role.The Mappila uprising of 1920 is a controversial issue. While some historians say it was the first uprising against British colonialism in south India, many right wing groups contend that Hindus suffered a lot during the riots that followed the rebellion and eventually paved way for the two-nation theory.Hindu Aikya Vedi leader M V Babu and BJP leader M T Ramesh asked the actor not to associate with the movie titled ‘Vaariyamkunnan’ directed by Aashiq Abu, who directed many hit movies like ‘Virus’, which was based on the state’s fight against nipah virus in 2018.While Aashiq Abu, known for his leftist leanings, announced his movie plan on Monday another film-maker P T Kunju Mohammad, said he will also make a movie on the life of Haji as a 100-year tribute. He said his cast and other details will be announced after Covid restrictions are lifted.While a section of historians and liberals portray Haji, who was captured and executed by British in 1921, as an unsung hero, another section and many parivar outfits say he comdirector brushed aside opposition and said the team will go ahead with their dream project.mitted atrocities against Hindus. “The 1921 riots were an attack against Hindus. Haji is a controversial character like Tipu Sultan of Mysuru. We have requested Prithviraj not to take up this role,” said M V Babu.BJP leader M T Ramesh said it was another attempt to glorify the controversial character. Many right wing activists also took to social media to criticise Prithviraj. But the director brushed aside opposition and said the team will go ahead with its dream project.“He stood up against an empire that ruled a quarter of the world. Etched out his own country with an army that waged a never before war against the British. Though the history was burned and buried, the legend lived on. The legend of a leader, a soldier, a patriot,” tweeted Aashiq Abu while announcing the project. The period cinema is being planned as a centenary tribute in 2021-22.This is not the first time Mappila rebellion is becoming a theme of a movie. In 1988 late director I V Sasi made a film titled ‘1921’ and it was a big hit. But there was no controversy then. The Mappila rebellion which began as part of the 1920 Khilafat Movement, was initially a resistance against British and feudal landlords of Malabar (north Kerala), but degenerated into communal riots.The riot was quelled in 1921 but it led to another tragedy called Wagon Tragedy in which 64 people who were among a wagonload of prisoners being taken to Coimbatore for trial, suffocated to death. In Tirur railway station (Malappuram) there is a memorial for Wagon Tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/movie-on-malabar-rebellion-hero-triggers-right-wing-s-furyin-kerala/story-qzcs7Zn6iC0E9WnNgFibQI.html
23-06-2020||India||Man left 67-page note before killing wife, mother-in-law and shooting self: Cops||The 42-year-old chartered accountant, who shot himself after killing his wife in Bengaluru and mother-in-law in an upscale apartment in Kolkata, has left behind a 67-page suicide note which says he had planned to execute all his in-laws, including his father-in-law and brother-in-law.Sleuths of the Kolkata Police’s detective department are now trying to find out how Amit Agarwal procured a pistol. Agarwal used the pistol to shoot his 65-year-old mother-in-law Lalita Dhandania before committing suicide in his in-laws’ flat on Monday.After killing his wife Shilpi, also a chartered accountant, in her Bengaluru flat, Agarwal took a flight to Kolkata on Monday morning with his ten-year-old son. He told his son that his mother had left for Kolkata and so they have to fly to Kolkata. A divorce suit was going on between the couple for the last two years. On arrival at the Kolkata airport, he handed over his son to a known person and asked him to take his son to his own flat in north Kolkata. He then went straight to his in-laws’.“We are investigating where he got the pistol from, as the cab driver told us that he didn’t stop anywhere enroute,” said a senior official of Kolkata Police, adding that they have got in touch with airport authorities to check CCTV footage.Also Read: Bengal private bus operators demand fare hike due to diesel price hike, Covid restrictionsPolice have recovered at least two pistol magazines from which three bullets were fired. Agarwal, who wanted to kill even his 70-year-old father-in-law Subhash Dhandania, fired at him, but missed. He then shot Lalita while Subhash barged out and lock the flat from outside. Agarwal later shot himself.“From the suicide note, we came to know that he wanted to kill his brother-in-law too, who stays at Gurugram. He had called him to Kolkata but he didn’t come and was therefore saved. In his suicide note, Agarwal had repeatedly accused his wife and in-laws. The entire 67-page note was typed barring one page which was handwritten and might have been added later,” said a police officer.It was from this suicide note that the police first suspected that Agarwal may have killed Shilpi too. They soon called her but her mobile was found to be switched off. Later Bengaluru police were informed and her body was recovered. Police after scanning Amit’s laptop found that he had watched videos to learn how to use a firearm.“From the note, it was clear that he was planning it for a long time. The child is in safe custody now. We have spoken to him once. All the family members are in a state of shock,” said one official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-left-behind-67-page-suicide-note-before-killing-wife-mother-in-law-and-shooting-self/story-MVZTzTZDgRlXQ0tmJjfcDO.html
23-06-2020||India||Assured by Russia of speedy completion of defence contracts, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday he was assured by the Russian leadership that all ongoing contracts for military supplies will proceed as scheduled and be completed speedily despite the impact of the Covid-19 crisis.Singh’s remarks, made during a media interaction in Moscow, came against the backdrop of reports that India is pushing Russia to speed up the delivery of S-400 missile defence systems following a tense standoff with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Russia, which accounts for more than 60% of the military hardware used by the Indian armed forces, has called for the easing of tensions between China and India. The tensions spiked after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent face-off at Galwan Valley on June 15.“I have been assured that ongoing contracts will be maintained, and not only will they be maintained, they will be completed quickly and in less time,” Singh said, describing his talks with Russian deputy prime minister Yury Borisov as “very positive and productive”.“All our proposals have received a positive response from the Russian side. I am fully satisfied with my discussions,” he said, without giving details about the proposals.Singh arrived in Russia on Monday – the first trip abroad by an Indian leader since foreign travel was restricted four months ago due to the pandemic – with a high-level delegation to participate in the Victory Day parade on June 24. He is scheduled to hold several meetings with Russian leaders though no talks are planned with his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, who is in Moscow for the parade.India plans to seek the advanced delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems, currently due by mid-2021. India and Russia signed a $5.4-billion deal in 2018 for five systems. New Delhi is also expected to ask Moscow to cut delays in supplying spares for key Russian-origin platforms such as tanks, combat jets and helicopters.New Delhi’s request could potentially place Moscow in a difficult position due to its relations with Beijing. It’s becoming increasingly tricky for Russia to maintain good ties with India and China, Alexander Gabuev, a China expert at the Carnegie Moscow Center, told Bloomberg.“It’s a very important test overall of Russia’s ability to balance its relationships amid growing dependency on China, which is becoming increasingly assertive and pushing its partners to choose sides,” Gabuev said.The sale of the S-400 and more combat jets to India won’t spoil relations with China, said Igor Korotchenko, head of the Centre for Analysis of World Arms Trade. “The Indian arms market is a top priority for us,” he said. “There’s no problem here for our ties with China.”Singh described defence cooperation as one of the important pillars of the India-Russia special and privileged strategic partnership and said he and Borisov had reviewed the defence relationship. The traditional friendship between India and Russia remains strong and the mutual interests of the two sides “are solid”, he added.On Tuesday morning, defence secretary Ajay Kumar also held talks with his Russian counterpart, deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin.Pointing to the 75th anniversary of the Victory Day parade, which marks the end of World War 2, Singh said Indian soldiers too participated in the war effort in the millions and suffered immense causalities. “Many of them were part of the efforts to assist the Soviet Army. Therefore, it is a great honour that an Indian military contingent will be marching in the Red Square tomorrow. This is a sign of the everlasting friendship between the armed forces of our two countries,” he said.Singh also said India is looking forward to a visit by Russian President Vladimir Putin at the invitation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi later this year.On Tuesday, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov also hosted a virtual trilateral meeting with his Chinese and Indian counterparts, Wang Yi and S Jaishankar. Following the meeting, Lavrov said, “India and China have every means to solve any problems that arise in their relationship…I don’t think India and China need any help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assured-by-russia-of-speedy-completion-of-defence-contracts-says-rajnath-singh/story-AMnU4SbMLFU3plnVzgJEOJ.html
23-06-2020||India||After abrogation of Art 370, RSS wants probe into SP Mookerjee’s death||More than five decades after its founder Shyama Prasad Mookerjee gave the clarion call for not allowing two Constitutions, two Prime Ministers and two flags in one nation, in reference to Jammu and Kashmir, the Bharatiya Janata Party has ticked that box. There is however, an issue linked to Mookerjee that is still pending, a demand periodically raised by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP to probe his death while he was imprisoned in Jammu and Kashmir.The founder of the Jana Sangh, forerunner of the BJP passed away in a cell in Jammu and Kashmir after he was detained for forcibly entering the state, defying the then law making it mandatory for an Indian to furnish a permit to enter Kashmir.On Mookerjee’s death anniversary on Tuesday, the BJP brass paid tributes to the man who gave the party a task –abrogation of Article 370 that gave the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir its special status.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and a host of other senior leaders paid tributes to Mukherjee.Reading down Article 370 that made Article 35A that empowered the state assembly to define “permanent residents” for bestowing special rights and privileges on them infructuous is counted as one of the biggest achievements of the Narendra Modi government.There was however no mention of a probe in the tributes.On his death anniversary last year, leaders underlined how he “sacrificed” his life for the unity of the country.The then newly-appointed working president; JP Nadda also added that while the whole country demanded an inquiry into Mookerjee’s death, former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru “did not order an inquiry.”“History is witness to this. Dr. Mookerjee’s sacrifice will never go in vain, BJP is committed to this cause,” Nadda said.Similar statements were repeated on July 6, Mookerjee’s birth anniversary.A month later on August 5, the House of Elders in Parliament witnessed a historic legislation being passed-- the Re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories and the reading down of the contentious Article 370.More than 10 months after Abrogation of Article 370, the BJP has renamed Chenani-Nashri tunnel, India’s longest tunnel that links Kashmir with Jammu after Mookerjee, but there is no indication that the government will initiate a probe into his death.The RSS that has been steadfastly bringing up the need to investigate Mookerjee’s death is not giving up on this demand.“In 2004, (former PM) Atal Bihar Vajpayee had said there is a conspiracy that needs to be probed. We are hopeful that the government will investigate and put the issue to rest once and for all,” a senior functionary of the RSS said on Tuesday.In 2004, Vajpayee stoked a controversy with his statement that Mookerjee’s death was part of “a conspiracy” between the then Jawaharlal Nehru-led central government and Jammu and Kashmir government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-abrogation-of-art-370-rss-wants-probe-into-s-p-mookerjee-s-death/story-KX0r3HflNIaz4Y4h2gh7II.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Are we waiting to overtake Brazil?’: Kumaraswamy demands 20-day lockdown||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impose a further 20-day national lockdown as the current strategy of selective containment has ‘not served the purpose of arresting the pandemic.’In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy urged the PM not to put the economy ahead of peoples’ safety. Pointing out that India is among the countries with the highest number of Covid-19 cases, he said the problem must be seen in relation with our high density of population compared to other countries.Stating that there has been a rapid increase in coronavirus cases following the lifting of the lockdown, the former CM questioned whether the country would passively wait to overtake Brazil in the number of those infected. Urging the Karnataka CM to immediately announce a 20-day lockdown ‘especially for Bengaluru’, Kumaraswamy urged the government to transfer cash of at least Rs 5,000 to all daily wage workers including cab and auto drivers apart from weavers.Demanding that the government immediately withdraw its move to hold exams for SSLC (10th standard) students which is scheduled from Thursday, Kumaraswamy said that the state government and the education minister would be responsible if something untoward happened to the eight lakh students who are expected to take the exam.“If neighbouring Telangana could promote all its 10th standard students why is Karnataka hesitating. If we are bent on holding the exams let that be conducted in October,” he said in a different tweet.Kumaraswamy’s demand came in the backdrop of the state medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar acknowledging that three members of his family including his father, wife and daughter had tested positive for the virus.Meanwhile, state health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu said that the government would consult with medical doctors and experts to decide on its next course of action.“Yes, the number of cases in Bengaluru has increased. Yesterday the CM had a meeting in which it was decided to seal down four areas in Bengaluru which had seen an increase in cases. If required we will go for lockdown (across the state) again.”On Tuesday, Karnataka registered 322 new Covid-19 cases taking the total to 9721 cases in the state which includes 150 deaths and 6,004 discharges. With 1,035 cases Bengaluru (rural and urban) account for nearly a third of the 3,563 active Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-we-waiting-to-overtake-brazil-kumaraswamy-demands-20-day-lockdown/story-I10CATjP6cxvH9K6bOLNyI.html
23-06-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal writes to Amit Shah on Covid-19. Gets a blunt response on Twitter||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Home Minister Amit Shah to deploy doctors from the army and central police force ITBP at the 10,000 bed Covid facility being set up at the Radha Soami Satsang campus in south Delhi, according to news agency ANI on Tuesday. But Kejriwal didn’t have to wait for too long to get a response. Amit Shah tweeted a sharp response to Kejriwal within hours, pointing that he had issued instructions for deploying doctors from the ITBP three days back.Also Read: Delhi’s Covid centre, 10 times bigger than China’s largest, to start this week“Dear Kejriwal ji, It has already been decided in our meeting 3 days back and MHA has assigned the work of operating the 10,000 bed COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by 26th Jun,” Amit Shah said on Twitter, referring to an ANI tweet announcing Kejriwal’s letter. Dear Kejriwal ji, It has already been decided in our meeting 3 days back and MHA has assigned the work of operating the 10,000 bed COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by 26th Jun. https://t.co/VLMOQdEseYAmit Shah is expected to visit the facility named Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital later this week.A central government official said Kejriwal’s letter inviting the home minister was seen as an attempt to appropriate credit for the facility by the Aam Aadmi Party government which, he said, was an initiative driven by the Amit Shah-led home ministry and Lt Governor Anil Baijal.Several other central, state and municipal agencies are collaborating to set up the facility, billed to be 10 times bigger than China’s largest facility at Leishenshan to treat Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal underscored the point in his ‘thank you note’ to Amit Shah. देश की सेना, डाक्टर्ज़, सामाजिक संस्थाएँ, केंद्र सरकार और दिल्ली सरकार - सभी दिल्ली के लिए एकजुट होकर काम कर रहे है। मुझे पूरा यक़ीन है हम सब मिल कर कोरोना को हराएँगे। इन कठिन परिस्थितियों में दिल्ली सरकार और दिल्ली के लोगों की मदद करने के लिए शुक्रिया https://t.co/7jS2zAjgMUOf the 10,200 beds that are being set up at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chattarpur, about 1,000 beds would have the oxygen support facility for Covid-19 patients.Amit Shah, who has lately assumed a lead role to prep the national capital for the expected spike in Covid-19 cases over the next one month, also announced that a 1,000 bed hospital with 250 intensive care unit beds was being developed for Covid patients by the Defence Research and Development Organisation and Tata Trust. This facility, to be manned by personnel from the armed forces, will be ready in the next 10 days, Shah said.“Armed Forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid patients housed in the Railway coaches in Delhi. 8,000 additional beds have already been placed at Delhi government’s disposal for making Covid care centres, as per requirement,” the home minister tweeted.Shah’s sharp response to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal comes days after the AAP government locked horns with Lt Governor Anil Baijal to block a home ministry-driven move that made it mandatory for every Covid-19 patient to spend five days at a state-run quarantine facility. Lt Governor Baijal eventually rescinded the order, mandating that Covid-19 patients who are not able to stay in isolation due to constraints of space at home should be moved to state-run facilities. Lt Governor Baijal’s new order, however, requires Covid patients to make a mandatory visit to a Covid-19 care facility for one mandatory checkup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-amit-shah-on-covid-19-gets-a-response-on-twitter-in-2-hrs/story-IN2BcsLVhHWvHRY4PGGyQP.html
23-06-2020||India||40,300 cyber attacks in the last 4-5 days from China, more coming: Maharashtra cyber department||Maharashtra cyber department on Tuesday issued a warning about Chinese cyber attackers planning a large scale phishing attack and stated that over 40,000 suspected attacks on sites related to information, infrastructure and banking were witnessed in the last 4-5 days. The advisory comes close on the heels of a similar warning issued by India’s official cybersecurity agency in the backdrop of recent India-China border clashes that have led to worsening of relations between the two countries. “In last 4-5 days, resources on cyberspace of India especially related to information, infrastructure & banking have been under attack from China. At least 40,300 such cyber attacks were attempted, most of them can be traced to Chengdu area of China,” Maharashtra Cyber Department Special IG, Y Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A report published on June 18 quoting intelligence officials had claimed that China had opened another front against India with sustained DDOS (distributed denial of service) attacks on Indian information websites and the country’s financial payments system.Also Read: China ordered attacks on Indian troops in Galwan ValleyThe attacks attempted to flood a network with artificially created internet traffic and targeted a variety of sites including government websites and the banking system including ATMs.The report claimed most of these attacks were traced back to the central Chinese city of Chengdu—a city known as the hub of hackers and also the headquarters of the Chinese Army’s Unit 61398, which is PLA’s covert cyberwarfare section.These attacks were reported on Tuesday last and continued through Wednesday, however, they were unsuccessful.It is said that several hackers in Chengdu work under the patronage of government agencies to camouflage their operation for official deniability.Indian agencies had warned that Chinese cyber attackers could also carry out a massive phishing attack in the guise of a free Covid-19 test.Australia, too, recently suspected a Chinese hand in a massive cyber attack on several of its strategic sites targeting administration, industries, essential services, critical infrastructure and political organizations among others.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison had hinted at China’s role by describing the attacks as “malicious and sophisticated” and carried out by “state-based cyber actor”. He further added that “there are not a large number of state-based actors that can engage in this type of activity”.Australian experts explicitly named China for the attacks. Australia has been vociferously supporting the demand for an international investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic and has also backed India’s calls for reforms of the World Health Organization in the aftermath of its initial handling of the crisis.China had retaliated with tariffs on Australian exports, including barley and beef.The recent warning is the latest in a series of such alerts issued including the one released last Friday which cited the threat of a cyber attack by North Korea-based cyber criminals.As preventive measures, all the central security forces have been asked to direct their employees against opening or clicking on attachments in unsolicited e-mail, SMS or messages through social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-300-cyber-attacks-in-the-last-4-5-days-from-china-more-coming-maharashtra-cyber-department/story-I1ck3vd94dT9mUv6d7vVCM.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Why is PM backing China’: Rahul Gandhi has one more question over Chinese incursions||Rahul Gandhi continues to lead Congress party’s attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in particular and the NDA government in general over the issue of alleged occupation of Indian territory by the Chinese security forces. In his latest tweet on Tuesday, Rahul claimed China was in possession of Indian land through transgressions of the nearly 3,500km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) running between the two countries in several attempts since May this year and the Indian government was negotiating to get it back while the prime minister had “publicly supported” China’s claim that the land (Galwan Valley) doesn’t belong to India.“China took our land. (Picture of Indian tricolor) is negotiating to get it back. China says it’s not Indian land. The PM has publicly supported China’s claim. Why is the PM backing China and not (Indian tricolour) and our army?,” Rahul tweeted.This was Rahul’s second tweet on the issue on Tuesday despite facing counter attacks from BJP president JP Nadda and senior BJP leader and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, with the latter accusing him of petty politics over an issue requiring a display of unity from political forces within India.“We are united against the Chinese aggression. Have the Chinese occupied Indian land?,” Rahul’s first tweet had asked.Rahul’s attack is in sync with his party’s strategy to question Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement given during the all party meet called to discuss the incidents of June 15, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while resisting Chinese Army’s attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the disputed LAC with an aim to change the status quo.The prime minister after having given an account of Indian Army’s increased patrolling in the area and initiatives to thwart Chinese presence in contested areas, told the parties that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”. Congress has since then suggested that the PM’s statement amounted to a surrender of Indian land to China and it has projected Modi’s statement as a virtual endorsement of the Chinese’ claim on the Galwan Valley.“According to the prime minister, there was no incursion into our territories by the Chinese Army, then why did the external affairs ministry issue a statement in the evening of June 20, 2020 to say that the Chinese army was interrupting Indian patrol since the beginning of May 2020,” a tweet by party’s official handle said while referring to Congress spokesperson Randip Surjewala’s statement.Also Read: Sonia Gandhi hits out at Modi government over border standoff with China, economic crisis, fuel hikeIn another tweet, the party questioned the alleged contradiction in the statements issued by the government and the prime minister. The Congress today also asked the government to disclose the number of Chinese incursions in the Pangong Tso lake area and the Galwan Valley.Yesterday senior Congress leader and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had indirectly advised Modi against using “disinformation” as a substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership. He had said that the PM should be mindful of the implications of his words on a nation’s strategic interests.After Manmohan’s statement, Rahul had poked the government further and suggested that it followed the former prime minister’s advice in national interest.The BJP had sought to question Manmohan Singh’s locus-standi on the matter by alleging that he had allowed several Chinese incursions during his reign as India’s prime minister. The saffron party also went after Rahul today with party President JP Nadda citing an old understanding between the ruling Chinese Community party and the Indian National Congress.“First, Congress signs MoU with the Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During the Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to the Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation and demoralise armed forces. Effects of MoU?” Nadda asked in a tweet.Also Read: Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s jab at Rahul Gandhi includes reminder of BJP’s role in opposition Gandhi was also attacked later by Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who accused him of dirty politics. “Rahul Gandhi is demoralising & insulting the army. BJP used to support Congress at difficult times, but they are doing dirty politics now. They should attack China, but they can’t see anyone else other than PM Modi,” Shivraj Singh Chouhan was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-pm-backing-china-rahul-gandhi-has-one-more-question-over-chinese-incursions/story-qQRC2DFMBqyIQlbPAhZtQI.html
23-06-2020||India||Gehlot pushes for Rahul as Cong chief at CWC meet; party says no discussion||The issue of Rahul Gandhi’s return as the party president echoed in Tuesday’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting when Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the time has come for him to once again take over the reins of the organisation.A Congress leader familiar with the development said Gehlot’s suggestion was endorsed by former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat. However, no other CWC member spoke on the matter, he added.Asked about it at a virtual press conference later, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said the issue was not discussed at the meeting.“This is the sentiment of every Congress leader and worker. But the issue was not discussed at the meeting today. I am hopeful that Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party will take a call on these sentiments at an appropriate time,” Surjewala said.“I don’t know from where you got this news,” Venugopal said in response to a question.At a news conference last month, Gandhi had indicated that he will not return as the party chief anytime soon amid speculation about his active involvement in organisational matters and series of conversations with global leaders and experts on the Covid-19 crisis.When asked that his active involvement during the lockdown was being perceived as his coming back as the Congress president, Gandhi shot back: “You, please read my letter that I wrote one year ago on that issue.”Gandhi had resigned as the party chief at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on May 25 last year following the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which it managed to win just 52 seats in the 543-member House against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s tally of 303.At the fractious CWC meeting, Gandhi slammed the veterans for “placing the interests” of their sons above the party, and also mentioned that some leaders had even lost the election from their strongholds even as he criticised a section of the so-called GenNext for hankering for posts.He brought finality to his decision to step down as the party president on July 3 when he tweeted a four-page farewell note listing the reasons why he resigned.In the letter, Gandhi took a sharp dig at his party colleagues for the electoral drubbing the Congress received and spoke about the lack of support to him, saying he had stood completely alone in the fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).“I personally fought the Prime Minister, the RSS and the institutions they have captured with all my being. I fought because I love India. And I fought to defend the ideals India was built upon. At times, I stood completely alone and am extremely proud of it,” he wrote.Speculation about Gandhi coming back as the Congress president anytime soon intensified after his inclusion in the party’s 11-member consultative committee on the Covid-19 pandemic.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had named the group, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, on April 18.Another Congress functionary said several party leaders at Tuesday’s CWC meeting raised the issue of lack of support to Gandhi over his consistent attacks on the government on the border standoff with China.“Many leaders felt that it was Rahul Gandhi only who is taking on the government on the China issue and that he is not getting any support from others in the party. It was then decided that the party would henceforth raise the issue in a calibrated manner and forcefully back Rahul Gandhi’s aggression on the matter,” the party functionary said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-denies-rahul-gandhi-s-return-as-president-taken-up-at-top-body-meet/story-S6wYcLQ46Ib3XxH0PksAbL.html
23-06-2020||India||Govt asks Ramdev’s Patanjali to back up Covid medicine claim, issues gag order||The Ministry of AYUSH on Wednesday asked yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved Ltd to stop advertising and publicising claims that it has found a cure for Covid-19 till the issue is duly examined and sought details of the.medicines.“Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for COVID-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, CTRI registration and results data of the study (ies) and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined,” the Ministry of AYUSH said in a press statement hours after Patanjali Ayurved launched its medicine, Coronil, claiming that it is a cure for coronavirus.The ministry has also asked the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of license and approval details granted for the manufacture of Coronil. Patanjali is headquartered in Haridwar in Uttarakhand.“Ministry has also requested concerned State Licensing Authority of Uttarakhand Government to provide copies of license and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being claimed for the treatment of COVID -19,” the statement added.Patanjali launched two medicines named Coronil and Swasari on Tuesday and claimed the clinical trials on affected patients have shown 100 per cent favourable results.“The whole country and the world was waiting for medicine or vaccine for coronavirus. We are proud to announce that the first Ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of Patanjali Research Centre and NIMS,” Ramdev announced at a press conference in Hairdwar.He claimed the first clinical controlled study on 280 patients took place in Delhi and Ahmedabad among many other cities. Ramdev said the recovery rate of patients was 100 per cent. More than 4.4 lakh people have been affected by Covid-19 in India so far. The pandemic has claimed more than 14,000 lives till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seeks-details-of-composition-of-pantanjali-s-covid-cure-medicine-bans-advertisements/story-0NhIEJHgF6IPu9VCwB5LRP.html
23-06-2020||India||Bhansali Productions moves HC to restrain Eros International,others from exploiting rights of Bajirao Mastani||Director Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s production firm, Bhansali Productions Private Limited, has moved the Bombay high court (HC) against Eros International Media Limited seeking a restraining order against the latter for allegedly exploiting the rights of its 2015 film, Bajirao Mastani.Earlier on May 4, the court had directed Eros International Media Ltd to pay the outstanding amount of Rs 19.39 lakh within three weeks to Bhansali Productions for the 2013 film, Goliyon ki Rasleela Ram-Leela.On Tuesday, when both the petitions came up for hearing the single-judge bench of Justice BP Colabawalla held that the petitions needed to be heard extensively and adjourned the case till June 30.Justice Colabawalla was informed by senior counsel Zal Andhyarujina and advocates Nausher Kohli and Parag Khandhar that Bhansali Productions was challenging the intimation filed by Eros International with the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) that it was going into an all-share merger with its parent company Eros International PLC and Hollywood’s STX Filmworks, an independent studio that has been acquired by Eros.Bhansali’s advocates said that as neither Eros International PLC nor STX Filmworks were party to the co-production agreement between Bhansali Production and Eros International they are not entitled to the claims or can exploit the rights of films made by the two.Advocate Akshay Patil, who appeared on behalf of Eros International, opposed the argument. Earlier on May 4, Justice Colabawalla had observed that as the respondent companies were situated in the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States of America (USA) it would require an extensive hearing to consider whether reliefs could be granted against entities beyond the court’s jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhansali-productions-moves-hc-to-restrain-eros-international-others-from-exploiting-rights-of-bajirao-mastani/story-AucoLJKF7nfwDElwxiOk5L.html
23-06-2020||India||India considering establishing ‘bilateral bubbles’ with US, UK, France and Germany for air travel||India is considering establishing “individual bilateral bubbles” with the US, the UK, Germany and France allowing airlines of each country in the pact to operate international passenger flights, said the Aviation Ministry on Tuesday. The ministry’s statement has come after the US Department of Transportation announced on Monday that it has barred Air India from operating chartered flights between India and the United States from July 22 without its prior approval, in an apparent retaliation for the Indian government not allowing American carriers to operate between the two countries. The Aviation Ministry said, “As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon.”  “We have received requests from authorities in several countries including the US, France, Germany among others requesting that their air carriers be allowed to participate in the transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under Vande Bharat Mission. These requests are being examined,” it added. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 due to the coronavirus pandemic.Air India started international chartered flights under Vande Bharat Mission from May 6 to help people stranded amid the pandemic reach their destinations. The US Department of Transport (DOT) said on Monday it appears that Air India may be using its passenger repatriation charters as a way of circumventing Government of India-imposed prohibition of all scheduled international services.    “We are taking this action (of allowing only those Air India flights from July 22 that have DOT’s approval) because Government of India has impaired the operating rights of US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to US carrier services to and from India,” the DOT said. The Aviation Ministry said on Tuesday that it had one round of negotiations with the representatives of the DOT and US Embassy on June 15 about letting American carriers operate flights.  “They were invited to submit precise proposals in this respect.  A communication has now been received on 19 June, 2020 detailing these requests,” the ministry said. Air India has been operating chartered flights on Indo-US routes since May 18 where tickets on both the legs are sold. While tickets on the India-US leg are sold through Air India’s website to the public, the seats on the US-India leg have to be purchased after contacting the Indian Embassy in the US. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on June 20 that the government will start thinking on resumption scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before the coronavirus. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner and by placing lower and upper limits on airfares depending upon the flight duration. Moreover, Puri had said on June 20 that during phase 3 and phase 4 of the Vande Bharat mission, private domestic airlines have been approved to operate 750 international flights to repatriate people stranded amid the coronavirus pandemic. Phase 3 of Vande Bharat Mission began on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-considering-establishing-bilateral-bubbles-with-us-uk-france-and-germany-for-air-travel/story-LlWVNkCUji0EbOWdQstBZI.html
23-06-2020||India||India asks Pakistan to cut strength of high commission by 50%||India on Tuesday asked Pakistan to reduce the strength of its high commission in New Delhi by 50%, saying the actions of Pakistani officials were part of a “larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism”.Pakistan’s chargé d’affaires Syed Haider Shah was summoned to the external affairs ministry and informed the high commission’s strength should be halved within a week. Shah was told India will reciprocally reduce its diplomatic presence in Islamabad by the same proportion, the ministry said.In Islamabad, Pakistan’s foreign ministry summoned India’s chargé d’affaires and rejected and condemned what it said were the “baseless Indian allegations”. The Indian diplomat was informed of Pakistan’s decision to reduce the Indian mission’s strength by 50% as a reciprocal measure within seven days.India’s move came weeks after two junior officials of the Pakistan high commission were expelled on charges of spying on May 31. In a tit-for-ta action, Pakistani security agencies detained two staff members of the Indian mission in Islamabad last week for allegedly causing a road accident and possessing fake currency.India denied these charges and the two staff members returned via the Wagah land border crossing on Monday. The external affairs ministry has accused Pakistan of detaining them on false charges and torturing them.People familiar with developments said India’s move followed security agencies uncovering several instances of Pakistani officials based in New Delhi being allegedly linked to terror activities.While investigating the case of Jammu and Kashmir Police’s deputy superintendent Davinder Singh, who was caught with two Hizbul Mujahideen commanders on January 10, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had found that all three were in “constant touch” with an assistant in the Pakistani mission named Shafqat, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Shafqat, the people said, was allegedly a conduit for hawala transactions and terror financing.In another instance, the NIA had found that Mudassar Iqbal Cheema, posted at the Pakistani mission as first secretary (press) from September 2015 to November 2016, was allegedly involved in providing funds to several Hurriyat leaders through one Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali. Cheema and five other Pakistani officials in New Delhi were withdrawn by Islamabad on November 2, 2016, the people said.They said Watali was in contact with Inter-Services Intelligence officials, who allegedly provided funding to the Hurriyat leaders. A document found during a search of Watali’s premises by NIA had details of a total of Rs 70 lakh provided on two occasions by the Pakistani officials and payments made to several leaders. This document had mentioned Cheema, the people said.According to a reciprocal arrangement, the current strength of the Indian and Pakistani high commissions is 110. However, both missions are not functioning at full strength and some 40-odd officials will have to be sent back by each side, the people cited above said.Pakistan had unilaterally downgraded diplomatic relations after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last August and expelled the Indian high commissioner from Islamabad. It had also decided against sending a new envoy to New Delhi. The post was vacant at the time. The missions in New Delhi and Islamabad have been headed by the deputy high commissioners since then.The last time India had asked Pakistan to make a similar reduction in the strength of its high commission in New Delhi was in December 2001, after the terror attack on Parliament blamed on Pakistan-based terror groups.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry said charge d’affaires Shah was summoned to the ministry and informed that India had repeatedly expressed concern about the activities of officials of his mission.“They have been engaged in acts of espionage and maintained dealings with terrorist organisations. The activities of the two officials caught red-handed and expelled on 31 May 2020 was one example in that regard,” it said.Pakistan has simultaneously “engaged in a sustained campaign to intimidate the officials of the Indian high commission in Islamabad from carrying on their legitimate diplomatic functions. The recent abduction at gunpoint of two Indian officials and their severe ill treatment underlines the extent to which Pakistan has gone in that direction,” the statement said.The two officials, after returning to India on Monday, provided “graphic details of the barbaric treatment” they experienced at the hands of Pakistani security agencies.“The behaviour of Pakistan and its officials is not in conformity with the Vienna Convention and bilateral agreements on the treatment of diplomatic and consular officials. On the contrary, it is an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism,” the statement said.The treatment of diplomats of the two countries in the national capitals is closely linked to the state of bilateral ties. Indian diplomats are aggressively tailed in Islamabad whenever bilateral ties take a downturn. Indian diplomats have also complained of harassment and of being prevented from discharging their basic duties in recent months.A statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office rejected and condemned what it said were “baseless allegations” by the Indian side as a “pretext to seek 50% reduction in the staff strength” of the Pakistani mission in New Delhi.Pakistan also dismissed allegations of any violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations by Pakistani officials in New Delhi and the “insinuations of intimidation” of Indian officials in Islamabad. The statement said the Indian action was part of “desperate attempts to divert attention” from the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-pakistan-to-cut-strength-of-high-commission-by-50/story-elc4QnulQf1AczbQa0CQKN.html
23-06-2020||India||Army Chief MM Naravane visits Ladakh; takes stock of ground situation||Army Chief General MM Naravane on Tuesday reviewed India’s military preparedness in eastern Ladakh as he began a two-day visit to the region where a border clash last week left 20 Indian soldiers dead in the midst of a tense standoff with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army. Soon after arriving in Leh, General Naravane visited an Army hospital where 18 soldiers injured in the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 are undergoing treatment, Army officials said. The Chief of the Army Staff interacted with almost all the injured soldiers and complimented them for their bravery, they added. A surveillance post set up by the Chinese Army on a narrow mountain trail in violation of an agreement was the trigger for the clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. After visiting the hospital, General Naravane reviewed the overall security situation in the region with the ground commanders, and is learnt to have directed them to keep a high-level of alertness to deal with any Chinese misadventure, people familiar with the issue said. The Chief of the Army Staff is scheduled to visit a number of forward areas during his two-day visit to the region.Last week, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Ladakh and Srinagar air bases to review the Indian Air Force’s preparedness to deal with any eventualities in the region. Before leaving for Leh, General Naravane attended the final session of a two-day conference of top Army commanders. The commanders extensively deliberated on the situation in eastern Ladakh. In Leh, General Naravane was also scheduled to hold an extensive meeting with Lt General Harinder Singh, the commander of the 14 Corps that takes care of the sensitive border with China. On Monday, Lt General Singh held a nearly 11-hour meeting with Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj General Liu Lin. In the meeting, the two sides arrived at a “mutual consensus” to “disengage” from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The first round of the Lt General talks were held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley.However, the situation along the border deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the 3,500-km de-facto border. On Sunday, the government gave the armed forces “full freedom” to give a “befitting” response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has already sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border in the last one week. The IAF has also moved a sizeable number of its frontline Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar, Mirage 2000 aircraft and Apache attack helicopters to several key air bases including Leh and Srinagar following the clashes.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. Prior to the clashes, both sides had been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it was necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-mm-naravane-visits-ladakh-takes-stock-of-ground-situation/story-ESFsXXnDCUZe9tgDilL76J.html
23-06-2020||India||Will settle every score with interest, Bengal BJP boss rails against TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) pugnacious president of the Bengal unit, Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday swore to draw the sword to counter political violence in the poll-bound state as homage to nationalist leader Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder president of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, forerunner of the BJP.While the BJP observed Mookerjee’s death anniversary as Balidan Diwas (martyr’s day) throughout the country, Ghosh’s inflammatory speech in Bengal added to the volatility in the state’s politics and evoked criticism for being ignorant of Mookerjee’s thoughts.Trinamool Congress (TMC), Congress and Left parties condemned Ghosh who talked of avenging the deaths of 104 party workers allegedly murdered since 2014. “The BJP government has realised Mookerjee’s dreams by scrapping Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 and passing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. We will follow his struggle and sacrifice,” Ghosh said on Tuesday after paying homage to Mookerjee at the Keoratala crematorium in south Kolkata.“If you (TMC) draw the sword, I will draw the sword. If you draw the knife, I will draw the knife too. But if you come with folded hands, I will embrace you. BJP is a strong party now. We can counter the violence. Those who talk of forgiveness are cowards. We will settle every score with interest. I take this oath today in the name of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee,” said Ghosh.“I invite all youths to give one year of their lives to usher in a change. This sacrifice is necessary,” said Ghosh, sending a message for the crucial 2021 polls.Raising a storm on June 19, Ghosh tweeted a new slogan: “Badla o hobe, badal o hobe.” (There will be revenge as well as change). The slogan, which appears with Ghosh’s photo and a map of the state, has gone viral. It is a direct reply to Banerjee’s slogan before the historic 2011 polls in which she overthrew the 34-year-old Left govt. “Badla noi, badal chai” (We need change, not revenge) Banerjee had said.“As industry minister in the Nehru government, a post he gave up in the interest of Bengal, Mookerjee dreamt of seeing an atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat. The Congress, the Marxists and the TMC have turned Bengal into a state of migrant workers over the years. Even Hindi-speaking people who settled down generations ago because there were jobs have to look for work in other states. Infiltrators and Rohingyas are being used as vote banks by the TMC,” said Ghosh.The TMC was quick to counter Ghosh. “Ghosh does not believe in positive politics. On the occasion of Rath Yatra I pray to Lord Jagannath to bless Bengal BJP leaders with wisdom. People of Bengal never accepted violence and this was evident in the 1960s and 70’s,” said Tapas Roy, senior TMC leader and minister of state for parliamentary affairs.The Congress and Left too condemned the propagation of violence.“Ghosh talked of using violence for one year. If violence worked on this soil the 34-year-long Left rule would have continued. People did not use guns and bombs to oust the Marxists. They voted silently,” said Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra.“Inefficient people make a lot of noise. The same violent elements who were seen beside Mamata Banerjee have now joined the BJP. This strategy will not work on people,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the state Assembly.Noted political analyst Amal Mukhopadhyay, a former principal of Presidency College (now a university), said Ghosh did not follow the facts in history. “I know the life and activities of Mookerjee very closely. I have never seen him speaking of violence or supporting it anywhere, either in his writings or in his lectures. Though Mookerjee was not a Gandhian, he did not believe in applying violence. If someone says that Mookerjee has shown the way to take revenge with arms then I think he is mistaken,” said Mukhopadhyay. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats, marking the party’s highest ever growth in Bengal. Violence has marked all recent elections and the crucial Assembly elections in 2021 are unlikely to be an exception, political observers say.The BJP has organized a series of virtual rallies to address people in different parts of the state between June 24 and July 2. These will be addressed by Union ministers including Nirmala Sitharaman and Ravi Shankar Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-settle-every-score-with-interest-bengal-bjp-boss-rails-against-tmc/story-oBUTKw1rbNYcxbGqL33qAP.html
23-06-2020||India||Thane civic authority is hiding Covid-19 death figures, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya alleges||Like the Maharashtra state government, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has also been hiding the actual Covid-19 death toll in the city, BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya alleged on Tuesday. According to Somaiya, the corporation is not revealing at least more than 50 deaths which will come out during the reconciliation of the figures. This figure is not sent to the state government by the corporation, Somaiya alleged.He claimed that the TMC has shown less death figures in Mumbra where the actual death figure is much more. “The politicos in the city are merely portraying a feel-good image of defeating coronavirus in the city,” Somaiya said.He met civic commissioner Vijay Singhal to take stock of the situation in Thane city on Tuesday afternoon.Also read: Delhi’s Covid centre, 10 times bigger than China’s largest, to start this week“I had asked the civic authority to provide me with the latest figure of Covid-19 infections, though I am not satisfied with the figures given by the authority. Thackeray government had hidden 3,000 deaths out of which they agreed that 1,500 were less after reconciliation. Solapur Municipal Corporation also tried to show 40 fewer deaths on Monday, all this will lead to a greater problem in the state in the coming days. Out of the total deaths hidden by the government, 2,000 are from Mumbai and at least 50 are from Thane city,” he said.He added that the death toll in Mumbra is much more than what the corporation showed. “The corporation has merely shown 50% of the actual deaths in Mumbra. We have demanded an inquiry into these discrepancies in data. Moreover, patients are sent to private hospital increasingly instead of the government hospitals in Thane leading to profit for private hospitals. There are also technical issues like lack of oxygen supply or ventilators which the city needs to focus on,” he added.Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council also met the municipal commissioner of Kalyan Dombivli Corporation, Vijay Suryavanshi, on Tuesday.“The number of cases within KDMC jurisdiction are increasing as many travel as part of essential services to Mumbai and nearby places. Steps to curb this movement or other provisions need to be made for these people to ensure their families are safe and break the chain of infection,” said Darekar. He also visited Shashtri Nagar Civic Hospital and quarantine facility at Tata Amantra on Tuesday. In a special meeting held at Acharya Atre Auditorium, he discussed the steps taken and measures implemented to curb the pandemic within Kalyana and Dombivli areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-civic-authority-is-hiding-covid-19-death-figures-bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-alleges/story-KzmT0U15aE4dIvuZTBHwfP.html
23-06-2020||India||Social media posts against Jagan Reddy govt gets 2 TDP activists arrested||The Andhra Pradesh police on Tuesday arrested two Telugu Desam Party (TDP) activists for allegedly posting objectionable comments against the ruling YSR Congress Party leaders and the state government led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on social media.In the early hours of this morning, a team from the Crime Investigation Department (CID) came knocking at the residence of Nalanda Kishore, 70, in Visakhapatnam and whisked him away.“He requested the police to allow him to come to the CID office later in the day, as he was not feeling well. But the police did not listen to him and took him to the CID regional office headquarters in the town for interrogation,” one of his family members told the reporters.Kishore, who happens to be a follower of former minister and TDP lawmaker from Viskahapatnam (North) Srinivasa Rao Ganta, was charged for posting some objectionable comments against YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy and state tourism minister Muthamsetty Srinivasa Rao on social media.Getting to know about the arrest, Ganta rushed to the CID office, but he was not allowed to enter the premises.“What major crime has Kishore committed to have been arrested at such odd-hours? Has he resorted to any robbery or leakage of defence secrets or any other anti-national activity? He has just shared a few messages that he had received on social media. This is not good for democracy,” he said.In a similar incident, the CID arrested Chirumamilla Krishna, 35 of Nandigama in Krishna district on the same charges of posting objectionable comments against the Jagan government. Both the accused would be produced in the court in Mangalagiri after questioning.TDP president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu strongly condemned the arrest of the TDP activists for questioning the policies of the Jagan government. He pointed out that the posts made by Kishore and Krishna had no personal attacks against anyone in the government or the ruling party.“In the last few days, the YSRCP leaders have circulated several posts on social media, running down the women leaders of the TDP, including MLA Adireddy Bhavani and spokesperson Panchumarthi Anuradha. Why haven’t the CID taken any action against them?” the TDP chief questioned.Last month, too, the CID arrested P Ranganayaki, a 60-year-old woman, for allegedly posting a comment against the Jagan government in connection with leakage of toxic Styrene gas from the LG Polymers plant at Visakhapatnam. She was released on bail. Similarly, the police served notice on another TDP activist Anusha Undavalli for passing comments of the YSRCP.Last week, the Jagan government served legal notices on Chandrababu Naidu and two Telugu dailies, Eenadu and Andhra Jyothi, for publishing his statements alleging irregularities in restoration of mining leases to Saraswati Power in Dachepalli in Guntur district and in granting contract to a company for production of bags for door-to-door supply of rice to the consumers.The government threatened to launch criminal prosecution against them, if they don’t tender a public apology to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-posts-against-jagan-reddy-govt-gets-2-tdp-activists-arrested/story-MDamQeTX6AO0KG3EGEBDbM.html
23-06-2020||India||Private hospitals in Rajasthan oppose fixing of Covid-19 treatment costs, govt warns of action||Private sector hospitals in Rajasthan are opposing the fixing of charges by the state government for treatment of Covid-19 patients, calling for a revision of rates even as the health minister on Tuesday warned of action against hospitals that fail to comply.The state government on Saturday fixed the amount chargeable by private labs and hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Private labs can charge Rs 2,200 per test while private hospital can charge Rs 2,000 per day for a bed while they can charge Rs 4,000 for a ventilator bed in the ICU.State health minister Raghu Sharma said private hospitals cannot be allowed to loot the people. He said the government has appointed a nodal officer who will look into the complaints filed by patients against private hospitals.Also read: Delhi’s Covid centre, 10 times bigger than China’s largest, to start this week“We are not against private hospitals but they should understand their responsibility. They cannot extort money from patients. They will have to provide treatment on the rates fixed by the government or we will be forced to act against them,” said Sharma.He said complaints received on the toll-free number would be investigated by the nodal officer and action will be taken against hospitals. He said the government was willing to talk to the private hospitals and address their concerns.Representatives of private hospitals say they were not consulted before the government fixed the rates.Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary of the private hospitals and nursing homes society, said the rates fixed by the government are not financially and practically feasible. The society has around 400 private hospitals as members.Dr Kapoor said there is much unrest among the members regarding the charges. “We would urge the government to rethink and revise the rates.”Dr MN Thareja, president of Indian Medical Association, Rajasthan chapter, said private hospitals should be able to meet expenses such as salary and overheads incurred on the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Private hospitals don’t want to earn from Covid patients. We want to serve patients. But we should also be able to meet our expenses otherwise it is not viable for hospitals,” he said.He said the expenses include salaries for doctors, nursing staff, class 4 employees and sweepers, along with the cost of the PPE kits, cost of food for staff on Covid duty, cost of transportation, cost of accommodation of the staff.“The government provides Rs 2,440 daily to those in quarantine. We will also have to give that to our staff. Hospitals will also have to make separate wards, entrance, lobby, waiting rooms for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Thareja.He said depending on the city and the category of the hospital, the daily charges incurred would range between Rs 10,000 to Rs 35,000 for a Covid-19 patient.Dr Kapoor added that the private sector hospitals are not being included in decision-making by the state government.“The government is taking so many important decisions regarding Covid-19 but the private hospitals have never been consulted. On what basis have these rates been decided? They should have at least compared the rates in other states which are in the range of Rs 8,000 to Rs 14,000 per bed/per day and then make a decision,” he said.“No representative from our society was invited for discussions even though the private sector provides up to 70 percent of healthcare services in the state,” he said. In Jaipur, the government hospitals have 7,500 beds while private hospitals account for 13,000 beds, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-in-rajasthan-oppose-fixing-of-covid-19-treatment-costs-govt-warns-of-action/story-uVSpSm3tUn5N2veuIM944O.html
23-06-2020||India||China ordered attack on Indian troops in Galwan Valley: US intel assessment||A senior Chinese general authorised his forces to attack Indian troops in the Galwan River valley last week, resulting in a brutal skirmish that killed dozens and dramatically escalated tensions between the two Asian powerhouses, according to a U.S. intelligence assessment.Gen. Zhao Zongqi, head of the Western Theater Command and among the few combat veterans still serving in the People’s Liberation Army, approved the operation along the contested border region of northern India and southwestern China, a source familiar with the assessment says on the condition of anonymity.According to U.S. News, Zhao, who has overseen prior standoffs with India, has previously expressed concerns that China must not appear weak to avoid exploitation by the United States and its allies, including in New Delhi, the source says, and saw the faceoff last week as a way to “teach India a lesson.”The assessment contradicts China’s subsequent assertions about what happened on June 15.And it indicates the deadly and contentious incident - in which at least 20 Indian and 35 Chinese troops died, and reportedly a handful on each side were captured and subsequently released - was not the result of a tense circumstance that spiralled out of control, as has happened before, but rather a purposeful decision by Beijing to send a message of strength to India.Yet that plan appears to have backfired, as the incident sparked widespread outrage in India that continues a week later. And Beijing’s attempts to make India more amenable to future negotiations, including about contested territory, instead appear to have pushed the economic giant closer to the U.S.Much is at stake, far beyond territorial control. The U.S. has pressured India for months to back away from employing Chinese tech company Huawei to help build its 5G infrastructure. In the aftermath of June 15 incident Indians were reportedly deleting Chinese social media app TikTok and destroying phones made in China.“It does the very opposite of what China wanted,” the source says, adding that “this is not a victory for China’s military.”It remains unclear the extent to which Chinese President Xi Jinping was involved in the decisions that led to the bloody encounter, though analysts familiar with Chinese military decision making say he would have almost certainly known about the orders.Troops had massed on both sides of the border in recent months in the northern India region of Ladakh and the southwestern Chinese region of Aksai Chin, causing global concerns of a potential escalation between the two.Private geo-intelligence firm Hawkeye 360 recently reported that satellite imagery from late May showed a buildup on the Chinese side of what appeared to be armed personnel carriers and self-propelled artillery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ordered-attack-on-indian-troops-in-galwan-valley-us-intel-assessment/story-YNC1k3CqzgpayNRwDWxssO.html
23-06-2020||India||Russia backs India for permanent UN Security Council seat during RIC meet||Russia has again endorsed India for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and said that the foreign ministers of the RIC grouping comprising Russia, India and China discussed reforms of the United Nations during the trilateral held through video conferencing on Tuesday. India has been pushing for reforms of the United Nations including one of its most powerful bodies- the Security Council—stating that its composition doesn’t reflect the current realities and is not representative enough.“Today we talked of probable reforms of the United Nations and India is a strong nominee to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council & we support India’s candidacy. We believe it can become a full-fledged member of the Security Council,” Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Read: No outside help needed to resolve India-China border dispute: RussiaEarlier today, Indian external affairs minister S Jaishankar had presented forceful arguments to back a greater role for India in the decision-making of international organisations such as the United Nations. He pressed on the need for a reformed multilateral world order, which can’t ignore India’s role.“The UN began with 50 members, today it has 193. Surely, its decision-making cannot continue to be in denial of this fact. We, the RIC countries, have been active participants in shaping the global agenda. It is India’s hope that we will also now converge on the value of reformed multilateralism,” Jaishankar said while addressing the RIC summit.The Security Council has 15 members, including five permanent members — the US, the UK, France, Russia and China. China is the only permanent member of the UNSC which is blocking India’s inclusion into the powerful grouping. Half of the 10 non-permanent members are elected every year for a two-year term, starting on January 1.India has been recently elected a non-permanent member for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021, following an overwhelming vote. New Delhi has stated that it will work for enhancing counter-terrorism cooperation as one of its main priorities.Also Read: In a meet with China, Russia, Jaishankar says need to respect ethos of international lawIndia is hoping that its performance at the UNSC in the next two years would reaffirm its credentials to be a permanent member of the council. It is one of the strongest claimants for the seat along with Japan, Germany and Brazil, which together form the G-4—the group that is pressing for reforms in the United Nations terming it outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Our presence on the Security Council and our performance there over the next 2 years will underscore the value that a country like India brings to the table and reaffirm our credentials to be a permanent member of UNSC,” Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the ministry of external affairs had said on June 18.It will be India’s eighth two-year term.Earlier today, Jaishankar recounted India’s contribution to World War-II, which, he said, was not given the due recognition.“This historical injustice has stood uncorrected for the last 75 years, even as the world has changed. Therefore…it is important for the world to realise both the contribution that India made and the need to rectify the past,” Jaishankar said, and added that 2.3 million Indians had fought in the war and another 14 million had participated in the war production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-backs-india-for-permanent-un-security-council-seat-during-ric-meet/story-myzQ36XAHhC6kMdOmMpXOM.html
23-06-2020||India||Reduce mission strength to half in 7 days: India downgrades ties with Pak||India on Tuesday asked Pakistan to reduce its staff strength in the country by half, a decision that comes weeks after the police expelled two staffers at the high commission in Delhi on charges of spying. In the tit-for-tat action that followed, Pakistani security agencies picked two Indian high commission staffers in Islamabad, tortured them and framed them in a false case of a road accident and possession of fake currency.The proposal, as first reported by Hindustan Times, had been moved as soon as horrifying details of the torture of two Indian staffers was conveyed to the external affairs ministry on June 16.Government officials told Hindustan Times that the high commissions in Delhi and Islamabad had an agreed strength of 110 officials. This strength has been halved to 55. Both the countries currently have about 90-plus officials.The external affairs ministry on Tuesday summoned Pakistan’s Charge d’ Affaires Syed Haider Shah and told them about India’s continuing concern about the activities of officials of his mission who have been engaged in acts of espionage and dealing with terrorist organisations.Also Read: Beaten with rods, made to drink filthy water: 2 Indian staffers were tortured in PakBack in Islamabad, Syed Haider Shah was told, Pakistan has engaged in a sustained campaign to intimidate the officials of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad from carrying on their legitimate diplomatic functions.The two officials who had returned on Monday, the external affairs ministry said, had “provided graphic details of the barbaric treatment that they experienced at the hands of Pakistani agencies”.“The behaviour of Pakistan and its officials is not in conformity with the Vienna Convention and bilateral agreements on the treatment of diplomatic and consular officials. On the contrary, it is an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism,” the external affairs ministry said.“Therefore, the Government of India has taken the decision to reduce the staff strength in the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi by 50%. It would reciprocally reduce its own presence in Islamabad to the same proportion. This decision, which is to be implemented in seven days, was conveyed to the Pakistani Charge d’Affaires,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.In the discussions on the plan to halve the mission strength, a senior government official said, New Delhi had taken into account how Indian high commission officials in Islamabad were hardly able to move out of the mission due to fear that they could be picked up and framed in fake cases by Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence. In contrast, Pakistani officials in Delhi have been going around freely, some of them even tapping people for classified information.Pakistan had last August downgraded diplomatic ties after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and carved out two centrally-administered union territories. The missions of the two countries have since then been headed by a charge d’affaires, not a high commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-downgrades-diplomatic-ties-with-pak-tells-islamabad-to-reduce-staff-by-half/story-wZSDxCD5QYtog2CwqnbO3J.html
23-06-2020||India||CBI summons Ibobi Singh in corruption case days after his bid for power in Manipur||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned senior Congress leader and former Manipur chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh in connection with its FIR registered in November 2019 for alleged misappropriation of state government funds worth Rs 332 crore, officials said Tuesday.Singh has been asked to appear before the agency on Wednesday. A CBI team had already reached Manipur to question Ibobi Singh and government officials.The development comes less than a week after the Congress staked a claim for form a government in Manipur under Ibobi Singh’s leadership after three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs resigned and six others withdrew their support to chief minister Biren Singh-led ruling coalition, reducing the government to a minority..Last week, the Congress submitted an application to Governor Najma Heptullah requesting her to convene a special assembly session for a no-confidence motion against the government.The BJP’s main trouble shooter in the Northeast, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who was dispatched on a firefighting mission to Imphal, on Monday ruled out any threat to the Biren Singh-led coalition government in Manipur and said that the political crisis in Manipur would blow over the next two-three days.The BJP’s strength in the 60-member legislative assembly has been reduced to 18 and it has the support of five more lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-ibobi-singh-in-corruption-case-days-after-his-bid-for-power-in-manipur/story-qMp72UZbBSmkHWm1acLC6O.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Green shoots of economic revival seen across sectors’: Finance ministry||The finance ministry on Tuesday said the agricultural sector would be the foundation of the country’s economic growth and “early green shoots” of economic revival are visible with pickup in agricultural procurement, fertiliser sales, energy consumption, freight movement, digital transactions and forex earnings.“Agricultural sector remains the foundation of the Indian economy and with a forecast of a normal monsoon, it should support the rebooting of the Indian economy,” it said in a statement. Procurement of wheat from farmers by government agencies has been a record 382 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) as on June 16, which surpassed the earlier record of 381.48 LMT in 2012-13.“This has been accomplished during the trying times of Covid-19 pandemic under the social distancing restrictions. Forty two lakh farmers have been benefited and a total amount of Rs 73,500 crore has been paid to them towards minimum support price (MSP) for wheat,” it added.Similarly, procurement of minor forest produces (MFP) in 16 states has hit a record Rs 79.42 crore. Besides, farmers have sown 13.13 million hectares of Kharif crops till June 19, which is 39% higher than the corresponding period last year, with a big jump in area covered under oil seeds, coarse cereals, pulses and cotton, it said.Fertiliser sales, another indicator of farm sector growth, have also surged by almost 98% year-on-year in May 2020 to 40.02 lakh tonnes, reflecting a robust agricultural sector, it said.“Though the GDP [gross domestic product] contribution of the sector may not be very large (compared to industry and services), its growth has a very positive impact on the large population dependent on agriculture,” the finance ministry said.According to the latest official data, India’s GDP grew 4.2% in 2019-20, the slowest in 11 years on the back of falling investment and consumption. In the financial year, agriculture and allied activities recorded a 4.0% growth compared 2.4% in the previous fiscal year. The industrial sector, however, posted a muted growth of 0.9% in FY20 from 4.9% in FY19, and the services sector also slowed to 5.5% in 2019-20 compared to 7.7% in the last financial year.DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consultancy firm EY India, said early economic indicators raise possibilities that extremely pessimistic GDP growth forecasts in FY21 for the country “may be belied”.“While growth in manufacturing and services is likely to be negative in 1QFY21, the Indian economy may turn into positive growth territory 2QFY21 onwards. This is reflected by important leading indicators such as electricity and petroleum consumption. These early trends indicate that there is a good chance that the GDP growth may turn out to be positive although at a low level in FY21 if the pick-up is strong particularly in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year,” Srivastava added.The economic recovery, he added, would depend on several factors like low interest rate regime, ample liquidity, robust FDI inflows, and continuing low international prices of primary articles particularly crude oil..The finance ministry said while the nationwide lockdown, first imposed on March 25, “gave a respite to ramp up the health and testing infrastructure in the country” it, however, affected the economy adversely. “With a gradual shift in strategy towards saving lives as well as livelihoods - ‘Jaan bhi Jahan bhi’ - India has entered the ‘Unlock India” phase from June 1 with phased resumption of services and businesses,” it said.The government and the Reserve bank of india (RBI) have taken prompt policy measures - both short term and long term - in a calibrated manner to reinvigorate the economy at the earliest with minimal damage, it added.It said that signs of economic recovery are visible as electricity consumption saw lower contraction of 12.5% in June (up to June 21) compared to 15.2% contraction in May and 24% in April. “In June, electricity consumption has continuously improved from (-)19.8 per cent in the first week to (-)11.2 per cent in the second week to (-) 6.2 per cent in the third week of June,” it added.Anupam Manur, assistant professor at Takshashila Institution, said, “Relaxing some of strictest lockdowns restrictions in the world was bound to result in a slight uptick in economic activity. To attribute this increase entirely to government policy measures and interventions is perhaps being lenient with the truth.”While launching the auction of coal mines on June 18, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the Indian economy was recovering fast and cited improvements in toll collection, energy consumption and freight traffic improvements.According to the finance ministry, there is a 130% jump in e-Way bills in May 2020 (Rs 8.98 lakh crore) compared to April 2020 (Rs 3.9 lakh crore) although the number has not reached to the pre-lockdown levels. Value of e-Way bills generated between June 1 and June 19 is Rs. 7.7 lakh crore, it added.Consumption of petroleum products, a major indicator reflecting consumption and manufacturing activity in the country, increased by 47% from 99,37,000 metric tonnes in April to 1,46,46,000 metric tonnes in May, the statement from the ministry added.“In June, growth in consumption of petroleum products is expected to be still higher after one month of Unlock 1.0,” it said.Citing other signs of recovery, the finance ministry said, railway freight traffic saw a 26% improvement in May (8.26 crore tonnes) compared to 6.54 crore tonnes in April. “The improvement is likely to continue in June in sync with growth in movement of goods on National Highways,” said the ministry.“Average daily electronic toll collections increased from Rs. 8.25 crore in April, 2020 to Rs. 36.84 crore in May, rising more than four times. In the first three weeks of June, it has improved further to Rs. 49.8 crore,” it said.The retail financial transactions through digital mode via the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) platforms, the ministry informed, have also increased sharply from Rs 6.71 lakh crore in April to Rs 9.65 lakh crore in May and the trend is expected to continue in June driven by a sustained pick-up in real activity.With the RBI’s efforts towards ensuring adequate liquidity, private placement of corporate bonds have picked up sharply by 94.1% (year-on-year growth) in May at Rs 0.84 lakh crore, compared to a contraction of 22% in April Rs 0.54 lakh crore, it said. “June is likely to see a still larger placement as excess liquidity persists in the system,” it added.Average assets under management (AUM) of mutual funds increased by 3.2% to Rs.24.2 lakh crore in May 2020 from Rs 23.5 lakh crore in April 2020, it said.The finance ministry said the country’s forex reserve was $507.6 billion as on June 12, which would provide a “crucial cushion” to external shocks on the back of higher foreign direct investment (FDI), portfolio flows and low oil prices. “FDI in India recorded an inflow of $73.45 billion in FY 2019-20, an increase of 18.5% over the previous fiscal,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-shoots-of-economic-revival-seen-across-sectors-finance-ministry/story-wB02jcVUZkEPeNyvj8OZ5I.html
23-06-2020||India||No outside help needed to resolve India-China border dispute: Russia||Russia has said that it doesn’t believe that India and China need ‘help from outside’--a reference to third party involvement—to resolve bilateral issues and added that both the countries have showed their commitment to “peaceful resolution” of the recent incidents of boundary dispute that has led to violent clashes between the armies of the two neighbours. The statement comes on a day when India-Russia and China were engaged in a RIC trilateral to discuss several issues including cooperation to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said that Russia hoped that the (border) situation between India and China will “continue to be peaceful” as “neither side” had given statements to indicate that any of them would pursue “non-diplomatic” solutions.Earlier today, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who is representing India in the summit, had said that the world’s “leading voices” should act in an exemplary manner by respecting international law and recognising the interests of partners. This was seen as an indirect reference to China’s “unilateral” actions at the LAC which led to violent clashes between the two sides on June 15, resulting in deaths of 20 Indian soldiers and an undeclared number of Chinese casualties.“I don’t think that India & China need any help from the outside. I don’t think they need to be helped, especially when it comes to country issues. They can solve them on their own, it means the recent events,” Lavrov was quoted as saying at the RIC foreign ministers’ meeting.The RIC meeting is being held through video conference and it was expected that it won’t delve on the issue of Indo-China border stand-off. Lavrov suggested that Russia recognised efforts from both sides to defuse the tensions through diplomatic options.“New Delhi-Beijing showed their commitment to peaceful resolution. They started meetings at the level of defence officers, foreign ministers and neither of the two sides made any statements which would indicate that any of them would pursue non-diplomatic solutions,” ANI quoted him as saying.He added that Russia hopes for a peaceful solution of disputes between the two countries.“We hope that the situation will continue to be peaceful and they will continue to be committed to peaceful resolution of disputes,” ANI quoted Lavrov.Russia is considered to have good relations with both Beijing and New Delhi. Indian defence minister Rajnath Singh is on a three day trip to Moscow to attend a grand military parade to mark the 75th anniversary of the soviet victory over Germany in the second World War. He is expected to hold talks with Russia’s top military leadership.Also Watch: Need to respect international law..’: Jaishankar in a meet with China, RussiaEarlier today, external affairs minister S Jaishankar took a dig at China without naming the country and said that India believed in “time-tested principles of international relations” while advocating practice of “multilateralism” and “common good” as the only way of building a “durable” world order.Russian foreign minister Lavrov’s comments also come in the backdrop of a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, where a “mutual consensus to disengage” from “all friction areas” was said to a have been reached, according to officials privy to the details.Also Read: India takes another step to block China products with new rulesThe delegations were led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.The Indian side was demanding the pullback of Chinese troops from the Finger Area, where the PLA has set up bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, withdrawal of the PLA troops from Galwan Valley and the restoration of status quo ante in key strategic areas, according to the two officials aware of the developments. India was also seeking an assurance that the Chinese side will end aggression along the LAC and reduction of Chinese deployments in “depth areas” on their side of the disputed border, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-outside-help-needed-to-resolve-india-china-border-dispute-russia/story-sFrwZfDDMZw1pkxKTfnpEK.html
23-06-2020||India||‘We’ve bridged the gap of 6 decades in 6 years under PM Modi’s leadership’: Nadda||Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the nation has bridged the gap of 6 decades in just 6 years, Bharatiya Janata Party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda said while addressing the Assam Jan Samvad virtual rally on Tuesday.Nadda said that this year is a marked by great achievements and has also exhibited how the country could fight the Covid-19 battle in the “best possible manner”. “At the beginning of the crisis, we were not producing PPE kits but now over 4 lakh PPE kits are being produced daily. Covid-19 cases were doubling in three days earlier, now the doubling rate is around 17 days. Previously, we could test only 1,500 samples in a day which has gone up to 1.5 lakh daily,” the BJP president said. Nadda opened his address by remembering and paying homage to 20 Indian Army bravehearts who lost their lives in the violent clash with the Chinese military during last week’s face-off in Ladakh. Also read: BJP’s JP Nadda takes on Rahul Gandhi’s jibes over India-China stand-offHe also lauded the undying spirit of the nation’s ‘corona warriors’ in their selfless fight against the contagion. Nadda had previously addressed similar virtual rallies dedicated to Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. On Sunday, while addressing the UP Jan Samvad Rally, Nadda had said that PM Modi is not only the leader of humans but also of Gods. Nadda was reacting to former Congress chief to Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Surender Modi’ comment.“Even God is not with you (Congress) now. You say - ‘Narendra Modi is Surender Modi’ that means you are saying that Modi ji is not only the leader of humans but also of Gods. You should understand the language of God,” Nadda had said.Gandhi had shared an international daily’s article titled ‘India’s appeasement policy toward China unravels’ on Twitter, and wrote: “Narendra Modi Is actually Surender Modi”.Nadda assured the people of the nation “that every inch of our country’s land is secure under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Congress party is demoralizing the security forces,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/necessity-is-the-mother-of-invention-nadda-underscores-significance-of-turning-covid-19-crisis-into-opportunity/story-mlm2kz8gWxpPhMsU9QHSaO.html
23-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Heavy rainfall to lash Kerala, IMD issues orange alert for several districts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rainfall to lash Kerala, IMD issues orange alert for several districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued ‘orange alert’ for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts in Kerala on June 26 in the wake of heavy rainfall amid the monsoon season. Read moreIn a meet with China, Russia, Jaishankar says need to respect ethos of international lawIn a thinly veiled dig at China against the backdrop of a tense border stand-off, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said the world’s “leading voices” should act in an exemplary manner by respecting international law and recognising the interests of partners. Read moreSkinny-jeans guru Hedi Slimane makes YSL keep paying for $8 million photosHedi Slimane, the 51-year-old fashion designer and photographer is one of fashion’s biggest and most enigmatic names. Slimane is best known for setting the menswear agenda when he brought back skinny suits and jeans at LVMH’s Dior Homme in the early 2000s, prompting men around the world to retire their flouncy trousers and pay a premium for form-fitting looks. Read moreWill Indians be allowed to travel for Haj this year? Union Minister answersMinority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said Indians won’t be traveling to Saudi Arabia this year for the annual Haj pilgrimage. Naqvi said the decision was taken after Saudi Arabia asked not to send Indian pilgrims. Muslims from India travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj annually. Read morePicture of doctor’s wrinkled palm after wearing gloves for 10 hours go viral. ‘Thanks,’ says TwitterIt has been months that the emergency workers like doctors, nurses, and other medical staff are fighting a relentless war against coronavirus. Each and every day, they go beyond their call of duty to make sure that people get proper treatment. Read more Bharat Browser is the ‘desi’ browser that you were looking forLately, there has been an increased push in the country to develop and adopt products from Indian companies. Mitron and Chingari apps are already being seen as the Indian alternatives to TikTok. Read moreBhushan Kumar’s wife Divya Khosla lashes out at ‘thankless’ Sonu Nigam, accuses him of ‘selling lies and deceit’After singer Sonu Nigam targeted T-Series head honcho Bhushan Kumar in a video, actor and filmmaker Divya Khosla Kumar has accused him of peddling lies. On her Instagram stories, she said that Sonu was launched by the music label and called him ungrateful. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-heavy-rainfall-to-lash-kerala-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-several-districts-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3VtUSa9Eq3kh3Yteh3vv5K.html
23-06-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s jab at Rahul Gandhi includes reminder of BJP’s role in opposition||Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan has accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of “demoralizing” and “insulting” Indian army and said that unlike the BJP, the Congress, as the main opposition party, is not supporting the government during difficult times. Chouhan’s attack on Rahul Gandhi comes close on heels of BJP President JP Nadda accusing the former Congress president of trying to “divide the nation” by questioning the government’s handling of the recent face-off with China at the line of actual control.“Rahul Gandhi is demoralising & insulting the army. BJP used to support Congress at difficult times, but they are doing dirty politics now. They should attack China, but they can’t see anyone else other than PM Modi,” Shivraj Singh Chouhan was quoted as saying by ANI.The political war over the issue of Chinese act of aggression leading to deaths of 20 Indian soldiers including a colonel rank officer on the night of June 15 has intensified in the past few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed an all party meeting on the issue, where he told the gathering that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”.His statement led to political opponents and some experts allege that India had surrendered land to the Chinese and PM Modi could be attempting to appease the Chinese leadership despite the latter being in control of our territories through acts of encroachment in the last 2 months or so.Also Read: BJP’s JP Nadda takes on Rahul Gandhi’s jibes over India-China stand-off, cites MoUsOn Monday, former prime minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh also built on the same theme alleging that “disinformation” was no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership and advised PM Modi to be mindful of the implications of his words on a nation’s strategic interests.Soon after Rahul Gandhi tweeted Manmohan Singh’s statement and said he hoped that PM Modi will humbly follow the advice given by Singh for India’s benefit. He continued his tirade against the government by suggesting that PM’s statement given at the all party meeting was being lauded by Chinese publications. On Tuesday, he went ahead to ask if China had occupied Indian land.“We stand united against Chinese attack. Has China occupied Indian land,” Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday.The Congress party, too, has been attacking the government in tandem. The party’s top decision making body, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) blamed the government’s policies for alleged setbacks on multiple fronts. A tweet from the party’s official account repeated the point.Sonia Gandhi hits out at Modi government over border standoff with China, economic crisis, fuel hike“BJP’s misplaced trust in China & PM Modi’s policy of appeasement has led us to where we are today. Denial of the obvious is only furthering China’s agenda, but is that what the BJP wanted all along?,” said the tweet.The party accused the ruling party of not being able to “walk its own talk” and alleged that due to its “weak foreign policy” the borders were experiencing tension.“During BJP’s rule, 20 of our soldiers get martyred; and the BJP led government has not been able to take any strong decision against China due to lack of decisiveness,” another tweet posted on Congress party’s official handle alleged.The Congress’ criticism has continued despite a clarification by the government that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement referred to the situation after Indian Army’s brave action to thwart Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC on June 15. It further cited statements by the external affairs ministry to bring home the point that Indian government has categorically objected to attempts by the Chinese military to alter the status quo at the LAC in violation of understanding between the two countries. It also referred to the unequivocal statement that the Chinese side was responsible for the deadly violence by erecting a structure on the Indian side of the LAC.Nadda was the first to attack Rahul Gandhi and the Congress on Tuesday. He referred to an understanding between Congress and the Communist Party of China and asked if that was guiding Congress leader’s statements against the government.“First, Congress signs MoU with the Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During the Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to the Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation and demoralise armed forces. Effects of MoU?” Nadda asked in a tweet.The two parties had signed an agreement in 2008 to facilitate high-level exchange between their leaders and to consult each other over important regional and international issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-jab-at-rahul-gandhi-includes-reminder-of-bjp-s-role-in-opposition/story-SNpJvZkBjtQZv5Ho7EPdhL.html
23-06-2020||India||Fresh locust swarms threaten with monsoon onset in Rajasthan||Fresh swarms of locust are likely to invade India from the Horn of Africa in either end-June or early-July depending on the strength of the south-westerly monsoon winds.The Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) authorities are preparing to control the swarms that are likely to move across the Indian Ocean with winds because of the aerial spraying of pesticides.The onset of monsoon in Rajasthan is likely to occur on June 24 or 25 and the LWO authorities are preparing to control the population of locusts that are hovering in the desert areas between India and neighbouring Pakistan and also possible local breeding of these insects.“We are expecting swarms from other parts of Rajasthan and MP to return to the desert areas as soon as it starts raining. Once locusts lay eggs, they immediately start hatching them and that can be controlled by spraying of insecticides. So far, some breeding has occurred in Bikaner,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO.Last week, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) had warned that Sudan, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Pakistan, and India should remain on high alert for the next four weeks for fresh locust invasions.Any swarms in northern Somalia in the Horn of Africa can migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border.“There are successive breeding cycles in the Horn of Africa. Some swarms from there are moving towards western Africa, while some are moving towards Saudi Arabia, Oman and Yemen in the Persian Gulf. These can also come to India in July. Some are expected to directly move to India from the Horn of Africa with the monsoon winds,” Gurjar said.“The winds are moving from the direction of the Horn of Africa towards India. The wind direction is south-westerly during monsoon,” said Dr. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).So far, the impact on food security due to locust invasions has not been much.However, LWO authorities said the Kharif crop, especially maize and cotton, is likely to be impacted if the two locust threats—from the Indian Ocean and from the breeding sites in India aren’t controlled.“Only green cover has been impacted because there was no standing crop. We are well prepared. Helicopters and drones are being used for aerial spraying. The number of vehicles deployed has also increased,” said Gurjar.The LWO authorities and state governments have controlled locust attack over two lakh hectares by the spraying of toxic pesticides such as Lambda Cyhalothrin, Malathion 96 and Chlorpyrifos.IMD authorities on Tuesday said that the conditions are becoming favourable for the advancement of south-western monsoon into remaining parts of Gujarat, MP, Uttar Pradesh, the entire western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, most parts of Punjab and some parts of Rajasthan during the next 48 hours.A trough of low pressure at mean sea level is running from north-western Rajasthan to the northwestern Bay of Bengal across northeastern Rajasthan, northern MP, northern parts of Chhattisgarh, southern parts of Jharkhand and northern parts of Odisha at lower tropospheric levels.Widespread and heavy rains are likely to continue over the north-east and adjoining eastern India during the next five days, IMD’s Tuesday bulletin said.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely to occur over parts of western Himalayas and northern plains from June 24 to 25.The country has received 25% excess rains till Tuesday, including central India (99.6%); peninsular India (8%); north-western India (8%); and eastern and north-eastern India (3%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-locust-swarms-threaten-with-monsoon-onset-in-rajasthan/story-UI4oEu5JNoY6AVhvAG5OYN.html
23-06-2020||India||Truck driver booked after bridge collapse near Indo-China border in Uttarakhand||A day after a Bailey bridge near the Indo-China border in Munsiyari area in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district collapsed when a flatbed truck with an excavator on it was trying to cross despite warnings not to do so, police on Tuesday booked the driver for negligence and damaging the bridge.On Monday, the bridge collapsed into a rivulet when the truck tried to cross it despite several warnings. The collapse of the bridge which was also used by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and army personnel to reach their posts near Chinese border has cut off a population of about 7,000 people living in villages across it. Mohammed Asif Khan, station house officer, Munsiyari police station said, “We have booked the driver of the trailer truck identified as one Godhan, a resident of Almora for negligent driving and causing damage to public property under relevant sections of the IPC on Tuesday.”“We took the action after receiving a complaint from assistant engineer Jaiveer Singh of the department concerned in which he accused him of crossing the bridge despite several warnings by construction workers there,” said Khan. The police officer said that the accused has not been arrested yet as he is still undergoing treatment in the hospital after getting severely injured in the accident. The excavator’s operator was also seriously injured.“We are also yet to record his statement. Once his condition improves, we will do that also. As of now, a population of about 7,000 living in various villages across the bridge has been cut off due to the collapse of the lone bridge in the area connecting them to the main town of Pithoragarh,” said Khan. The police officer who had gone to visit the spot to check the repair work said, “The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have already started the repair work on war-footing and will soon repair it in the next 5-6 days.”The crucial bridge is about 65 km short of the Indo-China border. The trailer was carrying the excavator to Lilam Valley near the border and was to be used in a road project of the BRO. At the time of the incident, construction work was going on for another bridge near the collapsed one which was not in good condition. When the trailer came there, the workers warned the driver not to cross it because the bridge was able to bear a load of only a four-wheeler at a given time. But the driver did not pay any heed and tried to cross it leading to the bridge’s collapse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-driver-booked-after-bridge-collapse-near-indo-china-border-in-uttarakhand/story-o717JEepWZQcnsM7SGoDjI.html
23-06-2020||India||India takes another step to block China products with new rules||India has amended rules for purchases by government departments, making it mandatory for suppliers to mention the country of origin in a move to push for local products and keep out Chinese manufacturers.New sellers on the Government e-Marketplace, an Amazon-like online procurement platform, will have to register the origin of their products while those already available must meet the new requirement or risk being removed, according to a government statement on Tuesday. The platform will allow buyers to filter products based on the country of origin and select those with a high percentage of local content. Buyers can choose to buy only those products that meet the minimum 50% local content criteria.The push for products made in India comes amid rising public clamor for a boycott of Chinese goods as the two nations are engaged in their deadliest border conflict in four decades.The platform, which serves India’s government departments, recorded sales worth 400 billion rupees ($5.3 billion) in the last fiscal year and has 324,000 vendors.Earlier this month, India also modified public procurement rules to give maximum preference to companies whose goods and services have 50% or more local content, with an aim to promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Make in India” program in response to calls to make the country self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-takes-another-step-to-block-china-products-with-new-rules/story-w4HFrMuTQncPImfbDz39cM.html
23-06-2020||India||Heavy rainfall to lash Kerala, IMD issues orange alert for several districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued ‘orange alert’ for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts in Kerala on June 26 in the wake of heavy rainfall amid the monsoon season. An ‘orange alert’ has also been sounded for Wayanad and Kozhikode districts on June 27. IMD’s orange alert stands for “be prepared” for rough weather.Meanwhile, the weather department has predicted monsoon to hit the national capital in the next 48 hours.  Also read: Monsoon may arrive in Noida, Ghaziabad in next 48 hoursKerala: India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued Orange alert in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki districts on June 26 and in Wayanad and Kozhikode districts on June 27. #Monsoon pic.twitter.com/4E0QvqManvThe southwest monsoon further advanced in some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the MeT department said on Tuesday, adding that conditions are also becoming favourable for the further advance of the monsoon into the remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab and Rajasthan in the next 48 hours.“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over remaining parts of the western Himalayan region and the plains of north-west India during 24th-25th June,” it said.Also read: Monsoon expected to hit Chandigarh by Thursday  On Monday, the IMD had warned of the formation of a cyclonic circulation over north interior Odisha and neighbourhood regions. The IMD added that the cyclonic circulation is very likely to move northwestwards during next 3 days. “Due to these features, conditions are likely for further advance of monsoon into some more parts of MP, UP and Uttarakhand during next 24 hours and into entire Western Himalayan Region, Haryana, Chand. And Delhi, most parts of Punjab, remaining parts of Gujarat, MP and UP and some parts of Rajasthan during subs. 48 hours,” the IMD had tweeted predicting “fairly widespread to widespread rainfall” with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over south peninsular India during next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-to-lash-kerala-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-several-districts/story-QRelUsrRCK6UgwnDZvez3J.html
23-06-2020||India||Maharashtra prison inmates can now email to communicate with lawyers: State to HC||Maharashtra government and prison and correctional home authorities informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that inmates would have access to email communication with their respective lawyers with prior permission from the superintendent of a jail apart from the existing calling facilities.Email access is a part of the modified draft guidelines prepared by the state authorities as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak among inmates and jail staff.A two-member division bench of the court, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik, while hearing a clutch of public interest litigations (PILs) via video-conference was informed that the email access to inmates have been included after considering the petitioners’ recommendations.Maharashtra advocate-general (A-G) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who was assisted by additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan, informed the bench that the modified draft guidelines were consistent with the periodic recommendations being made by both the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state health department authorities.The A-G said all recommendations, pertaining to precautionary measures against Covid-19 for inmates and jail staff, have been incorporated in the modified draft guidelines.He, however, clarified that the recommendations made by senior advocate Mihir Desai on behalf of the petitioner, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), related to prison reforms were not considered by the state government, as the Supreme Court (SC) is looking into the matter.The court was also informed that postal correspondence with prisoners would also be permitted in the non-containment zones, where such services are operational.The modified draft guidelines stated that an inmate’s family members would be informed within 48 hours if the prisoner tests Covid-19 positive and the inmate would be shifted to a makeshift quarantine centre inside a jail for further treatment.The bench went through the modified draft guidelines and directed the petitioners to submit their suggestions and objections before the next date of the hearing of the case on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-prison-inmates-can-now-email-to-communicate-with-lawyers-state-to-hc/story-DpIQzSwsN5ULSqOvog53lN.html
23-06-2020||India||Coronil: All you need to know about Ayurvedic medicine which claims to cure Covid-19||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev on Tuesday claimed that his company Patanjali Ayurved has made the first Ayurvedic medicine for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The medicine called ‘Coronil’ will help in treating the respiratory disease, claimed Ramdev.“The whole country and the world was waiting for medicine or vaccine for corona. We are proud to announce that the first Ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of Patanjali Research Centre and NIMS,” he said at a press conference in Haridwar.Here is everything you need to know about the new Ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19:• The medicine comes as part of a kit which consists of tablets named Coronil and Swasari Vati, and an oil called Anu Oil. Patanjali Ayurved tweeted to say that they have used active compounds of Ahwagandha, Giloy and Tulsi in the new Covid-19 medicine.• Ramdev said more than 100 compounds have been used in Coronil. The entire kit will help in strengthening immunity.• Patanjali prescribes two tablets should be consumed with hot water half an hour after each meals. This quantity is suitable for people between 15 to 80 years of age, the company says. Chilmdren between the age of 6-14 years can take this medicine, but the dosage should be half of what is prescribed for adults.• According to Ramdev, the company conducted two-stage trials. The first was a clinical controlled study which took place in Delhi, Ahmedabad and many other cities. Under this, 280 patients were included and 100 per cent of those recovered, he said. After controlling the disese and its complications, the all-important clinical control trial was conducted, said Ramdev.• Patanjali claims those administered the medicine were fully cured and none died. Ramdev even claimed that 69 per cent of them recovered within three days. He said that 100 per cent recovery was seen in seven days.• The company said that data of the trial will be released as evidence in the next few days.• The efficacy of Patanjali’s medicine on Covid-19 cure has not been corroborated by any independent medical body as of yet. The World Health Organization (WHO) had recently said that while several drug trials are ongoing, there is currently no proof that any drug can cure or prevent Covid-19.India has been battling the pandemic and the number of Covid-19 cases neared 4.5 lakh cases on Tuesday. Over 14,000 people have died due to the disease so far in the country.There are now over nine million people affected by the pandemic since it broke out in China’s Wuhan city in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronil-all-you-need-to-know-about-ayurvedic-medicine-which-claims-to-cure-covid-19/story-8a9dbpbEfPLQY5CIxTR8aP.html
23-06-2020||India||Jagannath Yatra: Erstwhile King of Puri sweeps chariot with gold-handled broom||The annual Jagannath Yatra began in Puri on Tuesday with the idols of Lord Jagannath, Balbhadra and Subhadra moved out of the Jagannath temple and seated on chariots which then moved toward the Gundhicha Temple.The erstwhile King of Puri Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb on Tuesday swept the chariot with a broom having a gold handle, as part of the ‘Chhera Pahanra’ ritual, during the Rath Yatra.On June 22, the Supreme Court granted permission for the traditional procession of chariots with the coordination of the Temple committee, State and Central government in a limited way with no public attendance. The apex court modified its earlier stay on the annual Yatra.The idol of Lord Balabhadra was brought to the chariot by priests and ‘sevayats’ for the Rath Yatra from Jagannath Temple in Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-yartra-erstwhile-king-of-puri-sweeps-chariot-with-gold-handled-broom/story-C8TdlWW3ZicDkSnNFE4HVP.html
23-06-2020||India||In a first in Jagannath Rath Yatra, temple priests pull chariots in Puri as devotees stay home||For the first time in its history, the famous Rath Yatra of Jagannath temple in Odisha’s Puri began this morning with a large number of priests pulling the three colourful chariots as lakhs of devotees stayed away from the festival following a Supreme Court order.Around 1,500 priests of the 12th century temple milled around the three colourfully-decorated wooden chariots before they started pulling the ropes of the chariots towards the Gundicha temple amid beating of cymbals and drums in praise of Lord Jagannath and his siblings- Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra. The priests who pulled the chariots, - Nandighosh, Taladwaja and Darpadalana – were tested for Covid-19 on Monday.Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, Puri’s titular king, who is also the first servitor of Lord Jagannath, carried out the Chhera Panhara, a ritual sweeping of the chariots before they are pulled. “It’s hard to imagine Rath Yatra without devotees on Badadanda(Grand Road). But Lord Jagannath stepped out of the temple for the whole universe,” said Deb. Puri Govardhan Peeth Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati paid obeisance to the trinity atop the chariots along with his disciples.Till Monday afternoon, uncertainty clouded the Rath Yatra as a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court led by chief justice of India SA Bobde heard dozens of intervention petitions seeking recall of the court’s June 18 order that stayed the festival proceedings over fears of mass congregation in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. For a few days it seemed the Rath Yatra would not be held for the first time in 285 years.The judges on Monday afternoon reversed their decision after an appeal by the petitioners as well as affidavits by the state and Centre arguing that the event had been held continuously for centuries, and even in 1918, when the world was in the grip of the Spanish flu. The apex court agreed to allow the festival with several preconditions including absence of any devotees and pulling of the three chariots by not more than 1,500 priests.In the morning, the district administration had disinfected the 2.5 km long road from the main temple to Gundicha temple. From Monday 9 pm, the police had enforced a curfew around the temple town restricting anyone’s entry or exit for the next 41 hours. “We have mobilised 50 platoons of forces in Puri with two primary objectives – smooth and incident-free movement/pulling of the chariots from origin to destination and restricting entry of unauthorised persons into the town,” said Director General of Police Abhay.Before the break of dawn, there were a flurry of activities in the temple as rituals like Mangal Alati, Tadaplagi, Dwarpala Puja, Besha Sesha, Rath Prathishtha and Mangalarpana started one after another. It was followed by Pahandi rituals of the three deities and Lord Sudarshan where they were carried by the priests from the main temple to the chariots.The devotees, who are an intrinsic part of the festival, remained glued to TV sets as Doordarshan telecast the live proceedings, but they were not unhappy over missing out seeing the deities in person. “It’s all the wish of Lord Jagannath. I am happy with the decision of the Supreme Court. I will see my Lord after the lockdown is over,” said Binapani Mallik, a housewife in Bhubaneswar.Another senior citizen said he was happy to see the Lord come out of the temple. “After the SC order last week, I had given up hope. But I knew that the Lord of Universe would do a miracle to come out on the road and show his face to his millions of devotees,” said Prabodh Mishra, a septuagenarian.On Monday, 1,143 servitors of the temple were tested for Covid-19 of which one tested positive. The servitor who tested positive has been shifted to a Covid hospital before the beginning of the Rath Yatra rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-in-jagannath-rath-yatra-temple-priests-pull-chariots-in-puri-as-devotees-stay-home/story-qcT4YY8X2tE4P3FYkhKm3K.html
23-06-2020||India||Video shows social distancing norms violated as Chhattisgarh minister distributes masks, BJP demands action||A video has surfaced on social media platforms which shows Chhattisgarh’s civil supplies minister Amarjeet Bhagat distributing masks and blankets to the people in Amibakpur district on his birthday. People who have queued up are seen flouting social distancing norms amid the coronavirus pandemic.The video further shows the minister surrounded by his supporters and several men and women in queue to take blankets and masks. People were also seen bursting firecrackers in the video.When asked about the video, the minister told Hindustan Times, “Some people of a NGO were distributing mask and they stopped me while I was on my way... they asked to distribute masks hence I distributed four-five masks only and left.”Bhagat also said that he couldn’t raise the issue of social distancing as he had to go somewhere. “I had to reach somewhere else to honour Covid-19 warriors, hence I had not talked to anyone and left the place,” said the minister.Chhattisgarh’s state unit of BJP demanded action against Bhagat and said that he should be quarantined.“We are demanding police to take action under relevant sections of IPC and Epidemic Act and further testing of people who in that celebration should be done. The Congress leader are continuously flouting norms during coronavirus pandemic but no action has been taken against them,” said senior BJP leader and spokesperson Sacchinand Upasane.On Monday, the number of active cases in the state was 803 and 1,487 people have been discharged after recovery while 12 others have died.With an increase of 14,933 new cases, India’s Covid-19 count crossed 4.40 lakh on Tuesday. The country has reported a total of 4,40,215 cases and 14,011 people have died.The Union health ministry said that 10,994 patients have been cured in the last 24 hours and the country’s recovery rate has gone up to 56.37 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-shows-social-distancing-norms-violated-as-chhattisgarh-minister-distributes-masks-bjp-demands-action/story-W9GgphwnUU3R3ncPCmihpI.html
23-06-2020||India||In a meet with China, Russia, Jaishankar says need to respect ethos of international law||In a thinly veiled dig at China against the backdrop of a tense border stand-off, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said the world’s “leading voices” should act in an exemplary manner by respecting international law and recognising the interests of partners.Jaishankar didn’t name any countries in his remarks during his address at a virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of Russia-India-China (RIC), but there appeared to be little doubt about whom he was referring to.He also made a strong case for a greater role for India in the decision-making of international organisations such as the United Nations (UN) and in what India has been describing as a reformed multilateral world order.Watch | ‘Need to respect international law..’: Jaishankar in a meet with China, Russia The special RIC meeting, Jaishankar said, reiterates India’s belief in the “time-tested principles of international relations”.“But the challenge today is not just one of concepts and norms, but equally of their practice. The leading voices of the world must be exemplars in every way,” he said.“Respecting international law, recognising the legitimate interests of partners, supporting multilateralism and promoting common good are the only way of building a durable world order,” he added.A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 had left 20 Indian soldiers dead – the country’s first fatalities in a confrontation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 45 years.In a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on June 17, Jaishankar had said the violence and casualties were the outcomes of “premeditated and planned action” by Chinese troops aimed at changing the status quo along the LAC.China has repeatedly sought to blame India for the tensions, saying Indian troops had crossed to the Chinese side of the LAC.It has also claimed sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, though the region has been under India’s control for decades.The RIC meeting, originally scheduled for March but put off due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, was organised at Moscow’s initiative to mark the 75th anniversary of the end of World War-II and the foundation of the UN.Jaishankar referred to the shaping of the world order in the 1940s by the victors of World War-II and said the political circumstances of that era didn’t give India due recognition.“This historical injustice has stood uncorrected for the last 75 years, even as the world has changed. Therefore…it is important for the world to realise both the contribution that India made and the need to rectify the past,” he said, noting 2.3 million Indians had fought in the war and another 14 million had participated in the war production.International affairs, he said, must come to terms with contemporary reality. “The UN began with 50 members, today it has 193. Surely, its decision-making cannot continue to be in denial of this fact. We, the RIC countries, have been active participants in shaping the global agenda. It is India’s hope that we will also now converge on the value of reformed multilateralism,” Jaishankar said.Besides losing its soldiers in battlefields from Tobruk, El Alamein, and Monte Cassino to Singapore, Kohima, and Borneo, India helped keep key supply lines open to Russia and China, he said. “So tomorrow, when our military contingent marches through the Red Square, it would be an affirmation of the difference that we made,” he said, referring to an Indian contingent’s participation in the Victory Day parade in Moscow on Thursday.Defence minister Rajath Singh is in Moscow to participate in the parade and hold meetings with Russia’s top defence leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-stresses-on-need-to-follow-ethos-of-international-relations-ric-meet/story-FUl2sydqAUnoObhCuZ44aO.html
23-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid centre, 10 times bigger than China’s largest, to start this week||Home Minister Amit Shah has roped in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police medical personnel to run India’s biggest facility being set up for Covid patients in south Delhi. The facility, being set up at a Radha Soami Satsang Beas complex in Chattarpur, would be able to accommodate over 10,200 patients.The Chattarpur facility, the size of 15 football fields, has been named Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital.“This would be 10 times bigger than the field facility for Covid patients that was temporarily set up in China’s Leishenshan to accommodate 1,000 patients,” said a senior Home Ministry official. Back in February, Chinese diplomats had put out a video of the construction of the hospital to showcase what was then considered a feat.Home Minister Amit Shah had earlier this month asked Lt Governor Anil Baijal to reach out to the voluntary sector to help the Delhi government rapidly expand its capacity to accommodate and treat Covid-19 patients. The spiritual organisation, which had earlier operated camps for migrants at some of its facilities in other parts of the country, was the first one to respond to Lt Governor Baijal’s outreach.Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and HospitalBeds being placed in enclosures spread across 1,10,554 square metreNumber of Enclosures for patients 88No. of enclosures with oxygen supply Patients accommodated in these enclosures 10,200 Nursing Stations 44Number of enclosures of patients 88General Doctors 800Specialist Doctors 70Clinical Supervision 25Nurses 1375Pharmacists/store managers 20The organisation has told the government that it would be able to provide meals for the patients.Shah is expected to visit the facility later this week, possibly Thursday, the deadline for officials to operationalise the first 2,000 beds. The remaining beds are targeted to be set up by 3 July.The facility, an official said, had come to symbolise the growing role played by the Union home minister in scaling up the city’s infrastructure to meet the challenge.The Delhi government had earlier projected that the city’s Covid count would rise to 1 lakh cases by this month-end that would require about 15,000 beds. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria had later indicated that this model may have overestimated the extent of the spread but backed moves to prep for the worst-case scenario.Shah, officials said, had asked the ITBP to help staff the Covid centre’s medical personnel. Once the 10,200 beds are operationalised, there would be a requirement for 800 general doctors and 70 specialist doctors apart from nearly 1,400 nurses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-centre-10-times-bigger-than-china-s-largest-to-start-this-week/story-6MPeZcMqhr7wFO8KOfdzMJ.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Mutual consensus to disengage’ reached during top-level India-China military talks||A “mutual consensus to disengage” from “all friction areas” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) was reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Monday, two senior officials said on Tuesday.The talks that went on for nearly 11 hours were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border.“Modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides,” said one of the officials asking not to be named. The meeting between the delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, began around 11.30 am and went on till 10.15 pm. It was held a week after the brutal clash between soldiers from the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“The Corps Commander-level talks between India and China were held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere,” said the second official cited above who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Indian side was demanding the pullback of Chinese troops from the Finger Area (a cluster of strategic features in the north bank of Pangong Tso) where the PLA has set up bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, according to the two officials aware of the developments.They said the army was also demanding the withdrawal of the PLA troops from Galwan Valley, the site of the deadly clash of June 15, and the restoration of status quo ante in key strategic areas.The two officials familiar with the talks at the military level said India was seeking an assurance from the Chinese side on ending aggression along the border after the deadly brawl at Galwan Valley on June 15 and another face-off at Pangong Tso on May 5-6. During both skirmishes, Chinese soldiers gathered in large numbers and attacked Indian troops with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs.India was also demanding the thinning of Chinese military deployments in “depth areas” on their side of the disputed border, the officials said. The aim of the talks was also to restore status quo in the Finger Area, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Galwan Valley, they said.According to the officials, the army was especially concerned about the PLA’s presence in the Finger Area, especially Chinese activities between Finger 4 and Finger 8 over the last seven weeks, the officials said. Chinese military positions in the Finger Area restrict the scope of the Indian Army patrolling areas that New Delhi considers its territory.India also flagged concerns about a build-up of Chinese troops, armoured vehicles and artillery units in the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector, north of Pangong Tso. The army wants the Chinese forces to move back from their current positions to areas where they were in early April.This was the second meeting between the two officers of corps commander rank who earlier met on June 6 when the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease rising tensions along the contested border.But tensions peaked in the aftermath of the June 15 skirmish. It was the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in 45 years. While the Indian Army lost 20 soldiers, the PLA’s casualties were more than twice of that with Beijing yet to confirm the fatalities on its side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mutual-consensus-to-disengage-reached-during-top-level-india-china-military-talks/story-sPYmSFW9UWaUWOd5G3CojL.html
23-06-2020||India||Sisodia writes to Amit Shah, LG, says don’t call every Covid +ve patient to quarantine centre||Citing inconvenience caused to people, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah and LG Anil Baijal seeking rollback of new rule under which every coronavirus disease positive patient has to visit quarantine centre for clinical assessment.Seeking reinstatement of previous modus operandi wherein teams of the district administration visit the house of a person who has been infected by Sars-Cov-2 to carry out a clinical assessment. The new method which involves every patient to visit quarantine centre, including the mild and asymptomatic cases as well, will add pressure on an already strained government machinery. Sisodia, in his letter, has asked LG Baijal to withdraw the order and also said that the national capital is witnessing nearly 3,000 Covid-19 cases every day and that it not feasible for every patient to undergo clinical assessment at government-run centres. He also said that if a virus infected patient waits for her turn in long queue at such centres, there may be a possibility of spreading the virus.Earlier in an online briefing, the deputy chief minister had asked, “Why should one go to quarantine centre for checkup? Has he made any mistake? At a time when the government should help him, we are giving him punishment of standing in long queues.”Sisodia has also asked lieutenant governor to call a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority and revert to the old system, which was made mandatory through an order last week. The order makes it mandatory for every fresh Covid-19 patient to visit a care centre for a thorough clinical assessment to ascertain whether the patient would need hospitalisation or home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisodia-writes-to-amit-shah-lg-says-don-t-call-every-covid-ve-patient-to-quarantine-centre/story-2Jg4Gh2aNkJt0iNQwC1HBP.html
23-06-2020||India||Rath Yatra begins in Odisha’s Puri without devotees and amid curfew||The Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath began on Tuesday in Odisha’s Puri without the usual throng of devotees in view of the coronavirus pandemic after the Supreme Court modified its earlier order to give a nod to the annual ritual.The top court had on Monday allowed the state to hold the festival with restrictions in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and said only 500 people shall pull each of the chariots.A curfew has been imposed across Puri district from 9pm on Monday till 2pm on Wednesday, according to Abhay, the director general of police (DGP).More than 50 platoons of the police force—one platoon has 30 personnel—have been deployed and CCTVs installed at various locations as part of the security arrangement for the nine-day festival, officials said, adding, all entry points to Puri were sealed.Priests and police personnel, who were part of the chariot pulling ritual, underwent mandatory Covid-19 testing on Monday night and only those whose reports came out negative were allowed to participate in the festival, they said.Rituals, sanitisationA huge crowd could be seen outside the centuries-old temple as people took part in the colourful procession.Several customary rituals like ‘Mangla Arati’ and ‘Mailam’ were held before the presiding deities—Lord Jagannath, his elder brother Lord Balabhadra and their sister Devi Subhadra—set out from the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. The temple complex was sanitised before the rituals began.The three deities descended from the ‘Ratna Sinhasana’ or the bejewelled throne and were taken out of the temple down the 22 steps known as ‘Baisi Pahacha’ through the Lion’s Gate in an elaborate royal ritual called ‘Pahandi’.The deities moved amid blowing of conch shells and the ringing of bells.Sudarshana, the celestial wheel of Vishnu, was taken out and placed in the chariot of Devi Subhadra followed by Lord Balabhadra and finally Lord Jagannath.Draped in layers of red, black, green and yellow, the three wooden chariots, ready to carry the deities for their annual nine-day sojourn to the Gundicha Temple, waited outside.The 45-feet high Nandighosh, the chariot of Lord Jagannath, stood with 16 huge wooden wheels and Lord Balabhadra’s Taladhawaja is 44-feet high with 14 wheels. Devi Subhadra’s chariot, Darpadalan, is 43-feet high with 12 wheels.Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb performed the special ‘Chhera Panhara’ ritual with a golden broom ahead of the pulling of the chariots.News agency ANI tweeted videos, which showed sevayats or those who perform the rituals, playing traditional musical instruments and dancing as others carried the idol to the chariot. “Lord Jagannath likes to watch dance and I’m here to do the same and offer my prayers,” an artist said according to ANI.“We have come for the darshan of Lord Jagannath. I believe that now the corona will go away,” a participating priest was quoted as saying by the news agency. ‘Jai Jagannath’Lakhs of devotees, who have been barred from participating in the grand festival, witnessed the Rath Yatra on television.President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and Union home minister Amit Shah greeted people on the occasion of Rath Yatra.“My heartiest greetings to all of you on the auspicious occasion of Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra. I wish that this journey filled with devotion brings happiness, prosperity, good luck and health to the lives of the countrymen. Jai Jagannath!” the Prime Minister tweeted. The Supreme Court gave the go-ahead for the Rath Yatra after taking note of the Odisha government’s assurance that it “can be held in a limited way without public attendance”.A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Monday directed the Odisha government to impose curfew in Puri city during the chariots procession after modifying its June 18 order that had said the Rath Yatra cannot be permitted due to the coronavirus pandemic.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rath-yatra-begins-in-odisha-s-puri-without-devotees-and-amid-curfew/story-UTwQffeS5xZD8fY2dV8qCN.html
23-06-2020||India||Ramdev’s Covid-19 medicine ‘Coronil’ available at Rs 545 for 30 days||Yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali on Tuesday launched ‘Coronil and Swasari’, what it claims is the Ayurvedic cure against Covid-19, the respiratory disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus. “The whole country and the world was waiting for medicine or vaccine for corona. We are proud to announce that the first Ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of Patanjali Research Centre and NIMS,” Yoga Guru Ramdev said at a press conference in Haridwar, adding that it has shown “100 per cent recovery rate within 3-7 days.”Ramdev underscored that the medicines launched today were not an immunity booster but a coronavirus cure.The Corona kit will be made available at just Rs 545, said Acharya Balkrishna, chief executive officer of Patanjali, adding that the kit is for 30 days. He further added that minerals have been used with herbs to make this medicine even more effective.“This medicine kit is not available anywhere for now and will be made available at Patanjali stores in a week, said Baba Ramdev. He added that an app will be launched for the delivery of the corona kit.Ramdev underlined that necessary approvals for conducting the trials of medicine on patients had been taken from competent authorities.Over the years, vaccine timelines show that they are not easy to come by. Even though scientists have been able to isolate HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, after many years, there is still no vaccine. There are at least 130 vaccines in various stages of development, of which 10 are in advanced stages of development, according to data from the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-s-covid-19-medicine-coronil-available-at-rs-545-for-30-days/story-yWSANX9vtrVswdcfgOYQ4N.html
23-06-2020||India||Covid-19 patients in isolation coaches are all praise for Railways except for mosquitoes||Clean toilets, colour-coded dustbins, comfortable beds, oxygen cylinders and all amenities one can expect in a top class hospital -- the first inmates of the train coaches converted into isolation wards have come away praising Indian Railways for providing a unique solution to care for suspected Covid-19 patients. ¨I am used to travelling by trains, but when I entered this one I was taken aback at the sight of the modifications. The stay was comfortable, except for the mosquitoes which were everywhere. The mosquitoes came from under the beds and they should spray repellent under the seats,” said Krishnakant Sharma, contacted by PTI on phone from Mau in Uttar Pradesh.He and five members of his family, including his wife Neetu and their 11-month-old daughter Vanshika, were among the first group of 59 suspected Covid-19 patients to be admitted to any of the 960 modified coaches deployed as Level 1 Covid-19 care centres across five states.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In Uttar Pradesh alone 372 such coaches have been deployed. Krishnakant and his family were sent to one such isolation coach after they returned from Mumbai. Their samples were collected at a centre in Mau and they were asked to spend the night of June 20 in the isolation coach to await the results. But all six members of the family tested negative and they were discharged the next day. Two other people were also discharged from the coach. Equipped with hand-held showers, mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets, oxygen cylinders and more, the Covid-care coaches have it all to keep patients comfortable. But controlling the heat in the steel bodied non air-conditioned coaches has been a huge challenge, officials said.Still, the occupants’ fears of being roasted in the heat were unfounded as the night was pleasant, and industrial sized pedestal fans and hay on the roof kept the temperature down. ¨I don’t know what we would have done if the temperature had soared. But I have to say that unlike the reputation of the toilets in trains, the bathroom as well as the toilets in these coaches were clean and it was very convenient to use, even for my elderly mother,” said Krishnakant.Nothing, however, could be done about the swarms of mosquitoes that came in through doors that were kept open, nullifying the effect of the netting that the Railways had fixed on the windows. ¨I spent the entire time worrying that if not coronavirus, my daughter will definitely contract malaria or dengue. Her face and her feet are covered with bites and she was crying all the time,” said Neetu, 32. ¨Click here for complete coronavirus coverage There is no point getting one disease while you are being treated for another right? With rains just around the corner, the railways need to address this issue as soon as possible, otherwise they will have to start testing for malaria and dengue before they release patients from here,” she told PTI by phone. She said while there were three colour-coded dustbins in the coach, no one came to clean them when they got stuffed with food plates and leftovers.Krishnakant noted that the food arrangements were made by the local administration and not the Railways. “It was okay since I cannot demand home food, but just one-and-a-half litres of milk for four babies is definitely not enough. An 11-month-old baby cannot survive on this. At the time we were there, there were three more babies in the coaches. The only thing that they managed to eat was biscuits,” he said.Krishnakant, who works at a furniture store in Mumbai’s Virar area, also had a suggestion for the state government -- please serve more food for the adults and arrange for more milk for the babies. The Sharmas had to get milk from their home in Ranipur, a two-hour drive from Mau.However, he said they all give full marks to the Railways for managing to turn around the coaches and provide so many amenities. In an effort to augment the government’s efforts to build infrastructure to deal with the spread of coronavirus, the Railways has converted 5,321 non-AC sleeper class ICF (older design) coaches and developed them into COVID Care Level 1 centres for patients with mild symptoms or those suspected to have the infection. Suspected and confirmed cases will be kept in separate coaches, officials said. The 960 coaches already deployed include 503 coaches in Delhi and 372 in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-in-isolation-coaches-are-all-praise-for-railways-except-for-mosquitoes/story-qk7Qfya25TujKllqFlSUQK.html
23-06-2020||India||5 MLCs from Lalu Yadav’s RJD jump ship, switch to Nitish Kumar’s party||In a major jolt to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) ahead of Legislative Council polls in Bihar, five sitting party MLCs joined chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) on Tuesday. The assembly polls in the state are also due in October-November.The RJD, which has eight MLCs, is now left with only three MLCs. The MLCs who defected to JD(U) are Radha Charan Shah (2015), Sanjay Prasad (2015), Dilip Rai (2015), Md Kamar Alam (2016) and Ranvijay Kumar Singh (2016). All the MLCs who joined the JD(U) do not face the anti-defection law as they form the two-third of the total number of MLCs of the RJD. A letter about formal joining of the RJD MLCs was forwarded by chief whip of the JD(U) Reena Devi to acting chairman of the legislative council.Tuesday’s development has made the JD(U) with 21 MLCs as the single largest party in the 75-member council, which presently has a strength of 46 as 29 seats are lying vacant. The BJP has 16 MLCs in the council and also has the support of an independent MLC. The polling for nine seats is schedule on July 6.The development comes at a time when the RJD is facing rough weather and has received ultimatum from smaller parties of the grand alliance. On Monday, former RJD MLA from Raghopur Bhola Rai along with his supporters demonstrated outside former chief minister Rabri Devi’s house protesting the move to give ticket to Tej Pratap Yadav for council seat. Tej Pratap is currently a MLA from Mahua. The protesters threatened to jeopardise the chances of election of Tejashwi Yadav from Raghopur in forthcoming assembly elections.JD(U) sources said that in coming months, more people will leave RJD as people are not “happy with leadership”.Earlier on June 16, a former JD(U) MLC Javed Iqbal Ansari had joined the RJD.The bickering in the grand alliance in Bihar has already intensified with Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi issuing an ultimatum that a coordination committee should be formed in the coalition by June 25, in an apparent bid to mount pressure on the senior ally RJD to start seat sharing talks with the smaller allies.If HAM-S sources are to be believed, Manjhi is contemplating re-joining the JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-mlcs-from-lalu-yadav-s-rjd-jump-ship-switch-to-nitish-kumar-s-party/story-Qm4YC10yMWcgcTSTSsbbmK.html
23-06-2020||India||Pakistan trying to push more terrorists into J-K: Police chief Dilbag Singh||Pakistan is trying to send more terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir through several areas and planning to attack security forces, the Union territory’s director general of police said on Tuesday.“Pakistan is trying to send more Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba militants to Kashmir through Nowshera, Rajouri-Poonch and Kupwara-Keran sectors. Our border and hinterland grids are alert and are working in coordination,” Dilbag Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We have reports that militants (JeM) are again planning to implement IED based incident against the security forces. We are fully alert,” Singh added, according to ANI.The top police official was speaking after the wreath-laying ceremony for a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, who was killed during a gunfight Pulwama district earlier in the day.Head constable Sunil Kale of CRPF’s 182nd Battalion lost his life during the operation in Bundzoo area of Pulwama. Two terrorists were also shot dead by security forces during the encounter.His comments came after the Indian Army said on Tuesday that security forces have busted an active terrorist hideout and recovered warlike stores in an area on the outskirts of Srinagar.The joint operation was launched in the morning in Harwan, which is about 19km from Srinagar city, the Chinar Corps of the army tweeted.Security forces, which have stepped up the offensive in the Kashmir Valley, have killed more than 100 terrorists in operations since the beginning of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-trying-to-push-more-terrorists-into-j-k-police-chief-dilbag-singh/story-SHSpKWxigKx6pTE4dKu3mI.html
23-06-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi hits out at Modi government over border standoff with China, economic crisis, fuel hike||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said India has been hit by a terrible economic crisis, a pandemic of huge proportions and a full-blown crisis on the border with China due to the “mismanagement” and “wrong policies” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.“It is said ‘misfortunes do not come singly’. The cumulative effect is widespread misery, fear and danger to the security and territorial integrity of the country,” she said in her opening remarks at a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body.Gandhi sharpened her attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government on the border standoff with China.“True to its character, the government is in denial. The intrusion was detected and reported on May 5. Instead of a resolution, the situation deteriorated rapidly and there were violent clashes on June 15-16. Twenty Indian soldiers were martyred, 85 injured and 10 went ‘missing’ until they were returned,” she said.“The Prime Minister was called out when he announced that ‘no one had intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh’,” Gandhi said in reference to Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting on June 19, that neither anyone is present in Indian territory nor any Indian post had been captured by the Chinese.The Congress party says Modi’s stand contradicted past remarks by defence minister Rajnath Singh, foreign minister S Jaishankar and army chief Gen MM Naravane on the Chinese intrusions. Former premier Manmohan Singh on Monday said a prime minister must be mindful of his words on a nation’s strategic interests, insisting China should not be allowed to use Modi’s words as a vindication of its position that it did not enter the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Gandhi reiterated her party’s support to the government in its efforts to deal with the situation.“On matters of national security and territorial integrity, the nation has always stood together and this time too, there is no second opinion. The Congress party was the first to offer its total support to the armed forces and the government,” she said.However, she contended the government has gravely mishandled the situation. “The future is yet to unfold but we hope that mature diplomacy and decisive leadership will inform the government’s actions in protecting our territorial integrity,” she added.Gandhi urged the government to ensure that peace, calm and restoration of status quo ante along the LAC remain the only guiding principles in India’s national interest. “We will continue to closely watch the situation,” she asserted.She criticised the government over the state of the economy and its stimulus package, saying the crisis has worsened. She stressed the need for immediate financial aid for micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) and direct cash transfers to the poor.“The Modi government refuses to listen to good advice. The need of the hour is a massive fiscal stimulus, putting money directly in the hands of the poor, protecting and nurturing the MSMEs, and stimulating demand,” she said. “Instead, the government announced a hollow financial package that had a fiscal component of less than 1% of GDP.”On the continuous rise in fuel prices, Gandhi said the government has added “insult to injury” by mercilessly raising petrol and diesel prices for 17 consecutive days, at a time when world prices of crude have fallen. Oil companies hiked auto fuel rates for the 17th day in a row by 20 paise a litre and 55 paise respectively on Tuesday. Diesel is costlier by Rs 10 per litre in just 17 days and petrol by 8.50 a litre.“The result is that a sliding economy is now hurtling toward a recession for the first time in 42 years. I am afraid there will be high unemployment, falling incomes and wages, and lower investment. Recovery is likely to take a long time, and that too only if the government corrects its course and adopts sound economic policies,” she said.Gandhi said when the Covid-19 pandemic hit India in February, the Congress offered its total support to the government and backed the nationwide lockdown.“Within weeks, it was apparent that government was totally unprepared to manage the fallout of a lockdown. The result was the greatest humanitarian crisis witnessed since 1947-48. Millions of migrant workers, daily wage earners and self-employed were devastated. One hundred and thirty million jobs are estimated to have been lost. Crores of MSMEs have been shut, perhaps forever,” she said.Despite the assurances of Modi who “centralised all authority in his hands”, Gandhi said the pandemic continues to rage.“The grave deficiencies in the health infrastructure have been exposed. The promised ‘peak’ is nowhere in sight,” she said, alleging the Centre has passed the buck to state governments, but given them zero extra finances.“Actually, the people have been left to protect themselves as best as possible. The mismanagement of the pandemic will be recorded as one of the most disastrous failures of the Modi government,” Gandhi said, and thanked Congress workers for their help and support to migrant workers and other affected people during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-hits-out-at-modi-government-over-border-standoff-with-china-economic-crisis-fuel-hike/story-P1Tcx5TpumjZhChaNloN2O.html
23-06-2020||India||Priyanka refuses to budge after UP govt sends notice, says ‘situation in Agra worse than Delhi, Mumbai’||District Magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh, has served notice to Congress general secretary, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi for allegedly citing “wrong figures” of death due to coronavirus in Agra. DM Agra has alleged that Priyanka Gandhi’s tweet, stating 28 Covid-19 deaths occurred within 48 hours in Agra, was wrong and has caused confusion, triggering a wave of fear.Gandhi took to Twitter again on Tuesday and while clarifying her previously made statement, reiterated that the district recorded 28 Covid-19 deaths “within 48 hours of hospitalisation”. आगरा में कोरोना से मृत्युदर दिल्ली व मुंबई से भी अधिक है। यहाँ कोरोना से मरीजों की मृत्यदर 6.8% है। यहाँ कोरोना से जान गंवाने वाले 79 मरीजों में से कुल 35% यानि 28 लोगों की मौत अस्पताल में भर्ती होने के 48 घण्टे के अंदर हुई है।‘आगरा मॉडल’ का झूठ फैलाकर इन विषम परिस्थितियों..1/2 pic.twitter.com/HUMx9LNU1qThe DM, however, has sought denial of the wrong facts mentioned by Priyanka Gandhi within 24 hours. “The news of the “death of 28 Corona patients admitted in the last 48 hours” is untrue,” District Magistrate Agra tweeted out on Monday. Priyanka Gandhi in her tweet on Monday alleged that 28 deaths of Covid-19 patients have occurred within 48 hours of hospitalisation in Agra, Uttar Pradesh. She had targeted the Uttar Pradesh government for its ‘No Test- No Corona’ policy and had blamed the state government for hiding “true facts”. संलग्न नवभारत टाइम्स द्वारा अबतक हुए कुल कोरोना पॉजिटिव मरीजों की मृत्यु के सम्बन्ध में डेथ ऑडिट का हवाला दिया है। पिछले 109 दिनों में #Agra में अबतक कुल 1136 केस एवं 79 मृत्यु हुयी है। "पिछले 48 घंटों में भर्ती हुए 28 कोरोना मरीजों की मृत्यु" की खबर असत्य है।@UPGovt@PrabhuNs_ https://t.co/9XtEIervvyOn Monday, Agra DM, in his tweet, denied the contents which Priyanka Gandhi claimed in her tweet and described them to be untrue. On Tuesday, Singh sent a notice to Congress national secretary.“The tweet by congress national general secretary prima facie gives an impression that 28 deaths occurred in Agra within 48 hours. Such false tweet demoralises the Covid warriors and fighters when whole nation is fighting to stop the spread of Covid-19. Such false tweet has created a wave of fear and casts wrong impression amongst masses,” stated DM Agra in his notice.“The correct facts are that in last 109 days, there have been 1,139 Covid-19 positive cases found in Agra and 79 Covid-19 patients died in this duration. It is totally wrong to allege that 28 deaths have occurred in 48 hours in Agra,” he further added.DM Singh has called upon Priyanka Gandhi to issue a denial of her statement within 24 hours so that no confusion prevails in mindset of common men and the moral of Corona fighters and warriors is not affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-refuses-to-budge-after-up-govt-sends-notice-says-situation-in-agra-worse-than-delhi-mumbai/story-ESNqcJ2Lg7WjtBIdUibxDO.html
23-06-2020||India||No Haj for Indian pilgrims in 2020||Saudi Arabia will allow only a limited number of its citizens and foreigners already in the country to perform the Haj pilgrimage this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and risk of infections spreading in large gatherings.In a statement issued on Monday, Saudi Arabia’s ministry of Haj said a “very limited number” of pilgrims of various nationalities who already reside in the country will be able to perform the Haj since the pandemic has spread to more than 180 countries and there is no vaccination or a cure for Covid-19.This means no foreigners will be allowed into the country for the pilgrimage.“The decision was taken to ensure Haj is performed in a safe manner from a public health perspective while observing all preventative measures and the necessary social distancing protocols to protect human beings from the risks associated with this pandemic and in accordance with the teachings of Islam in preserving the lives of human beings,” the statement said.It added that this decision “stems from the top priority [the Saudi government] accords [to] maintaining the safety of pilgrims on its land until they depart to their home countries”.There had been widespread speculation that Saudi Arabia could put off this year’s pilgrimage because of the Covid-19 crisis – the first time such a step would have been taken in history. The country had earlier suspended the entry of Umrah pilgrims.Saudi Arabia has registered 161,000 Covid-19 cases and 1,307 deaths. More than 105,000 people have recovered. Saudi authorities do not release data on infections among expatriates, though hundreds of Indians have been infected and 17 had died till April. Saudi Arabia is home to nearly 3 million Indians.In New Delhi, union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said he had been informed of the Saudi decision by Haj minister Mohammad Saleh bin Taher Benten. Naqvi said fees collected for applications from more than 213,000 pilgrims will be returned without cancellation deductions through direct transfer.He tweeted, “The process has been started today to immediately refund full amount of money deposited by the applicants without any deduction. The money will be refunded through online DBT mode into bank accounts of the applicants.”In 2019, Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman accepted the Indian government’s request to increase the country’s Haj quota from 170,000 to 200,000. Of the 200,000 Indians who performed the Haj last year, 140,000 went through the state-run Haj committee.In 2018, the Indian government got permission from Saudi authorities for single woman to perform the pilgrimage without a male escort. Naqvi tweeted 3,040 Indian women had done the Haj without a male escort since then. He said this practice will continue when the pilgrimage resumes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-haj-for-indian-pilgrims-in-2020/story-hEiqxNj8bmiwaNbb97bevM.html
23-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Baba Ramdev launches Ayurvedic medicine that claims to cure Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Baba Ramdev claims to have prepared first ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19Not an immunity booster but a cure, claimed Baba Ramdev on Monday as he unveiled, what he calls, the first ayurvedic vaccine against the coronavirus, even as the scientific community the world over is fighting hard to come up with a cure for the deadly disease. Read moreIn push to ‘Make in India’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, govt makes mandatory for sellers to mention ‘country of origin’ on products for GeM platformIn a bid to promote Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and push India’s ‘Make in India’ cause, the government’s procurement portal, Government e-Marketplace (GeM), has made it mandatory for sellers to mention ‘country of origin’ on products they wish to sell through the platform. Read moreChina could set up border outposts in encroached territories: Nepal govt documentMassive road development projects in the Tibet Autonomous Region have led to rivers changing their course and expanding China’s boundary into northern territories of Nepal, a document by Nepal’s agriculture department has warned. Read moreMilan Fashion Week: Dior revives fashion shows, sans front row A-listersFrench luxury label Christian Dior said on Monday it would press ahead with a calendar of fashion shows for this year starting in July with an Italian catwalk display - but without the celebrated front-row audience of A-listers. Read moreHow Covid-19 is still accelerating, Djokovic under fire for Adria TourHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, why the pandemic is still accelerating in the world, doctors apprehensive about issuing recovery certificates, Novak Djokovic faces criticism for Adria Tour after his coach and other players test positive and more. Watch to know moreWhat to say to your ‘party-animal’ friends who ask you to ‘get together?’ Mumbai Police answersWho would have thought that a line from the song Ek Main Aur Ek Tu from 1975 romance-thriller Khel Khel Mein could be used so creatively to send across an important message on social distancing. Read moreYour iPhone will be your ‘Car Key’ in iOS 14: Here’s how this Apple feature worksThere were several announcements made by Apple during WWDC 2020 conference, with iOS 14 being one of the important ones. This new software will be coming to iPhone SE (1st gen) and later models with new features and several upgrades. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-baba-ramdev-launches-ayurvedic-medicine-that-claims-to-cure-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-E5jKRFWnxGLYfK0O4JxCWJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Terrorist hideout busted in near J-K’s Srinagar, weapons recovered: Army||Security forces have busted an active terrorist hideout and recovered warlike stores in an area on the outskirts of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Army said on Tuesday.The Chinar Corps of the army tweeted that the joint operation was launched in the morning in Harwan, which is about 19km from Srinagar city.“Op Harwan (#Srinagar). Joint Operation launched today early morning on own sources inputs corroborated by @JmuKmrPolice,” it said.“An active hideout busted & warlike stores - UBGL with grenades, GPS, AK magazine & administrative stores recovered. Joint operation in progress,” it added.This comes after three terrorists were killed in a gunfight in Srinagar after they refused to surrender on Sunday. This was the second such operation in the city in just over a month.Vijay Kumar, Kashmir’s inspector general of police, said one of the terrorists was a local resident and involved in the killing of two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near the city’s Pandach Chowk during Ramzan May 20.He was identified as Shakoor Farooq Langoo of Bharthana near Srinagar. The second militant, Shahid Ahmad Bhat, was a resident of Semthan Bijbehara in South Kashmir, while the third person was yet to be identified.They were affiliated to the Hizbul Mujahideen, a banned local group, and the Kashmir unit of the Islamic State, according to the police, who said the terrorists were working jointly.Security forces have stepped up the offensive in the Kashmir Valley and killed more than 100 terrorists in operations since the beginning of this year. Several of these encounters have taken place in south Kashmir, which is considered the hotbed of militancy in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-near-j-k-s-srinagar-weapons-recovered-army/story-VuqSbehSjCCsIo0B02vqnI.html
23-06-2020||India||Shiv Sena Bhavan shut after worker tests Covid-19 positive, party says regular disinfection exercise||The Shiv Sena Bhavan, the party headquarters at Dadar in central Mumbai, has been shut down from Monday after one of the party workers - who was a regular visitor at the office - tested positive for Covid-19.This happened three days after Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the Bhavan on the occasion of the foundation day of the party.According to a senior Sena leader, the place will be closed till this month end. “We did not want to take the risk with our staff and party leaders. We have started sanitisation of the premises,” said the leader to declined to come on record.Also read: Baba Ramdev claims to have prepared first ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19Last Friday, Thackeray, accompanied by his son Aaditya and senior party leaders, had visited the premises on the occasion of the foundation day. It was a happy occasion as it was Thackeray’s first anniversary after taking charge as the chief minister.However, Harshal Pradhan, chief media advisor, Shiv Sena, described the closing down of the headquarters as a routine exercise. “There was a visitor who tested positive later but this is routine task of disinfection and sanitisation. We will open the premises soon,” said Pradhan.The Sena Bhavan has various offices of the party and holds great sentimental value for the Sena workers. It was the place where Sena founder Bal Thackeray used to meet party leaders and workers and plan his strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-bhavan-shut-after-worker-tests-covid-19-positive-party-says-regular-disinfection-exercise/story-46UIvx9fOnChKg8p46V04H.html
23-06-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah greets people as Rath Yatra begins in Odisha||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday extended greetings on the occasion of Jagannath Rath Yatra, which commenced from today.“I extend my warm greetings to all, on the auspicious occasion of Rath Yatra. May Maha Prabhu Jagannath bless everyone with good heath, joy and prosperity. Jai Jagannath!” Shah tweeted.The Supreme Court had allowed the Rath Yatra on Monday, modifying its June 18 order. Shah said that the entire nation is delighted by the decision of the Supreme Court to ensure that Rath Yatra goes on.However, in its order on Monday, the court had put certain conditions for the Rath Yatra to go on. All entry points to Puri, including railway stations and bus stands, will be closed during the festival, the court ordered.Hours after the order, Odisha government imposed a 41-hour curfew in Puri and started Covid-19 testing of 700 temple priests who would pull the three chariots. On Tuesday morning, ahead of the start of the annual event, one of the priests tested positive and was taken off the Rath Yatra routine in Odisha.The court had further said that each chariot shall be pulled by not more than 500 people who have to undergo Covid-19 test. All those pulling the chariots should maintain social distancing before, during and after the Rath Yatra, and there should be an interval of one hour between two chariots, the court added.Rath Yatra, or the chariot journey, celebrates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath and his two siblings from the 12th century Jagannath Temple in Odosha’s Puri to their aunt’s abode in Gundicha temple, 2.5 km away. About a million devotees come to Puri during the festivities.The Rath Yatra began in Puri today. Performing artists, priests were also seen participating in it.A performing artist who was present ahead of the Ratra said, “Lord Jagannath likes to watch dance and I’m here to do the same and offer my prayers.”“We have come for the darshan of Lord Jagannath. I believe that now the corona will go away,” a participating priest said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-greets-people-as-rath-yatra-begins-in-odisha/story-oCgw4OCYtYcQm4NXWzjfnI.html
23-06-2020||India||Ramdev’s Patanjali claims to have Covid-19 medicine, 100% recovery in 7 days||Not an immunity booster but a cure, claimed yoga guru Baba Ramdev on Tuesday as he unveiled, what he calls, the first ayurvedic medicine against the coronavirus, even as the scientific community the world over is fighting hard to come up with a cure for the highly contagious disease. The yoga guru’s company Patanjali launched ‘Coronil and Swasari’ and claimed the clinical trials on affected patients have shown 100 per cent favourable results.“The whole country and the world was waiting for medicine or vaccine for coronavirus. We are proud to announce that the first Ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of Patanjali Research Centre and NIMS,” Yoga Guru Ramdev said at a press conference in Hairdwar, adding that it has shown “100 per cent recovery rate within 3-7 days.”“We are launching Covid medicines Coronil and Swasari today. We conducted two trials of these, first clinical controlled study, which took place in Delhi, Ahmedabad, among many other cities. Under this 280 patients were included and 100 per cent of those recovered. We were able to control coronavirus and its complications in this. After this the all-important clinical control trial was conducted,” he added.The Corona kit will be made available at just Rs 545, said Acharya Balkrishna, chief executive officer of Patanjali, adding that the kit is for 30 days.“This medicine kit is not available anywhere for now and will be made available at Patanjali stores in a week, said Baba Ramdev. He added that an app will be launched for the delivery of the corona kit.Ramdev underlined that necessary approvals for conducting the trials of medicine on patients had been taken from competent authorities.Acharya Balkrishna was present at the occasion of the launch with other officials and representatives who had taken part in the preparation of the medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-ramdev-claims-to-have-prepared-first-ayurvedic-medicine-for-covid-19/story-4H1KdeGtEWJnvJaAmNKXbM.html
23-06-2020||India||Govt makes country of origin mandatory for GeM platforms to weed out Chinese goods||The sale of Chinese goods on the dedicated online trading platform for state-run agencies – Government e-Marketplace (GeM) – will now be difficult as the government has made it mandatory for sellers to mention the country of origin of products, officials said on Tuesday. According to the officials, who requested anonymity, the new feature was added to the online marketplace so buyers can make informed decisions and avoid Chinese products.The move came against the backdrop of a tense standoff between Indian and Chinese border troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Calls for the boycott of Chinese goods and services have increased since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops on June 15.While registration of new sellers is applicable with immediate effect, a specific mention of the country of origin will be mandatory for existing users.A commerce ministry statement said: “Sellers, who had already uploaded their products before the introduction of this new feature on GeM, are being reminded regularly to update the Country of Origin, with a warning that their products shall be removed from GeM if they fail to update the same.”GeM, a special purpose vehicle under the commerce ministry, has taken this significant step to promote the Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat schemes, it said.The platform has also enabled a provision for indicating the percentage of local content in products in order to promote local goods, it added.“With this new feature, now, the Country of Origin as well as the local content percentage are visible in the marketplace for all items. More importantly, the ‘Make in India’ filter has now been enabled on the portal. Buyers can choose to buy only those products that meet the minimum 50% local content criteria,” the statement said.GeM is dedicated to promote the Make in India initiative. The marketplace has facilitated the entry of small local sellers in public procurement.“GeM is enabling quick, efficient, transparent and cost-effective procurement, especially in this hour of need when government organisations require products and services urgently to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said.Purchases through GeM by government users have been authorised and made mandatory by the finance ministry in 2017.The e-market for different goods and services is a dedicated procurement portal for government organisations and public sector companies. It aims to enhance transparency, efficiency and speed in public procurement. It provides tools such as e-bidding, reverse e-auction and demand aggregation to facilitate government users achieve the best value for their money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-makes-country-of-origin-mandatory-for-gem-platforms-to-weed-out-chinese-goods/story-tS6o1m9PNfPdP4xqSwLnNP.html
23-06-2020||India||US imposes restrictions on Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flights||The US administration has imposed restrictions on Air India’s repatriation flights, saying the Indian government has been engaging in discriminatory treatment of American airlines by barring them from operating similar flights.An order issued by the US department of transport on Monday said the directive would take effect in 30 days. The order said the US side had taken the action after Indian authorities didn’t address American concerns about “restrictive and discriminatory treatment of US carriers” that were first raised on May 19.The order further said Air India will have to file applications for authorisation for repatriation flights at least 30 days before the date of the proposed flight.There was no immediate response to the US action from Indian officials.India plans to operate a total of 96 flights to various cities in the US between June 12 and July 2 under the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission, the country’s largest repatriation programme for Indian nationals stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic. These flights won’t be affected by the order.India significantly ramped up flights to the US and Canada in the second and third phases of Vande Bharat Mission to being back stranded citizens, including students and professionals who lost their jobs because of the economic fallout of the pandemic.The US order said Air India was being notified that it “will be required, effective 30 days after the service date of this Order, to obtain prior approval from the Department…before operating any Third- and/or Fourth-Freedom charter flights to or from the United States”.“We are taking this action because the Government of India (GoI) has impaired the operating rights of US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to US carrier services to and from India,” it said.Air India is currently the only foreign air carrier from India that has authorisation from the US department of transport to conduct operations to and from the US with its own aircraft and crew. Air India’s permit authorises it to conduct scheduled and charter rights.The order contended the Indian side had imposed restrictions that prevent US carriers from making full use of charter rights as they have been barred from conducting passenger charter operations “involving direct sales to individual passengers or through other distribution systems”. It added the US hasn’t placed any limitations on Air India’s charter operations.Air India has been conducting repatriation flights to the US since May 18. “On May 19, 2020, an official from the Department [of transport] advised Air India of the Department’s concerns that some, if not all, of Air India’s so-called evacuation charters have gone beyond true evacuations (at least on the India to the United States segments) and involved sales to any member of the general public able to enter the United States,” the order said.Delta Air Lines had sought permission from India on May 26 to perform repatriation charter services but had not received approval, the order said. The order also accused Air India of using the repatriation charter flights “as a way of circumventing the GoI-imposed prohibition of all scheduled services” since March 25.“This situation, in which Indian airlines are permitted to perform services pursuant to their rights under the Agreement while US carriers are not, creates a competitive disadvantage for US carriers vis-à-vis Indian carriers...,” it said, adding the US embassy had first registered its objections with the Indian government on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-imposes-restrictions-on-vande-bharat-mission-repatriation-flights/story-RyFaDP3MxucnBtcP7Lt8nJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Indian pilgrims will not travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj 2020, says Naqvi||The government has decided that Muslims from India will not travel to Saudi Arabia for Haj 2020 after the kingdom conveyed that pilgrims should not be sent this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday.The decision was taken after Saudi Arabia’s Haj and Umrah minister Mohammad Saleh bin Taher Benten telephoned last night and suggested not to send pilgrims from India for Haj this year, Naqvi told reporters.Saudi Arabia on Monday said it has barred international visitors from making the Islamic pilgrimage, in a bid to control the coronavirus pandemic. It said only a very limited number of people currently living in the kingdom may take part.“This decision was taken to ensure haj is performed in a safe manner from a public health perspective,” a Saudi government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-pilgrims-will-not-travel-to-saudi-arabia-for-haj-2020-says-naqvi/story-Sf8OTBtnYIknsym1da6sRO.html
23-06-2020||India||2 Covid-19 positive nurses in Punjab appear for exam from isolation ward||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday saluted the spirit of two nurses from Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital, who despite testing positive for Covid-19, requested to appear for their exam from the isolation ward.“Salute the spirit of these 2 young nurses from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala who tested positive for Covid-19. This, however, did not dishearten them and the Government agreed to their request to appear for their exam from the isolation facility itself,” the chief minister tweeted.  Salute the spirit of these 2 young nurses from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala who tested positive for #Covid19. This, however, did not dishearten them and the Government agreed to their request to appear for their exam from the isolation facility itself. #MissionFateh pic.twitter.com/iyb5FBYBELSo far, Punjab has recorded 4,235 number of coronavirus cases in the state with 101 deaths.As many as 2,825 people have recovered from the illness while 21,300 have been quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-covid-19-positive-nurses-in-punjab-appear-for-exam-from-isolation-ward/story-ABanrHvNLcsISHWBsg4m5M.html
23-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand HC seeks report from govt on mid-day meal scheme ‘irregularities’ amid lockdown||Dehradun: Uttarakhand high court (HC) has directed the Trivendra Singh-led state government to submit all details by Thursday regarding how school children were being provided foodgrains daily and reimbursed for their mid-day meals along with a list of beneficiaries amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, said Kamlesh Kumar, the counsel of the petitioners, Nainital based Sanjay Rawat and Madan Singh Mehta.Though the hill state’s schools are shut since March 13 because of the pandemic, students are being provided with foodgrains daily and also reimbursed for the expenses incurred to prepare the mid-day meals.Altogether, there are 16,735 government-run and aided schools in the state, including primary, upper primary, high school, and intermediate.Earlier, the petitioners – Rawat and Mehta – had moved court, alleging irregularities and inconsistencies in providing foodgrains and the reimbursements for preparing mid-day meals amid the Covid-19 epidemic.The cooking cost for each student works out to around Rs4.97 for the primary section (class I to V) and over Rs7.4 for the middle school (class VI to VIII), according to the Central government’s rules.Besides, the primary section and middle school students are entitled to 100 and 150 grams of rice daily, respectively.Kumar said the counsel, who appeared on behalf of the state government, informed the court that though the authorities have incurred all the costs for mid-day meals between March 13 and May 31, they haven’t provided any for June yet.This led the court to seek the details from the state government.Earlier, the state government had converted schools as makeshift shelter homes for those who were stranded in the state because of the imposition of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak.Arvind Pandey, state minister for school education, had directed the school education secretary to ensure that government-run schools are converted into makeshift shelter homes for the stranded people, who were provided food by respective district administrations.Later, these schools were also converted into temporary quarantine centres for those, who returned to the hill state amid the easing of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-seeks-report-from-govt-on-mid-day-meal-scheme-irregularities-amid-lockdown/story-N0F3SXt8XXoaEDTvf9ToxL.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Govt’s mismanagement’: Sonia Gandhi keeps up attack over China face-off, Covid-19||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday the economic crisis in India, the coronavirus pandemic and the “full-blown crisis on the borders with China” was “attributable to the mismanagement” of the Centre.Sonia Gandhi made the remarks during the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, the party’s highest decision-making body, which is meeting on Tuesday to discuss the India-China border standoff, the coronavirus pandemic and fuel price rise among other issues.Randeep Singh Surjewala, the party’s spokesperson, tweeted that CWC paid homage to Colonel B Santosh Babu and 19 other soldiers, who were killed by China during the Galwan Valley face-off on June 15. All CWC members rise to observe two minutes silence in their memory, he said. CWC pays homage to Col. B.Santosh Babu and our brave jawans, who laid down their lives by making the supreme sacrifice.All CWC members rise to observe two minutes silence in their memory.Surjewala also tweeted comments made by Sonia Gandhi.“Now, we have a full-blown crisis on the LAC with China... The future is yet to unfold but we hope that mature diplomacy and decisive leadership will guide the government’’s actions in protecting our territorial integrity,” he quoted Sonia Gandhi as saying during the CWC meeting. Smt. Sonia Gandhi says -:"Now, we have a full-blown crisis on the LAC with China.....The future is yet to unfold but we hope that mature diplomacy and decisive leadership will inform the government’s actions in protecting our territorial integrity."Twenty Indian Army soldiers, including a commanding officer, were killed in the attack by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.Sonia Gandhi also said that the need of the hour is a massive fiscal stimulus, putting money directly in the hands of the poor, protecting and nurturing the MSMEs and stimulating demand.“Instead, the government announced a hollow financial package that had a fiscal component of less than 1 per cent of GDP,” she said while slamming the government over the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package. She also raised the issue of the fuel price, which has been raised for the last 17 days in a row.Also read | Galwan Valley clash: Chinese commanding officer among several killed along LAC“The government has added insult to injury by mercilessly raising petrol and diesel prices for 17 consecutive days, at a time when world prices of crude have fallen,” she said.The Congress leader also lashed out at the government over the mounting cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country.“Despite the assurances of the Prime Minister who centralized all authority in his hands, the pandemic continues to rage. The Centre has passed the buck to the state governments, but given them zero extra finances.”The CWC had met last on April 23.It had alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seeking to inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles” the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi, on her part, had also accused the BJP of spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred in the country. The remarks were in an apparent reference to the communal colour given to the lynching incident in Palghar district of Maharashtra. The CWC had also discussed the issues of migrant workers, farmers, the revival of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs), empowering of states to devise solutions tailored to their unique situations and challenges and adequate financial package for them to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Former prime minister Manmohan Singh also talked about the crises.“The pandemic is not being tackled with the courage and magnitude and effort needed to tackle the crisis. Another instance is the crisis on the border, which if not tackled firmly, can lead to a serious situation. I also endorse Soniaji’s remarks,” he said.He had on Monday, in his first reaction over the India-China stand-off, had said a PM must be mindful of the implications of his words on a nation’s strategic interests and that “disinformation” was no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership.The Congress party has been relentless in its attacks on the government with Rahul Gandhi, P Chidambaram and others questioning the current stance of the ruling dispensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-cwc-meet-starts-border-tension-with-china-fuel-price-hike-on-agenda/story-v1hZeLtEHcCdtEu6nydn9H.html
23-06-2020||India||Yogi govt sends notice to Priyanka Gandhi over Covid-19 barb, she jabs again||The Agra district administration has reacted sharply to a tweet posted by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Monday where she said that 28 people died due to the disease in the district in last 48 hours.But that did not stop the Congress general secretary from posting another tweet on the situation in Agra, where she said the fatality rate is even more than Delhi and Mumbai. And she once again reiterated that the district recorded 28 deaths in the last 48 hours.“The Covid-19 fatality rate in Agra is even more than Delhi and Mumbai. The fatality rate here is 6.8 per cent. Out of the 79 deaths in the district, 35 per cent or 48 people died within 48 hours of being admitted to hospitals. Who is responsible for these difficult conditions by spreading the lie about the “Agra model”? Mr chief minister, issue a clarification within 48 hours and take responsibility for the mismatch in the condition and number of Covid-19 patients,” she said in her tweets. आगरा में कोरोना से मृत्युदर दिल्ली व मुंबई से भी अधिक है। यहाँ कोरोना से मरीजों की मृत्यदर 6.8% है। यहाँ कोरोना से जान गंवाने वाले 79 मरीजों में से कुल 35% यानि 28 लोगों की मौत अस्पताल में भर्ती होने के 48 घण्टे के अंदर हुई है।‘आगरा मॉडल’ का झूठ फैलाकर इन विषम परिस्थितियों..1/2 pic.twitter.com/HUMx9LNU1qGandhi also attached a news report to substantiate her claim and a letter written by the principal secretary to the chief minister to the health department where he highlighted the alleged discrepancies in the number of Covid-19 patients. The letter also mentioned the displeasure by the chief minister on the discrepancies.Earlier, in the letter written to Priyanka Gandhi, Agra administration had quoted he June 22 tweet to say that the figure cited by her (28 deaths in Agra in last 48 hours) is incorrect and baseless. “The entire country is fighting Covid-19 disease. In such a scenario, this tweet creates an atmosphere of fear and adversely affects the morale of Covid-19 warriors and the common people.”The administration further said that the district has recorded 1,139 cases in the last 109 days and 79 Covid-19 patient have died. “Hence, the tweet on 28 deaths in the last 48 hours is incorrect and baseless,” the district magistrate further said in the letter.The district magistrate Gandhi to issue a corrigendum so that the truth would be known to the people.Attacking the Yogi Adityanath government on Monday, Gandhi had claimed om Twitter that 28 coronavirus patients in Agra have died in the last 48 hours and accused the state government of trying to bury the truth by propagating the “Agra model”.“In Agra, 28 Covid-19 patients died who were admitted in the last 48 hours. How shameful this is for the UP government that they tried to bury the truth by propagating this model. Questions were raised on government’s no test, no corona policy but the government did not answer,” Priyanka Gandhi, who is also party in-charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh, said in a series of tweets in Hindi. She also attached a news report with her tweets.“If the UP government continues to act carelessly, consequences are going to be very dangerous,” she said in another related tweet. आगरा में 48 घंटे में भर्ती हुए 28 कोरोना मरीजों की मृत्यु हो गई।यूपी सरकार के लिए कितनी शर्म की बात है कि इसी मॉडल का झूठा प्रचार करके सच दबाने की कोशिश की गई।सरकार की नो टेस्ट=नो कोरोना पॉलिसी पर सवाल उठे थे लेकिन सरकार ने उसका कोई जवाब नहीं दिया..1/2https://t.co/7fik34LrHhThe Congress general secretary has been critical of the Uttar Pradesh government in the last couple of months. She has been highlighting the issue of job losses during the Covid-19 lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-govt-sends-notice-to-priyanka-gandhi-over-covid-barb-she-jabs-again/story-M0ybhy2SLghyQLdUFqk8DM.html
23-06-2020||India||In push to ‘Make in India’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, govt makes mandatory for sellers to mention ‘country of origin’ on products for GeM platform||In a bid to promote Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) and push India’s ‘Make in India’ cause, the government’s procurement portal, Government e-Marketplace (GeM), has made it mandatory for sellers to mention ‘country of origin’ on products they wish to sell through the platform. The Government e-Marketplace (GEM) has also enabled a provision for the indication of the percentage of local content in products with a view to promote ‘Make in India’. “GeM has taken a significant step towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat and has made it mandatory for sellers to enter the country of origin while registering all new products on GeM,” the portal’s CEO Talleen Kumar told news agency PTI.Sellers, who had already uploaded their products before the introduction of this new feature on GeM, are being reminded regularly to update the country of origin, with a warning that their products will be “removed” from the platform if they fail to update the same, he said.Also read: States to get 50,000 ‘Made in India’ ventilators from Centre to fight Covid-19“With this new feature, now, the country of origin as well as the local content percentage are visible in the marketplace for all items. More importantly, the Make in India filter has now been enabled on the portal. Buyers can choose to buy only those products that meet the minimum 50 per cent local content criteria,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been rooting for the need to make India ‘self reliant’ by investing in indigenous products and push country’s ‘Make in India’ cause. “The state of the world today teaches us that an Atmanirbhar Bharat “Self-reliant India” is the only path. It is said in our scriptures - EshahPanthahThat is - self-sufficient India,” PM Modi had said last month while announcing the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package amid the coronavirus crisis. “We will make the best products, will improve our quality further, make the supply chain more modern, we can do this and we will definitely do it,” the prime minister had said while emphasising on the need to push for indigenous products and local innovations. “The corona crisis has also explained to us the importance of Local manufacturing, Local market and Local supply chain. In times of crisis, this Local has fulfilled our demand, this Local has saved us. Local is not just the need, it is our responsibility also... Therefore, from today every Indian has to become vocal for their local, not only to buy local products, but also to promote them proudly,” PM Modi had stated. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-for-sellers-to-mention-country-of-origin-on-products-for-gem-platform-govt/story-uDP2302s2V2hy2Ju7cWBFN.html
23-06-2020||India||China could set up border outposts in encroached territories: Nepal govt document||Massive road development projects in the Tibet Autonomous Region have led to rivers changing their course and expanding China’s boundary into northern territories of Nepal, a document by Nepal’s agriculture department has warned.The document, accessed by Hindustan Times, said patches of Nepalese territory in several districts had already been encroached by China and cautioned that Beijing could take over more territory in the north if the rivers continue to change course. The loss of Nepalese territory due to the rivers changing course could run into “hundreds of hectare land”, it said.“There is a high possibility that over the period of time, China may develop its Border Observation Post of Armed Police in those territories,” the document by the agriculture ministry’s survey department said.Nepal, which shares a boundary with China in the north, has 43 hills and mountains from the east to west, that act as the natural boundary between the two countries. The two countries have six check posts, essentially for trade.The survey department has assessed that the changing course of 11 rivers had already cost Nepal 36 hectare, or 0.36 sq km, across four of its districts; Humla, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchowk and Sankhuwasabha.The encroachment of 36 hectare land by China had been first reported to the KP Sharma Oli-led government last year. There were some street protests after the loss of Nepalese territory to China emerged in the local media But the Oli government, who is accused by his detractors of attempting to cosy up to China’s communist party, played down the encroachment by the Chinese and channeled the public outrage against India over the new maps issued by New Delhi in November last after the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was split into two union territories.Instead, PM Oli went on to amp up the differences with India over Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh spread across 330 sq km in May this year after Chinese intervention helped him survive a rebellion within the party in April. That intervention, however, meant that he had to scrap two ordinances promulgated just five days earlier.Also Read: Nepal PM Oli’s new map tactic had three key objectives. China is the common factorPM Oli had seized the opportunity after defence minister Rajnath Singh opened an 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh Pass on the border with China.Analysts in New Delhi and Kathmandu believe that PM Oli’s hard push to Nepal’s new political map was an effort to whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments targetted at India to consolidate his position in the government and the party. This is why he did, a diplomat in New Delhi said, PM Oli did not inform Parliament before it voted on the map earlier this month that he had ignored an offer of dialogue between the foreign secretaries of the two countries. Instead, he gave parliamentarians the impression that his government was forced to push the envelope since New Delhi had declined his offer for dialogue.New Delhi hardened its position after the map was cleared by parliament this month, asserting that it was for him to create a conducive atmosphere in case he is interested in a bilateral dialogue on the boundary issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-could-set-up-border-outposts-in-encroached-territories-nepal-govt-document/story-UD04e4xBMlTSbXcj2BQh8N.html
23-06-2020||India||Maharashtra sees over 2,000 Covid-19 cases every day for last 37 days||A surge in Covid-19 cases is posing a challenge to the Maharashtra government, with officials expecting a peak in numbers by next month. The state has recorded an average of more than 2,000 cases daily for the last 37 days in a row. This period included 13 days when the number of fresh cases crossed the 3,000-mark. The total cases have already touched 135,796, while 6,283 deaths have been recorded so far. Maharashtra has the highest number of coronavirus infections across the country.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here In the past 37 days since May 17, the state has reported 105,242 cases and 4,04, deaths, according to data released by the state health department. On an average, Maharashtra is recording 2,844 cases per day. On May 17, the state recorded 2,347 cases, crossing the 2,000-mark for the first time.On Monday, it reported 3,721 cases and 113 deaths.The highest single day spike was registered on June 21 with 3,870 cases.State chief secretary Ajoy Mehta said on Monday the situation is in under control and the rise in numbers is static. “I can say the situation of Maharashtra is in control. After relaxations were allowed, fresh cases did rise, but by and large, they are static in nature. I don’t think they will increase until more relaxations are allowed,” Mehta told Marathi news channel ABPMajha. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Another issue of concern for the state government is the percentage of patients succumbing to the epidemic or the rising case fatality rate (CFR), which reached 4.67% on Sunday. About 45.59% of the total deaths in the country are registered in Maharashtra alone.By the end of May, the state had successfully brought down the CFR to 3.26% from 7.41% (with 148 deaths) on April 13. But it has started rising again.“Our CFR is increasing, but a lot of work is silently going on to control it. Clear instructions have been issued to admit patients immediately if any symptoms are found. If patients are admitted early, then the treatment can be started in the golden hour and he or she can be saved from slipping into a serious condition. Our task force of expert doctors is updating the line of treatment on a regular basis and very soon CFR will come down,” Mehta said.Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, during a review meeting, ordered the creation of task forces comprising experts and senior doctors in all districts and divisions to bring down the CFR. The highest single day toll of 186 deaths was recorded on June 21. According to the state government, barring Mumbai, reconciliation of figures for deaths in all districts and municipal corporations has been completed.The recovery rate reached 49.86% after 1,962 patients recovered on Monday. The total number of recovered patients in the state is 67,706. On June 16, the state’s recovery rate was 50.99%.The health department said it has conducted 787,419 tests at public and private facilities across Maharashtra till Monday. Of them, 651,623 people tested negative. This means 17.2% of the total samples tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-over-2-000-covid-19-cases-every-day-for-last-37-days/story-tIJQgQnKc53JAdG3Nfzb8M.html
23-06-2020||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar calls meeting after Nepal obstructs embarkment repairs||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called a high-level meeting on Tuesday with officials of the water resources department after Nepal refused to allow the state to carry out flood prevention work, news agency ANI reported.Sanjay Jha, the state’s water resources minister, had said on Monday that the neighbouring country had been obstructing the flood prevention measures taken up by the Bihar government. Jha had said Nepal is not allowing the state to complete the remaining flood protection work on the Gandak barrage and the embankment along Lal Bakeya river, which originates from the neighbouring country and cuts through parts of north Bihar.Rivers flowing from Nepal into downstream Bihar have been a bane for the state during the monsoon season. Last year and also in 2008, the Kosi River breached its embankment in Nepal and caused a flood in Bihar.Bihar carries out repairs of embankments on such rivers in Nepal every year but this year, Nepalese authorities have refused to allow flood prevention work.Jha on Monday wrote to the minister for external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to intervene at their level and talk with the Nepalese counterparts to resolve the issue.“The work on the Gandak barrage is crucial. It has 18 gates on the Indian side and 18 on the Nepal side. For decades, Bihar’s water resources department has been carrying out restoration work on both sides. There has never been an issue. But this time, Nepal has put up barriers to prevent anti-erosion work on their side,” Jha said.The minister said on the right side embankment on the Lal Bakeya river, work has been stopped for about 500 metres connecting India with Nepal.“Nepalese authorities are claiming it to be no man’s land, while there has never been any issue here in the last 30 years,” he said.In April, the Nepal government had given its nod to the Centre for carrying out anti-erosion work on its side in the midst of lockdown. The Bihar government had taken up the matter with the Centre after there were hurdles created in carrying out routine anti-erosion work at vulnerable points on the Kosi river before the monsoon.India’s ties with Nepal have, of late, turned for the worse after the Himalayan neighbour staked a claim on Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand. The Nepalese parliament passed a constitutional amendment earlier in June to show the disputed areas as part of Nepal.Before that, an Indian was killed by Nepalese border guards in Sitamarhi, a first such incident in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-calls-meeting-after-nepal-obstructs-embarkment-repairs/story-EdRGAxY30wlgNvKTKvgd2O.html
23-06-2020||India||BJP’s JP Nadda takes on Rahul Gandhi’s jibes over India-China stand-off, cites MoUs||JP Nadda, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, on Tuesday accused Rahul Gandhi of trying to “divide the nation” and “demoralise” the country’s armed forces as he questioned the Congress leader over his jibes at the Centre’s handling of the border tension with China.The BJP president’s latest tweet has added to the war of words between the ruling party at the Centre and the opposition over last week’s border violent standoff with China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian Army soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in the deadly clash with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on June 15.Since then the Congress party has been relentless in its attacks on the government. On Monday, former prime minister Manmohan Singh said a PM must be mindful of the implications of his words on a nation’s strategic interests and that “disinformation” was no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership.Rahul Gandhi has alleged that PM Modi surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese and said he hoped Prime Minister Narendra Modi will “politely” accept Singh’s advice for the betterment of India.Even on Tuesday, the former Congress president kept up with his criticism of the government in a tweet. चीनी आक्रमण के ख़िलाफ़ हम एकजुट खड़े हैं।क्या भारतीय ज़मीन पर चीन ने कब्ज़ा किया है? pic.twitter.com/YCEd0P20aUAfter Rahul Gandhi’s tweet, Nadda asked whether it was the “effect” of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) the Congress had signed with the Communist Party of China.“First, Congress signs MoU with the Chinese Communist Party. Then, Congress surrenders land to China. During Doklam issue, Rahul Gandhi secretly goes to the Chinese embassy. During crucial situations, Rahul Gandhi tries to divide the nation and demoralise armed forces. Effects of MoU?” Nadda asked in a tweet.The BJP president was referring to the MoU signed by the two parties in 2008 to facilitate high-level exchange between them and consult each other over important regional and international issues. Rahul Gandhi, who was a Congress general secretary then, and Xi Jinping had signed that MoU in 2008. Xi was a senior functionary of his party during that period and is now China’s president, Nadda also posted a photograph with his tweet with the timeline of what he said was the “story of a MoU and its effects”.This is the second time Nadda has hit out at the Congress, alleging that its leaders were demoralising the Indian Army.He had, in a series of tweets, questioned Manmohan Singh’s statement over the June 15 brutal clash in Galwan Valley.“Dear Dr. Singh and Congress Party, Please stop insulting our forces repeatedly, questioning their valour. You did this post the air strikes and surgical strikes. Please understand the true meaning of national unity, especially in such times. It’s never too late to improve,” Nadda had tweeted on Monday.Before that, he had questioned the Congress party on the same lines while addressing a virtual rally in Rajasthan on Sunday.“When we are fighting in Galwan, a leader is damaging the morale of forces with his tweets. He is showing his limited intellect,” he said.“(He is asking) why have our forces gone unarmed. Don’t you know international treaties? And they didn’t go unarmed. Why are you exposing your limited intellect?” Nadda asked.The senior BJP leader had said India’s defence forces were capable of protecting its borders everywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-jp-nadda-takes-on-rahul-gandhi-s-jibes-over-india-china-stand-off-cites-mous/story-ykxaotvKjyDQGkGiIQ5VlO.html
23-06-2020||India||Nearly 70% of India’s Covid-19 cases come from five states including Uttar Pradesh: State tally||Another day and another steep spike in Covid-19 cases in India as the country’s tally rose to 440,215 on Tuesday with over 14,000 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries also touched another high with nearly 11,000 patients getting cured in the last 24 hours. So far, over 2.48 people have recovered from the disease across India while over 14,000 have succumbed to death. Nearly 70 percent of India’s total coronavirus cases come from the top five states that include Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Together, these states account for over 3 lakh cases of the country’s total 4.4 lakh cases - nearly 70 percent.Also read: India’s Covid-19 death toll goes beyond 14,000, infection tally over 4.40 lakhHere’s a look at the statewise breakup of coronavirus situation With over 1.3 lakh cases, Maharashtra’s tally is officially more than that of countries like Canada, Bangladesh and others. Over 67,706 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 6,283 have died. Mumbai continues to be the worst affected city with over 66,000 cases.  The situation in the national capital paints a grim picture as the cases here have now crossed the 60,000-mark. Delhi has 62,655 positive cases with 36,602 recovered patients and 2,233 fatalities. Tamil Nadu stands third on the tally with 62,087 coronavirus cases. The state has seen seven hundred and ninety-four coronavirus fatalities while 34,112 have recovered. Also read: Nearly 11,000 Covid-19 patients recover in last 24 hours, over 2.48 lakh in totalIn Gujarat, the Covid-19 rose to 27,825 on Tuesday. The state has seen 19,909 people recover from coronavirus while 1,684 people have died.Uttar Pradesh is the fifth top affected state. The Covid-19 tally here has jumped to 18,322 while the number of recoveries has touched 11,601. The state’s death toll stands at 569.Rajasthan, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have over 10,000 coronavirus cases but less than 20,000. States with under 10,000 casesThe southern Indian state of Karnataka has witnessed over 9,000 coronavirus cases till date with 142 fatalities. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 7,825 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 9,372 Covid-19 cases till date. Telangana has 8,674 coronavirus cases while the Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 6,088. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 5,303 while Assam has reported 5,586 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 4,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in Kerala are more than 3,000. States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh are states where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500. Mizoram, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. In states like Meghalaya, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-70-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-come-from-five-states-including-uttar-pradesh-state-tally/story-MQWu7bFFBuxP2upecZhIKK.html
23-06-2020||India||‘Ask PM about 2,264 Chinese incursions since 2015’: Chidambaram hits back at Nadda||The war of words between Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the Ladakh face-off is getting shriller with each passing day.BJP president JP Nadda attacked former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Monday for his remarks on the June 15 face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. He asked the Dr Singh and his Congress party to not insult India’s soldiers and claimed that 600 Chinese incursions took place during the former prime minister’s tenure.Today, Congress leader P Chidambaram hit back saying Nadda should ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the 2,264 Chinese incursions since 2015.“BJP President @JPNadda asked ex-PM Dr Manmohan Singh to explain the 600 Chinese incursions into India between 2010 and 2013. Yes, there were incursions but no Indian territory was occupied by China and no lives of Indian soldiers were lost in violent clashes,” Chidambaram said in his first tweet on Tuesday.In the series of tweets that followed, the Congress leader again took his party’s line in attacking the PM Modi-led government over Ladakh face-off.“Will @JPNadda please ask the present PM to explain the 2264 Chinese incursions since 2015? I bet he will not dare to ask that question,” Chidambaram said in his second tweet. Will @JPNadda please ask the present PM to explain the 2264 Chinese incursions since 2015? I bet he will not dare to ask that question.He also quoted a news report to claim that there has been a major build-up in the Ladakh area. “All these are in Ladakh. Do these not point to Chinese incursions into and occupation of Indian territory?” Chidambaram said in his final tweet in the series.While attacking Dr Singh, BJP chief Nadda had said on Twitter on Monday that he and his Congress party should stop insulting the security forces repeatedly and questioning their valour.“Please stop insulting of forces repeatedly, questioning their valour. You did this post the air strikes and surgical strikes. Please understand the true meaning of national unity, especially in such times. It’s never too late to improve,” Nadda said on Twitter.The comment came in reaction to a statement by Dr Singh about the face-off between the Indian and the Chinese Army in Ladakh last week.Dr Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should be always mindful of the implications of his words, a reference to the controversy stoked by Prime Minister Modi’s comments at an all-party meeting on Friday. The former prime minister also said that the government must rise to the occasion to ensure justice for Colonel B Santhosh Babu and other jawans who were killed in action. The BJP reacted by accusing the Congress of politicising the issue. “One only wishes the Dr Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrender hundred square kilometres of India’s land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013!” Nadda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-pm-modi-about-2-264-chinese-incursions-since-2015-chidambaram-hits-back-at-nadda/story-edO1HeikhGNJENDfo0yLCM.html
23-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 63.31% is better than other states||The recovery rate of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, is higher than most of the states hit by the pandemic and it has seen a steady decrease in the number of active cases. Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, cited Amit Mohan Prasad—UP’s additional chief secretary of the medical and health department—as saying that more than 11,000 Covid-19 patients have been cured so far taking the recovery rate to 63.31%. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here There were 11,601 patients, out of 17,731, who have been discharged in the state until June 21. Now there are 6,186 active cases in the northern state, according to dataThe rate of the active cases is also improving at a rapid rate in UP as patients are getting discharged from hospitals. At present, only 36.40% of active cases are in the state. Also read: India’s Covid-19 death toll goes beyond 14,000, infection tally over 4.40 lakhOn June 21, 596 people were found infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes the coronavirus disease and 626 patients were discharged. Prasad also said that 569 people have died in the state so far. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Prasad said that 150,79 samples were tested in the state on Sunday and 574,340 samples have been tested in the state. He also said that rapid antigen tests will also be started in the state soon. In the first phase, this investigation will be started in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Kanpur Nagar. After this, the test will be conducted in western Uttar Pradesh, especially in the districts under the National Capital Region (NCR), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-at-63-31-is-better-than-other-states/story-mGfjIoCLPMS3VWuFEsCs2K.html
23-06-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi greets people on occasion of Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended greetings to the people of the country on the occasion of Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra.“My heartiest greetings to all of you on the auspicious occasion of Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra. I wish that this journey filled with reverence and devotion brings happiness, prosperity, good luck and health to the lives of the countrymen. Jai Jagannath!” the Prime Minister tweeted (translated from Hindi). भगवान जगन्नाथ की रथ यात्रा के पावन-पुनीत अवसर पर आप सभी को मेरी हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। मेरी कामना है कि श्रद्धा और भक्ति से भरी यह यात्रा देशवासियों के जीवन में सुख, समृद्धि, सौभाग्य और आरोग्य लेकर आए। जय जगन्नाथ!The Supreme Courts’ had on Monday decided to modify its earlier order to allow the annual Jagannath Rath Yatra in Odisha’s Puri to be held with the coordination of the temple committee, State and Central government without compromising with the health issue pertaining to Covid-19.The apex court had earlier stayed the annual Rath Yatra at Jagannath Temple in Puri, which is slated to be held on June 23, and all activities related to the gathering in view of the coronavirus pandemic this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-occasion-of-lord-jagannath-s-rath-yatra/story-qeII1hI8CE60Z6JKscigxM.html
23-06-2020||India||Nearly 11,000 Covid-19 patients recover in last 24 hours, over 2.48 lakh in total||While coronavirus cases continue to escalate in India, the number of patients recovering from the deadly contagion is also on the rise too. According to the Ministry of Health, India has seen nearly 11,000 people recover from Covid-19 or getting discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. On Monday morning, the number of Covid-19 recoveries across the country stood at 2,37,196 which rose to 2,48,189 this morning - up by 10,993, health ministry’s data showed. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country jumped to 440,215 on Tuesday after 14,933 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours. India’ Covid-19 recovery rate is higher as compared to the rate of new infections or the fatality rate. At present, 178,014 people suffer from Covid-19 across India - these are known as the active cases of the disease. The death toll, however, has climbed to 14,011. Also read: India’s Covid-19 death toll goes beyond 14,000, infection tally over 4.40 lakhWith over 4.4 lakh coronavirus cases, India stands fourth on the global Covid-19 tally behind countries like the US, Brazil and Russia. Maharashtra leads the state tally with over 1.35 lakh coronavirus cases - more than the national total of countries like China, Canada, Egypt, among others. Mumbai, the worst-hit city, alone has reported over 66,000 coronavirus cases. The number of infections is on a sharp rise in Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Delhi is the second worst-hit with over 62,000 Covid-19 cases followed by Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Uttar Pradesh is the fifth worst-affected state and has reported over 18,000 Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-11-000-covid-19-patients-recover-in-last-24-hours-over-2-48-lakh-in-total/story-irqmQBQSntHup8k0AANUUP.html
23-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 death toll goes beyond 14,000, infection tally over 4.40 lakh||The number of people who have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has risen to 14,011 after 312 patients died between Sunday and Monday morning, the Union health ministry’s data showed.According to the health ministry, India’s infection tally also climbed to 440,215 as 14,933 new infections and 178,014 active Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country’s recovery rate, the ratio of the number of patients recovered to the number of patients infected, now stands at 56.37% as 10,994 patients were cured during the last 24 hours. So far, 248,189 people have been discharged from hospitals, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat continued to add to the country’s infection tally and death toll. The health ministry had said on Monday that India has one of the lowest cases of the Covid-19 per lakh population in the world and continues to widen the gap between recovered and active cases.It had cited the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) report from Sunday to make the point.“India’s cases per lakh population are 30.04 while the global average is more than its triple at 114.67,” the health ministry said in a release.The US has 671.24 cases per lakh population while the metric for Germany, Spain and Brazil is 583.88, 526.22 and 489.42 respectively, it added.“This low figure is thus a testimony to the graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach the Government of India along with the States/UTs took for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19,” the ministry said.Across the world, there are 9,188,362 Covid-19 cases and 474,339 patients of the respiratory disease have died, according to Worldometer, a site that tracks the pandemic numbers.WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday that the pandemic is still accelerating and its effects will be felt for decades.“We know that the pandemic is much more than a health crisis, it is an economic crisis, a social crisis and in many countries a political crisis. Its effects will be felt for decades to come,” Ghebreyesus said during a virtual health forum organised by Dubai in the UAE. The United States is the worst-affected country with 2,388,153 cases and 122,610 deaths. After the US, Brazil has the most number of infections at 1,111,348 and fatalities at 51,407.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-death-toll-goes-beyond-14-000-infection-tally-over-4-40-lakh/story-bhE1kYNhmVdL6KMdgbrmbI.html
23-06-2020||India||Global Covid-19 cases top 9 million, India crosses another grim milestone: Latest developments||The coronavirus cases across the world crossed the nine million-mark on Monday, with the United States still sitting on top in terms of the number of cases.Covid-19, the respiratory disease which Sars-CoV-2 virus causes, was first reported in China’s Wuhan in December last year and has since spread rapidly across the globe. From China, Covid-19 severely affected the United States and Europe; in fact, in the United States leads the world with the highest number of infections, at about 2.4 million or 25 per cent of all reported cases.Latin American countries like Brazil, Peru and Mexico are now the new emerging hotspots of the disease. Brazil is at number 2 with over five lakh cases of the disease.Worryingly, World Health Organisation (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the virus is still accelerating. The global health body recorded 1,83,000 new cases of Covid-19 - its largest single-day increase.Global spread• New York City residents, gradually emerging from more than 100 days of coronavirus lockdown, celebrated an easing of social-distancing restrictions on Monday by shopping at reopened stores, dining at outdoor cafes and getting their first haircuts in months. New York accounts for 1,20,000 infections - or more than a quarter of all US fatalities - till date.• China reported 22 newly confirmed cases of coronavirus, including 13 in Beijing. Current numbers of confirmed cases in treatment rose by 10 to 359, while another 114 people were in isolation and being monitored for being suspected cases or having tested positive for the virus without showing any symptoms. China has reported 4,634 deaths from the virus among 83,418 total cases .• Italy, the European country to be hit the hardest by the Covid-19 pandemic, added another 218 coronavirus infections on Monday, indicating how the virus is still circulating in the one-time European epicentre. Hard-hit Lombardy again counted most of the new infections with 143.• The UK reported its lowest daily Covid-19 death toll since mid-March, health officials said on Monday. The British government has launched a weekly testing regime using a “no-swab” saliva test. It is being tried out in southern England and could result in a simpler and quicker way to detect outbreaks of the virus.• Toronto in Canada will allow businesses to reopen starting on Wednesday, Ontario Premier Doug Ford said.• Health authorities in South Korea said for the first time it is in the midst of a “second wave” of novel coronavirus infections around Seoul.• People in Saudi Arabia ventured out on Sunday night for the first time in three months to celebrate the end of a nationwide curfew.Situation in IndiaThe number of coronavirus disease cases in India reached 4,40,215 on Tuesday. The country recorded 312 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the Covid-19 death toll in the country to 14,011.Union minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday that the government’s decisive enforcement of nationwide lockdown ensured Covid-19 deaths were low in the country. Despite having 17 per cent of the world’s population, India’s Covid-19 deaths was at a low of three per cent when compared to the global numbers, he said. Goyal also said that India’s recovery rate of 55 per cent is amongst the highest.Maharashtra continues to top the table of the number of Covid-19 cases. The state has recorded 1,35,796 cases and 6,283 deaths due to the disease - the highest in the country. The Union health ministry update on Tuesday morning showed that Delhi has come at the second spot in terms of the total number of cases, beating Tamil Nadu.The ministry had said on Monday that India’s Covid-19 cases per lakh population are among the lowest in the world. For every one lakh population, there are 30.04 coronavirus cases in India, while the global average is over three times at 114.67, the ministry said, referring to the WHO Situation Report 153, dated June 21.Citing the WHO Situation Report, the ministry said the US has 671.24 cases per lakh population, while Germany, Spain, Brazil and the UK have 583.88, 526.22, 489.42 and 448.86 cases per lakh population, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-covid-19-cases-top-9-million-india-crosses-another-grim-milestone-latest-developments/story-exWi2kn2cjJx6ek3rHYqfN.html
23-06-2020||India||Army chief to visit Leh today as border tensions with China simmer||Army chief Gen MM Naravane will visit Leh, headquarters of 14 Corps, on Tuesday for a security review of the sensitive Ladakh sector, where tensions have escalated after a brutal clash between soldiers of the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said.He will leave for Leh after attending a meeting with top generals who are in New Delhi for the army commanders conference that ends on Tuesday, said one of the people cited above. On Monday, the commanders discussed developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the army’s readiness to handle any situation.In Leh, senior officers will brief Naravane on latest developments along the LAC and progress in military dialogue with China, said a second person. The person added that Naravane will meet the soldiers who were injured in the Galwan Valley clash and are currently undergoing medical treatment at a hospital in Leh.This will be Naravane’s second visit to Ladakh sector after the border standoff began in early May. He earlier visited Leh on May 22. The army chief is expected to visit Kashmir on Wednesday. The current situation along the LAC marks the first major flare-up since the 73-day standoff between India and China at Doklam near the Sikkim border in 2017.Naravane is visiting Leh a day after top military commanders from the two sides held a marathon meeting at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC with a focus on cooling tensions and thinning the build-up on both sides of the border.Also read: In marathon talks, India seeks de-escalation, Chinese retreatThe meeting on Monday between delegations led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of 14 Corps, and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of PLA’s South Xinjiang military region, went on for almost 11 hours.The Indian side is demanding the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger Area (a cluster of strategic features on the north bank of Pangong Lake) and the removal of bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts the PLA has built there, as reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday.It is also pressing for restoration of status quo ante in strategic areas such as the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector and the Galwan Valley.Last week, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a low-key visit to Ladakh to review the Indian Air Force’s preparedness in the region, where the IAF is operating its fighter jets and new attack and heavy-lift helicopters.Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, the IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters --- both imported from the US --- in the Ladakh area.Also read: China’s blame narrative continues, says India ‘initiated’ Galwan clashPeople familiar with the talks at the military level said India is seeking an assurance from the Chinese on ending aggression along the border, after the brawl at Galwan Valley on June 15 and another face-off at Pangong Tso on May 5-6. During both skirmishes, Chinese soldiers gathered in large numbers and attacked Indian troops with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs. Twenty Indian soldiers died in the June 15 clash. India is also demanding the thinning of Chinese military deployments in “depth areas” on their side of the disputed border.India has flagged concerns about a build-up of Chinese troops, armoured vehicles and artillery units in Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector, north of Pangong Lake. The army wants the Chinese forces to move back from their current positions to areas where they were in early April.This was the second meeting of the two senior commanders, who earlier met on June 6, when the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease tensions along the border.But tensions peaked in the aftermath of the June 15 skirmish. It was the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in 45 years. While the army lost 20 soldiers, the PLA’s casualties were more than twice that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-to-visit-leh-today-as-border-tensions-with-china-simmer/story-piNdT3slN7RZgMjhE8goVM.html
23-06-2020||India||In Rahul Gandhi’s latest jibe on Ladakh face-off, a question on ‘Chinese invasion’||Ever since the violent face-off between the Indian and the Chinese army took place last week and resulted in the killing of 20 Indian soldiers, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi has been taking jibes at the centre, questioning if Indian land has been occupied by the Chinese. In his recent post, Gandhi tweeted out a picture of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh where the stand-off with China began last month. The image was originally captured by former prime minister and his father late Rajiv Gandhi.  Also read: In marathon talks, India seeks de-escalation, Chinese retreatचीनी आक्रमण के ख़िलाफ़ हम एकजुट खड़े हैं।क्या भारतीय ज़मीन पर चीन ने कब्ज़ा किया है? pic.twitter.com/YCEd0P20aU“We stand united against the Chinese invasion. Has China occupied Indian land?” Gandhi posted on Tuesday.This comes a day after Gandhi on Monday said he wanted to know why is China busy praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid tension in bilateral ties and fight over the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan region.“China killed our soldiers. China took our land. Then, why is China praising Mr Modi during this conflict?” Gandhi posted.Also read: India increases tech surveillance on Ladakh LAC with Israeli Heron dronesOn Sunday, Gandhi tweeted out saying, PM “Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi,” His tweet carried a news report on India’s policy towards China.Gandhi attacked the prime minister, accusing him of surrendering India’s territory to China. He quoted PM Modi in one of his tweets last week wherein, at the all-party meeting, the prime minister had asserted that Chinese troops did not intrude Indian territory.Meanwhile, within a week after the violent Ladakh face-off, top military officials from the two sides held a marathon meeting on Monday at Moldo on the Chinese side of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in a bid to ease tensions and thinning military build-up on both sides of the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rahul-gandhi-s-latest-jibe-on-ladakh-face-off-a-question-on-chinese-invasion/story-UgoMztLBNRAknd7p2XBswJ.html
23-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Centre plans to export five million PPEs a month and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 outbreak: Export of 5 million PPE suits a month on cardsThe Centre is likely to allow the export of nearly five million personal protective equipment (PPE) suits a month, officials aware of the matter said, as India moves from not making enough suits to making more than it needs, and global demand remains strong. Read more here. Apple WWDC 2020: The 14 important things that were announcedApple’s keynote address led by CEO Tim Cook kicked off the first ever virtual Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC 2020). The announcements covered a whole bunch of software updates that are coming to the iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple TV etc. Read more here. ‘We only talk about Ganguly, Dhoni, Kohli’: Gambhir says Dravid does not get enough credit for captaincyMahendra Singh Dhoni, Kapil Dev, Sourav Ganguly, and now Virat Kohli are some of the names that come to mind whenever someone discusses the greatest Indian captains. But for former India opener Gautam Gambhir, a name that misses the discussion is that of Rahul Dravid. Read more here. Deepika Padukone scolds paparazzi for posting, monetising videos of Sushant Singh Rajput without ‘family’s consent’Deepika recently commented on a post by a Bollywood paparazzi account on Instagram which showed Sushant’s body being taken from the hospital to the crematorium.‘Ban Chinese companies from India’s 5G trial’: Former envoy to China‘Don’t allow Chinese companies in 5G trials in India’, says former Indian ambassador to China Gautam Bambawale in an exclusive conversation with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad. Watch. WFH in summer: Comfy shorts, frappés, finding cool cornersWork ain’t easy in this scorching heat, and more so when it’s work from home. From switching different ACs turn by turn to sipping cool drinks, denizens share all that they are doing to beat the heat while being productive. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-plans-to-export-five-million-ppes-a-month-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GxMmiBq96FGwZVtGI7P3DO.html
23-06-2020||India||With Covid-19 cases spiking, traders suspend business in north Bengal’s biggest town||With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affecting more and more people in West Bengal’s hill district of Darjeeling, traders in Siliguri, the district’s biggest town located in the plains, on Monday decided to shut down three major markets for at least a week.This will affect people not only in the town but also neighbouring districts and even states such as Sikkim since Siliguri is the main trade hub and shipping point in the north Bengal region. Goods from Siliguri are shipped to Bihar and the North-East as well. So far, five people have died in Darjeeling district where the number of Covid-19 cases stood at 296 till Sunday. Siliguri has so far recorded more than 170 cases. Sunday witnessed the highest single-day spike in the town with 25 new cases. Fourteen cases were recorded on Monday.Incidentally, Siliguri Regulated Market, the largest fish, vegetable and fruit market in north Bengal was closed down by the administration more than a week ago after some people who regularly visited the market were infected. Ward number 46 in Siliguri Municipal Corporation area, where the market is located, has the highest number of Covid-19 cases.Most of the fish, vegetable and fruit sold in the market are shipped to Darjeeling hills, Sikkim and other parts of north Bengal.On Monday, traders at Bidhan Market, the biggest general goods market in Siliguri with around 4,000 shops, decided to suspend business till June 28. Their counterparts at the jewellery market in Deshbandu Para will keep shops closed till June 30. Hong Kong Market, the hub of foreign goods principally of Chinese origin and having around 500 shops, will remain closed till June 30, the traders said.Bhabotosh Saha, secretary of the Hong Kong Market traders’ body said, “The rise in Covid-19 cases has forced us to close the market for eight days. The spike is alarming people.” A few days ago, two local journalists, veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and former minister Asok Bhattacharya, who is chairman of board of administrators of the municipal corporation, and Raju Shah, general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Siliguri organisational district committee, tested positive for the coronavirus disease.Bapi Saha, secretary of the traders’ body at Bidhan Market said, “With 20 cases being reported a day on an average it is better to have fewer people on the streets.”Traders at Seth Srilal Market, however, are opposed to the suspending business. Khokan Saha, secretary of the traders’ union, said, “Another shutdown would mean another blow to business.” The market has around 1,000 shops.Surajit Paul, secretary, North Bengal Industries Association said, “Closing down markets is not the solution when we need economic activities to increase.”Last week, 16 trade and transport organisations in Darjeeling town had decided to suspend business for a week but called it off after meeting district administration officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-cases-spiking-traders-suspend-business-in-north-bengal-s-biggest-town/story-SXq1KXK8zI0SVuGb2w5hfM.html
23-06-2020||India||Mumbai terror attack accused Tahawwur Rana not a flight risk: Attorney to US court||Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana, who was rearrested in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, is not a flight risk, his attorney has told a US court and proposed a $1.5 million bond for his release.Rana (59), was recently released from jail on compassionate ground after testing positive for Covid-19. However, he was rearrested in Los Angeles on June 10 following an extradition request by India.US District Judge Jacqueline Chooljian of the Central District of California has scheduled his bond hearing for June 30.“Rana should be released on a robust bond: secured by approximately USD1.5 million in property pledged by family and friends and under the supervision of his daughter, Lemaan Rana, a matriculating medical student and Ph.D. candidate,” Amy Karlin, the Interim Federal Public Defender said in the court submission on behalf of Rana.India seeks his arrest on a number of offences, including the conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to commit forgery for the purpose of cheating, and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He is sought for his role in 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai.Karlin argued that the criminal charges against Rana are largely identical to those for which he already went to trial -- namely, that Rana conspired with his childhood friend and Pakistani-American Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist David Coleman Headley to carry out the terror attack in Mumbai which left 166 people, including six Americans, dead.Arguing that Rana can show he is entitled to bail pending his extradition proceedings, his attorney told the court that as was the case there, any concern about his risk of flight is mitigated by both his substantial bond package and the difficulties he would face in leaving the country.Rana faces health risks above and beyond what are faced by all individuals facing extradition, especially in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. What is more, his extradition challenge will present a “substantial question” with a high likelihood of success. Finally, as the District Court Illinois already found, Rana’s release would not endanger the community, the attorney said. Rana’s youngest daughter, Lemaan Rana, a US citizen has volunteered to act as the third party custodian for her father and to act as a surety on an unsecured bond in any amount set by the Court, Karlin said. Lemaan graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, in 2017, and currently works as a Graduate Student Researcher at Smith-Zhang Laboratory. Rana’s apartment in Berkeley was inspected by United States Probation in furtherance of Rana’s anticipated compassionate release and was deemed an acceptable place for him to live. “Should Ms. Rana move in the near future to Illinois (a move which will depend, in part, on the Covid-19 pandemic and whether her medical school classes will happen in person in the fall), Mr. Rana could live with her there. Ms. Rana has been in constant contact with her father during his years of incarceration. She stakes her entire future on his appearance in court,” his attorney said. The US government has opposed his bail arguing that if he were to flee to Canada, he may escape the possibility of a death sentence in India.“Given the stakes, allowance of bail in any amount would not guarantee Rana’s presence in court. Granting bail would invite the possibility of embarrassing the United States in the conduct of its foreign affairs, straining its relationship with India,” Assistant US Attorney John J Lulejian told a federal court in Los Angeles last week.However, Karlin said that it is highly unlikely that Rana could somehow sneak across the border and remain there unnoticed, much less find someone in the United States to assist him in that criminal effort.Moreover, if he had the inclination, assistance, and wherewithal to somehow make it to Canada, he would be subject to being extradited back to the United States for a supervised release violation, putting him back in the same position he is now, the attorney said.“The risk that Mr. Rana will flee is miniscule. The court can and should accept this proposed bond package and fashion stringent conditions to further assure Mr. Rana’s appearance. For example, Mr. Rana could be placed on home confinement with electronic monitoring, and his internet use could be subject to monitoring by probation,” she said.Further Rana suffers from a number of severe chronic health conditions that have worsened during his term of incarceration, the attorney said.He has suffered not one but two heart attacks while in federal custody. While Rana had been diagnosed with asthma and hypertension prior to incarceration, since being incarcerated he has been diagnosed with chronic renal failure (Stage II), chronic coronary heart disease, hypothyroidism, enlarged prostate, calcium deficiency, and acute coronary syndrome, the attorney said.Rana has undergone cardiac catheterisation, angiogram, angioplasty, and has had a heart stent inserted due to coronary blockage. He has also suffered two vasovagal events (loss of consciousness) while in federal custody, triggered by myocardial infraction and heart disease.His doctors have advised that he will require dialysis due to his chronic renal failure, and is, of course, at risk for an additional heart attack or vasovagal event, the attorney said.The US government is likely submit its response later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-terror-attack-accused-tahawwur-rana-not-a-flight-risk-attorney-tells-us-court/story-onpQsI61GiYMPDMJ0xwH2H.html
23-06-2020||India||Rath Yatra begins in Odisha’s Puri amid Covid-19: All you need to know||The Jagannath Puri Rath Yatra, one of India’s biggest religious festivals, is underway on Tuesday in the temple town in Odisha amid the coronavirus pandemic.About a million devotees converge in Puri during the festivities but this year people will not be allowed after the Supreme Court placed several conditions, including the imposition of a curfew in Puri during the festivities.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, said in its order that each chariot would be pulled by not more than 500 people, including officials and police, and there has to be an interval of one hour between pulling of the chariots. The Odisha government has imposed a 41-hour curfew in the temple town and started Covid-19 tests of 700 temple priests who would pull the three chariots.Here is all about the Rath Yatra festival in Puri:* Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra, and Goddess Subhadra are usually worshipped in the sanctum of the famous Jagannath Temple in Puri. They are brought out of the temple every year on the second day of the third Hindu month of Asadha onto the Bada Danda street of Puri in three huge chariots accompanied by Sudarshana Chakra.* The nine-day Rath Yatra, or the chariot procession, celebrates this annual journey of Lord Jagannath and his two siblings from the 12th-century Jagannath Temple to Gundicha Temple, 2.5km away. The Gundicha Temple is their aunt’s home.* The rituals for Rath Yatra will begin at 3am inside the 12th-century shrine. * The Pahandi ritual (procession) will begin at 7am and the deities will board the chariots at the Singha Dwara facing towards the Gundicha Temple by 10am. The Chherapahara ritual will be held at 11.30am. The chariots will be pulled thereafter at around 12pm.Also read: How Centre, nudged by PM Modi, made a case for Rath Yatra in Supreme Court* The three deities are taken in the massive wooden chariots weighing 85 tonnes each. After staying in Gundicha temple for nine days, the three deities come back to the Jagannath Temple on the 10th day in a return journey.* Lord Jagannath’s chariot Nandighosa is 45.6 feet in height and has 18 wheels. The 45- feet chariot of Lord Balaram comes with 16 wheels and is known as Taladhvaja and Devadalana is Goddess Subhadra’s 44.6 feet chariot with 14 wheels. * The chariots are built every year only from a particular type of tree.* Thousands of devotees pull the chariots to their aunt’s temple, the Gundicha Temple. It is considered to be a good omen and is also believed to bring luck and success if one gets a chance to pull the chariots.* The deities stay at the Gundicha Temple for nine days, after which they ride the chariots back to their Jagannath Temple, a journey known as Bahuda Jatra.* The chariots on the way back stop at the Mausi Ma Temple or home of Lord Jagannath’s aunt. The deities are offered Poda Pitha, a special pancake which said to be the favourite of Lord Jagannath, at the Mausi Ma Temple.* In the 425 years of the Rath Yatra, the event has been stopped 32 times, mostly during invasions. * It was not held for the first time in 1568 when Kala Pahad alias Kala Chand Roy, a general of Bengal king Suleiman Kirrani, attacked the temple and pillaged the deities.* The last time it could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rath-yatra-in-puri-pulling-the-chariots-of-lord-jagannath-and-his-siblings/story-aotsOejZbaWLUrnxjuqDVJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Rath Yatra begins today after Supreme Court nod: Curfew, no devotees this year||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed authorities in Odisha to hold the annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri as it recalled its June 18 order that prohibited this year’s celebrations amid the coronavirus pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde set several conditions, including the imposition of a curfew in Puri during the nine-day festivities, and asked the Jagannath Temple administration committee and the Odisha government to strictly adhere to them.“If it is possible to ensure that there is no public attendance, we see no reason why the Rath Yatra cannot be conducted safely along its usual route from temple to temple. Having given serious consideration to the matter and having heard the parties, we are of the view that the Rath Yatra at Puri may be held,” the bench, also comprising Justice Dinesh Maheshwari and Justice AS Bopanna, said.Rath Yatra, or the chariot journey, celebrates the annual visit of Lord Jagannath and his two siblings —Balabhadra and Subhadra from the 12th-century Jagannath Temple to their aunt’s place in Gundicha temple, 2.5km away.The three deities are taken in massive wooden chariots weighing 85 tonnes each. They come back to the Jagannath Temple on the 10th day in a return journey after staying in Gundicha temple for nine days.Here is what the top court said:The court ordered all entry points to Puri, including railway stations and bus stands, to be closed during the festival. * The state government shall impose a curfew in the city of Puri on all the days and during all the time when Rath Yatra chariots are taken in procession, the order said.* During the period of curfew, no one would be allowed to come out of their houses or their places of residence, such as hotels, lodging houses, it said.* Each Rath or chariot shall be pulled by not more than 500 persons and they must be tested for Covid-19. * They shall be permitted to pull the chariot only if they have been found negative, the court said. * The court said that all those pulling the chariots should maintain social distancing before, during and after the Rath Yatra. * There should be a gap of one hour between two chariots, the court added.* All of those engaged in pulling the chariot shall maintain social distancing before, during and after the Rath Yatra.* The committee in-charge of Puri Jagannath Temple Administration will have the primary responsibility for conducting the Rath Yatra in accordance with these conditions.* The bare minimum number of people shall be allowed by the committee to participate in the rituals and the Rath Yatra.* The rituals and the Rath Yatra shall be covered by the visual media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rath-yatra-begins-today-after-supreme-court-nod-curfew-no-devotees-this-year/story-PDMhvR7YbzEcWpUn2hsUOJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Army chief Naravane to visit Leh to review progress in talks with Chinese military||Army chief general Manoj Mukund Naravane will visit Leh on Tuesday after the Army Commanders’ Conference gets over, to review the on-ground situation and the progress in talks with the Chinese military.The Army chief had on Monday discussed the security situation with the top Army commanders in Delhi, officials said. According to Army officials, all commanders are in the national capital for the second phase of the commanders’ conference.Army Commanders Conference is being held on June 22-23 to review the operational situation on both the northern and western fronts.The meeting comes at a time when India and China are holding military-level talks to defuse the border tensions after the violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives. Indian intercepts have revealed that the Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-to-visit-leh-to-review-progress-in-talks-with-chinese-military/story-GgAPptfL5CTzepy5dyyCIP.html
23-06-2020||India||CRPF personnel killed, 2 terrorists gunned down in J-K’s Pulwama||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel was killed and two terrorists were shot dead by security forces during a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said on Tuesday.The encounter had erupted in Bundzoo area of Pulwama district early on Tuesday after the operation was launched on specific input about the presence of terrorists in the village. The CRPF personnel was injured when the terrorists fired at the cordon party and later succumbed to his injuries.Two to three militants were believed to be trapped in the encounter, which is underway.An Indian Army spokesperson said two AK-47 assault rifles have recovered from the encounter site. The area is being searched, officials added.On Monday, a group of terrorists managed to escape during search operations in the forests of Verinag in Anantnag district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-man-killed-2-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-vZ168iJXfkQTSrUP7CRFsI.html
23-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: A tribute to the king of fruits||It is the time of the year when a Mirza Ghalib devotee could offer at his tomb in Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti a tribute that would have made the poet very happy.Yes, one is thinking of mangoes — Ghalib had a weakness for wine and mangoes. And lest you forget, amid all the depressing news about the coronavirus, Delhi is amid its mango season.In the book Ghalib: Life And Letters, authors Ralph Russell and Khurshid-ul-Islam quote the poet writing in a letter that he “would eat them (mangoes) until my belly was bloated and I could hardly breathe”. In another letter, comparing mango to wine, Ghalib says, “I thought of each mango as a sealed glass, filled with the liquor of grape, and filled with such superb skill that not so much as a single drop spilled from any of the sixty-five glasses.”The authors ascribe Ghalib’s memoirist Altaf Hussain Hali with a famous mango anecdote about the poet, that also highlights his cheekiness with the powerful: “One day…(Emperor) Bahadur Shah, accompanied by Ghalib and a number of other courtiers, were walking in the Hayat Bakhsh or the Mahtab Garden. The mango trees of every variety were laden with fruits, but the fruits of this garden were reserved exclusively for the king and his queens and members of the royal family. Ghalib looked at the mangoes repeatedly, and with great concentration. The king asked him, ‘Mirza, what are you looking at so attentively?’ Ghalib replied with joined hands, ‘My Lord and Guide, some ancient poet has written:Upon the top of every fruit is written clear and legibly:‘This is the property of A, the son of B, the son of C.’And I am looking to see whether any of these bear my name and those of my father and grandfather.’ The king smiled and the same day had a big basket of the finest mangoes sent to him.”One afternoon, in the Walled City’s Ballimaran neighbourhood, famous for being Ghalib’s final address, a milk shake vendor was at work—he was too shy to disclose his name. The pavement stall did not have the usual electric mixer. Instead, the young man was preparing the shake in a steel container called dhol, which was lined with crushed ice. The container itself was wrapped in a wet jute bag that cooled the shake by evaporation. The man was churning the mango pulp, mixed with milk and sugar, by a hefty metal ladle. “Some people also add lemon juice and call it aam ki shikanji,” he said. He was serving the shake in plastic cups.The aforementioned mango lemonade is not seen in the newer parts of Delhi. Indeed, many mango-based dishes, which were a common sight in our city’s dining rooms until a few decades ago, are gradually disappearing. Aam ka meetha pulao, for instance, is a mango-based dessert that is no longer easily available in eateries across the city. “It was a traditional dish in Old Delhi homes, but now it’s a rarity and you can have it only in a few families,” said cookbook author Sadia Dehlvi, who referred this reporter to her cousin Farah Noor. “I inherited this recipe from my grandmother,” says Ms Noor, who lives in Noida. Explaining that the preparation time is half an hour, she generously gave away the making of the rare dish.Aam ka meetha pulao Ingredients (for 2-3 people)250g rice 2 mangoes (preferably Alphonso), thinly sliced 1/2 cup mawa/khoya 3/4 cup sugar 1/4 cup desi ghee 2 clovesMethodBoil the rice till three-fourths done. Throw away the water. Place a layer of rice on a flat pan. Layer it with khoya followed by mango slices. Sprinkle the sugar over the fruit slices and top with another layer of rice. Sauté two cloves in the ghee in a separate pan and add the mixture on to the rice. Put the pan on dum (slow-cook) for 15 minutes. Mix the pulao just before serving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-tribute-to-the-king-of-fruits/story-Bo4e0bo4sPqaRJM3hyOivK.html
23-06-2020||India||How the world’s strictest lockdown affected India||The preferred first step to control Covid-19 by most countries was a lockdown. On March 25, when India had reported only 500 cases, the country went into what was one of the strictest lockdowns in the world. This first set of curbs remained in place till April 14 and was extended four times, each time with gradual relaxations. The rest of the world adopted different models.STRATEGIESAn analysis of countries with the highest Covid-19 cases shows most of them have not relaxed lockdowns without a decline in daily cases. In fact, some continue with the strictest measures even after several days of fall in cases or have only reduced the stringency marginally. Those who haven’t followed these two paths seem to find it difficult to continue reducing daily cases. To be sure, this could also mean that a lockdown, although necessary, isn’t a sufficient enough measure to contain the infection.On June 18, 15 countries with the most Covid-19 cases in descending order were: United States, Brazil, Russia, India, United Kingdom, Spain, Peru, Italy, Chile, Iran, Germany, Turkey, Pakistan, Mexico, and France. Most of these 15 countries can be categorised into two groups based on the daily number of cases (we consider a seven-day rolling average to smooth out daily fluctuations): those with a rising number of cases, and those that have seen a decline in daily cases. The former group comprises India, Pakistan, and three of Latin American countries: Brazil, Chile, and Mexico. Of these five countries, India and Pakistan imposed the harshest lockdowns. The stringency index – a number given by the Oxford Covid-19 Government Response Tracker to the harshness of the lockdown imposed – of India’s March 25 lockdown was 100. The highest number recorded for Pakistan was 96. These two countries also relaxed the lockdown the most without the infection slowing its spread. The number hovered around the 80 mark for Brazil, Mexico, and Chile. The former two relaxed the lockdown marginally recently, while Chile made it slightly more stringent.Countries that have seen a significant decline from the peak of their daily cases – viz. rest of the countries excluding Iran – have also reduced the stringency of their lockdowns only after a consistent decline, or have made no or minor relaxations. The latter group includes the United States, which officially made no relaxations; and Turkey and United Kingdom, which gave a marginal relaxation. In the US, however, the strictness number is 72.7.France, Spain, Italy, and Germany have given more relaxations, but only after the peak. Russia, which relaxed its lockdown marginally in the middle of the peak, has seen its number of daily cases stagnate. Saudi Arabia, 16th on the list of countries with the highest cases on June 18, relaxed its lockdown very fast after the cases peaked, and has seen a second wave. So has Iran, which imposed a less strict lockdown to begin with, and has since made only a small reduction in the stringency.Though there is no consensus on, or way to determine, which strategy is the best, a few things are clear: it’s a good idea to impose lockdowns early, make them as strict as possible, and from a spread of disease standpoint, lift them only after the peak. To be sure, factors such the cost of the lockdown – higher for developing than developed countries – may not always allow this. India is a case in point because it imposed the earliest and strictest lockdown, but eased restrictions before cases peaked.NATURAL RELIEFOne good thing the restrictions brought was a breath of fresh air, literally. As people stayed at home, factories, cars, buses fell silent, giving the planet a much-needed (albeit temporary) relief. The air quality in Delhi – notorious for air pollution – improved. The average of PM2.5 concentrations was far better in 2020 compared to 2019 in the period of the lockdown. PM2.5 refers to particles with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers in the air. As the lockdown began to be eased from the second half of May, PM2.5 concentration in Delhi nearly went back to 2019 levels. To be sure, even in the lockdown period, air pollution in the city wasn’t always better than that in 2019. For example, in the April 13 to April 17 period, the concentrations were near the “good” and “satisfactory” range both in 2019 and 2020. This could have occurred last year because there were rains in this period, which might have cleared the air of pollutants. EMPLOYMENTData from the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows the unemployment rate in India rose to 23.8% in the week ended March 29 – the week when the lockdown was introduced – from 8.4% in the preceding week. This was the highest unemployment rate since the survey started in 2016. This was accompanied by a drop in the labour force participation rate (LFPR) – the share of people looking for work – to 39.2%, the lowest since the survey began. Although these numbers are not to be taken at face value – CMIE reported problems in data collection in the lockdown –they do indicate the direction of two things. One, people stopped looking for work due to the lockdown. Two, a higher than usual share of people looking for work didn’t find any. As the lockdown progressed, LFPR continued to drop and reached its lowest level in the week ending April 19, when the lockdown was slightly reduced. LFPR recovered to 38.7% in the last two weeks of May – the last phase of the lockdown. The unemployment rate has, however, not followed the trajectory of the stringency of the lockdown as much as LFPR. Although it did reach a high of 27% in the week ending May 3, when the second phase of the lockdown ended, it mostly hovered around the 24% mark for most of the lockdown period, dropping to 20.2% only in the last phase of the lockdown. POWER DEMANDAs most activity dropped across the country in the weeks following March 25, the demand for power fell as well, according to data gathered by the Brookings India Electricity and Carbon Tracker. An analysis of this data shows that in the first week of March 2020, the demand for power saw an average drop of 1.2% compared to the same period in 2019. In the week between March 25 and March 31, at an average the year-on-year demand for power fell 31.4%, the data shows.In the final week of May, which corresponds with the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown, the average demand for power saw a marginal rise, though it still remained 17.3% below the average demand in the same time period last year. LIFE IN LOCKDOWNMobility of peopleGoogle publishes Covid-19 Community Mobility Reports for 131 countries to show how the lockdown affected the movement of people. The report uses “aggregated and anonymised data to chart movement trends over time by geography” across a range of places such as grocery stores, parks, workplaces and places of transit. WorkplacesMovement at offices and workplaces dropped to its lowest in the recorded time frame touching -72% on March 25 — the day the nationwide lockdown kicked off. It averaged in the late minus 60s till the end of the second phase of the lockdown, from when it started showing a gradual recovery.ResidentialThere was a 30% increase from baseline in mobility around residential areas on the first day of the lockdown. This remained more or less the same through the next five weeks, with the only fluctuations recorded on Sundays. Through May, however, movement around residential areas started dropping every week. Transit hubsWhen the lockdown kicked off, movement at transit hubs such as trains and metro stations dropped 73% from the baseline. In the four weeks since, it recovered slightly and continued to remain around 60% below baseline.Retail and recreationThere was 77% drop in movement at retail and recreational locations across the country on March 25, the first day of the lockdown. This remained low the next few weeks, hovering around 80% through April and most of May, dropping as low as -87% on April 18. Through May, however, activity started recovering slightly by the end of the fourth lockdown. In the week ending June 14, activity continued to remain low, averaging -59%. Grocery and pharmacyThere was 77% drop in movement at retail and recreational locations across the country on March 25. This remained low the next few weeks, hovering around 80% through April and most of May, dropping as low as -87% on April 18. Through May, however, activity started recovering slightly by the end of the fourth lockdown. In the week ending June 14, activity continued to remain low, averaging -59%. ParksThis was one of the fields studied in the report that has shown the least recovery. On May 25, data shows that 54% fewer people were logged in and around parks across the country. This went on to drop to as much as -68% by the end of March. And though it since recovered slightly, movement at parks remained -56% on June 14 – the latest day for which data is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-world-s-strictest-lockdown-affected-india/story-hi96OxJcyZe53JHb5f6gwN.html
23-06-2020||India||Man, sentenced to death for killing son-in-law, acquitted by Madras HC||The Madras high court acquitted on Monday a man found guilty of the daylight killing of his son-in-law, a Dalit, and commuted the death sentence handed to five others in connection with the gruesome crime that sparked public outrage in Tamil Nadu over four years ago. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar acquitted B Chinnaswamy, the father of Kausalya and a member of the dominant Thevar caste, and relieved him of all charges, including criminal conspiracy. The court sentenced five others to life imprisonment for a minimum of 25 years without right to remission.Kausalya’s husband, Shankar, 22, was hacked to death in front of her in Tirupur district’s Udumlapet on March 13, 2016, a chilling crime that was captured on a closed circuit television camera (CCTV). Kausalya, then 19, suffered serious injuries in the attack. The couple fell in love while studying in an engineering college in Pollachi, and married against the wishes of Kausalya’s family in 2015. In December 2017, the Tirupur district sessions court sentenced six people, including Chinnaswamy, who was accused of being the mastermind, to death. Of the 11 accused in the case, three people — Kausalya’s mother, maternal uncle and a minor — were cleared of all charges. Two others got lesser sentences.Chinnaswamy and the other convicts petitioned the high court against the verdict. The five sentenced to 25 years in jail on Monday were the men who were hired to kill Shankar, according to a report on The News Minute. Chinnaswamy’s lawyer, ARL Sundaresan, told the website that the prosecution was not able to prove any conspiracy between Chinnaswamy and the gang. In a statement released on social media, Kausalya condemned the verdict and said she will continue to fight for justice. “I will fight until my Shankar gets justice,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-killing-son-in-law-acquitted-by-madras-hc/story-3tdITyPHW62kthi8GRy8eN.html
23-06-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: Export of 5 million PPE suits a month on cards||The Centre is likely to allow the export of nearly five million personal protective equipment (PPE) suits a month, officials aware of the matter said, as India moves from not making enough suits to making more than it needs, and global demand remains strong. The suits are critical in the fight against Covid-19, preventing infections, especially in high-risk health care settings. The textile industry has been seeking permission for the exports citing PPE surpluses in the country and losses it has suffered because of the pandemic. A Clothes Manufacturing Association of India survey of around 1,000 factories in May found the industry’s mainstay--apparel sales--plummeted to a historic low of 84% because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed in late March to check its spread.PPE exports were stopped on January 31. This included all forms of protective equipment including suits made for firefighters and bulletproof jackets. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT )on Monday lifted the ban on various kinds of cloth masks that were prohibited in March. However, government officials maintain that the ban on medical equipment is also likely to be lifted soon. Officials from the textile and commerce ministries met the cabinet secretary on Friday to discuss the proposal. “Nearly 50 lakh [five million] PPE suits will be allowed to be exported, to begin with,” said a government official familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. “The decision has been taken at the cabinet secretary-level. However, final orders will be issued by the commerce ministry.”A textile ministry official said several rounds of discussions between different stakeholders have taken place and the decision for allowing the exports is likely to made official before the end of the week. Textile ministry officials acknowledged the PPE production has reached surplus levels and the 20.2 million PPE suits that the government placed orders for in March have been supplied. They said there will be restrictions on the quantum of exports. “We will keep a close watch on the numbers to ensure there is no shortage for our country,” added the textile ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity. Officials added manufacturers will have to comply with international standards and acquire all required certifications to make sure their products are up to the mark. South India Mills Association President K Selvaraju said there is no market presently for garments or knitwear and that textile companies have been requesting the government to allow them to export PPE kits. He added they have reached a point where they can produce nearly 10 million kits a month. A member of the textile association who asked not to be named , said it would be “surprising if too many PPE suits were exported”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-export-of-5-million-ppe-suits-a-month-on-cards/story-xWPand59JAdkKe3CdWAJRK.html
23-06-2020||India||In marathon talks, India seeks de-escalation, Chinese retreat||A week after a brutal clash between soldiers from the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, top military officials from the two sides held a marathon meeting on Monday at Moldo on the Chinese side of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) with a focus on cooling tensions and thinning military build-up on both sides of the border. The Indian side was demanding the pullback of Chinese troops from the Finger Area (a cluster of strategic features in the north bank of Pangong Tso) where the PLA has set up bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, according to two officials aware of the developments. They said the army was also demanding the withdrawal of PLA troops from Galwan Valley, the site of the deadly clash on June 15, and the restoration of status quo ante in key strategic areas.Also Read: India has closed military gap with China along borderThe meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, began around 11.30am and was on till 10.15pm, the officials cited above said. There was no official word from the army till the time of going to print.The two officials familiar with the talks at the military level said India was seeking an assurance from the Chinese side on ending aggression along the border, after the deadly brawl at Gawlan Valley on June 15 and another face-off Pangong Tso on May 5-6. During both skirmishes, Chinese soldiers gathered in large numbers and attacked Indian troops with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs. India was also demanding the thinning of Chinese military deployments in “depth areas” on their side of the disputed border, the officials said. The aim of the talks was also to restore status quo in the Finger Area, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Galwan Valley, they said. Also Read: ‘Not bats. They are Batman’: Indian Army’s tribute to Bihar RegimentAccording to the officials, the army was especially concerned about the PLA’s presence in the Finger Area, especially Chinese activities between Finger 4 and Finger 8 over the last seven weeks, the officials said. Chinese military positions in the Finger Area restrict the scope of the Indian Army patrolling areas New Delhi considers its territory.India also flagged concerns about a build-up of Chinese troops, armoured vehicles and artillery units in the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector, north of Pangong Tso. The army wants the Chinese forces to move back from their current positions to areas where they were in early April.This was the second meeting of two officers of corps commander rank who earlier met on June 6, when the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease rising tensions along the contested border. Also Read: Will ‘Boycott China’ strategy really help?But tensions peaked in the aftermath of the June 15 skirmish. It was the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in 45 years. According to India’s assessment, while the army lost 20 soldiers, the PLA’s casualties was more than twice that; but Beijing was yet to confirm the fatalities on its side. Meanwhile, both sides have marshalled thousands of soldiers on their respective sides of the LAC, and the military build-up comprised fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns and missile systems.In another significant development, India changed its rules of engagement at the LAC last week, giving complete freedom of action to commanders deployed along the border to handle situations at the tactical level. Commanders are no longer bound by restrictions on the use of firearms and have full authority to respond to extraordinary situations using all resources at their disposal, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday made a detailed assessment of the situation at the disputed border and was briefed by the military brass about the preparations of the armed forces and their readiness to respond to any provocative actions by the Chinese forces. And on Monday, the army’s top brass made a detailed assessment of the ground situation in eastern Ladakh. The developments along the LAC and the army’s operational readiness to handle any situation were discussed at the army commanders’ conference chaired by Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane.General Naravane will visit Leh on Tuesday for a security review of the Ladakh sector. Senior officers will brief him on the latest developments along the border. This will be his second visit to Ladakh sector after the border standoff began in early-May. He had earlier visited Leh on May 22.On June 13, General Naravane said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC with China where the situation is “under control.” He said the disengagement had begun as a result of military-level talks between the two sides, including the meeting between top Indian and Chinese commanders on June 6.Intense negotiations through diplomatic and military channels, including three rounds of talks between major general-ranked officers, led to the release of 10 Indian soldiers detained by the Chinese side during the June 15 incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-marathon-talks-india-seeks-de-escalation-chinese-retreat/story-LdO1m8CD5ljUTNPHhugAIO.html
23-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||This column is about my favourite topic, testing, but from a different perspective — positivity rates.India’s positivity rate (the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 as a proportion of those tested) has been rising for the past four weeks.The table below captures the average weekly positivity rates for states that report testing data regularly, and also at the national level.India’s positivity rate has increased from 5.37% in the week ended May 24 to 7.74% in the week ended June 21. The World Health Organization says a positivity rate of between 3% and 12% is adequate — or indicates that a country/state/city is testing enough. The view among scientists and doctors at the Harvard Global Health Institute is that anything over 10% indicates insufficient testing.So, why should we worry about a 7.74% positivity rate?Before we answer that, it’s important to understand why progressive positivity rates — or the trend line of positivity rates — matter. Any disease, Covid-19 included, can be said to be on the wane if we find fewer cases as we test more people from the population. Conversely, it can be said to be on the rise if we find more.India’s positivity rate has increased by 2.37 percentage points over the past four weeks. This is a period when overall testing has increased. In the week ended May 31, India conducted 803,616 tests a week, an average of 114,802 a day. This number was 1.176 million, or an average of 168,051 a day for the week ended June 21. Thus, at a time when testing increased, so did the positivity rate — or, as we tested more, we found more (not fewer) positive cases.Statistically, a measure such as the positivity rate will increase with more testing up to a point, and then start decreasing. The positivity rate in many countries may not have followed this pattern (especially because of rules governing who can be or needs to be tested) but it’s easy to see why this should be so — not just for Covid-19 but for just about anything. The number of tests at which the positivity rate starts decreasing is a perfect numerical measure of adequacy (which means it answers a question often posed in this column: how do we know we are testing enough?).India’s aggregate data on positivity rates is muddied by the fact that most states mention the number of samples tested, not the number of individuals. Many states require infected (at least seriously infected) people who have been hospitalised or isolated in an institutional facility to be tested before discharge. Given this, the positivity rates of many states will actually be higher. Tamil Nadu is one of the few states that mentions both the number of samples and individuals tested.So, how should the table accompanying this piece be interpreted? In general, any state where the number is below 10%, and where it has seen an increase and then a plateau or a decrease, can be said to be testing adequately (both conditions have to be met).States where the number is trending upward, despite being below 10%, are clearly not testing enough. And states where the number is above 10% and is continuing to trend upward have a real problem on their hands.Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana (to some extent), and Maharashtra all seem to belong to the third category of states. Telangana and Tamil Nadu (especially the latter) appear to have things under control.But many of the states are seeing an increase in positivity rates (even though the number itself is below 10%).Four weeks may be too narrow a time-frame to base conclusions on, but over a longer period (say eight weeks; and it’s important to pick the right weeks; March and April saw very few cases in India, so, in hindsight, it does not make sense to pick weeks from those months), a trend analysis of positivity rates may be able to tell us when we are testing enough to stay ahead of the disease.Right now, we aren’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-xIggQhqnwF5jgIRmPbTm5L.html
23-06-2020||India||Congress pushes for SIT probe into Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh’s Jheerum Valley||Amid a tug-of-war between the Centre and Chhattisgarh government over a fresh case registered by the state police last month in connection with the Jheerum valley ambush by Maoists in 2013, the ruling Congress party in the state asked why the BJP “was afraid of an SIT probe” into the attack.It also alleged a nexus between the opposition BJP and left wing extremists and asked why the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is trying to take over the probe into a fresh FIR lodged last month by Jitendra Mudliyar, son of Uday Mudliyar who was killed in the Jheerum attack.In one of the biggest hits on politicians, Maoists had attacked a convoy of Congress leaders during the party’s ‘Parivartan Rally’ in Jheerum valley on May 25, 2013, killing 27 people. Among the victims were the then state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of opposition Mahendra Karma and former union minister Vidya Charan Shukla who died of injuries a few days later.“Several incidents have come to light in the past that indicate BJP had been working hand-in-glove with the Maoists”, state’s Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey and Forest Minister Mohammad Akbar alleged in a joint press conference.Recently a BJP leader was arrested in Dantewada on charges of helping Maoists, Choubey said citing other similar instances.The ministers asked why the BJP was scared of a probe into a “conspiracy angle” into the Jhiram incident.“The BJP does not want the conspiracy angle into the Jhiram attack to be probed. After the NIA took over the probe, they declared Maoist leaders Ganpati and Ramanna as absconders in March 2014 and released information about confiscating their properties in the media. But surprisingly, the names of the two leaders were not mentioned in the charge sheet filed by the NIA in September that year. The NIA investigation into the case derailed after the NDA government came to power in 2014,” they claimed.The conspiracy angle was not even in the terms of reference of the probe Commission set up by the previous BJP government into the incident. The previous government in the state also ignored the demand for a CBI enquiry into the incident, the ministers claimed.After the Congress came to power, it constituted a special investigation team to probe the incident and sought the final report of the case from the NIA so that conspiracy angle can be investigated. But the NIA refused to share any documents with the SIT claiming that the probe was incomplete even as the status of the case on its website showed the probe was completed, Akbar said.Last month, Jitendra Mudliyar lodged a fresh case at Darbha police station seeking to probe the conspiracy angle into the incident. Subsequently, the NIA which works under the Union government, filed an application before the special court (Jagdalpur) on June 16 seeking to take over the probe into the fresh case, he said.The two ministers alleged that the Jheerum attack was a contract killing and asked why the NIA is trying to take over the probe into the new case.Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kaushik rubbished the allegations and asked the Congress to submit any evidence it had.“When the Jhiram valley incident had taken place, UPA was in power at the Centre. NIA conducted its investigation according to the points of investigation fixed by the then UPA rule. Hence, the Congress should have faith on the investigation conducted by the NIA”, Kahusik said.He asked the Congress to be patient and have faith in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-pushes-for-sit-probe-into-maoist-attack-in-chhattisgarh-s-jheerum-valley/story-mPxv3ZiCGPaxpCIOr9Qu6O.html
23-06-2020||India||New video captures scuffle between Indian, Chinese troops||An undated video capturing a scuffle between Indian and Chinese soldiers purportedly in north Sikkim’s Naku La area surfaced on social media on Monday.The army did not verify the location or the date of the five-minute video but people familiar with developments said the visuals were as recent as this month and the site of the scuffle appeared to be in north Sikkim where soldiers from the two sides were involved a violent face-off last month. The new video, however, is not from May 9 Naku La clash between more than 150 Indian and Chinese soldiers that left 11 troops injured, the people said. The new video shows around 25 Indian and Chinese soldiers exchanging blows and pushing each other around, with the Indian side seeming to be in control of things. The video has surfaced at a time border tensions between Indian and China are at a peak in eastern Ladakh. Visuals capturing brawls between Indian and Chinese soldiers keep have surfaced on regular intervals.Last month, an undated video and a photograph that captured violent scraps between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh surfaced on social media, bringing the border feud along into sharp focus. The army then said the visuals were “not authenticated” and linking them with the border situation was “mala fide”.While the two-minute-45 second video that surfaced last month ostensibly showed a brawl between troops of the two countries on the banks of Pangong Tso in which the Indian side looked dominant, the photograph showed injured and bleeding Indian soldiers at the receiving end of Chinese aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-video-captures-scuffle-between-indian-chinese-troops/story-Mx5G4hkz6LpBb2sF0reXQO.html
23-06-2020||India||No threat to BJP-led Manipur govt: Sarma||Guwahati: Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday said there is no threat to Manipur’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition days after the party’s three lawmakers resigned and six others withdrew support to chief minister N Biren Singh’s government.“The situation is more or less under control. We are consulting with all our MLAs [members of legislative assembly] and things will be resolved nicely. There is nothing to worry,” said Sarma, who heads the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA). The BJP came to power in Manipur for the first time in 2017 even as Congress emerged as the single largest party in the 60-member House with 28 seats. It secured 21 seats but formed the government with support of other NEDA constituents--National People’s Party (NPP), Naga People’s Front (NPF) and one lawmaker each from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and an Independent legislator.Three BJP lawmakers resigned last week while four NPP, and the lone TMC and the Independent legislator withdrew their support to the ruling coalition.Sarma and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who heads NPP, flew to Imphal on a chartered flight sort out differences among the coalition partners.“All discussions are taking place in a very positive manner and you will see good results in the next 2-3 days. There is absolutely no worry. Tomorrow [Tuesday], I will go to Imphal again.”He said since the Speaker has disqualified some lawmakers, there could be some difference in the “architecture” of the coalition. “But more or less, we are continuing with the spirit of NEDA... All complaints and grievances will be addressed. There is no question of leadership change,” said Sarma amid speculation that the chief minister may be replaced to bring back NPP into the coalition.NPP legislators quit the government saying they were unhappy with Singh’s way of functioning.BJP’s strength in the Manipur House has come down to 18 with the resignation of its three lawmakers. It still enjoys the support of 4 NPF and 1 LJP legislator and the coalition’s tally is 23.Congress has 20 lawmakers and with support of four 4 NPP, one TMC and Independent legislator, the newly formed Secular Progressive Front (SPF) it leads has 26 legislators.Due to disqualifications and resignations, the Manipur assembly’s strength has been reduced to 52.Despite the reduced numbers, BJP’s Sanajaoba Leishemba was able to win the Rajya Sabha election on Friday securing 28 votes. Congress candidate T Mangibabu’s got 24 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-threat-to-bjp-led-manipur-govt-sarma/story-JaPE1GYThwu0iJoFNsTEyH.html
23-06-2020||India||Man kills wife; flies to Kolkata to shoot mother-in-law, self||A 42-year-old businessman killed his estranged wife in Bengaluru and then returned to Kolkata where he shot himself after allegedly shooting his 65-year-old mother-in-law on Monday afternoon. Police said that a divorce suit was on between the man and his 40-year-old wife for the past two years. The couple has a 10-year-old son, who is safe, police said. “We have initiated a case and an investigation is on,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata Police’s detective department. On Monday, around 5.30 pm, the man went to his in-laws’ flat in an upscale complex in Phoolbagan area and had a heated altercation with his 70-year-old father-in-law. When his mother-in-law intervened, the man allegedly shot her from a close range.His father-in-law then rushed out of the flat, locking it from outside. He sought his neighbour’s help and police was informed.When police opened the door, they found the man lying in a pool of blood on the bed. The firearm was lying on the floor.“The man had returned to Kolkata by flight on Monday. Further investigation is on,” said a senior police officerPolice then alerted the Bengaluru police. The woman’s body was found by officers of the Whitefield police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-kills-wife-flies-to-kolkata-to-shoot-mother-in-law-self/story-i2aih1qyzgDfxnqmBGpAHI.html
23-06-2020||India||Closure notice issued to Assam OIL withdrawn||The Pollution Control Board of Assam (PCBA) conditionally withdrew on Monday the closure notice issued to Oil India Limited’s (OIL) Baghjan oil field where a blowout last month sparked an inferno that displaced thousands, spewed thousands of litres of oil and gas into the fragile ecosystem and wreaked havoc on the local wildlife. In a letter to OIL’s resident chief executive based in Assam’s Duliajan, PCBA said the closure notice issued on June 19 was withdrawn following an affidavit by the company to the pollution watchdog that said OIL will submit a detailed timebound environmental management plan within 15 days.Monday’s order – seen by HT – also said OIL will have to apply for consent to operate (CTO) under section 25 of the Water (Prevention And Control) Act 1974 and section 21 of the Air (Prevention And Control) Act 1981 separately each for drilling, production and other installations along with an environmental management plan.“They have to submit all the details of hazardous waste generated, disposed and treatment facilities as per the Hazardous and Other Waste (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016,” the letter said.DN Das, member secretary of the PCBA, was not reachable for a comment.“Yes they have withdrawn the closure order after we gave them a very detailed affidavit and made a payment of Rs 24 lakh which was for CTO and CTE applications. The payment was pending because of a technical snag,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL.The board issued the closure notice on Friday on the grounds that the company has been operating it without prior permissions, including the key “consent to establish” and “consent to operate” clearances.“Baghjan oil field is located just 500 metres to the Maguri Motapung wetland which is part of eco-sensitive zone of Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which is effected severely due to the negligence from your end,” read the closure notice. “You are destroying the aquatic life of Dibru Saikhowa National Park and Maguri Motapung wetland , of endangered species in the name of exploring oil without any mitigation measures,” it added.The blowout that began on May 27 led to the uncontrollable flow of oil from gas well 5 -- causing extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife the region, according to a preliminary report on the environmental damage caused by the incident. There are 17 oil wells and five gas wells in the Baghjan oil field, which generates 1,200 kilolitres of crude oil and 1.5 to 2 million metric standard cubic metres of gas per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closure-notice-issued-to-assam-oil-withdrawn/story-3LOvMTGicGKzgqSobogp8I.html
23-06-2020||India||Timely help to Iran helps India check locust attack||Indian agricultural scientists have been successful in tackling the spread of crop-devastating locusts with tight measures and by arming Iran to cut invasions towards India, helping protect 114,026 hectares of crops in six most “at-risk” states as on June 22, according to official data.The most threatened states where locust attacks have been curbed are Rajasthan, Punjab, MP, Gujarat, Maharashtra and UP, as the country robustly heads into its summer-sown kharif crop season. To be sure, India is still among five nations which cannot lower their guard for the next four weeks, the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has said in its latest alert on June 21. Desert locusts can fly up to 150km daily and a one square-km swarm can eat as much food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the FAO Desert Locust Information Service manual. The voracious pests, which originate in the Horn of Africa, can flatten farms overnight if not checked. Locust attacks are known to cause considerable drops in food output, roiling farm economies.Since May, India has ramped up containment, in area terms, by 42% (from about 49,000 hectares to nearly 114,026 hectares). One hectare is roughly 2.4 acres.The pests appeared earlier than expected this year. Adult populations set off in thick swarms from Africa, descending and breeding in several countries before entering India via Iran and Pakistan through the so-called Scheduled Desert Areas abutting the country’s western borders.Since April, locusts have appeared in large districts such as Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Bikaner in Rajasthan, Moriana in Madhya Pradesh and Nashik and Nagpur regions in Maharashtra.Among several measures taken to counter the threat, India shipped early this month nearly 20,000 litre of malathion, the main pesticide to control locusts, to Iran under a collaboration to implement strategies control strategies. Containing locusts in Iran help India because the country lies on the invasion route. The pesticide, malathion, at 96% concentration, effectively kill locusts, according to the FAO manual. Authorities maintain stocks of minimum 5,000 litres at this concentration at “location control stations across states where pesticide can be mobilised for immediate requirement, according India’s national manual for locust control”. A surge in locust attacks since last year is being attributed to favourable breeding weather caused by a large number of cyclones in East Africa since last year according to the FAO.According to Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, India has developed a regional cooperation mechanism involving South Asians nation to fight the pestilence. Pakistan, however, skipped a technical-level meeting with India on June 19.“There have been no significant findings of crop damage in the locust affected states of Gujarat, MP, Rajasthan, Punjab, Maharastra and UP to new kharif crops, where containment measures and constant surveillance continue,” the official cited in the first instance said on condition of anonymity.Millions of farmers plant a range of summer crops that account for half of India annual food output, driven by good rains. These include rice, pulses, oilseeds and millets, apart from horticulture and sugar plantations. In the last week of May, before kharif plantings, surveillance field units reported between 5% and 10% of crop damage in 1000 hectares in Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Bikaner of Rajasthan and 5-10% of 400 hectares in Moraina district of Madhya Pradesh.“India has a good experience of fighting the pest from two previous outbreaks, in 1950 and 1993. This has come in handy,” said JN Thakur, a former chief of locust monitoring at the agriculture ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-help-to-iran-helps-india-check-locust-attack/story-0mVLObWJn2wCip1sg6rnjI.html
23-06-2020||India||Manmohan Singh remarks on India-Sino border tensions stir up row||A Prime Minister must be mindful of the implications of his words on a nation’s strategic interests, former PM Manmohan Singh said in his first public remarks on the Sino-Indian border tensions on Monday, stressing that “disinformation” was no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership.His statement was an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting on Friday that neither anyone is present in the Indian territory nor is any Indian post captured by the Chinese. The Congress party says the PM’s stand contradicts past remarks by the defence minister and the foreign minister on Chinese intrusion. Singh said China should not be allowed to use the PM’s words as a “vindication” of its position that it did not enter the Indian side, and called upon the government to ensure justice for the 20 Indian Army soldiers killed in a deadly clash with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on June 15.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was quick to hit back. The party’s chief JP Nadda termed Singh’s statement “mere wordplay”, asked him not to “share his wisdom” on the Prime Minister’s responsibilities, and accused him of ceding ground to China when he was in power at the Centre.“One only wishes that Dr Singh was as worried about Chinese designs when, as PM, he abjectly surrendered hundreds of square kilometres of India’s land to China. He presided over 600 incursions made by China between 2010 to 2013!” Nadda tweeted, referring to Singh’s tenure as PM.In his statement, Singh said the government’s decisions and actions will have “serious bearings on how the future generations perceive us”. He added that India was at a historic crossroads and those who lead us “bear the weight of solemn duty”. “And in our democracy that responsibility rests with the office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister must always be mindful of the implications of his words and declarations on our nation’s security as also strategic and territorial interests,” Singh said.“The Prime Minister cannot allow them [China] to use his words as a vindication of their position and must ensure that all organs of the government work together to tackle this crisis and prevent it from escalating further,” he added.In the wake of a controversy over the PM’s remarks at the all-party meeting, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Saturday that there was a “mischievous interpretation” of Modi’s comments, and that the Prime Minister was clear that India will respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the LAC.Singh said China was brazenly and illegally seeking to claim parts of Indian territory such as the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Tso Lake by committing multiple incursions since April. “We cannot and will not be cowed down by threats and intimidation nor permit a compromise with our territorial integrity,” he said.The statement came a day ahead of a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, which is expected to discuss, among other issues, the India-China border standoff and the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country.Singh also said “we must stand together” at this moment and put up a united front in response to this “brazen threat”. “We remind the government that disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership. The truth cannot be suppressed by having pliant allies spout comforting but false statements,” he added.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, who has alleged that Modi surrendered Indian territory to the Chinese, said he hoped the Prime Minister will “politely” accept Singh’s advice for the betterment of India. In his reply, Nadda said the Congress and its leaders should stop insulting the armed forces and Singh should look at his own record. “Please stop insulting of forces repeatedly, questioning their valour. You did this post the air strikes (in Balakot in 2019) and surgical strikes (in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in 2016). Please understand the true meaning of national unity, especially in such times. It’s never too late to improve,” he posted.“Dr Manmohan Singh can certainly share his wisdom on many subjects but the responsibilities of the office of the Prime Minister aren’t one of them. UPA (Congress-led United Progressive Alliance) personified systematic institutional erosion of that office, combined with disrespect for our armed forces. NDA has reversed that!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-remarks-on-india-sino-border-tensions-stir-up-row/story-Y8vHkOlqliQ5X0ofLl1EXJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Telangana govt blames Centre as state sees highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases||The Telangana government on Monday blamed the Centre’s Narendra Modi government for the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the low incidence of testing in the state as it witnessed the highest single-day spike in infections.The state reported 872 new Covid-19 positive cases, the most in a single day so far, taking its total count to 8,674. Seven deaths were also reported during the day.Areas falling under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Area (GHMC) accounted for 713 of all cases reported on Monday.Criticising the central government, state health minister Eatala Rajender said in a statement that the Modi government had done nothing for the state to help fight the coronavirus pandemic. “It washed off its hands by giving calls to the people to clap their hands and light the lamps,” he said.Rajender alleged that the Centre had even diverted the Covid-19 testing machines ordered by Telangana to other states. He said that the Telangana government had placed an order with Roche Diagnostics Private Ltd in Mumbai in the first week of June for importing three Cobas 8800 Automated Molecular Systems, each having a capacity of testing 3,500 to 4,000 tests for Covid-19, from Frankfurt, Germany.“The first consignment of the instrument was to be imported by the company on June 8. In the meantime, Indian Council of Medical Research had written to Roche Diagnostics last week, instructing that the instrument be diverted to National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), Kolkata immediately, on the pretext of national emergency and pandemic scenario,” the minister alleged.However, the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has blamed the KCR government for failure to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Several BJP leaders including Telangana unit president Bandi Sanjay were put under house arrest on Monday as they were planning to hold dharna t in front of the Gandhi hospital in Hyderabad. Accusing the BJP leaders of resorting to cheap and dirty politics on Covid-19 pandemic, Rajender said nobody could ever question the integrity and commitment of the K Chandrasekhar Rao government in fighting the virus.“The Centre had washed off its hands by giving just Rs 214 crore to fight the Covid-19 and asking the people to clap and light lamps. The BJP leaders have no moral right to accuse the state government of conducting less number of tests, while the Centre diverted the testing machines being imported by the Centre,” he said.He said the state-run labs at present have the capacity of conducting 2,290 tests per day and it would be increased to another 4,310 tests by next week.According to the health bulletin, 3,189 samples were tested on Monday of which 872 turned out to be positive. Hyderabad accounted for 713 cases, followed by 107 infections from Ranga Reddy and 16 cases from Medchal districts.While 12 cases were reported from Sangareddy, there were six from Warangal Rural, five from Mancherial, three each from Kamareddy and Medak, two each from Jangaon, Karimnagar and Mahabubabad and one case from Warangal Urban.With a cumulative testing of 60,243 samples so far, Telangana has reported 8,674 Covid-19 positive cases that included 217 deaths while 51,569 samples came negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-blames-centre-as-state-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-BUKmBjESAAYhi9WRcnyVZP.html
23-06-2020||India||Joint statement unlikely after RIC virtual meeting||A joint statement is not expected to be issued after the virtual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23, being held under the shadow of the India-China border standoff, people familiar with developments said on Monday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar will join his counterparts from Russia and China — Sergey Lavrov and Wang Yi — for the virtual meeting.The people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the three sides in the RIC grouping were unable to reach agreement on a draft of the statement as there were differences over a few paragraphs. Further details couldn’t immediately be ascertained.India had been reluctant to join the RIC meeting following the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese border troops at Galwan Valley that left 20 soldiers dead. However, it agreed to do so after a push from Russia, a key strategic ally and military hardware supplier for India.Both Indian and Russian officials have insisted that the June 23 virtual meeting is a trilateral affair — meaning bilateral issues such as the India-China border standoff won’t be on the agenda. The external affairs ministry has said the RIC meet will focus on the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, and cooperation within the grouping to tackle challenges to financial stability and global security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/joint-statement-unlikely-after-ric-virtual-meeting/story-6A7FeVxAifq5sO1ndPgiZL.html
23-06-2020||India||OIC body rejects Art 370 move||A key body of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Monday backed the Kashmiri people’s demand for self-determination and rejected the Indian government’s decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.A virtual meeting of the OIC’s contact group on Kashmir, held on Pakistan’s call, adopted a communique that also expressed concern over ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) and called on India to “rescind its unilateral and illegal actions, and allow the Kashmiri people to freely exercise their right to self-determination through a UN-supervised plebiscite”.A statement issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office said the communiqué was unanimously adopted by the contact group.A separate statement issued by the OIC said the contact group reaffirmed continued support for the Kashmiri people and called on the UN secretary-general to make India abide by the UN Security Council resolutions and “engage in dialogue to calm the situation in the region”.The contact group called on India to halt security operations in Kashmir, respect basic human rights, “refrain from changing the demographic structure” of the region and settle the issue under UN Security Council resolutions, according to the OIC statement.The statement added the contact group had welcomed efforts by some OIC members to calm the situation between India and Pakistan.There was no immediate response to the developments from Indian officials. India has traditionally described such actions by the OIC as interference in the country’s internal matters.Pakistan has been pushing for such a meeting on the Kashmir issue since the Indian government scrapped the special status of Jammu and Kashmir last August and split the erstwhile state into two union territories. However, India’s close friends within the OIC, including several Arab states, had stymied these efforts.The communique, according to the statement from Pakistan’s foreign ministry, reaffirmed “support for the legitimate struggle of the Kashmiri people for realization of their inalienable right to self-determination and freedom from Indian occupation” and rejected the “newly-notified Jammu & Kashmir Reorganization Order 2020 and Jammu & Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate Rules 2020”, claiming they were “aimed at changing the demographic structure” of Kashmir.The contact group demanded India should halt “human rights violations; stop indiscriminate use of force; lift the unabated military siege and inhuman lockdown; repeal its draconian emergency laws…and release all illegal detainees”.OIC secretary general Yousaf Al-Othaimeen chaired the virtual meeting that was joined by the foreign ministers of Pakistan, Azerbaijan, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and a senior representative of Niger. Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi led the Pakistani delegation, which included the “president” of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and representatives of Hurriyat from PoK.Qureshi conveyed Pakistan’s concern at the new domicile rules in Kashmir, alleging they were meant to change the demographic structure. He alleged India had intensified ceasefire violations along the LoC....[Message clipped] View entire message||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oic-body-rejects-art-370-move/story-le4PpVB1RQPCNN4aUdZoTP.html
23-06-2020||India||China blames India for face-off, talks on||China on Monday again blamed India for initiating the violent clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last week that left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese troops dead even as it said the two countries were in touch to resolve the issue through diplomatic and military channels.“The Chinese [side] has repeatedly stated that the rights and wrongs of this incident are very clear and initiated by the Indian side, and the responsibility does not rest with China,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson’s office said in a written statement in Mandarin to HT.“China always strictly abides by the agreements signed between the two countries and carries out patrols and duties on the Chinese side of the line of actual control (LAC).”The statement added Beijing hopes that the two sides will “…earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, step up communication and coordination on properly handling the border situation and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity of the border area”.China on Friday released a so-called step-by-step account of the clash. It claimed Galwan Valley “is located on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control in the west section of the China-India boundary” and blamed India for the clash.India rejected the claims of China’s sovereignty over the Valley, calling them “exaggerated and untenable”.At a regular briefing on Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry also refused to share any details of the ongoing military-to-military talks in the region. It stalled a query on the number of casualties that the People’s Liberation Army suffered in the hand-to-hand fighting on June 15 in Galwan Valley.“China and India are in communication with each other to resolve the situation on the ground through diplomatic and military channels. I have no information to release on that,” the ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said.Zhao’s comment was in response to a query on Indian minister V K Singh’s statement on Sunday in which he said China could have lost double the number of soldiers India lost in the clash.The Chinese government has refused to reveal its casualty figures though state-controlled media has said both sides suffered casualties.INDIAN RESPONSE, INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-blames-india-for-face-off-talks-on/story-Mo4FzgBMkcXqU4552WqLeP.html
23-06-2020||India||Delhi govt to give home testing devices, oxygen support access||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the government will equip every district with oxygen concentrators so that Covid-19 patients are immediately administered oxygen in their homes if the need arises. The chief minister also said that every Covid-19 patient under home isolation will be given a pulse-oximeter device so they can frequently check their oxygen levels and alert the district officials, in case of an emergency. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said in Covid cases, the biggest concern is that the oxygen levels of the patient drop suddenly and often drastically. “To ensure there is no delay in administering oxygen to such patients, every district administration will now keep a certain number of oxygen concentrators at their disposal so that oxygen is provided to the Covid-19 patient in their homes on an immediate basis. Our teams will reach your home immediately to provide oxygen. If needed, the patient will be shifted to a hospital,” he said adding that phone numbers will be made public in every district for people to avail this service. Kejriwal said the decision was taken after the government observed that on some occasions the lag created in providing treatment to a Covid-19 patient by transporting him/her from their homes to the hospital can result in the worsening of the patient’s condition. The moves comes at a time where there has been confusion over protocols that are to be followed for cases in home isolation, which began after Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the administrative head of the city, issued an order on Friday that virtually did away with the practice -- before walking back on it on Saturday after it triggered concerns and anger among people. On Sunday, the Union home ministry asked the Delhi government to provide the details of each and every Covid death in the city to assess whether the deaths were because the patients were not taken to a hospital on time or there had been a delay in treating them. According to Delhi’s health bulletin on Monday,there were 12,922 people in home isolation from among the 23,820 active cases.Kejriwal on Monday also said that the government will give pulse-oximeters to every Covid patient under home isolation so they can check their oxygen levels from time to time. “Once the patient’s condition improves, you can return it to us in 10 days or so,” he said. Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor in the department of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi said the initiative has been much-needed, especially since the Capital has been recording over 3,000 new cases every day. “This is a time when the number of cases is increasing so rapidly because of which hospital beds need to be optimised. The idea of the Delhi government is to maintain the oxygen level of the patent above 90%, until they recover on their own. Keeping oxygen concentrators handy in every district will help the family of the patient to buy time to search for beds and get admission in an hospital, if the patient is serious or moderately serious,” said Gupta. He said the Delhi government’s decision on pulse-oximeters is in tandem with the central government’s recent scheme through which people can buy these devices at a cost of Rs 1,200. The chief minister, for the first time, directly attacked China for “sending the virus” and “causing troubles at the border”.“Today, the entire world is waging two wars against China. One is against the virus they sent and another is at the border. Against the virus we have our doctors, nurses battling it out. At the borders, there are the armed forces. Our 20 soldiers did not step back, we will also not step back in both these wars,” Kejriwal said. Appreciating the support extended by the Central government in Delhi’s fight against Covid-19, Kejriwal reiterated that this is not the time to do politics or fight among each other. “If we do not units, Corona will win,” he said. The chief minister also said that testing in Delhi has now been increased by over three times and that people should now face no problem in getting themselves tested for Covid. “Earlier around 5,000 tests were being done per day, now 18,000 tests are being conducted per day. All labs have been asked to ramp up and use their resources to full capacity. Antigen tests have also started in Delhi and mild or asymptomatic patients are being treated at home only. Our team calls them to keep a tab on them,” he said.Kejriwal said on June 12, 5,300 beds were occupied and as on Monday, 6,200 beds were filled. “In 10 days, we have seen 23,000 fresh cases, but only 900 beds in hospital have been filled. As many as 7,000 beds were vacant as on Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-give-home-testing-devices-oxygen-support-access/story-4ovcUDrRxe4Xh7iPBO5VKK.html
23-06-2020||India||HC stays bail given to principal in Delhi riots case||The Delhi high court on Monday stayed the bail granted to a school principal, who has been charged with allegedly conspiring to “precipitate and aggravate riots” in the national capital in February.A trial court on Saturday granted the bail to Faisal Farooq. It cited CCTV footage and said it did not show his presence at the place where the riots had broken out. It said the charge sheet filed in this case is bereft of material showing his links with other riot accused.The high court issued a notice to Farooq and posted the hearing in the matter for Tuesday. The Delhi police challenged the bail saying he was found to be the “kingpin and mastermind” involving an incident during the riots that involved a mob that entered his school and “create havoc” from its terrace. They have claimed that rioters fired bullets, threw petrol bombs, acid, bricks, stones using an improvised catapult specially installed for the purpose.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, who appeared for the police, told the high court that Farooq is an influential person in the area. They cited investigation and added the rioters in Rajdhani School and outside fired indiscriminately and caused losses to life and limb and property.The police have also charged 18 others in connection with the violence at the school. Farooq’s counsel Gaurav Kocchar said though the bail was granted on Saturday, bail bonds and personal surety bonds were to be filled on Monday but the police challenged the order even before the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-bail-given-to-principal-in-delhi-riots-case/story-dKolAGFKhhOvsmrznE6gsO.html
23-06-2020||India||Serological survey to assess spread of Covid outbreak will start June 27||The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) will carry out the serological survey to assess the Covid-19 spread in the national capital for the Delhi government, a senior official aware of the process said on Monday, as officials in the city administration and the Union health ministry worked out details of how the programme will be launched later this week.The serological survey -- a random test of 20,000 people from across the city to assess if they have in the past been infected by the coronavirus -- was suggested by the Union government in an effort to intensify efforts to contain the outbreak in Delhi, which now has 62,655 cases, second only to Maharashtra’s 135,796, data collated by HT showed on Monday.The survey is scheduled to begin from June 27. “HLL Lifecare Limited is procuring antibody test kits on behalf of Centre for testing in Delhi. And National Centre for Disease Control under the Union ministry of health and family welfare will conduct the sero surveillance for Delhi government,” the senior government official, who asked not to be named, said.Around 20,000 people representing a cross-section of Delhi’s population will be tested across the 11 districts within two weeks under the revamped action plan issued by the ministry of home affairs after a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday.Antibody tests detect the presence of antibodies produced by the body to fight Covid-19 infection. It helps identify people who have recovered from Covid-19 without being tested because they were asymptomatic, had mild disease, or could not get tested for some reason. Finding these hitherto undetected cases will help the state government estimate the true burden of Covid-19 in Delhi and plan an appropriate response. According to district-level officials, the protocols for the survey are being worked upon. “We have yet to receive the guidelines for sero-surveillance in Delhi. The details will be worked out through out the week. Currently, our teams are focussing on antigen testing,” said a district official, asking not to be named.Delhi started using rapid antigen tests – that can give results in 15 minutes – on Thursday. Over 7,000 people were tested on the very first day, followed by over 12,000 people the next day. This has led to an increase in the number of cases in the city, with 3,000 cases being recorded on Sunday.The focus is likely to be on north-west, central, west, and north districts that have been reporting a high number of cases.It was not immediately clear which antibody test kits will be used, since previous attempts had to be aborted due to problems of reliability. In April, the Delhi government started using antibody testing in hot spot areas to check the prevalence of the infection. Only 62 people were tested using the rapid kits in Nabi Karim, all of which were negative. The government, as per the directions of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), stopped using the antibody kits made by two Chinese company after they showed varying results across the country.“We had placed an order for 50,000 tests in March but cancelled it after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stopped antibody tests after kits from the two companies from China were found to be defective. We haven’t placed an order for more kits yet,” said an official from Delhi’s health department.US-based medical devices company Abbott on Monday said it will supply one million laboratory-based antibody testing kits to various states, including Delhi, by the end of June.Earlier this month, ICMR revealed the result of its pilot sero-surveillance study of 26,000 people from across India. The overall percentage of general population that was found to have been infected in the past is 0.73%, with urban areas having shown higher Covid-19 prevalence of about 1.09%, the study had revealed. These tests were carried out by kits made by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila.The ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said the low prevalence rate showed there was no community transmission of the infection in India.With the source of the infection unknown in nearly half the Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the health minister Satyendar Jain had said on June 10 there was transmission of the infection in the community in Delhi, but to term it as ‘community transmission’ was up to the centre. This survey might help answer the question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serological-survey-to-assess-spread-of-covid-outbreak-will-start-june-27/story-vD0VrqSHnPMpdlspRPubWP.html
23-06-2020||India||No exception for pregnant inmates, police tells HC on Safoora’s bail plea||The Delhi Police on Monday asked the Delhi High Court for a day to “seek instructions” on a bail plea by Jamia student Safoora Zargar, charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for her alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, hearing the case through a video conference, allowed this after Zargar’s counsel said she has no objection to it. Before this, the police claimed in the Delhi high court on Monday that Zargar is not entitled to bail on the grounds of pregnancy as the law does not make any distinction in this regard. Police told the court that Delhi’s jails have had many pregnant inmates. They said that in the past 10 years, 39 deliveries have taken place inside the prison.“...there is no exception carved out for pregnant inmate, who is accused of such heinous crime, to be released on bail merely because of their pregnancy. The law provides for adequate safeguards and medical attention during their custody in jail,” police said. Zargar, an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia, approached the court seeking bail on the ground that she is pregnant and has severe medical complications. In the course of the hearing, the police claimed that Zargar was part of a conspiracy to use any means to cause death and injury to people. It also claimed that she was one of the main conspirators in the commission of the serious offence of causing large-scale disruption and riots, not only in Delhi but also in other parts of the country.” The severity of the offence is in no manner mitigated by the factum of pregnancy….,” it added.Zargar was arrested on April 10 for allegedly conspiring with other persons to instigate and start riots in northeast Delhi. At least 53 people died and 400 others were injured in the riots in February. She is seeking bail on the grounds that she has medical complications in her pregnancy. In a status report, Delhi Police said that based on an investigation, a case is clearly made out from the statements of witnesses. Many student groups across Delhi have held protests seeking Zargar’s release. Students bodies and activists have accused Delhi Police of launching a witch hunt against student activists, especially those who took part in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Zargar earlier told the court she was only part of the protests and has denied the police allegations.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi represented Delhi Police. During the hearing, advocate Rahul Mehra, the standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), told the court that the SG and the ASG ought to have taken permission from the city government to appear in the matter. The court did not weigh in on this. On June 4, a city court dismissed Zargar’s bail plea, stating that “right of speech and expression and for that matter protest or demonstration, is not an absolute right and subject to reasonable restrictions under the Indian Constitution”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-exception-for-pregnant-inmates-police-tells-hc-on-safoora-s-bail-plea/story-73L7OAtRMz2xkPcUXspv5L.html
23-06-2020||India||India increases tech surveillance on Ladakh LAC with Israeli Heron drones||In a stand-off with a belligerent Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at four points in East Ladakh , India has increased technical drone surveillance of the area even as the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has inducted more battalions into the sector to support army along the 3,488 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), government and military officials familiar with the matter said.The decision to induct ITBP battalions in support of the army was taken on June 20 after Director General Military Operations, India, Lt General Paramjit Singh and Director General (ITBP and BSF) S S Deswal visted Leh to be briefed about the ground situation. The top security officials of Indian Government were briefed by the XIV Corps Commander Lt General Harinder Singh on the the stand off with PLA.India has also deployed its specialised high-altitude forces along LAC to repel any transgression in the western, middle or eastern sectors, the officials added.With the Narendra Modi government giving a clear mandate to the Indian Army to repel any PLA transgression along the LAC, the military and the National Technical Research Organization (NTRO) have been asked to deploy more surveillance drones in the area so that the battle theatre becomes more transparent. While the army has been given clearance at the highest levels to acquire more drones, the Israeli Heron medium altitude long endurance drone currently being used by NTRO is providing technical surveillance of the area.The Chinese PLA has the unproven armed drone Wing Loong in its inventory; India is also looking to acquire armed drones from either Israel or the US.According to government officials familiar with the matter, the ITBP force accretion is being done to ensure that all 65 (some say 62) patrolling points along the 1547 km LAC in East Ladakh are fully patrolled , thereby not allowing PLA to expand the scope of its dispute with India by engaging in more areas. The ITBP operates under the Indian Army in the event of hostilities, and also undertakes joint patrols with the military in peacetime; it already has at least 7,000 men on ground. The joint briefing of DGMO, who has served as Corps Commander of Nagrota in J &K, and DG (BSF and ITBP) was done to ensure that the Indian forces are on the same page in case the red flag goes up.Along with the ITBP, specialised forces, trained over the past decades to fight on the northern front, have now been pushed up to the frontier. Unlike the PLA, which moves in infantry combat vehicles that use paved metalled roads, the Indian mountain troops are trained in guerrilla warfare and in high-altitude combat, as demonstrated during the 1999 Kargil War.“The art of mountain fighting is the toughest, as the cost of human casualties is 10 to each troop of the adversary sitting on a height. The troops from Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Gorkha, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have adapted to the rarefied heights over centuries and hence their capability of fighting is close-quarter combats is without match. The artillery and the missiles have to have pin-pointed accuracy or else they miss the mountain target by miles,” said a former Indian Army chief.The Tibetan plateau is flat on the Chinese side while the Indian side starts from K2 peak in Karakoram, to Nanda Devi in Uttarakhand, to Kanchenjunga in Sikkim, and Namche Barwa across Arunachal Pradesh border. “In mountains, it is not only difficult to capture territory but more difficult to hold it,” a China expert at South Block said.The officials cited in the first instance said that India is willing to play the long game. “Our battalions lined up with armoured personnel carriers and artillery. India will not instigate or precipitate any skirmish but will reply to any transgression. The days of LAC nibbling are over. This is a battle of nerves and India is prepared to wait, come snow come sunshine,” said a senior minister who asked not to be named.The officials added that the Modi government is unhappy that Chinese President Xi Jinping did not rein in PLA western theatre commander General Zhao Zongqi, who, according to China watchers, is keen on imposing the 1960 Eastern Ladakh map based on claims on Indian territory.This map, in which China claims territory up to Kongka La, was unveiled by former Chinese premier Chou En Lai, who led the country during the 1962 conflict. Indian officials said that it was in an attempt to set aside historical baggage that Prime Minister Narendra Modi initiated the Wuhan and Mamallapuram summits so that the two leaders could promote the bilateral relations after the 73-day Doklam face-off in 2017.While both India and China are diplomatically engaged to de-escalate the situation, the instructions to the ground forces are to not to allow any transgression by the PLA at any cost. “ PLA soldiers use vehicles to reach their posts; our troops are trained to climb and then fight . Thanks to adversaries on western and northern borders, Indian infantry has learnt the art of fighting at the highest heights be it Siachen, Karakoram, Lipulekh or Thag la,” said a senior military commander who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveillance-shored-up-forces-added-in-ladakh/story-e1GBA1qGwodVr1lm2L4LMJ.html
23-06-2020||India||Lockdown to be imposed in 4 areas in Bengaluru after surge||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to enforce complete and full lockdown in four major areas of the city following a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases.Chief minister B S Yediyurappa Yediyurappa chaired a meeting on Monday to take stock of the situation in the state capital and decided to enforce full seal down in – K R Market, Chamarajapete, Kalasipalya and Chickpete.In the recent past the state government has been an active votary for opening up the state for more activities. Yediyurappa in the recent video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi advocated the same. However on Sunday, the state saw its single biggest day jump in Covid -19 cases with 453 new virus cases being registered of which 196 were from Bangalore. On Monday too Bangalore at 126 new cases accounted for half of the Covid-19 cases of 249 registered today. Bangalore (urban and rural) with 958 cases account for nearly a third of all active cases in the state.Incidentally unlike in the past where spikes were due to influx of people coming back from different states, contact history of the new patients indicates that it has been locally transmitted.Briefing reporters after the cabinet review meeting minister for revenue and municipal administration R Ashoka said that some of the quarantined are leaving their phones behind and roaming around. He warned a criminal case will be registered against those breaking rules. The government has also promised to notify tariff rates for treatment in private hospitals shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-to-be-imposed-in-4-areas-in-b-luru-after-surge/story-aOWZBl4SSZt6uvucSlDUfM.html
23-06-2020||India||First 59 patients admitted to Covid care railway coaches in UP||The first batch of 59 suspected Covid-19 patients was last week admitted in Uttar Pradesh to train coaches converted into isolation wards to deal with the pandemic, the railway ministry said on Monday.The railways modified 5,231 coaches and converted them into isolation wards two months back for deployment across the country to boost health infrastructure . They had since remained unoccupied.The Centre has deployed 960 such isolation wards in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. Over half of the coaches (503) have been pressed into service in the national capital, one of the worst-hit places by the pandemic in the country, followed by Uttar Pradesh (372).Forty-two suspected patients were admitted to the isolation coaches deployed at Mau Junction in Uttar Pradesh on June 20 followed by 17 on Sunday. Eight of these patients have been discharged, the railway ministry said.The railways has handed over the isolation coaches to the chief medical officers of the concerned states and they are supposed to deploy doctors and paramedics for them as per the Union health ministry’s procedures. It has said it will deploy two liaison officers for each location to assist the state governments.The isolation coaches can be used for patients with mild symptoms and in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities” and need to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed cases, according to the railways.The first Covid-19 coaches with 160 beds were deployed at Delhi’s Shakur Basti railway station on May 31.The 372 Covid-19 coaches in Uttar Pradesh have been deployed at 23 locations, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, and Saharanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-59-patients-admitted-to-covid-care-rly-coaches-in-upheadline/story-BgCPhf8CXLeKkEuj5UgOaP.html
23-06-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi urges PM Modi to provide free foodgrains for 3 more months||Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to provide free food grains for another three months from July in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation across the country, saying millions of Indians are at risk of slipping into poverty due to the lockdown.In a letter to the prime minister, she said the provision for supply of 5 kg free food grains per person every month to Antyodaya Anna Yojana and priority households under the National Food Security Act from April-June in addition to regular entitlements was announced at the beginning of the lockdown.The government also announced free food grains of 5kg per person every month for migrants not covered under any central or state public distribution system (PDS) scheme for May and June, she added.“The union government must consider extending the provision for free food grains for a further period of three months i.e. from July-September 2020. Several States have requested for the same,” Gandhi said.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in May announced providing 800,000 tonne of emergency ration for migrants under the Union government’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat programme for distribution during May and June.The Congress chief also urged the Prime Minister to issue temporary ration cards to all poor households who continue to be excluded from the PDS system.“Nearly three months since the country went into a strict lockdown, millions of Indians are at risk of slipping into poverty. The adverse impact on livelihoods has led to chronic food insecurity for both, our urban and rural poor,” she wrote in the letter. “In light of the current situation, food entitlements must be expanded to address the hunger crisis facing some of the most vulnerable people in the country,” added Gandhi.She urged the Prime Minister to announce the decision at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-urges-pm-to-provide-free-foodgrains-for-3-more-months/story-quQ8jr2jig1l3H9gwmvCjI.html
23-06-2020||India||SC nod to Rath Yatra, but public not allowed||The Supreme Court allowed authorities in Odisha on Monday to conduct the famed Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri, recalling its June 18 order that prohibited this year’s celebrations in view of the coronavirus disease outbreak.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde set several conditions, including the imposition of a curfew in Puri during the festivities, and asked the Jagannath Temple administration committee and the Odisha government to strictly adhere to them. This year’s Rath Yatra will begin on Tuesday.“If it is possible to ensure that there is no public attendance, we see no reason why the Rath Yatra cannot be conducted safely along its usual route from temple to temple. Having given serious consideration to the matter and having heard the parties, we are of the view that the Rath Yatra at Puri may be held,” the order by the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and AS Bopanna, said.All entry points to Puri, including railway stations and bus stands, will be closed during the festival, the court ordered. “The state government shall impose a curfew in the city of Puri on all the days and during all the time when Rath Yatra chariots are taken in procession. During the period of curfew, no one would be allowed to come out of their houses or their places of residence, such as hotels, lodging houses...,” the order said.In a special sitting, the top court was hearing over a dozen applications by individuals and associations seeking recall of its order delivered on Thursday. The applications, including by Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra (the hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannath of the Jagannath Temple), found support from the central and Odisha governments with both favouring holding the festival without public participation.“Each Rath, i.e., chariot, shall be pulled by not more than 500 persons. Each of those 500 persons shall be tested for the coronavirus. They shall be permitted to pull the chariot only if they have been found negative,” the court said. All those pulling the chariots should maintain social distancing before, during and after the Rath Yatra, and there should be an interval of one hour between two chariots, the court added.Hours after the order, Odisha government imposed a 41-hour curfew in Puri and started Covid-19 testing of 700 temple priests who would pull the three chariots. Health and family welfare department said 700 servitors would undergo Covid-19 tests and only those who test negative will be allowed to pull the chariots. Covid test of 800 servitors was already conducted earlier.Odisha director general of police Abhay said the shutdown will remain in force from 9pm Monday till 2pm on Wednesday. “To restrict the entry of the people, all entry points to Puri will be sealed and barring urgent matters, no one will be allowed to enter Puri town. The shutdown period will be treated like the imposition of curfew,” said Abhay.“We have mobilised 50 platoons of forces in Puri since Sunday evening,” he added.Rath Yatra, or the chariot journey, celebrates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath and his two siblings from the 12th century Jagannath Temple to their aunt’s abode in Gundicha temple, 2.5km away. The deities are taken in massive wooden chariots weighing 85 tonnes each. After staying in Gundicha temple for nine days, the three deities come back to the Jagannath Temple on the 10th day in a return journey. About a million devotees converge in Puri during the festivities.On June 18, the court ordered a stay on the festival and all activities associated with it, saying there could be large congregations in violation of social distancing norms. The order was passed on a petition filed by NGO Odisha Vikas Parishad, which approached the top court pointing out the public health risk.Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed Monday’s verdict. “Today is a special day for all of us, particularly our Odia sisters and brothers as well as devotees of Mahaprabhu Shri Jagannath Ji. The entire nation is delighted by the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court to ensure the Rath Yatra goes on,” he tweeted.In a statement, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is from Odisha, said the event was not just a festival but an “inseparable emotion” for Odias. “Lord Jagannath evokes unwavering love, devotion and reverence,” he said.Advocate Suvidutt MS, who represented Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, said: “I welcome this judgment that allows the Rath Yatra because it endorses the fact that there should a balance between right of individual believer and the collective rights of society in terms of the spreading pandemic against which the temple committee and state machinery has taken all measures.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-nod-to-rath-yatra-but-public-not-allowed/story-aF92fbzS5duDSWXuRkWBQK.html
23-06-2020||India||Fear of coronavirus stalks sanitation workers||When the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management department of the G-north ward handed over June’s schedule for daily waste collection, one of its waste collectors turned apprehensive.Earlier this month, the 32-year-old was tasked, along with two other municipal workers to collect waste from the containment zones in block 119 – a set of nine areas in Dharavi, one of Asia’s largest slums which saw a severe outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic – and load it into a vehicle that would take the biomedical waste to the city’s only treatment facility located adjacent to the Deonar dumping ground. “The fear of contracting the virus never leaves the mind,” said the sanitation worker, who asked not to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media. “But work is work, and it has to be done.”His job is risky, as very often residents of the containment zone do not segregate the waste they generate into hazardous biomedical waste (yellow bag) and household waste (black bag).“Though residents were provided separate yellow and black coloured bags, we continue to receive one bag every day with all types of mixed waste including masks, gloves, banana peels, gowns and plastic bags that are spilling over,” said the worker. “It is scary when residents toss black bags in large garbage collection bins over the sealed boundary of the containment zone towards us.”Donning a hazmat suit, face mask, rubber gloves and boots, the worker steps into the collection bin, handpicks both Covid-19 related and other waste falling out of the black bags and transfers it into large yellow ones marked Covid-19 waste before passing it on to his co-worker.“We make a chain for quick transfer into the van, and move to the next colony of the containment zone. We take turns at every collection point as to who steps into the bin,” said the sanitation worker.In areas that are not designated as Covid-19 affected, households are not even required to segregate the waste. Yet if, as a press briefing by the Indian Council of Medical Research stated, 69% of the patients testing positive were asymptomatic, then it is likely that a lot of the waste produced from such houses are contaminated by viable virus loads already.BMC officials agreed that workers in the 46 waste segregation centres are at risk, as they separate dry from wet waste. Since April 15, when these centres reopened at the end of the first lockdown, sanitation workers have been dealing with mixed or unsegregated waste containing masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment from households in non-containment zones.What’s more, some of this waste is even making its way to the city’s landfills in Deonar and Kanjurmarg, where at least 10 workers including two security guards reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered.Anup Nilawar, the spokesperson for SMS Envoclean Private Limited, which runs Mumbai’s CBWTF estimates that at least 600 kg of plastic from personal protective equipment finds its way to the landfills due to non-segregated waste from households and home quarantine centres.The situation isn’t any better in Delhi. At least 15 sanitation workers have died, and 40 have tested positive for the virus till now.“After Covid-19 outbreak, every house, roadside and drain has discarded masks, gloves or face shields. Even if one of these items belongs to a positive person, the sanitation worker who is handling it will also contract the disease. As the number of cases increase, this problem will get bigger and it will be our sanitation workers who will lose their lives,” Sanjay Gahlot, president of Delhi Safai Karamchari Union, said.“They call us corona warriors, but the truth is that they are sending us to this war with no weapons and eventually such a warrior succumbs to the enemy,” said Rakesh Kumar, a contract sanitation worker with the East Delhi Municipal Council for the past five years.Kumar, who ties a thin towel around his mouth and nose, said that he had not received his salary for the past three months from the municipality, either.“We are providing PPE kits, which includes a head cover, glasses, masks, a full body suit, gloves and gumboots to our sanitation workers who collect waste from houses where someone has been tested positive. But those who collect waste from regular houses and sweep the roads and clean drains are only provided with gloves,” an official of East Delhi Municipal Corporation said on the condition of anonymity.The official said that government guidelines make protective kits mandatory for those directly handling the waste generated by positive patients. Even though the other sanitation workers are also at risk, an acute shortage of PPEs forces them to ration them out.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has laid out a detailed guideline for handling ‘biomedical waste’, but its definition does not include protective gear from non-positive residents, thus putting thousands of sanitation workers and waste collectors at risk. While the Solid Waste Management Rules (2016) specifies that domestic hazardous waste from households needs to be disposed of in a separate bag and handed over to collectors separately, from where it should be sent to a separate plant for being sanitised and treated, these rules have never been implemented in Delhi.“In such a scenario, domestic hazardous waste such masks and gloves are also discarded as solid waste. Cases are rising in Delhi and a number of people are asymptomatic, so it is important that the safety of waste collectors be kept in mind,” Swati Sambyal, a Delhi-based solid waste management expert, said.She said that while the government needs to come up with a protocol to handle domestic hazardous waste, a simpler solution to this problem could also be to encourage the general public to use reusable, cloth masks, instead of disposable gear.“A regular two-layered, cloth mask can be washed and reused and this will ensure that disposable items do not end up in the waste pile.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-virus-stalks-sanitation-workers/story-8oyuYRlKgpFEQFDha31PtN.html
23-06-2020||India||India stares at biomedical waste crisis||Mahadev is squatting at a corner of the mountain of waste in north Delhi’s Bhalswa landfill, hunting for plastic in any form. The work of the 45-year-old, who uses only one name, is crucial: the more plastic is recycled, the better it is for the planet as plastic takes anywhere between two decades and five centuries to decompose, choking rivers, and releasing harmful chemicals and heavy metals into water and soil. Mahadev’s work has increased in the past three months and also become more dangerous. He now skims through dozens of discarded masks and plastic gloves with his bare hands to find recyclable plastic ware.The personal protective equipment, the mask, the gloves, the face shield, the shoe cover, and the sanitiser bottle have two things in common: they protect people – and prevent them from transmitting – from the Sars-CoV-2 virus; and they are also made up (mostly) of plastic. In the past three months, a lot of them have ended up in already overflowing landfills, posing a health risk to waste pickers, sanitation workers and garbage collectors tasked with handling them.The coronavirus pandemic has created a new waste crisis.Yet, the only protective gear Mahadev wears is a tattered mask, handed to him a few weeks ago by a group of social workers. “Since April, there is a mound of discarded masks and gloves dumped here. We know it is a risk and we try to take all the necessary precautions, because our safety is only our responsibility. We do not come in any government’s priority list so we have to make do with whatever we have,” says Mahadev, who has been a waste picker for 30 years.While there are no figures available for the amount of plastic that has ended up in landfills during the pandemic, since there is no separate collection of potentially hazardous domestic waste from non-Covid designated houses and institutions (which is what ends up in landfills), local administration officials in both cities admit that there has been an increase in the amount of garbage generated, and that gloves, masks, and personal protection equipment account for at least some bit of the increase. And this is the waste that is collected along with other routine waste -- not biomedical waste from hospitals and other facilities that is collected and treated differently. In Delhi, over 40 sanitation workers have tested positive for the virus, and 15 have lost their lives. In Mumbai, 10 workers and two security guards at the city’s two landfills, in Deonar and Kanjurmarg, have been infected with Covid-19, and recovered. These are just figures from two of the most affected cities in the country today.India is on the brink of a Covid-induced waste crisis, and the authorities are aware of it.Rules of engagementOn April 18, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the country’s apex body on the regulation of waste disposal, released a set of guidelines on what to do with Covid-related waste generated by designated sites such as hospitals, laboratories, quarantine centres, containment zones and isolation facilities.Accordingly, used masks, tissues, head covers, shoe covers, disposable linen gowns, non-plastic and semi plastic coveralls were to be disposed of in a yellow bag meant for incineration at a common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF). So were leftover food, disposable plates, glasses, used masks, tissues and toiletries of Covid-19 patients. It was also stipulated that those in home isolation, in containment zones, should deposit biomedical waste generated from suspected or recovered Covid-19 patients in yellow bags to authorised waste collectors, engaged by urban local bodies, or at designated centres or hand over these bags to CBWTF operators.“We share the list of everyone in home isolation in the district with the waste collectors. Plus, there are stickers outside the houses, so they know. The garbage from these houses is collected last and taken in a separate vehicle for proper disposal as biomedical waste,” said a senior district official from Delhi, who asked not to be named. This waste is either taken to a CBWTF or a waste-to-energy plant, where it is then either incinerated, autoclaved (sterilised for shredding and recyling) or burnt to produce energy.However, Swati Singh Sambyal, an independent waste management expert, pointed out that this elaborate exercise gets compromised due to a small but critical issue -- lack of segregation. Municipalities pick up biomedical waste from Covid houses, but it often has other household waste mixed in it. Not only does this put the waste collector at risk, it decreases the efficiency of the incinerators at waste treatment plants as it results in greater emissions and unburnt ash. These facilities, she added, are for anatomical waste, cotton swabs and other items that cannot be autoclaved.“Once the yellow bag reaches the plant, it cannot be opened because it can contaminate, so segregation at the household level is key,” Sambyal said.Residents say that they are not even aware of the need for segregation inside their homes. “It is scary to touch medical waste that is being used regularly for fear that I may contract the disease as well. So we try to put everything in one bag and give it to BMC because they know how best to separate it,” said a 44-year-old woman from Jijamata Nagar, a containment zone in Mumbai’s Worli, whose husband tested positive for Covid-19.“Residents are still not on board about segregating their waste in the basic two categories -- dry and wet -- so the differentiation of a third category becomes difficult. But under the present circumstances, we will require a tailor-made document, taking from the 2016 waste management rules, to address the piles of hazardous waste that is ending up in landfills and dhalaos,” a senior official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said on condition of anonymity. But that’s just one part of the problem.The other part is that while the guidelines have accounted for a new kind of waste – after all, PPE are being used everywhere, from hotels to hospitals, railway stations to airports, crematoriums to burial grounds – the disposal mechanisms available in the cities simply aren’t equipped to deal with the volume.Treatment facility crunchThe country has 200 biomedical waste treatment facilities; of these two are in Delhi and one is in Mumbai. And, according to CPCB data, these facilities are already running at 60% capacity – that’s a 15% jump since March. The national average is low, because many cases have not surged in many cities, the way they have in Delhi and Mumbai. In these two cities, the CBWTFs are running at 70-75% and 70% capacities, according to CPCB and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board respectively.Before the Covid-19 outbreak, a government or a private hospital would typically produce 500 grams of biomedical waste (like syringes, urine bags, gauze etc) per bed, daily. Now, that number has gone up to between 2.5kg to 4kg per bed, daily, according to SMS Water Grace BMW Private Limited, one of the two CBWTFs in Delhi, which collects waste from labs, quarantine centres, and hospitals, including one of the city’s Covid-19 government facilities, the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. A large Covid-19 facility can anywhere between 1800 to 2200 kg of biomedical waste per day.Now multiply this with the number of Covid-19 hospitals in the country: 2,900. Add to it the biomedical waste generated from 20,700 quarantine centres, 1,540 sample collection centres and 260 laboratories dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, and the biomedical waste collected by municipalities (Delhi alone has 12,000 home isolation facilities) and one gets a sense of the sheer volume of the problem.Delhi generates 27 tonnes of non-Covid biomedical waste and up to 11 tonnes of Covid-19 related waste every day, according to the CPCB; Mumbai has been generating 9 tonnes of Covid-19 waste and 6 tonnes of non-Covid biomedical waste every day, BMC estimates.Much of this is plastic -- N-95 masks are made up of polyisoprene (natural rubber) and polypropylene (thermoplastic); face shields are all plastic.As it turns out, CPCB guidelines also include red bag waste for contaminated plastic such as goggles, splash proof aprons, plastic coverall, hazmat suits, and nitrile gloves , which are meant to be sterilised, shredded and sent for recycling.Yet, Delhi, in particular, is at a critical stage — the Capital’s total incineration capacity is 37 tonnes per day and it is already utilising approximately 70% to 75% of that. “The amount of waste generated from the hospital has certainly gone up with so many disposable items now,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Biotic Waste Management, the second CBWTF in Delhi collects 7,212 kg of Covid-19 related waste every day from various facilities, besides 10,666.8 kg of general biomedical waste.“We are staring at a big crisis in the coming days if waste is not segregated properly and the load on incineration is not reduced,” said Vikas Gehlot, spokesperson for Biotic.Part of the problem, Gehlot said, is that a lot of organic biomedical waste is making its way to incinerators due to the CPCB guidelines, when it should ideally be going to the waste-to-energy plant in Okhla.“The biomedical waste plants are established based on projections of how much the biomedical waste generation will increase in the next say, 10 years. We didn’t foresee something like Covid-19 coming. It’s a once-in-a-hundred-years crisis,” Gehlot said.The government in Delhi is aware of this problem, but increasing the number of such treatment facilities doesn’t seem to be a viable solution, a senior official told HT.“The capacity of incinerators is a problem, especially when the projection says that we will see a spike in the first week of July and the active cases could go up to as many as 50,000 cases. But that said, it still doesn’t make sense to invest in these machines because we do not know if this infection is episodic or will it be recurring. What do you do with these machines once cases start decreasing?” a senior official from the Delhi health department said, on condition of anonymity.If, and it’s very likely to be so, Covid-19 cases rise further in the coming months – and testing capacities continue to get ramped up – some cities, including Delhi might have to send its Covid-19 waste to neighbouring states for disposal, CPCB scientists warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stares-at-biomedical-waste-crisis/story-SpPZrA1tutAAuYhE57p7UI.html
23-06-2020||India||Remdesivir, Favipiravir antiviral drugs ‘no game changers’ in Covid fight, say medical experts||With pharmaceutical companies launching generic versions of Remdesivir and Favipiravir for COVID-19 treatment, medical experts on Monday said it was a “positive development” in the fight against the pandemic, but cautioned against regarding the antiviral drugs as “game changers”.Glenmark Pharmaceuticals has launched the antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of mild to moderate COVID-19 cases, while Cipla and Hetero have received approvals from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to launch Remdesivir under the brand names Cipremi and Covifor respectively.Cipla Ltd on Sunday announced the launch of Cipremi.Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, AIIMS Delhi, said till date no effective treatment or vaccine to combat coronavirus has been found.“Till date we don’t have evidence that a particular drug is effective, so we cannot call any drug game changer till then. With their launch, it will only be clear in the future how effective they will be. Whether they can play a supportive role in COVID-19 treatment is also not yet known,” he told PTI.Dr Vikas Maurya, Director, Department of Pulmonology and Sleep Disorders, Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, said drugs like Remdesivir and Favipiravir were “no game changers” as they were used for other diseases and have now been found useful in some way in treating COVID-19 patients. “It is not as if all those taking these drugs will recover,” he told PTI. It has been found that they help reduce viral load but are not game changers, Maurya said. “But yes, it is a positive development as it is better to have something in hand than nothing. There is also a psychological impact that something is being given which could have some benefit,” he said. Dr Rommel Tickoo, Associate Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, also echoed Maurya’s views.Whatever studies that have been done on these drugs are very limited so they cannot be called “game changers”, but their launch is a positive development as it is better to have something than nothing, he said.“On both the drugs we have limited data, whatever evidence we have is mostly anecdotal. There is no specific treatment that we have and we cannot wait for all the trials to be over as many lives will be lost. So that is why emergency restricted use is being approved,” he told PTI.“It is difficult for us to categorically state the efficacy of the drugs, they do have the potential, but we need more data,” he said.Noted city-based lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar said he does not believe that any of these antiviral drugs like Remdesivir or Favipiravir will be game changers.“If at all ‘game changer’ can be used, it is for dexamethasone which has shown a significant reduction in mortality and is available cheaply,” said Kumar, who works at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here.Dr Avi Kumar, Consultant, Pulmonologist, Fortis Escort Heart Institute, said drugs such as Favipiravir and Remdisivir “cannot be called game changers” as they are used as a supportive treatment. “When given early, they can benefit patients but there is no guarantee that the patient will improve or not,” he said.“It is definitely a positive development that we will be using antivirals, but it is not a game changer as that term can be used for something which you give and the patient recovers,” Kumar told PTI.Drug firm Hetero had on Sunday said it has received approval from regulator DCGI to launch investigational antiviral drug Remdesivir for the treatment of COVID-19. The drug will be available in 100 mg vials (injectable) which has to be administered intravenously in a hospital setting under the supervision of a healthcare practitioner, it said. Asked about the price of the drug, Hetero Group of Companies MD Vamsi Krishna Bandi told PTI it will be in the range of Rs 5,000-6,000 per dose. The drug has been granted approval by DCGI for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in adults and children, hospitalised with severe symptoms of the disease, the company said. Cipla has also said that it has been granted regulatory approval by the DCGI for restricted emergency use in the country as part of the accelerated approval process considering the urgent and unmet medical need. Commenting on the launch, Cipla Ltd MD and Global CEO Umang Vohra said, “Cipla appreciates the strong partnership with Gilead to bring Remdesivir to patients in India. We have been deeply invested in exploring all possible avenues to save millions of lives impacted by COVID-19 pandemic, and this launch is a significant milestone in that direction”.In May, domestic pharma firms Hetero, Cipla and Jubilant Life Sciences had entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with drug major Gilead Sciences Inc for manufacturing and distribution of Remdesivir.Glenmark Pharmaceuticals last week said it has launched antiviral drug Favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 at a price of about Rs 103 per tablet.FabiFlu is the first oral Favipiravir-approved medication in India for the treatment of COVID-19, it said in a statement. PTI ASK ANB ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-favipiravir-antiviral-drugs-no-game-changers-in-covid-fight-say-medical-experts/story-wh86LMy5Q4SOz8v3t2NuPI.html
23-06-2020||India||Army top brass reviews LAC situation amid tensions with China||The army’s top brass on Monday made a detailed assessment of the ground situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese forces have significantly beefed up their deployments in the extended region on both sides of the contested border, two senior officers said on the condition of anonymity.The developments along the LAC and the army’s operational readiness to handle any situation were discussed in detail at the army commanders’ conference, chaired by army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, the first officer said.The situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan also came up during the discussions, amid concerns that the western neighbour could try to take advantage of the tensions along the northern borders with China, the second officer said.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane will visit Leh on Tuesday for a security review of the Ladakh sector, amid rising tensions between India and China along the LAC. Senior officers will brief him on the latest developments along the disputed border. This will be his second visit to the Ladakh sector after the border standoff began in early May. He had earlier visited Leh on May 22.While the conference was pre-scheduled, it is being held at a time when the Indian and Chinese armies have marshalled thousands of soldiers on their respective sides of the LAC and the military build up consists of fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns and missile systems, he said.The conference will conclude on Tuesday. It was the second phase of the conference --- the first was held in Delhi on May 27-29.The top commanders met a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh made a detailed assessment of the situation at the disputed border and was briefed by the military brass about the preparations of the armed forces and their readiness to respond to any provocative actions by the Chinese forces.Singh left for Russia on Monday where he will meet his Russian counterpart Sergei Shoigu and the spike in border tensions with China will figure in the talks. Singh will be participating in the Victory Day parade in Moscow on June 24.Tensions between India and China have surged after the Galwan Valley brawl on June 15 that resulted in 20 Indian deaths, including that of a commanding officer, and the Chinese army possibly suffered more than twice as many casualties, which also included a commanding officer, said another officer.With uncertainty looming along the LAC, the government has given financial powers worth Rs 500 crore per project to the armed forces to fast-track the purchase of critical weapons and ammunition to deal with any kind of scenario. Similar financial powers were bestowed on the military after the 2016 Uri terror attack and the 2019 Balakot air strikes to plug gaps in capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-top-brass-reviews-lac-situation-amid-tensions-with-china/story-xORF7D8d0RKRpdAnQ9jnJN.html
23-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt to reduce import dependence by building local capacity and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt plans to cut import dependence by building local capacityThe government is working on a sectoral strategy to reduce import dependence by building local capacity, creating value chains and quickly attaining self-reliance in at least half-a-dozen areas ranging from footwear and furniture to technical textiles and medical equipment to electronics and defence production, people aware of the development said. Read moreContainment plan to door to door checks: How Delhi, Mumbai are fighting Covid-19Authorities in Mumbai and Delhi have drawn up new plans to contain the outbreak of the pandemic as the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have mounted in the past few days in the metros. Read moreRare marine life sighted from Mahalaxmi shorelineSouth Mumbai residents and a marine biologist have requested the state to protect areas around the Mahalaxmi Bay, as Coastal Road reclamation work has begun in the area. Read moreUP Police face a tough task to convince people over kanwar yatraA day after the Uttar Pradesh government suspended the annual Kanwar Yatra in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, officials in Meerut and Saharanpur regions — the two main pilgrimage centres of the yatra — said they have a tough task ahead to convey the decision of suspension of the yatra to devotees and convince them. Read moreHundreds test positive for coronavirus at Tyson Foods plant in ArkansasTyson Foods is looking into reports that China’s customs agency has suspended poultry imports from a Tyson facility in the United States after coronavirus cases were confirmed among its employees. Read moreNot quite a home run in EuropeBayern Munich’s run to the Bundesliga title winning all seven games since the restart seemed a walk in the park. That they extended their record run to an eighth German league title in a row, simply underlined their dominance at home. Read moreApple to kick off WWDC 2020 today: All you need to knowApple is back with yet another edition of its annual developers conference, WWDC 2020. However, this time around the company is hosting a virtual event instead of an on-ground event as it happens every year. Read moreHer, in your ear: Female podcasters on food, science, history and moreWhy a column about women podcasters? Because most coverage of podcasts leaves them out almost entirely. On best-cast roundups, women make up barely a third of the entries. Read moreHappy birthday Vijay: 5 films that made him a box-office phenomenonTamil actor Vijay, who has been working for over two decades, is currently at the biggest high of his career so far with an unprecedented fan base and a slew of blockbuster films to his credit. In the last decade, Vijay truly established himself as one of the biggest stars of Tamil cinema. Read moreWatch| HT Salutes: Ulhasnagar resident who makes bird feeder out of waste products||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-to-reduce-import-dependence-by-building-local-capacity-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CUXpNuSAPpPJcSv5IcszlJ.html
23-06-2020||Editorials||Donald Trump’s anti-immigration move | HT Editorial||With United States (US) President Donald Trump suspending new H-1B and L-1 visas for temporary workers until December, the main immigration highway from India to the US is closed, hopefully temporarily. Over half these visas go to Indians. The orders do not affect the underlying visa legislation. But his action is a reminder that immigration is a sovereign issue, visas will be inevitably caught up in anti-globalisation fervour, and highly-skilled migrants are no longer immune to political pot-shots. Mr Trump’s motivations are obvious. His poll numbers are sagging. He has raged against illegal migration since he was elected, and, with unemployment at a record high, has turned his guns on legal migration as well. The economic costs for India will be limited but the real damage is the question mark it raises over the Indian-American immigration story. About half of Indian immigration to the US is linked to skill-based work visas. The Indian-American citizen is a recent phenomenon; their numbers passed the one million mark in 2015. They have emerged as model immigrants. India has also benefited from their success. Indian-Americans are among the largest sources of remittances. And they have emerged as advocates of a stronger India-US ties. Which is why New Delhi needs to be more active in institutionalising the immigrant relationship, for example, including a H visa quota in a future trade agreement, rather than leaving it to the whims of Donald Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/donald-trump-s-anti-immigration-move/story-BSJK5Y9VRATlTGC9lItl3K.html
