25-06-2020||News||Prepare for a new, aggressive China||The carefully built and nurtured framework of cooperation with competition with regard to the India-China relationship in the past two decades has been demolished in the wake of the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and China’s attempt to coerce India through massive military deployment in Aksai Chin.Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh famously said, in December 2006, that a fast-growing India and China can each pursue their respective ambitions despite inevitable competition. “My own view is that the world is large enough to accommodate the development ambitions of both countries,” Singh told Japan’s Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper.That was the Hu Jintao era in China. Fourteen years later, Hu’s successor, President Xi Jinping clearly doesn’t believe in either cooperation or competition. As China’s self-appointed supreme leader for life, Xi has ambitions to make China the unchallenged hegemon. He has long abandoned the widely-quoted 24-character dictum of Deng Xiaoping, who told the Chinese Communist Party, “Observe calmly; secure our position; cope with affairs calmly; hide our capacities and bide our time; be good at maintaining a low profile; and never claim leadership.” Xi, instead, feels China’s time has to claim global leadership has come. And, to achieve this, he would not mind using a combination of coercion, inducement and brinkmanship.No matter how the current border stand-off with India gets resolved, it is difficult to envisage the India-China relationship returning to the old normal that we saw in the first 19 years of this century. Admittedly, the power differential between China and India has grown over the years. Beijing has cleverly been using this period to make inroads both into the Indian market and India’s traditional geopolitical backyard even as New Delhi took its eyes off the ball. The bilateral trade deficit has grown alarmingly; India’s influence in South Asia now has to increasingly compete with China’s inducement-laden policies in smaller countries in the neighbourhood.With a more assertive and reckless China determined to open new fronts across the globe, India will have to draw some lessons from countries with similar problems. It is noteworthy that China today has a dispute with Japan in the East China Sea, and is locked in territorial contestation with Vietnam, Philippines and Indonesia in the South China Sea, besides the long-standing unresolved boundary issue with India. In each of these cases, China employs the same playbook: Make a claim, establish some kind of a presence, withdraw, and then cite that precedent in future negotiations in addition to invoking some vague historical reference and miraculously producing ancient maps to buttress its claims.In this backdrop, India will have to devise a new strategy to deal with Xi’s China. This will have to be multi-pronged and calibrated. It should include ways to restrict the dominance of Chinese products and raw materials, prevent Chinese tech giants such as ZTE and Huawei from gaining entry into projects under the national security matrix, and limit Chinese investment in Indian unicorns and start-ups. Some steps in this regard are already visible and should start showing results down the line. However, India will have to make haste slowly, lest these measures hurt Indian entities in the short-term.On the military-strategic front, New Delhi is still trying make sense of the immediate reason for China’s unprecedented show of strength in Aksai Chin. Various theories have been advanced. One is that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is testing its own military deployment and mobilisation effectiveness; another is that it is a message to India, warning it against any alignment with the United States (US). It could be a combination of the two, but there is also a likelihood of PLA implementing a long-term strategy of two steps forward, one step backwards, wherein it tests the adversary’s response to a sudden crisis, restores status quo ante and attacks again with a larger force to deal the final blow. The Indian military in all its four dimensions — land, air, water and space/cyber — will have to be ready for a far bigger confrontation in the not-too-distant future.New Delhi will have to assess the current episode carefully and then undertake a comprehensive review of its strategic approach to China in the defence and foreign policy domains. While there is no choice but to stand up to China, Indian policymakers will have to come up with a grand strategy that seeks to engage Beijing at the highest politico-military level, even as it builds capabilities that serve as a credible deterrence against a China determined to become the most dominant world power by 2049 which is one of its stated aims. In doing so, India will have to be pragmatic and practical, taking into account the reality that in dealing with China, it stands alone, no matter which alliances and groupings it becomes a part of. Quad (India, Australia, US and Japan), Quad plus three, the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (Bimstec), and the Solar Alliance are good diplomatic platforms to work with. But the world’s longest and most-contested border between India and China will have to be settled bilaterally. In this effort, India should not expect anyone’s support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/prepare-for-a-new-aggressive-china/story-mVfHU1BBvXYVWVkujqwzyL.html
25-06-2020||News||The lockdown worked. It helped battle Covid-19, turn India self-reliant||Hindsight is a wonderful thing to have. As Australian-American activist-actress Helen Reddy said, “It’s always very easy to second-guess after the fact.” What is difficult is to decide which actions will have a bearing not just on the present, but on the future. But difficulties also present opportunities.The Covid-19 crisis is one such example. It allowed the Narendra Modi government the opportunity to devise solutions to build the India of the future. As the virus took the world by surprise, countries were forced to lock down, and India was no exception. India used the lockdown to spread awareness about the coronavirus as it prepared to deal with a disease that has no vaccine, yet. As the country’s 1.3 billion people came together in an unprecedented show of discipline heeding Prime Minister Modi’s call, the government doubled up its efforts to equip hospitals with ventilators, oxygen cylinders, masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and beds. The government also ramped up testing. From one Covid-19 testing lab in March, India now has 1,000. Over seven million people were tested through Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests.India has fared well so far. It has just 151 cases per million compared to over 6,000 cases per million for the United States (US) and Spain. India’s case fatality rate is low at 2.8% compared to Germany (5%), France (19%), the US (6%), Italy (14%) and the United Kingdom (14%). Rather than resorting to confrontational politics, the government remained committed to cooperative federalism. With the PM having held six meetings with chief ministers over the last three of months to ensure productive engagement, the Centre is giving all necessary guidance and support to the state governments. These efforts will go a long way in strengthening cooperative federalism. Internationally, it ensured medical help to over 80 nations — a move that has cemented India’s global stature as a responsible partner. Throughout this period, the government has been mindful of the plight of migrant workers. It first reached out to them with the assistance of a ~1.7 lakh crore package. It also ensured that, through direct benefit transfers, relief money was transferred to the accounts of the most vulnerable. Shramik trains also allowed them safe passage back home.Now, migrants are returning to cities as India is steadily unlocking. As the PM said, green shoots are visible in the economy. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy said India’s unemployment rate has eased to pre-lockdown levels and recovery is expected in the coming months. The slowdown also led the government to move towards India becoming atmanirbhar (self-reliant). The policy paralysis before the Modi government took office has given way to policy intervention aimed at sustainable development and a self-sufficient economy.Over the last three months, the government has committed to the creation of 7,200 new self-help groups (SHGs) for the urban poor, including migrant workers. The existing 12,000 SHGs produced over 30 million masks and 120,000 litres of sanitisers. It created employment opportunities for the urban poor. Migrants who have returned to villages have been given jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. These schemes are critical to building infrastructure.The State also amended the Essential Commodities Act to enable farmers to sell farm produce to a wider spectrum of buyers. The Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act was also amended. It also extended a package of ~3 lakh crore to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and amended the definition of MSMEs to allow more businesses to avail these benefits.To achieve self-sufficiency in coal, the government has announced coal block auctions. This is likely to generate 2.8 lakh jobs, a revenue windfall, and will also help India become atmanirbhar in meeting its energy requirements. And since it was already working towards creating an enabling business environment when the pandemic struck, several policy interventions were made in this regard. The government has also standardised its labour laws to global standards and made them more humane. The 44 labours laws that existed earlier have been amalgamated into four codes — on wages, industrial relations, social security and safety, health and working conditions. These also take into account gender parity and proportionate representation in the workplace.The government has decriminalised company law to help businesses grow. It has been pushing for farmers’ produce organisations and primary cooperative societies to solve the problem of credit for farmers, while it merged 10 public sector banks into four to improve efficiency and address the problem of growing non-performing assets.The response to the Covid-19 crisis has been effective because the government had laid a firm foundation to build a new India over the last six years. The measures the government has announced in the last three months will ensure the rapid development of an atmanirbhar Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-lockdown-worked-it-helped-battle-covid-19-turn-india-self-reliant/story-AscJPtjsbcNXJKI2C2McyH.html
25-06-2020||News||How India can keep China in check | Opinion||The June 15 clashes between India and China have finally broken the four-decade record of relative peace on the Himalayan frontier. Reactions have been sharp, ranging from calls to evict the Chinese from their entrenched positions to others calling for a Cold War.The debate over China’s rise has been raging for the past two decades, if not since 1950, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) swept into Tibet. India-China relations have seen it all — from engagement to a dramatic collapse in 1959, a brief-but-traumatic war in 1962, a hiatus of no- war, no-peace in the decades that followed. And, finally a diplomatic breakthrough with the 1988 modus vivendi that paved the way for India and China to build a relationship without settling the border dispute. The core premise was that the stable development of relations is predicated on a peaceful periphery. It reflected pragmatism and broader shifts in Chinese and Indian priorities in favour of economic transformation at home and a peaceful neighbourhood. The June 15 clashes have dented that agreed-upon edifice.It is clear that the next phase of the relationship depends on a peaceful frontier. But this should not mean merely a restoration of the status quo ante. If, by the status quo, we mean two large nuclear-armed countries resuming their aggressive jostling and humiliating each other, that is unsustainable. To anyone who has viewed leaked videos of the border face-offs in recent years, the Line of Actual Control (LAC) grey zones have been transformed into a nasty tit-for-tat game, waiting to explode.For the past decade, both sides have adopted forward policies matched by new connectivity links to the frontier. A belief that an array of confidence-building measures (CBMs) would cushion this changing balance of power in the forward areas has been misplaced. It is time now for stock-taking and re-envisioning a new conflict-management framework. There were two main reasons to engage in proactive probing in the grey zones — as a symbolic ritual of showing the flag to demonstrate consistency over claim lines, and, keeping an eye on each other so that nobody changes the status quo on the ground. But there was a complementary political element too. High-level talks between the special representatives were intended to lay out a framework within which each side would bring forward their claims for serious bargaining to commence. But with that political process stalling in recent years, tactical forward probing along LAC has assumed a life of its own, disproportionate to the envisaged goals.Why can’t Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping settle the dispute? Chinese scholar Yun Sun summarises the key problem obstructing a settlement — “Key concessions India demands from China on the border settlement are hard commitments that cannot be reversed. By contrast, what China seeks from India, such as its neutrality in the US-Chinese strategic competition, is ephemeral and easily adjustable.” This problem of uncertainty and fluidity in strategic intentions has no apparent solution for the foreseeable future. However, stabilising the frontier through new norms is possible and in the interests of both states. Creative approaches such as agreed buffer zones in the most contentious pockets and coordinated or restricted patrolling regimes to avoid violent scuffles must be integral to the new status quo.In their excitement or jingoism, many have declared a breaking point in the India-China relations. This is precisely the time to avoid such hyperbole.The relationship has not suddenly gone south. The warning signs have been apparent for some time. It has been falsely claimed that Delhi has been oblivious to China’s rise. In fact, Modi’s China policy has been uncompromising across the board. From the Belt Road Initiative (BRI) to maritime security to emerging high technologies such as 5G, Delhi has been bold in its rhetoric and actions. Even in the geopolitical arena, India has been unabashed and dogged in engaging the United States (US), despite an unenthused president in the White House. Across Asia too, Delhi has been proactively tapping China’s neighbours as a future countervailing hedge. With traditional ally Russia too, Modi’s renewed outreach in recent years is reminiscent of the old geostrategy — promoting a balance of power in Eurasia.If anything, India’s policymakers could be critiqued for getting ahead of themselves and precipitating counter-balancing moves from China without having a credible strategy in place. But Delhi’s real failure has been to not match its realpolitik words and deeds with a broader foreign policy framework where sustained engagement with China was also part of a grand strategy to emerge as a “leading power” in a multipolar world. Instead, Delhi has found itself leaning against China with an empty treasury and unpredictable partners.History shows that when India possessed strong and positive ties with the great powers, it was taken seriously by China. Yet, history also shows the clear limits of what leveraging that balance of power can do for India. The India-US and India-Soviet (Russia) ties worked to stabilise the India-China relationship when India remained firmly grounded in recognising and pursuing its own interests rather than becoming an object in a great game. So only when two conditions simultaneously held was India able to shape a mutually beneficial relationship with China — shrewdly leveraging the international environment and maintaining a sophisticated China policy.Zorawar Daulet Singh is an adjunct fellow, Institute of Chinese Studies, Delhi, and author of Power and Diplomacy: India’s Foreign Policies During the Cold WarThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-can-keep-china-in-check/story-qewM1ByMphyfDAO3eh7JQM.html
25-06-2020||News||On the AGR issue, the court must keep in mind the greater common good | Opinion||We all have grown up with the tales of emperor Vikramaditya embedded in our subconscious. Known for his wisdom, he is remembered as the greatest judge in history. The hallmark of his justice was that both sides understood the rationale behind his thinking and were always satisfied by his solution. And so, in India, whenever a judge pronounces a judgment with great skill and wisdom, it is said of him, “ He must have sat on Vikramaditya’s seat of judgment.” It’s another matter, though, that there is a fable of why that seat does not physically exist today, which is probably symptomatic of the times.The Supreme Court is one our finest institutions and has displayed great wisdom over decades in pronouncing thoughtful, well rounded judgments and meted justice with an unquestionable fairness to all concerned. Though there have been rising instances of judicial overreach over the last decade, the Adjusted Gross Revenues (AGR) proceedings seem to be in quite a different bracket.This was a case where the court had ruled that the telcos are liable to pay the department of telecom (DoT) the disputed amount. So far, so good. The court’s role was perfectly understood till its ruling on the “applicability” of the AGR to telcos was concerned. DoT was the appellant, the telcos were the appellees, and there was a disagreement. Since then, though, the court seems to have adopted a “commercial” role in negotiating the best bargain on behalf of a seemingly reluctant DoT, despite difficulties expressed by all telcos, including Vodafone Idea, in meeting the deadline. Surprisingly, DoT itself is not an aggrieved party as it has expressed willingness to accept a 20-year payment period. Ostensibly, DoT, and by implication, the government would have carefully evaluated the wide implications of Vodafone Idea’s collapse. Being a listed entity, its financial position is in the public domain and any professional finance expert — if appointed as an amicus curiae —will be able to advise on the nuances of financial disclosures to prove the public perception that Vodafone Idea’s balance sheet cannot support funding the required ~51,000 crore in the medium term, and the only possibility of paying up is by ensuring its survival to earn adequate profits over the long-term.In this context, the court’s comments on the existence of “profits” due to a provision of contingent liabilities, providing bank guarantees, personal guarantees of directors and its demand for a “reasonable” amount of upfront payment would seem unreasonable. Any insistence on squeezing immediate cash flows for the telcos would be tantamount to encouraging a duopoly in India as Reliance Jio is unaffected by the AGR situation. Surely, from a public policy perspective, that could not be an outcome which is either desirable,or acceptable, to any institution mandated to uphold the interests of public good. The court has also brought up the concept of upfront payment by telcos to help the government in its resource augmentation efforts. Remember, the government had not pleaded this position at all and its resource constraints are gigantic multiples of these small upfront payments.It must be appreciated that unless Vodafone Idea is allowed to remain competitive (which requires further massive investments), it will not survive long enough to pay the dues to DoT and the banks. Given its high leverage, the banking system will suffer immediate losses far in excess of AGR dues. And, given its obvious financial constraints, cash is the most critical resource it needs to conserve. Regrettably, it is this precise resource which is sought to being appropriated by a court judgement in a curious case where the creditor itself is willing to accommodate a reasonable payment schedule. The government understands the implications of the collapse of Vodafone Idea on the banking system, employment , policy messaging to the international community and, of course, handing over the telecom market to two players ( Bharti and Reliance Jio ). As I have written elsewhere, Atmanirbhar Bharat can get off to a flying start almost immediately if strategic telecom-technology alliances are encouraged, without the hangover of uncertain policy and judicial pronouncements which stymie business and investments. This will reap immediate benefits for India as it desperately seeks avenues of accessing global capital to revive growth. The providential time window, though, provided by the current state of play in global technology trends, is short, and policymakers and courts must recognise the urgency of a genuine “ease of doing business” paradigm in India. Google’s reported interest in Vodafone Idea is a low hanging fruit waiting to be plucked. I trust the Supreme Court will weigh the implications of its going down the present route in totality. It must revert to its role of engaging only in disputes between parties. When it ordains its occasional undeniable role in public policy matters, then it must be guided by the larger interests of the entire community. That would remind the world of ancient Indian wisdom and that the judgment seat of Vikramaditya still endures in contemporary times.Prabal Basu Roy is a Sloan Fellow from the London Business School, director and adviser to chairmen of corporate boards. The author has formerly been a Group CFO in various companies.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-the-agr-issue-the-court-must-keep-in-mind-the-greater-common-good/story-L7Zp9Ed9G59ArsZmQThdRN.html
25-06-2020||News||Decoding the Centre’s plan for migrant workers, writes Ram Madhav||Eight decades after he formulated his General Theory, John Maynard Keynes remains a demigod to many liberal economists. Keynes’ “trickle-up” theory is seen by them as a panacea for the migrant working class affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Keynes suggested that to kickstart a stagnant economy, the government must boost demand by cutting taxes, increasing government spending and putting money in the pockets of the middle-class.Keynes’ disciples in the Opposition are criticising the finance minister (FM)’s package for not making direct money transfers into the accounts of the poor. The government has already extended substantial support to the rural poor, including migrant workers. The rabi crop has been purchased by the government at the cost of Rs 75,000 crore which has benefitted over 90 million farmers. Additionally, Rs 19,000 crore has been deposited into the bank accounts of eligible farmers under PM Kisan. A crop insurance bill of Rs 6,000 crore has been paid. Women from over 300 million poor families have been receiving Rs 1,500 over three months in their Jan Dhan accounts.To top this, the FM announced the allocation of a little over Rs 1,00,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) taking the total man-days available for the rural poor to 300 crore. Estimates by economists suggest that around Rs 12,000 have gone directly into the accounts of every single poor family through these measures. All this came from the Centre, with the states doing their bit. Yet, there is distress manifested in the large-scale flight of migrant workers from destination states such as Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana to the home states of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Orissa, Chhattisgarh and the Northeast. There has been a lot of politics over this. The migrant issue in such circumstances is complicated. And it isn’t unique to India. Many countries in Europe such as Spain, Germany, Italy and France are struggling with issues of farm workers who migrate in the harvest season from Eastern European countries. “Host countries are torn between fear of losing harvests, fear of importing infection and a fear that predates the pandemic — that of foreigners taking jobs. Populists sense opportunity as the economic fallout solidifies political battle lines”, according to a piece in The Guardian.India’s migrant population is over 130 million. Their movement en masse back to their home-states would have been an unmitigated disaster. To prevent this, the Centre turned its attention to agriculture and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Over 44% of India’s workforce is dependent on agriculture. The government’s decision to allocate Rs 1 lakh crore for farm-gate infrastructure development is to ensure that the workforce is engaged in productive agricultural activity. Of the rest, 70% of jobs are provided by the MSME sector. The government gave the sector high priority by arranging additional easy lending options to the tune of over Rs 400,000 crore. Compared to the fiscal measures taken by other G20 countries, India has done better than most. According to an International Monetary Fund report, the aggregate fiscal measures as a percent of GDP are in two dimensions — spending and revenue measures; and loan, equity and guarantee measures. Germany, which topped the fiscal relief chart had announced 1% of GDP in additional spending and 6% in loan guarantees. India, with a stimulus package of 10% of GDP, is well ahead of its G20 peers.It must be remembered that while a section of the migrants undertook their homebound journey, a large number stayed back. There are two important reasons for it. One, the appeal to employers by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to continue paying wages; and two, the government’s stimulus to MSMEs and agriculture.Migrants have been supported by states and non-governmental organisations during the lockdown. Yet, their anxiety to get back to their families and villages has pushed many to defy the lockdown and set off home. To manage this migration, a coordinated approach was needed between the Centre and the states, and between destination and origin states. Uttar Pradesh has set an example by arranging to ferry not only its own migrants, but also those bound for neighbouring Bihar, in over 1,200 buses. It alone received and transported over two million workers to their destinations. Gujarat has quickly arranged trains for these migrants while Maharashtra has been found wanting. The role played by the Indian Railways is exemplary. It has so far transported over two million migrants to their home states. Bihar and West Bengal are two states that did not show enough interest in receiving its own migrants, leading to huge numbers being stranded in Mumbai and Delhi. Madhya Pradesh, though neither a destination nor a home, has come forward with 1,000 buses to help the migrants reach their destinations.Leo Varadkar, former PM of Ireland, joined European Union leaders a few weeks ago supporting the movement of cross-border agriculture workers. Back home, he was critical of a Dublin fruit company for bringing in Bulgarian workers to pick strawberries. Similarly, the Opposition criticises the Centre for the migrant crisis, while the origin or destination of the migrants is in the states under its control. What we need today is collective federal action to address the migrant issue, not the political blame game we are witnessing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-centre-s-plan-for-migrant-workers/story-CC1VWXswh9ky0RMfD8YREK.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||47-year-old driver shot at by two men in Bhondsi||Two men shot at a 47-year-old man near Alipur in Bhondsi Wednesday over an alleged personal enmity, police said. The victim is said to be in a critical condition after being shot in the chest.The police said a case of attempt to murder has been registered against the two suspects who are on the run currently.The victim has been identified as Maharaj Singh, a tractor-trolley driver from Bharatpur, in Rajasthan, who transports wheat to the city. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.40pm when Singh had stopped for a break at a roadside restaurant on Sohna road. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Singh had parked his tractor trolley in the parking area of the eatery and was taking a nap when two men arrived on a motorcycle. One of them walked up to him and shot him in the chest. He collapsed and an acquaintance took him to a hospital in Sohna.”In his statement to the police, Singh identified the shooter as one Mahender and his aide as Bunty. A preliminary probe found that Singh had loaned ₹8 lakh to Mahender and the two were on bitter terms after Singh demanded his money back. Mahender was expressing reluctance and had told him that he was still trying to arrange the money, which had caused a rift between the two, said Subash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram Police.Singh was referred to the Sector 10 civil hospital where his condition is said to be critical. He suffered one bullet wound in his chest. The police said the suspects, both from Bharatpur, are at large. A case has been registered against the suspects under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Bhondsi police station on Thursday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/47-year-old-driver-shot-at-by-two-men-in-bhondsi/story-irV2ZNhfQwQb1v0UZMH3cJ.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||182 people covered under Covid-19 sero-survey, 32 found to have developed antibodies||The district administration has till Thursday tested at least 182 people as part of its serological survey to check for the undetected community transmission of Covid-19.The health department on Thursday collected samples of 90 people to check for coronavirus antibodies in their blood serum. The sample was collected from Tigra, one of the worst-affected areas in the district, which has reported more than 226 cases. Till now, tests showed, at least 32 people had developed antibodies against coronavirus.Earlier this week, the health officials had collected 92 samples from pockets like Dundahera, Sirhaul, Pataudi, sector 14, among others, for antibody testing.A serological survey includes IgG Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test. It estimates the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The IgG test is not useful for detecting acute infections but it indicates episodes of SARS-CoV-2 infections that has happened in the past. The test is approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for its high sensitivity and specificity. The test has been conducted in 75 districts across the country as part of a study. It was found that less than one percent of the population – 0.73% - in non-containment zones was found to have contracted the virus.The sero survey has to be done in 460 people across different pockets of the city. Along with Gurugram, four other districts – Faridabad, Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat – are also being covered in the survey. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “Blood samples of only those people have been taken who have had high exposure to the contagious infection. It includes people who came in contact with a large group of people on a daily basis, such as health workers, police personnel, taxi drivers and sanitation staff among others.”For conducting the survey, five mililitre blood samples is collected from the subjects. It is then put in a machine where blood and plasma are separated. The plasma is then used to detect antibodies developed against Covid-19 in the body. The city has received five sets, having 92 kits each, for conducting the survey. Ambala and Panchkula have got two sets each, while Faridabad and Sonepat have got five sets each. Each kit can be tested together in a single run of two and a half hours.Yadav said that the sero surveillance was started earlier this week and 50% of the kits are being used on patients who tested positive in the last two weeks. The remaining will be used on people who confirmed negative. “Out of 92 people tested, 32 had IgG antibodies,” said Yadav.The team had collected 92 samples earlier this week, which included samples of 50 people, who had recovered from Covid-19 in the past. The remaining 42 samples were of those who had no history of Covid-19. Of these 92 samples, only 32 — 26 in the first set and six in the second — were found to have IgG antibody in their blood serum. Studies shows, the IgG antibodies start appearing two weeks after the onset of infection.Gurugram is about to breach the 5,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, and going by the future projections it can reach 7,000 mark by the end of June. Yadav said that the results of sero-survey, the rapid antigen detection test and routine RT-PCR will help in identifying the appropriate health intervention required to control the surge in numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/182-people-covered-under-covid-19-sero-survey-32-found-to-have-developed-antibodies/story-U6MoLpbTLLIKrApQ7dbL2J.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||35-year-old man stabbed to death in Gwal Pahari; friend booked for murder||A 35-year-old labourer was stabbed to death allegedly by his friend after a drunken brawl in Gwal Pahari area near the Delhi-Gurugram border on Wednesday. The police said the suspect had been booked for murder after an FIR was filed at the DLF Phase-1 police station on Thursday.According to the police, the victim has been identified as Deshraj Singh, a resident of village Maandi in Fatehpur Beri, Delhi. According to the police, the incident was reported at 9.05pm to the police by the victim’s brother, Rahul Singh.Singh alleged in the police complaint that his brother Deshraj’s friend, Saurabh, had taken him to Gwal Pahari to have drinks around 4pm on Wednesday.“Deshraj and Saurabh often drank together and the latter has been visiting our house for several years. On the day of the incident, as I was taking a stroll, I saw them leaving the house. After my brother did not return till 8pm, I went out to look for him and found him lying unconscious near a non-motorable road in Gwal Pahari. He was severely bleeding and had been stabbed in the chest,” said Singh in the FIR, adding that he suspected that Saurabh had killed him with a knife.Deshraj Singh was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival.The police said that initial probe had revealed that Deshraj and Saurabh had purchased liquor from a store in Gwal Pahari and after the first round of drinking, they had returned to the same liquor vend. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “At the liquor vend, they had a minor tiff while purchasing liquor. Deshraj allegedly assaulted Saurabh, following which the former returned to their drinking spot. A few minutes later, Saurabh allegedly attacked him with a knife and stabbed him,” the police official said, adding that a police team had detained Saurabh for questioning.A case was registered against the suspect under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at DLF Phase-1 police station on Thursday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/35-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-gwal-pahari-friend-booked-for-murder/story-UyICwhXwm3gcTmTLGE8SdJ.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Man, his aide wanted in dozens of criminal cases nabbed in Nuh||In a major breakthrough, Haryana Police arrested a 35-year-old man, wanted in several criminal cases, and his close aide from the Nuh district on Wednesday after a brief chase and exchange of fire, said the police.The police said a joint raid was conducted by Nuh police and a special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police in village Deola in Pinagwan in Nuh to nab the suspects. The arrested men were identified as Imran and his aide, Kasim of Devla Nagli village in Pingwana. Imran suffered a gunshot injury on the ankle of his right leg and is currently receiving treatment at Mandikhera hospital in Nuh, the police said on Thursday.According to the police, Imran was allegedly involved in more than five dozen criminal cases pertaining to organised ATM loot, murder and attempted murder in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. He has been on the run for the last six years. The Gurugram Police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 for any information leading to his arrest, while the Madhya Pradesh Police had announced an additional reward of ₹50,000 for the same.Narender Bijarnia, the superintendent of police, Nuh, said they received a tip-off about the suspect’s movement that he would be going to meet his associates along with another gang member near Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh around 2am on Wednesday. “We formed a team of STF and Nuh crime investigation unit and placed barricades at the outskirts of the city. Imran and his close aide, Kasim, were on their motorbike. When they saw the police, they tried to take a turn in the fields. Imran got down and ran into the fields, taking advantage of the dark, and fired four rounds at the police while Kasim hid near a bush,” he said.In the retaliatory firing by the police, a bullet hit Imran’s right ankle and he fell on the ground, the police said.Bijarnia said Imran was rushed to Mandikehra hospital, where he is currently undergoing treatment. “We are yet to record his statement but his aide has confessed to their involvement in more than 200 incidents, in which he and his associates uprooted ATMs from five states across the country. They were also involved in cases of murder, attempt to murder in Nuh and Gurugram and at least three dozen cases of carjacking,” he said.According to the police, the suspect had formed a gang to loot ATMs 15 years ago and has been arrested several times by the police teams of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Imran has allegedly travelled to Gujarat, Orissa, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Gangtok, and Kolkata.The suspect once recovered will be produced before the court and the police will demand for a three-day police remand, said the police. The police also recovered one motorbike, a countrymade pistol and a round of live cartridge from the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-his-aide-wanted-in-dozens-of-criminal-cases-nabbed-in-nuh/story-Oj0xjLJq8VAjARQo3HHzBO.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Pvt hospitals tie up with hotels to set up isolation facility||The district administration on Thursday gave its nod to five private hospitals in the city to set up paid isolation facilities in hotels located in their vicinity. As per an order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on Thursday, five hotels have been notified as paid isolation facilities after they tied up with hospitals — such as Medanta Medicity, Max Hospital, W Pratiksha, among others. “We have asked hospitals to reserve beds in hotels for confirmed Covid-19 cases, who do not require critical care. But they will have to ensure proper medical facilities are provided to people with mild symptoms, who will be referred to such facilities. These hotels will be like step down medical facilities, where the hospital will be responsible for proper medical supervision of patients,” said Sonal Goel, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited, who is also the nodal officer for hospital management.An institutional isolation facility is set up for Covid-19 patients — those with mild symptoms — who do not have enough space at home or can’t be home isolated. The order stated that this move was likely to reduce the pressure on families, help protect them and their immediate neighbourhood and give comfort to the coronavirus infected patients. According to officials, there is no dearth of beds in the city at present but if Covid-19 cases increase in the coming months, the paid isolation facilities set up by private hospitals will help in dealing with the surge.Max Hospital has set up the facility at Vista Signature in South City 1. Similarly, Columbia Asia has tied up with Hotel Desire, sector 23 A, Paras Hospital with Bawa Residency in Sushant Lok sector 43, W Pratiksha Hospital with the Aurora Paradise near Nirvana Country and Medanta Hospital with Prani Health Solutions guest house. According to Goel, six other hospitals have also reached out to the administration for setting up paid isolation facilities. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare, said, “A dedicated Covid health centre for patients with mild to moderate symptoms is a much-needed addition to the healthcare infrastructure of Gurugram in the times of a pandemic. By segregating Covid patients from the general populace, it will not only lower the risk of infection for everyone but also reduce overcrowding at hospitals, leaving more space for the treatment of non-Covid patients.”Max hospital has fixed a charge of Rs 9,500 per day for those availing their hotel facility. It will include 24x7 medical supervision, including round-the-clock availability of doctors and nurses on premises for patient care, a comprehensive Covid care plan, daily visit by a senior consultant, daily in-person monitoring by trained nurses, video consults by psychologists, oxygen support for stabilising patients, and ambulance transfer in case of an emergency. Meanwhile, a representative from Paras Hospital, said, “Our employees are also getting quarantined in the hotel we have tied up with. As patient load increases, we will be shifting some of them to the designated hotel.”The district administration too has tied up with several hotels in the city for self-paid and government paid Covid care centres. There are 13 designated hotels for self-paid isolation facilities. Over 464 beds have been reserved in these hotels for Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms. Likewise, 1,132 beds have been kept aside in 26 hotels of the city, which are to act like government paid isolation facilities.Currently, 72 patients are in these centres. In the government paid facilities, the charges are nominal and is set at Rs 700, including taxes, which includes three meal. In the self -paid facilities the charges vary from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pvt-hospitals-tie-up-with-hotels-to-set-up-isolation-facility/story-Uov4u47LqhHrPq077LLj0J.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Three found +ve on Day 2 of rapid antigen testing||The district health team on Thursday tested 94 people for Covid-19 using the rapid antigen detection kits that delivers results within 15-30 minutes. The tests were conducted in Gandhi Colony, during which officials said at least three people tested positive for coronavirus antigen. Health officials said that the new cases were asked to home isolate themselves, as they had no symptoms.Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Out of the 94 people who had given their nasal swabs for antigen detection, three tested positive. Since they had mild symptoms, the team recommended home isolation for them. Also, nine people who had Infleunza like Illness tested negative. Their samples have now been collected for RT-PCR test.” The health team will be conducting antigen test in Chakkarpur on Friday. Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer, said that they are identifying areas from where maximum cases have been reported. “Through Aarogya Setu app and data of positive patients fed on the ICMR portal, we are able to figure out areas where Covid-19 clusters are emerging. Over 15 such places have been identified so far, where antigen tests will be conducted,” said Yadav. Since the district has received 8,000 antigen kits, Yadav said that a detailed plan will be prepared on utilising these kits in affected areas. As the district administration plans to have extended containment zones, which clubs together several Covid-19 affected areas, these kits are likely to be used in those zones to break the chain of transmission of the virus.On Thursday, 89 people tested positive for Covid-19 (including RT-PCR and antigen test), taking the total count of infected persons in the district to 4,851. Of these,1,735 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals or are home isolated. Till now, 3,040 patients have recovered. The Covid-19 death toll stands at 76 with one person succumbing to the virus on Thursday, as per the health bulletin. At least 45 deaths have been caused due to co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-found-ve-on-day-2-of-rapid-antigen-testing/story-oM4CGv4HAECGdCrZvdhP2O.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Students and parents in Ludhiana relieved after CBSE cancels pending Class 12 board exams||The decision taken by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday to cancel pending board exams for students of Class 12 has left many students upset as they were burning the midnight oil to appear for the examination scheduled to be held on July 1.On the other hand, some welcomed the move and said safety should be given top priority amid surging cases of Covid-19.Irina Dhillion, a commerce student of Guru Nanak Public School, Sarabha Nagar, said, “This move comes as a relief to students. With growing cases of Covid-19 cases here, it becomes very risky to step out of home.”“Many students from containment areas will also visit the exam centres to appear for the board exams which will compromise the safety of other students,” a 17-year-old student said.Srishti Verma, a student of BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said, “This is a great decision by the board and a relief for parents who were not willing to send their children to appear for the board exam. Health is paramount and interested students can appear for the exam later as stated by the board.” A parent, Amrit Joshi, said, “I was anxious as my son was appearing for the exam scheduled on July 9 (business studies). This decision is a respite for parents as well as students.”On May 18, the board had issued a revised date sheet to conduct the pending exams between July 1 to 15.Gurkirat Singh, a student of Guru Nanak International Public School, said, “I resumed preparation after the board declared the revised date sheet. But, amid surging cases of Covid -19, I appreciate the board for taking the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-and-parents-in-ludhiana-relieved-after-cbse-cancels-pending-class-12-board-exams/story-ufWjLExdnOSc6POZujF7dP.html
25-06-2020||City||Civic bus driver succumbs to Covid; Thane, Kalyan record highest one-day spike||A 45-year-old bus driver with the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded six deaths due to the infection on Thursday, taking the toll to 91.The city also recorded 323 new positive cases, the highest single-day count. Of the total 4,505 positive cases in KDMC, 2,365 are still receiving treatment while 2,059 have recovered and been discharged.KDMT manager Maruti Khodke said, “This is the first death in the department due to Covid and the entire staff is concerned about the loss. We will help the family to get the insurance cover and start the procedure immediately.”Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) also recorded its highest single-day spike, with 264 positive cases and 12 deaths on Thursday. This has taken the total count to 7,091 positive cases and 245 deaths.A 65-year-old ENT surgeon succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday, making him the fourth doctor in Thane to die from the infection.“The doctor was not on duty as he was a senior citizen. He had his own clinic in Thane city. We are deeply saddened with this news as one more amongst us has succumbed to Covid-19,” said Dr Dinkar Desai, president, Indian Medical Association’s Thane chapter.The new municipal commissioner of Thane, Dr Vipin Sharma surveyed the hotspots of Lokmanya Nagar and Savarkar Nagar on Thursday. He reviewed the fever clinics as well to understand the situation and also asked locals to follow social distancing norms and wear masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-bus-driver-succumbs-to-covid-thane-kalyan-record-highest-one-day-spike/story-4yTSBMXtqIvPFuswDpEp1H.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||One dead, at least 10 injured after two canters collide on KMP Expressway||One person was killed and at least 10 others were injured after a canter, in which labourers from brick kilns were travelling to their native districts, allegedly collided with another canter on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway near Pachgaon flyover on Thursday morning. Two among the injured persons, including a canter driver, are undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where their condition is said to be critical, said the police.According to the police, the incident took place around 5am when a canter, which was carrying at least 25 migrant workers from various brick kilns in Hisar to their respective villages in Banda in Uttar Pradesh(UP), had crossed the toll on KMP Expressway and reached near the dividing road. The police said after a distance of over 100 metres, another canter, which was driving in front of it, abruptly applied brakes, resulting in the accident. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Since it is the onset of monsoon, migrant workers from brick kilns usually return to their native places till the winter season as there is no work. These workers were returning to Banda in UP from Hisar.”The police said the cabin of the canter carrying migrant workers, was completely crushed and a crane had to be called in to pull out two injured persons from the mangled remains of the cabin. The helper, Amar Singh, 42, died on the spot while the driver, Naresh, and a woman, Chandavni, who was sitting in the cabin, suffered serious injuries and are reported critical at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. Among the migrant workers, who were sitting in the rear, at least eight people including three women sustained minor injuries and are stable.The police said the second canter, whose driver had allegedly abruptly applied brakes, escaped from the spot. It is not certain if any occupant in the second canter suffered injuries. A case was registered against the absconding canter driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the Bilaspur police station.On March 29, five persons, including a one-year-old boy, had died while at least ten others were injured after a canter had allegedly rammed into two auto-rickshaws and hit several migrant labourers, near the toll plaza on KMP Expressway near Pachgaon flyover. The deceased and several among the injured were waiting at the toll for a commute to their respective home towns in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana in the wake of a nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-dead-at-least-10-injured-after-two-canters-collide-on-kmp-expressway/story-uVz0l3ogW1wcCxB64qOkmL.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||DTCP employee tests positive for Covid-19||An employee of the department of town & country planning (DTCP) who worked at the Sector 14 office of the department tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, three days after a Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) employee, who worked in the same building complex, tested positive for the infection. Following the DTCP employee testing positive— which is the first Covid-19 case to be reported in the Gurugram wing of the department—senior town planner Ravi Sihag issued directions to all the employees, who came in contact with the affected person, to get tested for the virus.As per DTCP officials, the employee who has tested positive was not feeling well for the last few days and had influenza-like symptoms. “His test report came positive on Thursday, and he brought the matter to the notice of senior officials after which directions were issued to other employees to get tested,” an official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. After two cases were reported within four days from the Sector 14 building complex—which also serves as the headquarters for HSVP—the authority on Thursday requested the police department to deploy few personnel at the entrance of the complex to ensure all visitors follow social distancing norms. An HSVP staffer, who worked with the land acquisition division in the Sector 14 complex, was found Covid-19 positive on Monday.Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 1, HSVP (Gurugram), said in view of the large number of visitors coming to the single window office, the authority has asked the police to deploy a few personnel to ensure social distancing. “A large number of people visit this office and it was observed that social distancing was not being observed effectively. So we have decided to enforce social distancing rules strictly to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he said. The HSVP and DTCP officials have also deployed security guards, who are equipped with thermal scanners, at the main entrances of their respective offices to check the body temperature of all visitors and employees. “We are also getting the entire building complex sanitised to ensure there is no spread of the virus,” said Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-WRRz2z6zGaWK0kStfxGKTP.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for stealing from govt school in Mohali||Two men were arrested on Thursday for allegedly stealing from a Government Middle School in Raipur Kalan. The accused have been identified as Parvinder Singh and Jatinder Singh, both residents of Raipur Kalan village. Sub-inspector Paramjit Singh, in-charge of Saneta police post, said two LCDs, three CPUs and a printer that were stolen from the school were recovered from the possession of the accused.He said investigation has been initiated as the case was registered against them at the Sohana police station. The duo was produced in a local court which remanded them to one-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-stealing-from-govt-school-in-mohali/story-MU5DjyfXDHMaE7wBxnFxeI.html
25-06-2020||City||Four vehicle thieves arrested in Jewar, 21 stolen bikes recovered||The Jewar Police on Thursday arrested four suspected vehicle thieves on Thursday and recovered as many as 21 stolen motorcycles.According to police officers, they had received a tip about the suspects based on which the four were arrested around 9.45 am near the Dayanatpur road.The suspects were identified as Nitin, Bablu, Rahul, and Rajabharati. They were arrested while they were riding two motorcycles which had been stolen from the Jahangirpur area, the police said.“During questioning, they revealed that their gang had stolen vehicles from Jewar, Aligarh, other UP districts and parts of Haryana. Rahul would follow the motorcycle owner and Nitin would use a master key to steal the vehicle, while the other two maintained a vigil,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.Police officers said Bablu worked in a garage in Jewar and would switch the motorcycle parts and put in a fake number plate before selling the vehicles. Based on the information revealed by the suspects, 19 other stolen motorcycles were recovered by the police.“Seven motorcycles have been traced to Jewar, one to Phase 3, one to Aligarh and two to Faridabad in Haryana. The rest of the two-wheelers are also being traced and more vehicles might be recovered soon,” the DCP said, adding that action will be taken against the suspects under the Gangsters Act as well. Police officers said they are trying to find if the suspects are involved in other robberies as well.The four were booked at the Jewar police station under sections 379 (punishment for theft) , 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 482 (punishment for using a false property mark), and 414 (assisting in concealment or disposal of stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-vehicle-thieves-arrested-in-jewar-21-stolen-bikes-recovered/story-trMDbG5e7agGXW7cEx6iXN.html
25-06-2020||City||Covid-19: Thirty teams deployed for antigen testing in Ghaziabad||The district magistrate on Thursday directed for deployment of 30 teams for the purpose of antigen testing, after Ghaziabad on Wednesday received the first set of 5,000 kits. The antigen kits have been provided to western Uttar Pradesh districts for speedy testing for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.“The DM has directed for formation of 30 teams comprising lab technicians and has asked officials to scout for premises such as schools buildings where testing will be taken up, where a part of the area will be converted into a holding area from where patients will be transported to healthcare facilities after tests,” said Dr NK Gupta, the district’s chief medical officer (CMO).With the help of these kits, the teams will be carrying out random sampling in containment zones and also target cases having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI).“If the patients are found positive, they will be asked to wait in the holding area and ambulances will arrive to take them to healthcare facilities. The teams will carry our testing in containment zones as well as of high risk patients, besides those affected by ILI and SARI symptoms,” the CMO added. The district currently has 297 containment zones.According to officials, the Meerut division – which includes the districts of Noida and Ghaziabad – has been provided with 30,000 antigen testing kits.Initially, five districts in eastern UP were given the antigen kits for testing purposes. The western UP districts have been given the antigen test kits in the second phase, by the state government.Health department officials said teams deployed for antigen testing will be able to take up about 450-500 tests per day and will enhance daily testing capability up to 900-950 samples. At present, the health department takes up about 450 samples per day.According to the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines, suspected individuals who test negative for Covid-19 by rapid antigen test should be definitely tested subsequently by RT-PCR to rule out the infection, whereas a positive test should be considered true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test.In the meantime, Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey also appointed six nodal officers who will keep in touch with residents who are receiving Covid treatment at various hospitals in Meerut, Noida and Delhi.“These are patients who are residents of Ghaziabad but are taking treatment outside the district. Our officers will keep in touch with them and will ensure they do not face problems during treatment. Likewise, we have deployed magistrates who are in touch with patients getting treatment at our hospitals. We have also deployed nodal officers for keeping in touch with patients who are now receiving paid Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals in Ghaziabad,” Pandey said.According to officials, there are about 16 Covid patients in Meerut, 27 in Noida district, 28 in Delhi, two in Aligarh and one in Lucknow, who are residents of Ghaziabad.GHAZIABAD RECORDS 86 FRESH CASES IN 24 HRS, NO DEATHSOn Thursday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 1,175, as against the total of 1,089 till Wednesday. The figure of 1,175 was released by the state government’s Covid-19 control room, which also states that it included 551 patients who were discharged while 575 patients are still under treatment, besides 49 deaths so far in the district.Going by these figures, the district on Thursday (figures till Wednesday) added 86 more cases to the tally of 1,089 and no deaths were reported.In another direction on Thursday, district officials ordered that saloons/beauty parlours will also be allowed to open under Unlock 1.0.“The shops will make use of sanitizers, face shields, gloves and disposable items while attending to customers. If such establishments make use of cloth, it should be used only once else they should be using disposable items. The establishments will be allowed to open as per previous directions related to opening markets in their respective areas,” additional district magistrate (city), Shailendra Singh, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-thirty-teams-deployed-for-antigen-testing-in-ghaziabad/story-PgmP7IpgNP7IiF5AnQKOlJ.html
25-06-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to adapt polio plan to combat Covid-19||On Thursday when Gautam Budh Nagar recorded its highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases (143 new cases), the administration increased the curfew to between 8pm and 6am.Till now, it was from 9pm to 5am. Movement of four or more people will be restricted within the district limits as per section 144 of the Indian Penal Code during this time.The violators can be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to the directions given by a public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.The administration also said it would adapt a plan used to eradicate polio in its surveillance measures.The pulse polio micro plan is a tried and tested campaign detailed by the World Health Organization. It involved leveraging resources at the block, district and state levels to immunize all children under five. The features of the plan includes pro-active surveillance of the population, estimating resources, recording and reporting cases and strict monitoring.Till now, patients used to inform district administration of their symptoms following which they would be tested. But with this new plan, the administration hopes to reach out to every household and monitor every case. Announcing this plan, district nodal officer (Covid-19) and senior IAS officer Narendra Bhooshan said it would be executed in containment zones. “As many as 800 teams will be constituted to monitoring and necessary action in the containment zones in the district,” he said.The district on Thursday reported the total case count at 1,811. It had reported over 100 new infections for the first time on Monday. One more person died of the disease, taking the fatality count to 20. While district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. Deepak Ohri refused to give more the details of on the dead person, another health official, on condition of anonymity, said it was a woman in her fifth month of pregnancy. Ohri said 32 patients were cured and discharged from different hospitals on Thursday, taking the overall number of cured people to 1,028 in the district so far. “As a result, the district now has 763 active cases,” he said.On the other hand, according to the daily Covid-19 bulletin released on Thursday by the state headquarters in Lucknow, in the last 24 hours, as many as 15 Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh have lost their lives and their death audit report is awaited.According to the bulletin, the overall tally of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state has gone to 20,193, with 654 new cases in last 24 hours. “While 611 patients have lost their lives due to coronavirus infection in the state so far, 626 patients have been cured and discharged from different hospitals in the state,” the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-adapt-polio-plan-to-combat-covid-19/story-tF3ocbmUdfV82Wbx7PL0UO.html
25-06-2020||Noida||New L-1 facility with 200 beds to come up soon in Sector 125||A new L-1 facility for treating asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, located in Sector 125 in Noida, will soon become operational. The facility will have 200 beds for patients and a team of 24 medical personnel. The date for the opening of the facility is yet to be decided. The building was constructed in a record time of 25 days as a collaborative project between the district administration the corporate social responsibility (CSR) team of the Tata Group.A doctor present on duty at the site said that medical personnel at the facility will work in three shifts.“There will be two doctors present, along with one pharmacist, one ward boy, two nurses and two sweepers in each shift who will administer to the patients coming here,” said the doctor, seeking anonymity.The seven-storey building was initially meant to be used as an office space but has now been converted into a hospital facility to treat the surging number of Covid-19 patients in the district, said the doctor.“The facility will have 200 beds spread across three floors, where L-1 or asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 will be administered. All arrangements have been made and we are ready to start operations soon,” said Dr Akansha Kanaujia, a shift doctor present at the site.The district magistrate had inspected the site earlier and had given instructions to curb the sources of noise around the facility.District administration officials said that all arrangements for medical services, food, housekeeping and sanitisation have been made. The district information officer said that without requisite permissions no one will be allowed to enter or exit the facility.The building is spread across 70,000 square feet of area and will be handed over by the Tata Group to the district administration for a period of at least six months. A senior health department official said, “The facility is ready to take patients and shall be opened soon.” “If the need arises, the administration can use the building for a longer period of time. Electricity and food will also be provided,” a representative of the Tata Group present at the site said, adding that the handover will happen in a day or so.On Thursday, Gautam Budh Nagar had a total of 1811 Covid cases. Treatment for Covid-19 in the district is being provided by four private hospitals, namely Yatharth, Jaypee, Kailash, Fortis, along with government facilities, such as District Hospital in Sector 39, Child PGI AND GIMS, and Sharda Hospital that has been acquired by the government. The district currently has a total of 1,100 dedicated Covid-19 beds, out of which 350 beds are in private hospitals and the rest are in government facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/new-l-1-facility-with-200-beds-to-come-up-soon-in-sector-125/story-h18vDglw2Txr2y7YOjuQON.html
25-06-2020||City||Targeted sampling of ILI & SARI, high risk patients leading to spike in Covid-19 cases||For the first time, Ghaziabad reported more than 100 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) a day on Tuesday, according to data released late on Wednesday night, taking the tally over the 1,000-mark. It recorded 114 new cases on the day.On Thursday, the district reported 86 fresh cases in the preceding 24 hours. In total, Ghaziabad recorded 1,175 cases, 551 patients discharged and 49 deaths till Thursday. Health officials say they expect a rise in cases with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex biomedical research institute in the country and also the nodal body for Covid-19 in India, revising the guidelines on testing.On Tuesday the Council expanded the testing norms, advising that all hospitals, offices and public sector units be enabled to conduct rapid antibody tests, and recommending the deployment of rapid antigen tests in all containment zones, and hospitals and private labs across the state. This meant that symptomatic patients, and not just close contacts of confirmed cases, could now be tested.“There is sudden increase in number of cases at present and it is primarily because of two reasons. First, we have changed strategy and focussing on targeted sampling of high risk groups which include close contacts of positive patients and, second, we are now focussing more on patients of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). So, we have more of such cases turning positive,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.ILI cases are those with symptoms of fever and cough, and SARI are ILI cases that require hospitalisation.“We expect that the trend of high number of cases will continue and it is likely that about 1000 more of such cases can arrive in next fortnight or so. However, once the patients are detected and sent to healthcare facilities, the number of cases will start declining. But we expect that the trend will continue in July as well,” CMO added.According to the data from the state surveillance control room, the district had just five cases in the March. This was followed by 61 cases in April alone and another 239 fresh cases in May alone.In the first 24 days of June, the district registered 784 fresh Covid-19 cases.Sampling teams are now focussing on collecting more samples from containment zones where surveillance measures too have been increased. According to the latest figure, the district has 297 category 1 (having one case) and category 2 (more than one case) containment zones.In March, only 149 samples were taken up followed by 2,729 and 7106 in April and May, respectively. Including data till June 24, the total sampling figure has now reached about 16,500.According to official estimates, the district is presently taking up about 450 sampling per day and focussing on high risk group along with cases of ILI and SARI. At present, about 20-25% cases out of 100 are turning positive which mostly include cases of ILI & SARI while it was about 5-6% till last month, said health officials.Ghaziabad is one of the 11 sensitive districts in the state with respect to rising number of Covid-19 cases.Recently, the district administration had also directed for enhancing the surveillance activities in non-containment zones and also for early detection of ILI and SARI cases. The district magistrate has roped in 3048 block level officers and 237 supervisors who are tasked to carry out house to house survey on the basis of voters’ list.According to the state Covid-19 figures till June 24, the Ghaziabad district stood third after Agra (85) and Meerut (76) in terms of high number of Covid-19 related deaths across the state. However, the discharge rate is also better as Ghaziabad is fourth, after Gautam Budh Nagar, Agra and Kanpur City, among 75 districts which have high discharge rate of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/targeted-sampling-of-ili-sari-high-risk-patients-leading-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-Oc2VBtmew9EZxpFCNfHuVO.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||3 cops die, Mumbai Police toll touches 37||Three personnel from the Mumbai Police died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll of the city police force to 37. The toll of the state police force is 57.Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration), confirmed the development to HT. In the past two weeks, 15 personnel have succumbed to the disease in Mumbai, including four deaths reported on June 13.Of the four deceased police personnel, one was an assistant sub-inspector attached to Marine Drive police station. He was undergoing treatment at SevenHills Hospital, Andheri since June 14. He died on Thursday.In the second case, a head constable of Dadar police station, aged 54, died at Hinduja Hospital. He was suffering from hypertension and was battling Covid-19 since May 25, said Viresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (Central region).Another 54-year-old constable attached to Samta Nagar police station succumbed to the disease the same morning. Raju Kasbe, senior inspector from Samta Nagar police station said, “He was on leave since June 13 and he started facing health issues on June 19. After he tested positive, he was admitted to Gurunanak Hospital, Bandra (East) on June 22. He felt better on Wednesday but his health condition worsened on Thursday and he succumbed around 7am.”The constable is survived by his wife, son, daughter-in-law and a daughter.The police department said they are yet to ascertain how the three cops contracted the virus.So far, 2,550 policemen from the city police force tested positive for Covid-19. Around 1,750 of them have recovered completely, Bajaj said. In Maharashtra Police, including Mumbai, more than 4,100 policemen have been infected, of whom nearly 3,000 have recovered. Of the 37 deaths of policemen in Mumbai, more than 80% are aged above 50, said a police source.Senior police officers believe that quicker response, setting up four dedicated Covid care centres, raising awareness about sanitisation among cops, strictly following social distancing norms and providing financial and moral support to policemen are some of the key measures for the speedy recovery of policemen.A senior IPS officer, however, said despite all these efforts deaths are continuing unabated and added that while drugs like Remdesivir or Tocilizumab are unavailable to most patients, the department put in extra efforts and arranged for it for the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-cops-die-mumbai-police-toll-touches-37/story-QU8FnaCZprLZgOIRgRuSyM.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||City crosses 70,000-case mark; 2,000 frontline BMC staff infected||The city crossed the 70,000 Covid-19 case mark, with 4,000 deaths recorded till Thursday. Frontline workers of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made up 2,026 of the cases, and 80 casualties. The maximum of these deaths was from the solid waste management (SWM) department, with the second-highest toll from civic-run hospitals and the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB).On Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,350 fresh cases and 98 deaths. The city’s case tally rose to 70,878, while the death toll touched 4,062. The total number of discharged patients in Mumbai was 39,149, with a recovery rate of 55.23%. Further, active cases stood at 27,659 and the doubling rate is 41 days.“The doubling rate has reached 41 days which was 30 days on June 16. This means that the duration of doubling of a patient in a period of 10 days has increased from 30 to 41 days. At the same time, the average percentage of daily growth in the number of patients is also declining day by day, from 2.30% on June 17 to 1.72%,” the civic body said in a statement.In the case of overall deaths in Mumbai, the toll crossed the 500-mark on May 10. It crossed the 1,000-mark 15 days later on May 25, followed by the 2,000-mark 17 days later on June 12. The city crossed the 4,000-mark within 13 days on Thursday. The mortality rate as of Thursday was 5.72%.According to data released by the general administration department (GAD) of BMC, of the total 80 deaths among frontline workers, 21 are from the SWM department, followed by 16 deaths from civic-run hospitals. Seven deaths were recorded from Sion hospital, three from Cooper Hospital in Juhu, two from Bhabha Hospital in Kurla and one each from GTB Hospital in Wadala, Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi, Rajawadi Hospital and Savitri Bai Phule Maternity Hospital in Malad.Eight deaths were reported from the Mumbai Fire Brigade and seven from the security department of BMC. Nine administrative ward offices of the city reported 16 deaths followed by one each from other departments like markets, mechanical and electrical, stormwater drains, development plan, sewerage, water supply, and maintenance.“There are more deaths in the SWM department because we are on ground continuously and the environment in which the cleaners work is also challenging. Despite giving apparatus like sanitisers, masks, and gloves, many of them do not bother to use them. Also, we have allowed all workers to report on the field and directly go home after work, but many of them may not be going home directly,” said an official from the SWM department.“Many of the cleaners reside in slums and chawls which have common toilets. They also use public transport, hence, the high number of deaths. In the case of health workers, maybe they are less affected because they are more aware of the situation,” the official added.BMC had around two weeks ago announced a compensation of ₹50 lakh to the families of BMC staffers who died due to Covid-19 while discharging their duty. The GAD, in a reminder earlier this week, wrote to all departments of the BMC stating, “As it is necessary to give immediate assistance to the family of the deceased employee, all departments are requested to process the claims as early as possible.”Milind Sawant, joint municipal commissioner of GAD, said, “We are in the process of clearing claims for all the families. Many claims are pending due to paperwork on the part of the family, owing to them being under quarantine. In many cases, the departments are also in the process of furnishing required documents for the claims to be approved by insurance companies.”BMC anticipates that with the procurement of 1 lakh rapid antigen kits, the cases within the civic body can be detected early. “The kits will be used for frontline staff, considering it gives results in 30 minutes. We can detect the cases earlier and can also have frequent testing for elderly staff members,” said a BMC official.Meanwhile, Dharavi, one of the critical hotspots in Mumbai, reported the third-lowest number of cases since the first week of April. On Thursday, only 11 new cases were reported, taking the total count to 2,210, with 81 deaths. On Tuesday, only five cases were reported in Dharavi, the lowest since April, and the second-lowest single-day count of seven was reported on Saturday.Further, on Thursday, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar launched BMC’s ‘Doctor at Your Doorstep’ initiative in south Mumbai, similar to the Rapid Action Plan being launched for areas in the suburbs where more cases are being reported. Through seven mobile clinic vans under ‘Mission Zero’, doctors will conduct door-to-door screening of patients, and swabs from suspected individuals will be collected on the spot. The vans will function in Worli, Antop Hill, Dongri, Wadala, Charni Road, Girgaon, Fort, Colaba, and Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-crosses-70-000-case-mark-2-000-frontline-bmc-staff-infected/story-GpFvfPbVGCeDZoVPMZNB3I.html
25-06-2020||City||Bhiwandi mosque sets up Covid facility, offers free oxygen for patients||A mosque at Shanti Nagar in Bhiwandi (East) has been converted into a Covid care facility, providing oxygen free of cost to coronavirus-positive patients. Makkah Masjid, along with Jamaat-e-Islami Hind – Movement for Peace and Justice, has set up a facility with five beds with oxygen cylinders.They have also kept spare oxygen cylinders that can be delivered home to patients who find it difficult to travel.Shaheen Kalokhe, member, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Bhiwandi chapter, said, “We started this facility a week ago. With the help of social media, we have managed to reach out and create awareness among locals. Till now, more than 80 people have made use of the facility. We have a local physician who provides the facility to positive patients who have been prescribed oxygen treatment.”The facility has reserved 10 oxygen cylinders that can be used free of charge by patients at home, on a rotational basis.On June 12, Bhiwandi had a total of 395 positive cases and 21 deaths. Within 13 days, the city recorded a sudden spike in infections, bringing the case count to 1,332, with 88 deaths. This has forced the civic body to impose a lockdown in the city till July 3.“Makkah Masjid was shut to worshippers and was lying idle due to the pandemic and lockdown. We decided to use some of the premises of the mosque to help those who can’t avail treatment facilities elsewhere,” said Qaiser Mirza of Shanti Nagar Trust, which runs the mosque.Meanwhile, Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation has set up a 24X7 control room in the disaster management cell, to guide people for tests and treatment. People can use the toll-free number 18002331102 for guidance and can call 02522 250049 and 02522 232398 in cases of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-mosque-offers-free-oxygen-for-covid-patients/story-e3CB7gzAQC7bBLasGAC2fN.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Over 50% fliers want to wait six months to a year before resuming air travel: IATA||Gaining passenger confidence in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic will pose a major challenge for the aviation industry, as fliers are reluctant to resume air travel, revealed an international survey conducted by International Air Transport Association (IATA).The results of the survey, which were released by the trade association of world’s airlines as part of a webinar on Thursday, were based on the responses of 4,700 individuals from across 11 countries including India and the US.“More than 50% of air travellers said they would resume air travel only after waiting for at least six months. Whereas, 95% of the respondents said they would resume air travel in a year,” said Amitabh Khosla, IATA’s director, at the webinar titled ‘Restoring confidence in air travel’ organised by US-India Aviation Cooperation Program. “There is a major problem in gaining the passenger confidence at the moment,” he said.Findings also showed that in March, 60% of respondents had said they would return to air travel in a couple of months. This view changed in the second round of the survey, with only 45% of respondents preferring air travel in the next two months.Results showed that 83% of recent travelers in India said they would not consider traveling if it involved a 14-day quarantine period. “To regain passenger confidence in air travel, there is a need to build better travel insurance,” Khosla said.Nishant Pitti, co-founder of Easemytrip.com said current times are very uncertain for the air travel industry, with the majority of passengers travelling only for essential purposes.“With increasing acceptance for the situation, and sentiments turning positive, air travel is expected to recover slowly and move towards normalcy,” said Pitti. “Multiple research organisations are also working towards curing this virus, and travel will revive exponentially once any high-efficacy medicine or vaccine is developed. We are seeing 20% of business back now,” he added.Sabina Chopra, co-founder and chief operating officer of corporate travel and head industry relations of Yatra.com said that with the recommencement of domestic flight operations, their portal has witnessed demand shaping up for flight services on various routes by almost 30% from pre-Covid times.“Apart from popular metro routes, there has been a growth in demand for non-metro routes such as Ranchi and Patna among others. Almost 90% of the bookings are for the next two weeks as travellers are slowly gaining confidence to travel and are being cautious,” said Chopra. “We can expect the travel sector to make a gradual comeback and pick up, especially during the holiday season of October-December,” she said.CSMIA sees increase in flightsPost the resumption of domestic commercial passenger flight operations from May 25, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has handled 2,01,258 passengers (1,40,878 departing and 60,380 arriving), with a total of 1,744 domestic flights between May 25 and June 24. These flights were operated by 10 airlines to 34 sectors in the country. The airport saw the highest passenger load capacity on the Mumbai–Delhi route (41,206 passengers), followed closely by Mumbai-Kolkata (22,778 passengers), Mumbai-Varanasi (18,812 passengers) and Mumbai-Patna (17,784 passengers). “With the recent grant by the Maharashtra government to double the commercial passenger flight movements, the airport saw six new sectors added to the existing schedule. The sectors include Trivandrum, Coimbatore, Raipur, Udaipur, Jabalpur, and Jalgaon,” said a CSMIA spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-50-fliers-want-to-wait-six-months-to-a-year-before-resuming-air-travel-iata/story-Oxp0XirOQsZHd4M9jZniMJ.html
25-06-2020||City||Police conduct searches at Ludhiana’s Talwandi village, 3 held for drug peddling||The district police searched at least 35 houses at Talwandi Kalan village of Salem Tabri during wee hours on Thursday under ‘Operation Rat Hunt’ and arrested three accused, including a woman, for drug peddling.The police recovered 12.5gm heroin from their possession.Three separate cases were registered against Balwinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur and Balvir Singh at the Salem Tabri police station.The police also took seven history-sheeters into preventive detention.The search operation was conducted a day ahead of International Day Against Drug Abuse. Before villagers woke up, policemen were already at their doorsteps.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said, “There were complaints that some residents of the village were involved in drug peddling. Led by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city-1) Deepak Pareek, a police team, including ACP north Gurbinder Singh, SHOs of seven police stations, cops from the CIA staff and the anti-smuggling cell cordoned off the village and did not allow anyone to enter or go out during the operation.The DCP added even women of the village are suspected to be involved in drug peddling.He added, “The drive against drugs would be continued till July 10. Police will conduct surprise checks at various places.”Deepak Pareek said, “The operation was kept secret. The police reached the village at 2.30 in the morning and initiated searches. The operation continued till 6.30 am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-conduct-searches-at-ludhiana-s-talwandi-village-3-held-for-drug-peddling/story-UX06vlcYXq8ByyVvUixDyM.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis claims 1,000 deaths in city not recorded by BMC||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition in the state government, Devendra Fadnavis has yet again raised a red flag over the Covid-19 related deaths in Mumbai. In a letter to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, which he also released to the media on Friday, Fadnavis alleged that as many as 1,000 coronavirus deaths that occurred outside hospitals have not been officially recorded yet as Covid-19 fatalities.“As per my information, in the last three and a half months, there are at least 1,000 Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai that have not yet been officially recorded. Ward officers or the concerned officials have not issued death certificates for these cases. So far, 450 such deaths have been identified in the preliminary compilation,” Fadnavis wrote.“Ideally, such deaths must be compiled on that day or within 72 hours, but in this case, even after realising the delay of three months, figures are being compiled and recorded slowly,” he added.Fadnavis alleged that authorities were releasing the death figures in phases in a bid to avoid a spike in Covid-19 deaths but such a strategy was wrong and could prove to be counter-productive for future analysis and assessment of the infection.BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal denied Fadnavis’ allegations, saying it was “not true” that BMC has not compiled or recorded 1,000 Covid deaths outside of hospitals.“We gain nothing by hiding data on case fatalities. BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) has been transparent when it comes to compiling data so if there are any lacunae or shortcomings, we are working to plug it,” said a senior civic official, on condition of anonymity.Last week, the state government added 1,328 Covid-19 deaths after a review of cases; these included 862 deaths from Mumbai. While Fadnavis and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had alleged that death statistics related to the virus were being manipulated, state and civic authorities said that this was part of the data cleaning and reconciliation process.The state had given medical authorities till June 15 to complete this exercise. Fadnavis, on June 14, had alleged that the BMC had not reported 950-odd Covid-19 deaths.At the time, Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, in charge of the Covid-19 control room, had told HT that there had been some negligence and mismatch in data, given the poor flow of information from private hospitals and poor record-keeping by the government.He had said that after realising the lapses, the government had asked all district collectors and civic commissioners to reconcile the figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-claims-1-000-deaths-in-city-not-recorded-by-bmc/story-2rmnkBBrVq26KQrq8W685M.html
25-06-2020||City||Auto-rickshaw driver, mechanic held for drug peddling in Ludhiana; 235g heroin recovered||Two men accused of drug peddling were arrested and 235 gm heroin was recovered from their possession, the Special Task Force (STF) unit of Ludhiana police said on Thursday.Accused Hanish Kumar, alias Rinku, 48, of Maghar di Chakki, and Gaurav Kapoor, 28, of Gobind Nagar were going to deliver drugs when they were held by the police on June 24 late.The STF also seized the scooter, sans number plate, that the accused were riding.Additional inspector general (AIG, STF) Snehdeep Sharma said the accused were held near New Janta Nagar following a tip-off. The duo were coming from the Arora Cinema side, he added.Hanish is a mechanic and Gaurav owns a three-wheeler. The accused told the police that they used to procure heroin from a man named Avtar Singh of Ludhiana. They are addicts and used to peddle to fund their fix, police said.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-rickshaw-driver-mechanic-held-for-drug-peddling-in-ludhiana-235g-heroin-recovered/story-MLAQUmHjoWzaU4VjMqu1HN.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three booked for thrashing scribe in Mohali||A day after a journalist who works with a vernacular daily was thrashed in Zirakpur, Dhakoli police booked three persons on Thursday. The suspects have been identified as Yashpal, his son Harshit and an unidentified person, all residents of Mamta Enclave in Dhakoli, Zirakpur.Police said the victim, Sajandev Sharma, who is in his 50s, was driving near his house at around 11am when his path was blocked by Yashpal’s car that was parked in the middle of the road with side doors open. Sharma requested Yashpal to move the car following which the accused started hurling abuses at him. Then, Yashpal and his son forcefully took him out of his car and started beating him mercilessly, police said.Sharma suffered injuries to his eye and was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code at Dhakoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-booked-for-thrashing-scribe-in-mohali/story-o2puXEsx264VVs0Ql6lsNK.html
25-06-2020||City||36-year-old man dies; DCP, 24 others test Covid-19 positive in Ludhiana||A 36-year-old man died, while deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Ashwani Kapoor, a Class four employee of the civil surgeon’s office, an armyman, two home guards and their platoon commander were among 25 people, who were tested Covid-19 positive here on Thursday.A corona patient, undergoing treatment at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), died, said state epidemiologist Dr Rakesh Bhasker.Besides, the branch of a private bank was sealed after three employees were tested positive.DCP ASYMPTOMATICCommissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said DCP Kapoor has been quarantined as per the protocol. However, he was completely asymptomatic, he added.Agrawal said 15 cops were tested virus positive recently, out which two were discharged on Thursday.Kapoor is the second senior officer after ACP Anil Kohli to have tested positive of the virus. Kohli had died due to the virus on April 18.The DCP is suspected to have come in contact with the home guard jawan, who was tested positive two days ago. The jawan was an orderly in the office of the DCP.Besides, a 34-year-old man from Delhi, who is a Naik in the army has also tested positive.The total count of Covid-19 patients in the district has reached 667, out which 446 patients have recovered, while 19 residents of the district have died. There are 202 active cases in the city.PATIENT’S RELATIVES STAGE PROTESTRelatives of an Amritsar-based 25-year-old patient, who was undergoing treatment at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), staged a protest against the hospital authorities and accused them of showing the patient as positive whereas, at the time of admission, he was tested negative of the virus. The patient was suffering from pancreatitis, they said.The kin of the patient also lodged a complaint with civil surgeon Dr Rakesh Bagga. However, the matter was settled later in the evening when the hospital agreed to the family demand of concession in the medical bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/36-year-old-man-dies-dcp-24-others-test-covid-19-positive-in-ludhiana/story-wBg7wbTr6DMWSvQelaby4I.html
25-06-2020||City||17-year-old migrant worker’s throat slit in Sidhwan Bet||A 17-year-old migrant worker was found with his throat slit in a cow shed belonging to his employer in Talwandi Kalan village of Sidhwan Bet on Wednesday night.The victim has been identified as Bhushan Kumar. As per his employer, Bahadur Singh, who is a farmer, the victim was sleeping in the cow shed. Around midnight, there was a loud thud, following which he rushed to the shed and saw the victim lying in a pool of blood with his throat slit. Singh immediately rushed the teen to the hospital, where he is now undergoing treatment. Police have recovered a kitchen knife from the spot. Sub-inspector (SI) Ramanpreet Singh, who is investigating the case, said that it is suspected that either the victim tried to end his life or some assailants came to kill him. “The matter will be clear once we are able to record the victim’s statement. But due to the deep wound, he is unable to speak as of now,” the SI said.A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code, on the statement of Bahadur Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-migrant-worker-s-throat-slit-in-sidhwan-bet/story-7CMhUCIUZbJoMiwA1IiG0I.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 453 new cases, 455 recoveries||Ten coronavirus infected persons in Haryana succumbed to the illness on Thursday, taking the death toll to 198. In about 63% of the total fatalities, the patients had comorbidities (an existing disease or medical condition).Among the deaths reported on Thursday, four were from Faridabad, three from Sonepat and one each from Gurugram, Panipat and Karnal.As per a medical bulletin, 453 new cases were reported from 17 districts on Thursday, pushing the cumulative number of infections to 12,463. Five districts — Mahendergarh, Charkhi Dadri, Jind, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar — did not report any fresh cases.There were 4,885 active cases in the state on Thursday. As per the bulletin, 64 patients were critically ill while 4,821 had mild symptoms. Sixteen critically ill patients – 10 in Gurugram and six in Faridabad — were put on ventilator support due to breathing difficulties.The bulletin said that 455 infected persons recovered from the illness on Thursday, taking the total number of those cured to 7,380. As on June 25, more than 59% of 12,463 cumulative positive cases stood recovered from the respiratory illness.About 74% of the cases reported on Thursday were from the national capital region (NCR) districts of Faridabad (143), Sonepat (105) and Gurugram (89). The three districts bordering the national capital collectively also accounted for 73% of the 4,885 active cases across Haryana. Gurugram has 1,734 active cases followed by Faridabad (1,375) and Sonepat (470).Among other districts, Karnal reported 26 new infections followed by Panipat and Bhiwani (15 each), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (9), Kaithal and Hisar (8 each), Rohtak (7) Panchkula and Fatehabad ( 4 each), Ambala and Sirsa (3 each), Rewari (3) and Nuh (1). In Hisar, a salon owner tested positive for the virus after she came in contact with a 25-year-old Delhi woman, who visited her salon with a bride on June 15, said a health official.“The Delhi woman had tested positive for the virus four days ago, following which, the hairdresser underwent examination and her report confirmed the infection today,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-logs-453-new-cases-455-recoveries/story-wT7QIiQTWw4AcgH5T5o96N.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Gang printing counterfeit currency busted in Haryana||Yamunanagar police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang involved in printing counterfeit currency with the arrest of two persons. Rs 2.2 lakh besides some laptops and printers allegedly used to print the fake notes were also recovered from them. Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said the CIA-2 team has arrested Pankaj of Yamunanagar and Gulbahar of Saharanpur. As per the police, a case was filed on June 12 against two women, Preeto and Manjeet Kaur, on the complaint of a shopkeeper, Sumat Jain, at the Sadhaura police station. He had accused the duo of cheating him by giving a fake Rs 500 note to buy items. “The women were arrested later and they confessed to a part of the gang led by Pankaj. This gang comprised two women and four men. Rs 2.20 lakh in fake currency has so far been recovered from their possession,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gang-printing-counterfeit-currency-busted-in-haryana/story-CwZUfR3O66svQKvOQ7iHxO.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Indian-American docs, gurdwara launch food drive for corona patients||Indian-American doctors along with a prominent gurdwara have launched a food drive for the people impacted by the coronavirus pandemic.The Greater Washington Association of Physicians of Indian-Origin and the leading Maryland gurdwara -- Guru Nanak Foundation of America -- held their first food drive over the weekend serving more than 350 families affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Maryland and Virginia suburbs of Washington DC continue to show a significant impact of the coronavirus. During these difficult Covid-19 times when millions of Americans have lost their jobs, several Indian-American entities demonstrated unprecedented unity in coming together and raising funds for several food drives in schools, community colleges, temples and gurdwaras, a media release said on Wednesday. The association and the gurdwara were supported by several other Indian-American organisations, including India Development and Relief Fund, United Hindu, Jain temples, Hindu American Community Services and American Diversity Group.The association has taken a lead role in helping with prescriptions for hundreds of patients who were not able to return to India due to the COVID-19 pandemic and have run out of medicines.This effort was launched by Sewa International, a leading charitable organisation in the US, working on many aspects of the pandemic such as food kitchens, housing Indian students and convalescent plasma therapy for patients affected by COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-american-docs-gurdwara-launch-food-drive-for-corona-patients/story-4K7CA9S9aaP81MOdiPJL7L.html
25-06-2020||City||KOTKAPURA FIRING: Ex-SHO arrested, sent to day’s police custody||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents, arrested then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher by adding Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the IPC in first information report (FIR) registered on Pandher’s complaint on October 14, 2015, against the protesters. This is the third arrest in police firing cases in last 10 days. The SIT arrested advocate Sohail Singh Brar and Moga-based car dealer Pankaj Bansal last week in Behbal Kalan firing case. However, it is the first arrest made by the SIT in Kotkapura firing case since suspended inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal was put behind bars on February 19, 2019. The court of duty magistrate Harwinder Singh Sindhia sent Pandher to one-day police custody. Pandher is also named an accused in the FIR number 129 registered in 2018 by the SIT in Kotkapura firing case and he was out on bail. District attorney Rajnish Goyal, who appeared for SIT, told the court that in its investigation report, police had claimed that 10 rounds were fired by five cops in self-defence after protestors attacked them. “But those five cops have already confessed in the court that no shots were fired. Pandher has not submitted those bullets or their empty shells in the armoury; there is no trace of those bullets which are a government property. Even if the bullets were fired, they were not sent to any laboratory for forensic. Pandher had taken these bullets in his possessions and made forged entry in register number 19 to show that these bullets were fired by cops in self-defence. The police remand of the accused is required for further investigation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kotkapura-firing-ex-sho-arrested-sent-to-day-s-police-custody/story-QenWkNWL6L07aXNFSaMNJN.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||ATTACK ON SIKH-AMERICAN STORE OWNER: Rights group calls for hate crime charges against accused||A Sikh-American liquor store owner in Colorado was brutally attacked by a white man who told him “go back to your country”, prompting Sikh civil-rights organisation to call for formal hate crime charges against the assailant.Lakhwant Singh was brutally attacked at the store he owns with his wife in April this year when Eric Breemen entered the store and began harassing the couple, the Sikh Coalition said. Breemen damaged numerous items and repeatedly told the couple to “go back to your country.” When Breemen left the store, Singh followed him outside to take a photo of his licence plate so that he could report the abuse but Breemen struck Singh with his vehicle, throwing him several feet across the parking lot, causing multiple injuries.Following his arrest, Breemen told police that he had attacked an “Arab” man. Breemen’s preliminary hearing date is scheduled for July 24 at which time charges will officially be brought, the civil-rights organisation said.“After repeatedly telling my wife and me to ‘go back to our country,’ my attacker violently rammed his car into me,” Singh said in a statement released by the Sikh Coalition. “He thought I was different, and because of that, believed it was okay to try and kill me. But this community is my home, and that’s why I’m asking the authorities to show they will not stand for such bigotry by filing formal hate crime charges.” The Sikh Coalition said that nearly two months after the attack on Singh, authorities have yet to guarantee that hate crime charges will be brought against the assailant. “The facts of this case are clear, and the failure to file hate crime charges endangers the safety of every Sikh community member in Colorado,” said Amrith Kaur, Sikh Coalition legal director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attack-on-sikh-american-store-owner-rights-group-calls-for-hate-crime-charges-against-accused/story-WRhHcTudKUc6hb48NBHWKP.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP appointment: Mustafa seeks hearing from HC||Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Mohammad Mustafa, who had challenged appointment of Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, has filed a plea seeking hearing from Punjab and Haryana high court.His application seeking hearing on allotted date of July 2, was taken up by high court bench of justice S Muralidhar, which ordered hearing on the allotted date by the bench concerned. It is learnt that the plea has been filed in view of Mustafa’s zone of consideration period for the post is coming to an end in August. He retires next year. Due to Covid-19 outbreak, only those pending cases are being taken up, where urgency is cited by a party, rest are being adjourned. It was in January that the high court had stayed Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order that quashed appointment of Dinkar Gupta as Punjab police chief.Besides, Mustafa, another officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, too, had challenged the appointment. A 1987-batch IPS officer, Gupta had superseded five senior officers for the post of the police chief on February 7, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-dgp-appointment-mustafa-seeks-hearing-from-hc/story-xxOh8F0HENjfiT3xVdXKrL.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||DISAPPEARANCE CASE:Ex-DGP Saini’s anticipatory bail extended till July 6||The court of additional district and sessions judge, Mohali, on Thursday extended the anticipatory bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini for the second time till July 6, in the case pertaining to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991. The case was registered against Saini on May 6 this year.Special public persecutor Sartej Singh Narula said the anticipatory bail granted to Saini on murder charges without imposition of the Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR is not maintainable. He said it was said by the court that if the Section 302 of the IPC is not added to the FIR by June 8, then the interim bail may be wrested.However, the court when questioned the prosecution to produce records if stay has been granted for extending the anticipatory bail period by any of the higher court, the prosecution said no stay has been granted to date. After this, the court of additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal extended the anticipatory bail time period till July 6. Earlier the interim bail was extended till June 25. Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then Chandigarh SSP, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disappearance-case-ex-dgp-saini-s-anticipatory-bail-extended-till-july-6/story-KlsKwClh239LSZiTF06HPM.html
25-06-2020||City||PM pollution down but ozone levels cross permitted limit during peak lockdown in Dehi-NCR||New Delhi: Concentration of particulate matter and gases such as nitrogen dioxide reduced significantly during the nationwide lockdown but ozone pollution kept increasing and even breached the safe standards in many metro cities, including the national capital, according to an analysis of summer air quality trends by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).The organisation studied pollution trends of 22 mega cities -- Delhi-NCR (including Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Noida), Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru, among others -- for five months (spring to summer) during January 1-May 31 this year and compared it with the corresponding period of 2019. The focus of the study has been on the period of the lockdown from March 25-May 31. In Delhi, even though overall the severity of ozone pollution was comparatively lower than summer months of 2019 because of the lockdown, the levels still increased and exceeded the standards. This was when other major pollutants such as PM 2.5 and NO2 curves had flattened during the lockdown period, the study said.The CSE studied the number of days when the ozone concentrations exceeded between March 22 and May 31 (lockdown period) this year and for the same period in 2019. The permissible standards (maximum 8 hours average) for ozone are 100 micrograms per cubic metres.“In Delhi, as compared to 2019 when the ozone levels (citywide average) breached the standards on 21 days, in 2020 the levels were breached on four days. However, what is important to note is that the number of days when the levels were breached at least at one monitoring station is high and remains similar for both --- this year (67 days) and in 2019 (68 days). The worst ozone pollution day in Delhi was recorded on May 17,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, CSE.In NCR towns, the city-wide maximum average in Gurugram exceeded the standard on 26 days -- at least one station exceeded the standard on 57 days. The city-wide average in Ghaziabad exceeded the standard on 15 days, with at least one station exceeding on 56 days, the study showed.In Noida, the citywide average exceeded the standard on 12 days; at least one station exceeded on 42 days.In Kolkata, the citywide average exceeded on eight days; at least in one station exceeded on 17 days. Chennai and Mumbai did not register a single day of breached standards at the citywide level, but at least one station in both exceeded the standard on 61 days and five days, respectively. In Ahmedabad, the citywide average exceeded the standard on 43 days.The analysis is based on data sourced from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) website. The study showed that with all pollutants down during lockdown, ozone, even at a comparatively lower level, became the most prominent pollutant of the day in several cities and led the daily air quality index (AQI).The AQI was led by ozone in Delhi on 10 days (8 of these days were categorised as ‘moderately polluted’) and Gurugram on 14 days (7 days were categorised ‘moderately polluted’ and one as ‘poor’).Vehicular pollution and industrial emissions are major contributors to creation of ozone. It is not directly emitted by any source but is formed by photochemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and other volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and gases in the air under the influence of sunlight and heat, it added.CSE researchers point out that ozone is primarily a sunny weather problem in India that otherwise remains highly variable during the year. It is a highly reactive gas and even short-term exposure (one hour) is dangerous for those with respiratory conditions and asthma. That is why ozone has a short-term standard – one hour and eight hours, as opposed to 24 hours for other pollutants.Also, the study found that ozone pollution is the highest in stations with the lowest NO2 pollution – ozone levels build up in the greenest parts of the city where the NO2 levels are very low. “This is because ozone is formed when NOx, VOCs and gases react with each other under the influence of sunlight and temperature,” she said.She said, for instance, Nehru Nagar near the Lodhi Garden area in Delhi; Colaba in Mumbai, among others, are ozone pollution hot spots.“This pandemic-led change in air quality helped us understand summer pollution. Usually, every year, winter pollution is what draws our attention. This means we need to reduce overall pollution to reduce ozone pollution by intervention such as introduction of BS-VI norms for vehicles, augmentation of public transport, cleaner fuel transition in industries and promoting of activities such as cycling and walking,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-pollution-down-but-ozone-levels-cross-permitted-limit-during-peak-lockdown-in-dehi-ncr/story-wv7VI9RqhFjKKUhnoNw87N.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seven deaths, 136 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Thursday reported seven Covid-19 deaths taking the toll to 120. Besides, 136 persons contracted infection. With this, Punjab has reported 4,769 positive cases so far. Amritsar reported three deaths due to Covid-19. “A 58-year-old Covid positive woman of Haripura in Amritsar, who was suffering from diabetes died during treatment on Thursday,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“An 88-year-old Covid-19 patient from Police Line area and a 34-year old man of Chamrang Road, also died of Covid-19 on Thursday,” he said. A 50-year-old man of Deep Avenue area of Tarn Taran, who had died on Wednesday at a private hospital in Amritsar, was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The patient was also suffering from heart-related ailments.ONE DEAD, DCP AMONG 21 TEST POSITIVE A 36-year-old man died, while Ludhiana deputy commissioner of police Ashwani Kapoor, a class-four employee of civil surgeon office and an armyman are among 21 tested positive of Covid-19 in Ludhiana. The patient, who was undergoing treatment at Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, succumbed to the virus, said the state epidemiologist Dr Rakesh Bhasker.Kapoor is the second senior officer after ACP Anil Kohli who have come in contact of the virus. Kohli died due to the virus on April 18.Eight people from Gurdaspur district were tested positive for Covid-19. A 70-year-old resident of Moga died due to Covid-19 at Adesh Hospital, a private multispecialty facility in Bathinda on Thursday.It was the first death of a coronavirus patient in Bathinda district. He was suffering from brain and heart-related complications and he also had Hepatitis-C. The deceased belonged to Patto Hira Singh village in Lohara block in Moga district. Meanwhile, nine Covid-19 positive were reported in Muktsar.A 36-year-old Covid-19 patient from Bathinda, who was also suffering from kidney disease, died at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) at Faridkot on Thursday. A 19-year-old migrant labourer was tested positive for covid-19 in Faridkot and he was admitted to the isolation ward of GGSMCH, Faridkot. 25 NEW CASES IN JALANDHAR Twenty-five persons tested positive of the novel coronavirus in Jalandhar district on Thursday, confirmed Dr TP Singh Sandhu adding that total 671 positive cases reported so far in the district including 346 recoveries and 19 deaths. Sangrur too reported 25 fresh cases. As per health officials, seven are from Malerkotla, 10 from Amargarh, two each from Dirba Kauhrian and Sherpur, one each from Bathinda and Moonak.MOGA COVID NODAL OFFICER CONTRACTS INFECTION Moga’s nodal officer for coronavirus disease, Dr Naresh Amla, 27, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said three other health department officials on Covid-19 duty with Dr Amla, including district epidemiologist Dr Manish Arora, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure.“Apart from the nodal officer, five more persons, including a constable posted at the NRI police station in Moga, tested positive. Dr Amla and other positive patients have been admitted to the isolation ward at the civil hospital, Baghapurana. Now there are 16 positive cases in the district,” she said.Two persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala. Besides, two persons from Phagwara contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-deaths-136-fresh-cases-in-punjab/story-sy4bThkxqjG59D9a9lPBgI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab’s first patient treated with plasma therapy recovers||Punjab’s first coronavirus patient to be administered convalescent plasma therapy was discharged from hospital on Thursday after he fully recovered from the disease. The 42-year-old man from Moga was admitted to the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, on June 9 with moderate symptoms and respiratory issues a day after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was given the plasma therapy on June 13. GGSMCH principal Dr Deepak Bhatti said the patient was given oxygen therapy as he was having problem in breathing in the beginning and gradually his condition improved with the help of plasma therapy and supportive care.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur, who is also adviser to the state Covid-19 response and procurement committee, said the patient’s successful recovery is very encouraging and now more patients will be treated with this therapy.“The Faridkot medical college is one of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved centres for convalescent plasma therapy trials on Covid-19 patients who require oxygen therapy. It was approved as one in the second week of May. The first patient donated plasma on May 28 and the first one to become eligible to get the therapy was enrolled on June 13,” he said.More donors are required to come forward for plasma therapy clinical trials, he said, adding that they will counsel the cured patients to encourage them to donate blood, he added. THE THERAPYConvalescent plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from cured Covid-19 patients and injecting them in the blood of patients suffering from the disease. The transfusion of plasma is carried out through a machine which separates the plasma from the blood which is then retransferred into the donor. The plasma thus obtained is injected into a sick person. A donor supplies 300-500 ml of plasma and the transfusion process takes 60-90 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-s-first-patient-treated-with-plasma-therapy-recovers/story-kG2ERQkPcle5KT20K68mHJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Spike in cases in Jalandhar’s rural belt after relaxation in curbs||The number of Covid-19 cases has seen a sharp rise in the rural areas of Jalandhar district after the Punjab government announced relaxations in the curfew on May 18. The health department’s figures reveal that of a total of 127 positive cases of the disease in the rural areas of the district so far, 82 were reported in the past four weeks only. The district recorded 671 positive cases, including 19 deaths, till Thursday. The pandemic outbreak was witnessed in the Jalandhar city that also topped the tally of positive cases across Punjab during nearly two months of the curfew starting March 23. In March and April, only eight persons tested positive, including seven close contacts of NRI Baldev Singh from SBS Nagar who was referred as the state’s first superspreader, in the district’s rural belt, even as the Jalandhar city recorded more than 50 cases. In May, at least 38 positive cases were reported in the rural areas of which 26 surfaced between May 19 and May 31 only. Since June 1, around 80 cases have been reported in the belt. Dr TP Singh, Covid-19 nodal officer (Jalandhar), said the health department has conducted conducting over 20,000 tests in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-spike-in-cases-in-jalandhar-s-rural-belt-after-relaxation-in-curbs/story-G5PsPmerZDECUj2GcoDg0K.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong befooling farmers on central ordinances: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday came out in support of three ordinances passed recently by the Centre, saying the ruling Congress in Punjab is befooling the farmers on the issue. Addressing mediapersons in Chandigarh, the SAD chief said contrary to the rumours being spread by the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government the minimum support rice (MSP) and assured procurement of wheat and paddy will not be discontinued. He criticised the state government for allegedly trying to mislead farmers by issuing a wrong press statement about the all-party meeting held on Wednesday. He clarified that the statement that a resolution was passed by all parties opposing the ordinances is not true. “It is nowhere mentioned in the ordinances that MSP and assured procurement would end. I assure the farmers that it would continue. In case, there is any deviation at any stage, the SAD will be the first one to oppose it,” he added. “It was the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and some other political leaders who supported the resolution.We said we are ready to get a written assurance on this from the Union agriculture minister and will get an assurance from Parliament. We even agreed to accompany a delegation to the Prime Minister to clarify the doubts. This was misinterpreted by the government in its press release saying we will accompany a delegation led by the CM to get the ordinances withdrawn,” Sukhbir added.“I have asked the CM to clarify that if the provisions of the state APMC Act passed by his government were anti-farmer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-befooling-farmers-on-central-ordinances-sukhbir/story-8m6d3ifV8Ezk38h77AF5qN.html
25-06-2020||Ranchi||Classes on loudspeaker: Jharkhand teacher beats odds of online learning||“Teachers can change the world” and that is what Shyam Kishore Singh Gandhi, the headmaster of a school in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, has been trying to for his over 200 students, who may be bereft of smartphones but not the willingness to attend classes amid the lockdown.Gandhi has put up several loudspeakers across the Bankathi village where his Upgraded Middle School is located, and classes are being held for two hours every day since April 16, beating the odds of online learning.The students sit near the loudspeakers which have been put up on trees and walls at different locations, and attend the classes.“Louder speakers are put up where the number of students is more. Five teachers and two para teachers teach over the mike from the classroom, Gandhi said.Thousands of schools and colleges across India have switched to online as classrooms remain shut since mid-March amid the coronavirus outbreak. There are 246 students from class 1 to class 8, and 204 of them do not have mobile phones,” Gandhi said.He said the classes start at 10 am daily.“If the students have any doubt or want to ask any question, they can send their queries to me from anyone’s mobile phone and we explain it the next day,” he added.Gandhi said the model is working and students are grasping well what is being taught.The students are receptive and are enjoying the new style of studying, said an elderly villager.Lauding the headmaster, Dumka’s district education officer Poonam Kumari said all the 2,317 government schools here should emulate the model so that the students would not have to struggle to complete the syllabus once the lockdown is lifted.The effort is praiseworthy and all the schools in Dumka district should follow this idea in the interest of the students, Kumari said, adding that she would soon visit the school and the village to learn about the teaching method. Even as students in cities and towns across the country attend classes online, rural areas continue to grapple with the new system due to unsteady connectivity and lack of devices such as smartphones and computers.There have been multiple incidents of suicides among students over not being able to attend online classes.A class 9 student set herself afire in Valancherry in Kerala earlier this month for not being able to attend online classes as she did not have a smartphone and the television in her house was not working. Similar incidents have been reported from several other states, including Assam and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/classes-on-loudspeaker-jharkhand-teacher-beats-odds-of-online-learning/story-VttQBnAfFGq8k3WFLd5exJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for impersonating candidate in 2019 CISF exam||A Haryana man was booked on Wednesday for impersonating a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) exam candidate. He is yet to be arrested. The accused, Sushil, a resident of Sonepat, had applied for the post of constable/driver and constable/driver-cum-pump operator in 2017, police said. He had qualified in physical efficiency and trade test. However, when he appeared for written examination at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Karsan, Ramdarbar, on February 17, 2019, he was called for medical examination where his biometric identification didn’t match.On further verification, the photo of admit card, hand writing sample and signature also did not match.Based on a complaint filed by Bhag Singh, member of Recruitment Board, CISF, Delhi, police have registered a case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 31 police station. Police said they will arrest the accused and get further details from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-booked-for-impersonating-candidate-in-2019-cisf-exam/story-oSDeMEWxN5KLIRXuBw8gpJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for assaulting handicapped person in Chandigarh||A 42-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a handicapped man who is yet to be identified on June 13.The accused, Pawan Kumar, a resident of Sector 20-D, who sells honey on his rehri got into an argument with a handicapped man who also lives in Sector 20, while he was under the influence of alcohol, police said. The victim was injured and admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and is unfit to make a statement.Police have registered a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 19 police station. Police said the case was registered late as the eyewitness hadn’t approached them earlier and the victim is no state to tell them his identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-assaulting-handicapped-person-in-chandigarh/story-kk1cfRpqIzkPxiEdBh7i4O.html
25-06-2020||City||Punjab farmers overcome labour woes, complete 60% paddy transplant||Chandigarh Transplant of saplings is complete on nearly 60% of the total 67 lakh acres that will have paddy crop this kharif season in Punjab, it is learnt.The sowing season is going on unhindered despite acute labour shortage since the onset of the transplantation that began on June 10 after being preponed by 10 days from the deadline prescribed in state’s law on paddy sowing.Most of the labourers from eastern states went back home in April and May because of Covid-19 spread.“We required at least 10-12 lakh labour heads for entire transplantation in Punjab alone, and by an estimate, only 5 lakh are in the state. Farmers depended on family members and co-villagers,” said an officer of state agriculture department.Going by this pace, it is expected the paddy transplant will be over by first week of July, after which basmati’s will begin which is expected to over before July 31.“Although it is a challenging time for agricultural operations amid the pandemic, but Punjab farmers will complete the process by July 31,” said agriculture secretary KS Pannu.According to him, paddy was grown on 72 lakh acres in Punjab last year. “This season, the state agriculture department has decided to shift 6 lakh acres to other crops. In addition, a new method of paddy sowing called direct seeding of rice (DSR) has been recommended by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Ludhiana,” adds Pannu.Around 12 lakh acres is expected to be under DSR system this season, with 4,000 specialised DSR machines purchased by farmers and in addition thousands of wheat sowing machines modified to sow paddy by the farmers. “Engineering dept of agriculture department has also trained the farmers on how to modify the machines by spending as little as only Rs 1,000 per machine,” said Pannu, adding that this year the number of mechanised paddy transplantation machines has doubled to about 1,200.President of a faction of a Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) BS Rajewal said that the paddy transplantation was going on in full swing but the cost of transplantation was up from ₹ 3,000 per acre last season to ₹4000-5000 per acre. “The government has left farmers to their fate,” he added, seeking a compensation to cover additional cost.BASMATI VARIEITEIS on 19 LAKH ACRESThis area under aromatic variety of basmati rice is expected to touch 19 lakh acres, an increase of 2 lakh acres from the previous season. Last season it was 17 lakh acres, an increase of 2.5 lakh acres from 2018 when 14.5 lakh acres. Exporters of Punjab’s premium aromatic basmati rice are ecstatic as they have started getting orders from international buyers again even as they suffered a setback in 2018 when hundreds of consignments were returned by the European Union (EU) and countries in the Middle East due to traces of fungicide in the grain. The advance orders are mainly for the 1,121 and 1,718 varieties of the aromatic rice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-overcome-labour-woes-complete-60-paddy-transplant/story-xHP2BxSMhlsM7uRPEw2O7L.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||20-yr-old arrested riding stolen motorcycle with fake number plate in Chandigarh||A 20-year-old youth was arrested riding a stolen motorcycle with a fake number plate on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The accused, Sahil, a resident of Ram Darbar, was caught near the Sector 32 fire brigade office for being outdoors after 9pm. Upon further investigation it was found the number plate was fake and the bike had been stolen.Police have registered a case under Sections 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 34 police station. The accused has been arrested and sent to judicial custody. Police said they are tracing where the bike had been stolen from and its owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-yr-old-arrested-riding-stolen-motorcycle-with-fake-number-plate-in-chandigarh/story-csNnuUvg7BfwMFXOUejC6O.html
25-06-2020||City||Himachal Covid-19 count mounts to 839 with 33 new cases||Thirty-three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 339, officials said.Seventeen cases were reported in Kangra, seven in Solan’s Baddi industrial area, two each in Shimla and Sirmaur and one in Hamirpur.Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said seven people, including two women, tested positive in the district. They have a travel history from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. All of them were institutionally quarantined. The patients have been shifted to Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Model Hospital, Katha, Baddi.Two sisters, who had returned from Delhi, tested positive in Rohru of Shimla district. They were intuitionally quarantined at Kotkhai and now shifted to Covid-Care centre at Mashobra.In Sirmaur a couple, who returned from Delhi tested positive and one case was reported from Hamirpur district.Chief medical officer Archana Soni said a 26-year-old man, who returned from Delhi, was under institutional quarantine. Three more tested positive for the virus late evening, she said.STATE RECORDS 7th FATALITY A 57-year-old man from Kangra, who was suffering from renal failure, succumbed to the disease at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (LBSGMC), Nerchowk, on Thursday. With this, the death toll in the state has risen to 7.The deceased who belonged to Bhawarna village of Palampur subdivision had a travel history to Delhi, said deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. It is the second Covid-19 death in Kangra. The patient returned on June 20 and was kept in institutional quarantine. He was shifted to a Covid hospital in Dharamshala after he turned symptomatic and was confirmed positive on June 23.“He was also found to be diabetic and suffering from chronic renal disease,” the DC said, adding that the patient was shifted LBSGMC on June 23 as he required dialysis.The first COVID-related death in Himachal was reported on March 23 when a US-returned Tibetan man from McLeodganj died of the contagion.345 ACTIVE CASESAt present, active cases in the state stand at 345 and 474 people have recovered. Eleven people have migrated to others states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst hit district with 228 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 225 cases, followed by Kangra with 211 cases, Una with 99 cases, Solan with 91 cases, Chamba with 50 cases, Bilaspur with 38 cases, Shimla with 39 cases, Sirmaur with 36 cases, Mandi with 24 cases, Kullu with five cases, and Kinnaur with three cases. Eleven of the 12 districts in Himachal are affected by Covid-19. Lahaul-Spiti is the only corona-free district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-covid-19-count-mounts-to-839-with-33-new-cases/story-thDL42vj85KLeJpFdadAvJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct online training on managing virtual classrooms for teachers of affiliated colleges||Panjab University has decided conduct online training sessions on managing virtual classrooms for teachers of its affiliated colleges.PU has 196 affiliated colleges in Chandigarh and Punjab. The college development council in a communication said the two-day training will be conducted in the first week of July. The final schedule will be intimated to colleges in coming days. Dean college development council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik said, “Teachers of affiliated colleges will be given training on various aspects of virtual teaching. This is the need of the hour.”The college development council has asked college principals to nominate five faculty members from their respective colleges by June 26 to attend the training. PU senator Inderpal Singh Sidhu, who is also an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, said, “I think most teachers are not aware of how to use online teaching platforms effectively. This is a good initiative and teachers selected for the programme should share their learnings with colleagues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-online-training-on-managing-virtual-classrooms-for-teachers-of-affiliated-colleges/story-AGJJBcanYYClbmkv933kHM.html
25-06-2020||City||Tarn Taran murders: Survivors too small to register loss, uncertain future||KAIRON (TARN TARAN) Five-year-old Pari’s clothes were soaked in blood when she knocked at the door of her neighbour at 7am on Thursday to break the news that the elders in her family had been attacked. Of the nine people present when the attackers entered the house, she is the eldest among the four unharmed survivors who don’t yet know that they have lost their mothers.“The girl was crying. She said her mother, grandfather and other family members had been attacked. I informed sarpanch Ranjit Singh. When we reached the girl’s house, we found five bodies,” said Jagmohan Singh, the family’s neighbour.Four members of the family and their driver were hacked to death by unidentified people at their house in Kairon village under Patti sub-division of Tarn Taran district in the wee hours of Thursday.Those murdered were Brij Lal, alias Dhattu (60); his two daughters-in-law Amandeep Kaur (24) and Jaspreet Kaur (28); son Daljit Singh, alias Bunty (25); and the family’s driver Gursahib Singh, alias Sabha (35).Amandeep and Jaspreet’s husbands Paramjit Singh, alias Pumma (24) and Bakshish Singh, alias Sonu (30), respectively, are drug-addicts and undergoing treatment at a drug-de-addiction centre in Tarn Taran. Brij’s fourth son Gurjant Singh, alias Janta (27), too, is a drug-addict and faces a drug peddling case. He was not home when the attack occurred.Amandeep’s two daughters Pari and Jasmeet (2), and Jaspreet’s son Amarjit Singh (5) and daughter Khushi (1) are now in the custody of their neighbours. Khushi has paralysis and needs frequent care.“Where will the children go now? Who will look after them? Drugs have destroyed the whole family,” Jagmohan said. Brij Lal’s wife died last month in Amritsar Central Jail after being charged with peddling drugs. Brij Lal’s daughter Sarabjit Kaur is married and lives in Amritsar. “Now, we will hand over the children to Sarabjit,” said the village’s panchayat member Nishan Singh.Sarabjit said, “Children’s fathers are drug-addicts and getting treatment. I hope they get cured and start looking after their kids. My brothers started taking drugs after marriage.” She said her sister-in-law Amandeep had called up her on Thursday and she appeared concerned about the future of her children due to the addiction of her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-murders-survivors-too-small-to-register-loss-uncertain-future/story-zyiTkdcYegskbXTklYhggL.html
25-06-2020||City||Phulel Majra clash: Four arrested for attempt to murder||Two days after a clash over pond in Phulel Majra village of Saha block in Ambala, police arrested four persons for attempt to murder on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Jaswinder Singh alias Lucky, Neeraj, Ravisen and Akshay alias Prince of Ambala. Three of them have also been booked for the murder of a 45-year-old man, in the same dispute on Wednesday. The complainant, Rahul, had stated that the accused Sagar, Rajendra alias Raja, Lucky, Vijay, Akshay, Sandeep alias Sunny, Neeraj and Ravi had threatened to kill him and his family members on June 23. Police said the accused will be presented before the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phulel-majra-clash-four-arrested-for-attempt-to-murder/story-XKJLLPRxqoLsbNXkT3CCoL.html
25-06-2020||City||Ghaggar fury: Patiala, Sangrur brace for monsoon||After the Ghaggar river wreaked havoc by flooding over 100 villages in Patiala and Sangrur districts last year, both district administrations have braced themselves to tame the river in this year’s monsoon.Taking lessons from last year’s devastation, the authorities have swung into action ensuring completion of temporary jacketing and strengthening of the river’s embankments before the water level starts rising in catchment areas due to rain.In July 2019, agricultural fields spread over 30,000 acre in Patiala and Sangrur got submerged in Ghaggar water, while the villagers residing in the vicinity of the river had to shift their belongings and livestock to safer places.In the absence of firm embankments and other flood control measures, the river makes situation worrisome every year, especially during monsoon.Sangrur deputy commissioner (DC) Ramvir said, “Repair and strengthening projects worth Rs 7 crore are underway in district for Ghaggar and other seasonal water channels.” He added that all weak points of the river have been strengthened by the administration with the help of MGNREGA workers.Harjit Singh, sarpanch of Sangrur’s Phulad, which witnessed 150ft long breach last year, said, locals and administration are regularly trying to strengthen the banks of Ghaggar, however, work has been stalled since a few days due to strike by the MGNREGA workers.Patiala DC Kumar Amit said special meetings with top officials of drainage and irrigation department have convened to tap sensitive points in Ghaggar.“Work related to strengthening of embankments and stone bedding especially in Sanaur and Patran is on. Moreover, we have stacked over 70,000 sandbags to deal with sudden breaches or other emergency situations,” the Patiala DC said.The areas include Samana, Patran, Devigarh, Sanaur and Ghanaur in Patiala, and Khanauri and Moonak in Sangrur. These areas had seen huge damages of life and property due to floods in 1988, 1993, 2010 and 2019.Superintending engineer of the drainage department Devinder Singh said that the work is going on round-the-clock as earlier it got delayed due to lockdown.GHAGGAR CHANNELISATION PROJECT IN A LIMBOThe project related to channelisation of Ghaggar river has became the prey of dispute between Punjab and Haryana.Under the project, the river will be jacketed up to 40km from Khanauri to Karail in Sangrur. The first phase of the project, from Khanauri to Makrour Sahib (covering 22.45km), was completed in 2010.However, the second phase of 17.5km from Makror Sahib to Karail (which touchd the neighbouring state), has been stalled after the Haryana government refused to give a no objection certificate to the Punjab government to completing the project.Harpal Singh, a resident of Makraur Sahib village, said the breach has become a routine affair for villages around Ghaggar. Once there is a breach, it destroys crop in 12-15 villages, he said.“The Punjab and Haryana governments should resolve the matter amicably and find a permanent solution to the problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaggar-fury-patiala-sangrur-brace-for-monsoon/story-8nqAmYnjdbWhD3cRxSGkCL.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Public transport system effectively spreading message of Mission Fateh: Punjab Roadways GM||General manager of Punjab Roadways, Karanjit Singh Kaler, on Thursday said that with the easing of the lockdown restrictions and opening of public transport system, buses and bus stands are being used effectively to spread the message of Mission Fateh; to make people aware of how to curb the spread of Covid-19 by complying with safety precautions laid down by the health department.Kaler was speaking during an event where 100 Mission Fateh warriors from the department were being honoured with badges.Kaler said posters exhorting people to wear masks when going out, wash hands with sanitisers and soap for 20 seconds as often as possible and maintain social distancing have been put up at all the bus stands in prominent locations. Besides this, the theme song of Mission Fateh and audio messages are also played inside the buses. Also, the message exhorting people to download the Cova app is being played inside all the buses as well as the bus stands through the public address system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-transport-system-effectively-spreading-message-of-mission-fateh-punjab-roadways-gm/story-kIBH2JLy77uYUkL6Ni4InJ.html
25-06-2020||City||2 deaths, 127 fresh Covid-19 infections in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded two deaths and 127 fresh Covid-19 cases, officials said. The total number of infected in the Union territory has risen to 6,549 and the death toll is 90. Of the new cases, 113 are from Kashmir and 14 from Jammu division. Among these, 20 patients have a travel history.A government statement said two more people have succumbed to the disease–one in Jammu division and another in Kashmir. A 65-year-old woman from Budgam, who had comorbities, died at SKIMS Soura in the evening.A 57-year-old man from Poonch district died at the Government Medical College and Hospital. Medical superintendent Dr Dara Singh said, “The patient was referred from Samba district hospital. He had uncontrollable diabetes with acute renal failure. He was undergoing treatment at GMCH for the past five days. His mortal remains have been sent to his native village in Poonch for last rites.” Also, 149 more patients have recovered—39 in Jammu division and 110 in the Valley. So far, 3,967 people have been cured in the UT since the first cases emerged on March 9. With this, the recovery rate in J&K has crossed 60%. The active cases in the UT now stand at 2,492. In Kashmir, the highest jump in cases was witnessed in Kulgam district where 35 more people tested positive followed by Srinagar at 33, Baramulla 15 and Shopian 12. In Jammu division, single digit increase was recorded in the districts.Till date, 2.68 lakh people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance — 39,345 in home quarantine, 31 in hospital quarantine and 48,970 under home surveillance. Besides these, 1.77 lakh people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.All districts to have dedicated burial, cremation grounds The Jammu and Kashmir administration has announced that every district in the UT will have dedicated burial and cremation grounds for people who die from Covid-19 infection. Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam directed the deputy commissioners to notify cemetery and cremation grounds exclusively for COVID victims, so as to prevent any untoward incidence regarding their last rites. Another inquiry into the recent incident in which two men had died during last rites of their COVID-19 infected relative in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-127-fresh-covid-19-infections-in-j-k/story-nwUZRGRYOJeSsiYKfo3RzO.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh unlikely to start antigen testing despite ICMR advisory||Even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has again advised all states and union territories to scale up testing for Covid-19 by deploying combination of various tests, the UT health department has said it will stick to real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) test.In this type of test, the blood samples are analysed for antibodies using an enzyme-based laboratory test that detects and quantifies antibodies in blood that will determine a past infection due to the virus.A senior UT official said that the three laboratories established in Chandigarh had the capacity to conduct 1,000 tests in a day, enough to cater to the number of people being diagnosed with symptoms and being recommended testing. “Besides, there are issues related to the sensitivity and specificity of the antigen testing kits, which have been evaluated to be between 50.6% and 84%, and 99.3% and 100%, respectively,” an official requesting anonymity said.ICMR has said that those who test negative on the rapid antigen kit must be retested using RT-PCR given the antigen test’s low sensitivity, while those who test positive needn’t get a retest. “That’s why we are totally focusing on RT-PCR testing when the ultimate result has to be provided by it,” the official added.UT director, health services, Dr G Dewan said the UT had ample capacity for gold standard RT-PCR testing. “The testing for symptomatic patients with influenza-like illness and/are severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) are being tested using RT-PCR. The special emphasis is on patients with comorbidities, for whom the testing capacity is enough. Still, [ICMR’s] proposal is being examined,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-unlikely-to-start-antibody-testing-despite-icmr-advisory/story-OMe3kGZPqGSFlrf3QLMDVK.html
25-06-2020||Bangalore||442 new cases take Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally to 10,560||Over 500 Covid-19 patients were discharged in Karnataka on Thursday, as the state reported 442 new cases and six related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 10,560.The day also saw total number of discharges in Udupi alone crossing 1,000 mark, even as 160 patients in the state were undergoing treatment at ICU.As of June 25 evening, cumulatively 10,560 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 170 deaths and 6,670 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 3,716 active cases, 3,556 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 160 are in ICU.Among the six dead include- three from Bengaluru rural and one each from Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru.Those from Bengaluru rural include two elderly women of age 60 and 80 years and a man aged 38.All three are with the history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).The other three deceased are- a 61-year-old man from Kalaburagi, whose contact history is still under tracing, a 68-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada with history of SARI, and a 87-year-old man from Mysuru with inter district travel history to Bengaluru.Out of 442 new cases, 81 are returnees from other states, while 23 are those who returned from other countries.The remaining cases include contacts of patients earlier tested positive, those with history of SARI, ILI, inter district travel among others.While contact history of few patients are still being traced.Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 113 cases, Kalaburagi 35, Ramanagara 33, Dakshina Kannada 29, 26 each from Ballari and Dharwad, Mysuru 22, 18 each from Bagalkote and Kodagu, Udupi 14, twelve each from Hassan and Bengaluru rural, Uttara Kannada 11 and 10 each from Vijayapura, Gadag and Haveri.While Mandya reported 9 cases, Bidar was 8, Davangere 7, four each from Belagavi, Shivamogga and Kolar, two each from Yadgir and Chikkaballapura, and one each from Tumakuru, Chikkamagaluru and Chamarajanagara.Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,791 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 1,289 and Udupi 1,116.A total of 5,53,325 samples were tested so far, out of which 14,078 were tested on Thursday alone.So far 5,27,731 samples have been reported as negative, and out of them 12,343 were reported negative today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/442-new-cases-take-karnataka-s-covid-19-tally-to-10-560/story-WNJC5s6axNJ2GhXoTrzn3M.html
25-06-2020||City||Ludhiana man, 5 of kin booked for murder bid on wife||A resident of Dev Nagar and his five family members – including mother and sister – have been booked for attempting to murder his wife and throwing her out of the house on Wednesday.The accused have been identified as Raman Khosla of Dev Nagar, Humbran Road, his father Ravi Khosla, mother Kamlesh Khosla, sister Monika Arora, brother-in-law Ashwani and another relative Vipan Sharma.The victim, Neha Khosla, 35, alleged the accused tried to strangulate her and also bludgeoned her with a cricket bat.She stated, “I was married to Raman Khosla on September 25, 2017 and I gave birth to a boy on August 30, 2018.”She added, “Before marriage, Raman had told me that his first wife had died. But, I came to know that she was alive and had only divorced her. When I objected to it his lie, Raman and his family members started harassing me for bringing more dowry, including a luxury car.”She added, “On June 12, the accused thrashed her with a cricket bat and hit her on head and face. The accused also tried to strangulate her. After, I lost consciousness, the accused threw me out of the house assuming me dead. However, after I gathered some consciousness, I informed my parents, who rushed her to a hospital.”Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) , 406 (criminal breach of trust), 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-5-of-kin-booked-for-murder-bid-on-wife/story-qiOhucYSqAhxH1S5DZOxsI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, register complaints about Chandigarh MC on mobile app||City residents will soon be able to register their complaints and grievances for different services provided by the municipal corporation on a mobile application.The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has already made the option available on its web portal for registration of complaints and grievances, and by mid-July will also offer a mobile app for the same.Complaints related to all MC services can be registered on the smart city portal www.chandigarhsmartcity.in by first registering oneself.Complaints concerning various MC departments including water supply, sewerage, tax, electrical, information, health, building and roads may be lodged via the app. Details like location, house number, street and landmark will have to be specified.APP CURRENTLY IN TESTING STATE: YADAVConfirming the development, MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer, CSCL, KK Yadav said, “The option of online registration of public grievances has been migrated from the MC website to the recently launched Chandigarh smart city website. A mobile app will be launched by July 15; it is currently in the testing and trial stage.”Three names for the mobile app have been shortlisted, but the final name is yet to be decided, he added.The development of the web-based and app-based grievance redressal systems is part of the e-governance project of the CSCL, under which all 28 services, including 14 government-to-citizen (G2C) services, will be integrated on one portal.Yadav said, “MC grievance redressal system will be one of the first services to go online and run through an app. Gradually, we will be integrating all other services of the UT administration and the MC on the website and app.”Citizens will ultimately have three options to access UT and MC services and register their complaints—website, mobile app and e-sampark centers, said Yadav.HOW TO ACCESSStep 1: Go to www.chandigarhsmartcity.inStep 2: Go to public services page and click on grievances (mchandigarh)Step 3: Register yourselfStep 4: Submit complaintAfter submission of the complaint, a message will be sent to the complainant and the officer concerned with details. Complainants may also check the complaint status on the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-register-complaints-about-chandigarh-mc-on-mobile-app/story-mc0pASpNswpjkwH63l2bbK.html
25-06-2020||City||HP cabinet gives nod to regularise over 12,000 teachers||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Thursday gave in-principle approval to regularise the services of over 12,000 teachers serving under various categories.The decision will benefit 6,500 parent-teacher assosciation (PTA), 3,300 primary assistant teachers (PAT) and 97 para teachers serving in government schools across the state.The cabinet meeting was held under the chairmanship of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur here.DRAFT SCHEME FOR TOURISM INDUSTRY REVIVAL APPROVEDIt also gave approval to the draft scheme for interest subvention on working capital loan for hospitality industry to revive the tourism industry in the state which has been adversely affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Under the scheme, tourism units in the State paying GST upto ₹1 crore would be entitled for maximum loan of ₹50 lakh and units paying GST above ₹1 crore to ₹3 crore for at least one year ending March 31, 2020, would be entitled for ₹75 lakh loan.Payment of GST above ₹3 crore will entitle a tourism unit for the loan of ₹1 crore. Small registered tourism units would also be eligible for maximum loan of ₹15 lakh. This loan period would be for four years with interest subvention of 5% each for first two years.The transport department would also draft a similar scheme.SUPPORT PRICE FOR APPLE INCREASEDThe cabinet also gave its approval to enhance support price of apple under market intervention scheme (MIS) by 50 paise from ₹8 to ₹8.50 per kg for the year 2020.Under MIS, about 1.50 lakh MT apples would be procured from July 20 to November 15 for which 283 procurement centres would be opened in different parts of the state as per demands of apple growers.The cabinet gave its approval to guidelines for providing assistance for promotion of cultivation of aromatic plants and their processing under the new scheme ‘Mehak’.VARIOUS POSTS TO BE FILLED UPIt gave its consent to fill up 500 posts of junior office assistant (IT) on contract basis in the education department through Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission, Hamirpur.The cabinet gave its approval to create and fill up 42 posts of different categories in Himachal Pradesh State Human Rights Commission.It gave nod to create and fill up four posts of different categories in newly created prosecution department office at Sarkaghat in Mandi district for its smooth functioning.It also decided to create and fill up two posts of perfusionist in the dpartment of CTVS in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda .The cabinet decided to enhance the award amount of war Jagir from existing ₹5000 to ₹7000 per annum to the families of war veterans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cabinet-gives-nod-to-regularise-over-12-000-teachers/story-tnyBC1OlB2C1a8HQ90SVnI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||CHB to go paperless by July-end, allottees can live-track their files and applications||Soon allottees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will be able to live-track their files and applications with the board that is all set to go paperless by the July-end.The board has started implementing e-office module developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), which will allow file tracking, make official files tamper proof, and ensure faster, time-bound movement of files, said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.The e-office module is to be implemented at the administrative, legal and computer branches from this week itself. The remaining wings have to get ready for implementation in the next few days. Thereafter, except in case unavoidable circumstances, no physical files will be moved.On Thursday, Garg issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for paperless functioning in all departments of the board.As per the SOP, dak receipts will be centralised at the reception and all such correspondences are to be scanned and converted into e-Dak. The reception will forward the e-Dak to the officer concerned through e-office module.An automatic diary number will be generated at the time of forwarding the e-Dak, which will be indicated on the physical dak. Thereafter, the physical dak will also sent to the officer concerned as per present process against proper receipt.The order states, “There is no need to delay implementation of the e-office module for scanning of existing files. Any new PUC/proposal to be processed on newly created e-file and scanned copy of the particular PUC is to be provided in correspondence section of the said e-file. Further, the scanned copy of related note-sheets or other documents may also be attached with the e-file with suitable references on the noting portion.”However, in case any authority needs to go through the existing physical file, then he can call for the same before taking a decision on the e-file.One batch of officials has already been trained by the NIC. The training for the next batch is scheduled for June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chb-to-go-paperless-by-july-end-allottees-can-live-track-their-files-and-applications/story-XK15R28sIstIzPGiXBlJXN.html
25-06-2020||City||Punjab Medical Council forms inquiry panel to probe fake covid reports||The Punjab Medical Council constituted a special inquiry committee on Thursday to probe the involvement of doctors in issuing wrong Covid-19 reports to patients.The vigilance bureau on Wednesday booked five doctors on attempt to murder charges for issuing wrong reports in Amritsar.The doctors, who were booked, have been identified as Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Rubin Tuliz, Dr Sanjay Piplani, Dr Ridhum Tuli, of Tuli Diagnostic Centre, and Dr Pankaj Soni from EMC Hospital.According to the council, Dr SPS Sooch, Dr Sushil Sehgal and Dr Jasmine Dahiya are members of special inquiry committee. The council says this is “apparent unethical act on part of the doctors and violation of the code of ethics.”Dr AS Sekhon, president of the council, said, “The committee will probe all aspects of these incidents. It will take around 90 days to complete the inquiry. We have sought help of Amritsar deputy commissioner and principal of Government Medical College to expedite the inquiry.”“Their license can be suspended or cancelled depending on the violations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-medical-council-forms-inquiry-panel-to-probe-fake-covid-reports/story-GiDpHsQkXCYtXYFwJ6UotN.html
25-06-2020||Lucknow||Ad hoc coaching in 32 disciplines to start in phased manner||Ad hoc coaching in as many as 32 different disciplines, including 28 Olympic sports is all set to start soon across the state but in the phased manner as Uttar Pradesh Sports Directorate has divided them into three different categories after over 100 days of lockdown in the country due to the pandemic COVID19.The date of the resumption of sports activities are yet to be announced, first to kick off the training would be the A category disciplines like archery, athletics, badminton, gymnastics, squash, table tennis, tennis, weightlifting, powerlifting, fencing, shooting, soft tennis, cycling, rowing, kayaking and canoeing, whereas the disciplines in the B category include basketball, cricket, football, handball, hockey, volleyball and netball. The C category has disciplines mostly the contact sports like swimming, boxing, judo, kho-kho, kabaddi, wrestling, taekwondo, wushu and karate.“We have fianlised the disciplines to start with but the coaching would begin in phased manner. We aren’t going to compromise with the heath of the sportspersons at the time when the pandemic corona virus has made things difficult for everyone,” UP’s director sports, RP Singh said on Wednesday.“We have yet not finalized the resumption day of the sporting activities across the state, but start of the training/coaching would help the ad hoc coaches in those particular disciplines get into action,” he said, adding, “All the centres have been told to strictly follow the norms of thermo scanning, social distancing, hand sanitization and also the sanitization of instruments for the use in the disciplines.”It is learnt that much before finalizing the list of disciplines UP Sports Directorate discussed the issue with the health departments and even sought the opinion of all its offices across the state. “Only after seeing the success result of resumption of category A sports, we will start the coaching/training of B category sports, but the resumption of C category sports would come at the last. All the contact sports are in C category and we will take a final call on these disciplines only when things returned to full normalcy.”Singh, however, said that to monitor the entry and exit of the trainees/sportspersons, registration of all is a must. “No one would be allowed to get trained at the stadium without having registration as keeping everyone’s record is a must in this situation.”It is learnt that 400 plus ad hoc coaches across the state are eagerly waiting for the resumption of sports activities since march 25, which was the last day of their stint last season. Technically, their 11-month tenure contract had to be resumed from April 1, but the lockdown brought everything to standstill and since they have been struggling for remuneration, thus facing the worst financial crisis of their lives.“It’s good that training/coaching are due to be resumed soon though in phased manner. This would surely make things better for us as we have been struggling to manage things at home,” said an ad hoc coach on condition of anonymity. “Even I had to borrow funds from one of my friends to mange milk for my one-year old daughter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ad-hoc-coaching-in-32-disciplines-to-start-in-phased-manner/story-wlk0sTOCAKXDuUpSHkcGdI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Masked man tries to break open ATM in Sector 44||A masked man tried to break open the State Bank of India ATM in Sector 44 on Wednesday night. This is the third such incident in 25 days. The accused snapped the wire of the closed-circuit television camera in the kiosk and also sprayed black paint on the camera to avoid being identified.He was, however, unable to break open the strong room of the ATM and thus failed to take any cash.The incident came to light on Thursday morning when the security guard and other staff reported on duty.However, the bank staff did not register any complaint till late afternoon when the Sector 34 station house officer visited the spot. The case was later registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code. The ATM does not have night security as the guard deployed here leaves at 5.30pm when the bank closes.On June 17, a masked man stole Rs 7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India (Andhra Bank) ATM in Kishangarh village. Police are yet to get a breakthrough in this case. Prior to this on May 31, an unsuccessful attempt to break in the ATM of PNB bank in Kishangarh was made. Police had then arrested four persons, including two juveniles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/masked-man-tried-to-break-open-atm-in-sector-44/story-367O20fdjES9crQobrpJAN.html
25-06-2020||City||Jammu divisional commissioner reviews arrangements for Amarnath yatra||Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma on Thursday chaired a high-level meeting to review arrangements for the smooth conduct of Amarnath yatra this year.The curtailed yatra is likely to be held from July 23 to August 3 for a duration of 14 days from the shorter Baltal track.A discussion was held regarding the accommodation, security, traffic, water, power, food, hygiene and sanitation. Verma said the health department will collect samples of all pilgrims arriving here from different states and UTs for Covid-19 testing. He has also asked the municipal corporation to ensure sanitation and fumigation at the Yatri Niwas besides provision of mobile toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-divisional-commissioner-reviews-arrangements-for-amarnath-yatra/story-POtbr3vQssSRbKsKMUusbO.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be affected in Chandigarh||Due to urgent repair on 66KV Morinda-Kajauli DC line scheduled to be carried out by PSPCL from 9am to 5pm on June 27, 30 and July 3, there will be no pumping of raw water from Kajauli to the Sector 39 waterworks, Chandigarh.This will affect water supply timings in the entire city on the three days.Morning supply will be from 4am to 9am at full pressure, but there will be no supply in the afternoon. In the evening, water will be supplied between 6pm and 9pm at low pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-affected-in-chandigarh/story-UJzR9hPMHKCZpQfj4lJnXN.html
25-06-2020||City||Take action against illegal deforestation in Theog: MLA Singha to HP govt||Communist Party of India (CPI M) MLA Rakesh Singha on Thursday condemned illegal deforestation by forest mafia in Theog sub-division of Shimla district and demanded that the state government should conduct an investigation into the matter. While addressing a press conference, Singha said a massive movement will be launched if the state government fails to take any action and if required the party will also take this matter to the court.He said more than 500 trees have been cut in forests of Theog sub-division. “The mafia not only cuts the trees but also burns the forests in the name of planting more trees which is also a violation of the orders of Himachal Pradesh high court,” he added.Singha said in July he and the locals will submit a memorandum to divisional forest officer demanding the forest area to be sealed until the matter is investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/take-action-against-illegal-deforestation-in-theog-mla-singha-to-hp-govt/story-tLWUxYBUu9X9zWr1zJfyxL.html
25-06-2020||Patna||26 killed in lightning strikes in five districts of Bihar||At least 26 people including three children were killed in lightning strikes in five districts of Bihar on Thursday, officials said.Gopalganj district reported the highest number of deaths, at 13, followed by five in Darbhanga, four in Siwan and two each in Madhubani and West Champaran districts, they said.Thirteen people were struck by lightning while working in their fields, in different blocks of Gopalganj district, Gopalganj Sub-Divisional Officer Upendra Pal said.Barauli and Uchkagaon blocks reported four deaths each followed by two in Gopalganj and one each in Majha, Kateya and Vijay blocks, he said.In Siwan, two persons died in Hussainganj and one each in Siwan and Barhariya blocks, district officials said.Five persons, including three children, were killed and two others injured in lightning strikes in Darbhanga, District Disaster Management Officer Pushpesh Kumar said.The deceased include two boys in Hanuman Nagar block, a girl in Bahadur block, a woman in a village in Biraul police station area and a man in another settlement under the jurisdiction of Baheri police station, he said.A couple was killed while working in their field in Belha village in Phulparas police station area in Madhubani district, SHO Mahfuz Alam said.Two other farmers were killed in their respective fields, in two villages under the jurisdiction of Shikarpur police station in West Champaran district, SHO K K Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/26-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-five-districts-of-bihar/story-SfLKrIzEQ2IUjJGa25VTjO.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||LN hospital patients get video calling facility||A help desk has been started at the Lok Nayak Hospital to help patients admitted to the Covid-19 wards make video calls to their loved ones.The facility was inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday.To demonstrate how the video calling facility would help, Kejriwal went on to make video calls to a few patients and had a long interaction with them, during the course of which he sought to know if they were satisfied with the treatment and services they were being given.One of those who received the call from Kejriwal was an IIT-Delhi student and he told the chief minister how many had contracted the viral disease while celebrating his birthday. He is currently in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital.The IITian went on to praise the doctors of LN Hospital and mentioned how well the doctors were treating elderly patients.Kejriwal also spoke to an elderly woman and requested her to bless the doctors and nurses when her treatment is over and she is discharged from the hospital.Sharing an image of his video interaction with the elderly woman, Kejriwal on Twitter said, “relatives of Corona patients admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital will now be able to speak to them”.Kejriwal said that tablets have been installed in the Covid wards as well as at the help desk located outside the wards.Kejriwal also lauded the hospital’s doctors. “All doctors here have worked really hard. You can imagine how tough it is to work in this heat while wearing full PPE (personal protective equipment) kits,” he said.The need for a video calling facility was felt after many complained that they couldn’t talk to their critically ill relatives for days on end or get an update on their condition, a Delhi government spokesperson said.The video calling facility will be offered with the help of 33 tablets, 31 of which have been placed in the Covid wards, and two at the help desk, Dr Suresh Kumar, the hospital’s medical director, said.“Now, relatives visiting the hospital will be allowed 5-10 minutes of video interaction with their hospitalised kin. They can ask them about their health, their medicines, their clothing and anything else they want to know,” Kumar said.Lok Nayak Hospital has the highest number of beds (2,000) among all Covid-designated hospitals in Delhi. The Delhi Corona app showed that 759 of these beds were occupied as of Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ln-hospital-patients-get-video-calling-facility/story-Kq8yqaufEUNPHxsajYeKMK.html
25-06-2020||City||Now, registration of pet dogs, cats mandatory in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday formally launched the pet registration project, with joint commissioner Swati Tiwana becoming the first resident to get her pet registered.Residents have time until December 31 to get their pet dogs and cats registered; failing which they will have to pay a penalty of Rs 4,000, besides Rs 100 a day to MC, which will take care of the pet till the process is completed.The project, which was launched by mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, had been hanging fire for nine years. Ludhiana is the first city in Punjab to start this project. In the next phase, the registration of animal breeders and cattle will be made mandatory.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said the registration will help the civic body trace the owners easily. Once the registration is done, it will be mandatory to tie the token around the pet’s neck and in case of ferocious dogs, the owner will have cover its face with a muzzle while taking it out on the streets. The owner will also have to bear the expenses if the pet bites anyone, Dr Dhalla said.HOW TO GET THE REGISTRATIONGo to the civic body’s website, mcludhiana.gov.in, and fill the pro forma. Upload the photographs of the pet and the owner.Once the online payment is done, a license will be issued to the owner, who will have to take a copy to the Zone A MC office for getting a token. A helpline number (8437535700) has also been issued for queries regarding this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-registration-of-pet-dogs-cats-mandatory-in-ludhiana/story-dfejsTk7jfYeCfmtM3pHZM.html
25-06-2020||City||Haryana native arrested for murdering senior citizen in Himachal’s Sirmaur||The Himachal police have arrested a Haryana native for allegedly murdering a 75-year-old man on June 18 in Sirmaur district here.The accused has been identified as Rajpal (45) of Yamunanagar, Haryana. He had been residing in Kheri village of Sirmaur for the past 20 years.As per information, Rajpal used to drink alcohol with the victim, Bhag Singh, everyday. On June 18, they had an argument while drinking. Later that night, they both engaged in a suffle during which Rajpal hit Bhag’s head with a stone, killing him on the spot.The accused fled from the spot, but returned home after two days. He was arrested by the police from his house and was presented in the court on Thursday. He has been sent to three-day police remand.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajgarh Bhisham Thakur said police are conducting the investigation. A case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.On June 18, Bhag’s dead body was found by local villagers, following which the police started a hunt to track down the murderer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-native-arrested-for-murdering-senior-citizen-in-himachal-s-sirmaur/story-qhKSiwICkbvPv0JJ0UhbjK.html
25-06-2020||City||126kg spurious ghee seized in Ludhiana, auto driver dodges arrest||A driver of a pickup auto, who had been booked for delivering adulterated desi ghee in Verka packets at shops in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on June 23, managed to escape when a team of the Sarabha Nagar police went to arrest him on Thursday, but the police seized 126kg spurious ghee from his vehicle.The case against the accused, identified as Naib Singh of Sarinh village, was registered on a statement of general manager (GM) of the Verka milk plant in Ludhiana Raj Kumar.In his complaint, the GM stated that they had received several complaints from the market over the quality of Verka ghee, especially in one-kg packets.He said, “After receiving complaints, we brought packets of ghee from the market. When checked, we found that adulterants had filled spurious ghee in Verka’s packets. We also came to know that some people had been selling the adulterated ghee to shops in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.”On a tip-off on June 23 that a pick-auto driver was supplying Verka ghee packets to shopkeepers in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, deputy manager (marketing) Rakesh Kumar and deputy manager (production) Hanuman Prasad, along with the food safety officer, health department, reached there.They said, “We found the pick-up auto driver supplying adulterated ghee in Verka packets. So, we reported the matter to the police and lodged an FIR against him.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pardeep Kumar, investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 272 (adulteration of food or drink intended for sale), 273 (sale of noxious food or drink) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against accused Naib Singh.A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/126kg-spurious-ghee-seized-in-ludhiana-auto-driver-dodges-arrest/story-cNn3DHuIOxO0AUBdpV6qQO.html
25-06-2020||City||Empty roads, rise in police presence on roads bring down Navi Mumbai’s crime rate by 76% in April, May: Cops||Even as the city grapples with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the crime rate in Navi Mumbai has reported a 76% decline in April and May. According to the Navi Mumbai Police department, the first information reports (FIRs) registered in April and May dropped to 211, as against the 891 cases filed during these two months in 2019.The police have attributed the decline in the crime rate to empty roads, restrictions in movement and heavy police presence on roads. They have also claimed that the fear of contracting Covid-19 has kept criminals at bay.“There is heavy police presence on the streets and regular patrolling is being conducted even on internal roads. Criminals are aware that they will be caught immediately if they commit offences,” said Ashok Dudhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.The police however, have said that with the emerging financial crisis, the department is expecting a spurt in robberies in the coming days. “Overall, crimes, especially vehicle thefts and street crimes have reduced. In the first phase of unlocking, we have noticed some cases of robberies and vehicle thefts, owing to the relaxation of restrictions and movement of people,” said Pravin Patil, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.For the first time in police records, there had been no reports of chain snatchings and daylight robberies in Navi Mumbai for two consecutive months. The robberies have also reduced significantly, with only two cases being reported in April and May, as against the 23 reported last year. A slump has also been witnessed in the break-ins reported at night. Overall, between April and May this year, only 14 burglaries were committed, while the same period had seen 67 cases last year.Dudhe said that there has been a drop in the crimes against women also, owing to the fear of speedy arrests. During the two months of complete lockdown, 11 rape and 19 molestations cases were registered. Last year in April and May, 30 cases of rape and 41 molestations had been reported.“As 95% of offenders in cases of rapes are known to the women, a majority of people are also mindful of the nakabandis in their vicinity,” said Dudhe.Though vehicle thefts continue to be a reason for worry, the police have said that the cases have come down to 41 from 101 thefts reported in April and May last year.According to the police data, 47 of the 94 cases registered in April had been solved, at a detection rate of 50%. In the same period last year, the police had solved 272 of the total 410 cases registered (66% detection rate). In May, the detection rate had been 63%, as 74 of the total 117 cases were solved. This is a rise from the 53.8% detection rate recorded last year for the same month, with 259 of 481 cases detected.“While investigations had slowed down a little owing to reduced staff, we are still managing and focusing on urgent matters. Heinous crimes are on top priority and the lockdown is not being taken as an excuse to not investigate cases,” said a Panvel police station officer requesting anonymity.Earlier, the state had decided to release some prisoners to curb the spread of Covid-19 in prisons but senior police officers said that the development did not have a major effect on the crime trend in Navi Mumbai.“Local police stations have been tasked with the monitoring of undertrials or convicts who have been out on bail or parole and we are following up on them regularly. Those with criminal records know they will immediately be arrested if they commit a fresh crime,” said an officer from NRI police station requesting anonymity. Molestations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/empty-roads-rise-in-police-presence-on-roads-bring-down-navi-mumbai-s-crime-rate-by-76-in-april-may-cops/story-SNUb9jLagVzvI0fod1qy0M.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Employee found Covid positive, Panjab University restricts outsider entry in hostels||Panjab University has restricted the entry of outsiders at the hostels on the campus after a university employee tested positive for Covid-19 on June 24.University’s dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar has instructed all hostel wardens to restrict outsiders’ entry and ensure all hostels are sanitised. On June 24, a 37-year-old woman, who works in the re-evaluation branch located at the Aruna Ranjit Hall, had tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, PU had ordered closure of the hall and its administrative block.Tomar said, “The restriction is a precautionary measure for the safety of students and staff members. Hostellers are advised not to leave the hostels unless essential.”Meanwhile, hostels are also holding interactive sessions students. “We wish to counsel students during this crucial time. There is a lot of ambiguity among the students regarding the exams and next academic session,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/employee-found-covid-positive-panjab-university-restricts-outsider-entry-in-hostels/story-UxRKHnkHtWWJLvoVOGSSwL.html
25-06-2020||City||45 years of Emergency: It was a black chapter in history of Indian democracy, says Shanta Kumar||The national emergency imposed 45 years ago marked a black chapter in the history of Indian democracy and should always be remembered, former Union minister Shanta Kumar said on Thursday.In a press statement issued here, the 85-year-old BJP veteran said emergency was declared on June 25 and by the next day the entire country was converted into a prison.“The biggest democracy of the world turned into monarchy of a political party,” he said.The former minister said he and many of his friends from Himachal were thrown behind the bars.“When we argued in the court that right to life was bestowed on us by the Constitution, the government in its reply said that even this right was also suspended,” he said.He said people should always remember that this emergency was not imposed due to an enemy attack or a natural calamity but because the Allahabad high court had declared election of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to Lok Sabha null and void.The country was converted into jail because a successful movement was building up against the regime under the leadership of freedom-fighter JP Narayan. “JP too was put behind the bars and he was even dubbed the enemy of the country,” he said.Shanta Kumar said after the emergency was lifted, a new history was written in 1977 general election.“This election was not fought by the parties but the masses of India,” he added.“That movement was against corruption. Today, Indian democracy is strengthened but the evil of corruption still prevails,” he said. He also paid tributes to his comrades who were with him in Nahan Jail during emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-years-of-emergency-it-was-a-black-chapter-in-history-of-indian-democracy-says-shanta-kumar/story-539CjMTaxbd3qhEfSVeoSK.html
25-06-2020||Bangalore||Cooperate if you don’t want Bengaluru to be under lockdown once again: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday asked people to cooperate by following the measures put in place for the control of Covid-19 if they don’t want another lockdown or sealing in Bengaluru.Amid talks about re-imposing lockdown in the city following the recent spike in cases, the Chief Minister said he will hold discussions on Thursday and Friday regarding the strict measures that need to be taken to control the virus.“COVID pandemic is increasing, we are making all efforts and we have even sealed some areas. Today afternoon at Krishna (the CM’s home office) I have called a meeting with Ministers and officials and will discuss the strict measures to be taken to control COVID,” Yediyurappa said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Tomorrow noon I have called a meeting of legislators of all political parties from Bengaluru and all Ministers from the city to discuss with them, seek their opinion and take stringent measures.” Citing an increase in cases, Health Minister B Sriramulu on Tuesday had said the government may have to think about imposing lockdown in the city if the situation continues.Following this several Ministers in the state cabinet on Wednesday had said, any decision on re-imposing lockdown in the city will be taken only after consulting experts.Some reports had even suggested that a decision on lockdown is likely at the cabinet meeting scheduled today.The Chief Minister said there is no lockdown in the entire city, adding only in a few areas it has been imposed and would continue.Concerned over the increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, Yediyurappa on Monday had directed officials to implement lockdown measures strictly in certain clusters which have reported greater number of coronavirus infections.The city’s busy K R Market and Kalasipalya Market have been sealed for 15 days by the civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) as part of measures to check the spread of the deadly virus.Stating that Bengaluru is a model for the whole country in Covid-19 management, Yediyurappa on Thursday said, when you compare with other major cities, “we have not yet lost control.” “But, still in the last few days there has been a spike in COVID cases, what measures have to be taken to control it- we will hold discussions about it both today and tomorrow and will make all efforts to take more strict measures,” he said.A total of 1,678 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the city till last evening.This includes 78 deaths and 475 discharges.The number of Covid-19 cases in the state which stood at 3,408 as of June 1 has crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday with the state capital topping the districts in the infection count.Seeking public cooperation in controlling the spread of the virus, Yediyurappa said social distancing and other measures in place were not followed, there has been spread to slums and other places.“If you don’t want Bengaluru to be sealed once again please cooperate and maintain distance,” he added.Yediyurappa also said, the government has taken all measures for the safe conduct of SSLC (class 10) exams from today, and students should come out and write exams for their bright future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cooperate-if-you-don-t-want-bengaluru-to-be-under-lockdown-once-again-yediyurappa/story-oo4fWkfpg0VrHd2sAp8ApM.html
25-06-2020||City||Mumbai man booked for duping Jammu resident of Rs 9 lakh||JAMMU: The crime branch of Jammu and Kashmir Police on Thursday registered a case against a Mumbai-based man for allegedly duping a woman lecturer in Jammu of Rs 9.19 lakh.The accused was identified as Rajeev Bharanatti of Navi Mumbai.Police said they both had come in contact with each other in 2015 on a matrimonial site.A police spokesperson said, “They used to talk over the phone and later the accused demanded some money from the woman on pretext of treating his ailing father. The man assured that he would return the money. The woman transferred the money to different account numbers over a period of time and later the accused started avoiding her.”A case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-man-booked-for-duping-jammu-resident-of-rs-9-lakh/story-nc2lij6maStmA5wfdRJRpI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||HT Salutes: J&K’s microbiologist keeps gruelling hours||Leading the battle against the coronavirus pandemic from the forefront, microbiologist Dr Junaid Ahmad works round-the-clock to ensure maximum samples are collected and tested. Each morning, sharp at 8am, Dr Junaid Ahmad enters the sprawling Baramulla Degree College campus, where a newly inaugurated Sports Complex has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital. Men, women and children, who have already lined up, wait for their turn anxiously as the 35-year-old doctor and his four-member team prepare to collect their samples.The team collects around 200 samples a day from morning to late afternoon. The centre has so far collected 6,758 samples, the highest for any single centre in the Union Territory, which is leading the country in the number of tests conducted. “It is a matter of routine for me now to work from 8am till the evening and at times I leave at midnight depending on the workload,” says Ahmad, as he collects the sample of a young man from Khanpora locality where three elderly people recently died due to Covid-19. The area has been sealed.“It takes a couple of days for the reports to arrive. If the report returns negative, the person is discharged and incase the report is found positive, the patient is straightway admitted to the Covid-centre,” the young doctor said, adding that around 40 positive patients had been admitted to the centre the day the interview was conducted. Baramulla district has 562 Covid-19 patients and almost all patients’ samples were collected at this centre.Though being head of the department collecting samples is not part of Ahmad’s duties he does it nonetheless to boost the morale of his staff.“Everyday we collect around 200 samples that are then dispatched to SKIMS laboratory. The positive patients are under our constant vigil for 14 days and then on the 14th and 15th day two more samples are collected and if found negative the patient is discharged with certain ICMR guidelines,” he said.PPE’s CHANGED TWICE A DAYIn the sweltering heat, Ahmad has to change PPE sets at least twice or thrice in a single day besides shuttling between the Covid-centre and the Government Medical Hospital laboratory.“I have to oversee collection of samples, line listing and draft plans with the head of medicine,” he says. ‘’Our team takes care of triple packing, para-filming and putting samples in vaccine carriers.We maintain 20 degree icepacks and also prepare the viral transport medium (VTMs) every night hours before the sampling process begins,’” he says. HASN’T SEEN FAMILY IN THREE MONTHS Ahmad has not gone home for the past three months. His house is 60 kilometers away from his centre and he has been putting up at a hotel close to the hospital. His only contact with his family, comprising his wife, eight-year-old daughter, seven-months-old son and aged parents, is phone.“My father is diabetic and has a stent in his heart. He is also hypertensive. I stay away from them as I don’t want them to face any complication,” he says. “On Eid, which is our biggest festival, I remained in the Covid centre with my team.”Ahmad joined GMC Baramulla, as assistant professor and became head of the department t in 2018. “The saddest day for me was when 62 samples tested positive from this centre on a single day and I knew some of the patients could die,” he said, while adding that each day brings new hope for Covid-19 patients. “Only last week, I discharged 56 patients after they all tested negative. For me, the patients and their families, it was a joyous moment.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-salutes-j-k-s-epidemiologist-keeps-gruelling-hours/story-AyLhWCG01ZBRdUeEuPh3BP.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Tablets at Covid hospital to allow patients to make video calls: Delhi CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched a video call facility for coronavirus patients admitted at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital here to talk to their loved ones.LNJP was declared a Covid-19 hospital on March 17 and since then, it has successfully treated 2,700 coronavirus patients and sent them home. It is the only Covid-19 hospital in the country with 2,000 beds, he said. The chief minister said that till now, relatives of coronavirus patients were not able to talk to them, but that issue has been resolved.“We have installed tablets in coronavirus wards and at a counter outside. These can be used by patients and their relatives for video calling,” Kejriwal said.After the launch, Kejriwal used the facility to talk to a few patients admitted to the hospital’s Covid-19 ward. Lauding LNJP doctors, the chief minister said the medics don’t go home or meet their family members for days on end fearing that the infection may spread.“All doctors here have worked really hard. You can imagine how tough it is to work wearing PPE kits in this heat,” he said, adding the administration is responsible for shortcomings, if any, and not the healthcare workers.“We (government) stand like a rock behind you. If you face any problem, we are there with you. We will work together to improve the facilities. Obviously, there is a scope for improvement,” Kejriwal told the doctors.Plasma therapy is being used on a large scale in LNJP, which has reduced the death rate among Covid-19 patients substantially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tablets-at-covid-hospital-to-allow-patients-to-make-video-calls-delhi-cm/story-s6KUMVE8YDnaS2bnYMcTKP.html
25-06-2020||City||Jai Ram lauds youth for contribution in battle against Covid-19||The youth have an important role to play in the overall development of a country and building a strong and vibrant society, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.He was addressing a virtual rally of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha’s Palampur unit.The CM appreciated the young people of Himachal for their contribution in the battle against Covid-19, be it distribution of face masks or providing food kits or cooked meals to needy and poor.He said the youth also educated the people regarding the importance of social distancing and use of face masks and sanitisers.He urged the younger generation to keep a connect with their roots. He also exhorted them to ensure maximum use of social media for effectively disseminating policies and programmes of the state government.He said the situation in Himachal due to Covid-19 was far better than most of its neighbouring states. He said most people who tested positive for the infection were those who returned from other states.Jai Ram said over two lakh people stranded in different parts of the country were brought back, which resulted in sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 patients.The state government has adopted a zero-tolerance policy against corruption, he said.He urged the youth of the state to come forward in fighting this social vice, which was the biggest hindrance in development.While addressing the rally, former chief minister and senior leader Shanta Kumar said the BJP has emerged as the largest political party of the world and the credit of this goes to each and every party worker of the state. He said there was no dearth of funds and the only thing required was sincere efforts and dedication.The BJP leader said each and every one of us must come forward and ensure that there is no corruption so that the people repose thier faith in the governance system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-lauds-youth-for-contribution-in-battle-against-covid-19/story-3c8WWikBE0GOW1NAyh2GKN.html
25-06-2020||City||Six of family missing after car rolls down into rivulet in J&K’s Kishtwar||A head constable of Jammu and Kashmir Police and five members of his family went missing after their car skidded off the road and rolled down into a rivulet in Kishtwar district on Thursday.Kishtwar district commissioner Rajinder Singh Dara said, “An Alto car skidded off the road and plunged into the river at around 11:00am. Six members of a family were present in the vehicle. Police, GREF and SDRF teams have launched an operation to trace the people. Prima facie it seems to be a case of overspeeding.”Those missing have been identified as head constable Mulkh Raj Sharma, Munni Devi, Kailasho Devi, Anamika Devi 16, Shallu Devi 13 and Kaki Devi, 11.The rivulet is a tributary of Chenab river in Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district.A police official said the driver lost control of the vehicle while passing Garh and Gulabgarh area of Paddar tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-of-family-missing-after-car-rolls-down-into-rivulet-in-j-k-s-kishtwar/story-TqwinM8SSPJBNark3hrwmJ.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Man booked by Pune police for allegedly tampering with govt entrance exam answer sheets||A man from Mumbai has been booked by Pune police in a forgery and cheating case. The incident took place during an online exam held by Pune division of labour commissioner’s office in 2015.According to police the accused works at a company in Mumbai which helps in conducting online exams.The name of the accused man has been withheld pending his arrest and collection of evidence. The name of the company, located in Dadar (west), Mumbai has changed.“The company provides support to conduct online exams. The two people who had appeared for the exam in 2015 had approached the court in 2017. The court has issued an order to register a case. We will now investigate the claims,” said PS Devkar, assistant police inspector, Khadki police station, who is investigating the case.Two people had approached the court after they suspected their marks to have been reduced by making changes to their answer sheets. The had appeared for a direct service entry exam held by the Pune division of labour commissioner’s office.“The exam was of objective type questions. The answers are checked online and the answer sheet and result are printed after which a copy is provided to the examinee. The two suspect that their answer sheets were tampered with,” said Devkar.The police are investigating if there were candidates who benefited from this reduction in marks. If found involved, more people will be booked in the case.A case under Sections 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, and others.), 468 (forgery with the purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 34 (Common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-by-pune-police-for-allegedly-tampering-with-govt-entrance-exam-answer-sheets/story-EivVzJIF1G9LbqXYMx3l1I.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Start hostel, mess facilities then we will resume research projects: PhD students to SPPU||The PhD students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) who have been told by the varsity to resume their research projects have demanded that the hostel and mess services should resume on the campus. They have also demanded that the academic year should be extended by four months as their research work has been affected.Due to the rise in the number of people infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) many students have returned to their hometown when the lockdown was announced.“We are now getting calls from SPPU to resume our research projects, but how can we come when the hostels and mess on the campus are closed. I cannot afford to rent private accommodation,” said Nandkumar Hange, a PhD student.“The university should resume the hostel facility in building No. 9, a hostel for PhD students, and make sure social distancing norms are followed in the campus. All necessary precautions must be in place only then we can return and resume our research work,” said Hange.“Many of us also fear of getting infected with the virus as the number of Covid-19 cases are on a rise in Pune,” said Hange.Pune city has reported 13,153 active cases of Covid-19 and 528 deaths as of June 23, according to the health department of Pune Municipal corporation (PMC).Due to the three-month lockdown PhD students were not able to complete their research work for the thesis papers. They had to study the research study materials which is accessible only in SPPU libraries.Prafulla Pawar, registrar, SPPU, said, “Students are not allowed to come to university. We have not got instructions from the state to start the hostel facility. They might have been called for fellowship work. I will look into the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/start-hostel-mess-facilities-then-we-will-resume-research-projects-phd-students-to-sppu/story-IIFVK7B8CHZa0soMEy4CeJ.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Monsoon preparedness: Flood alarm saver will be a life-saver||Salim Shaikh and Victor Sangle, both, on September 25, 2019, drove towards the Bairobha nallah bridge linking Camp with Wanowrie. The city was under a torrential downpour. The nallah had burst its banks and the bridge was under water. Neither knew of the scenario. Both drove into the flood. Neither survived. The flash floods of 2019 claimed 26 lives in Pune. Two families, nine months on, believe the lives of Salim and Victor could have been saved ‘Nobody from our family uses the bridge anymore’Software professional Salim Shaikh was employed with nVidia Software. He was returning home from work on September 25 and drove towards Wanowrie, in his way to NIBM road, where he resided.Shaikh was unaware the bridge at Wanowrie was engulfed by the overflowing Bairobha nallah, courtesy the 100mm of rain the city had received in two hours; and which had not yet eased.Shaikh, driving his car, never made it across the bridge.Salim Shaikh’s body was found in Ahmednagar District, some 95 kms from Pune. Sangale family had searched his body for many days after the incident but with no avail.The family had received the compensation from district collector’s office on completion of the official procedures.Taher Shaikh, Salim Shaikh’s brother, said “Ever since the incident, our family has decided not to commute from the Bairobha nallah bridge ever again. None of family members travel via that route. There is a need for strong safety railings at the bridge and there should have been a protective wall at the bridge. After the incident, we expected the government to increase safety standards at the bridge.”Zakir Khan, a friend of Shaikh, said “We have been demanding that Bairobha nallah be brought under round the clock CCTV surveillance during all seasons and a flood-alert system (automatic) be installed, where an SMS alert is sent directly to the fire brigade and the police. Currently, the bridge is unsafe and needs lot of safety measures to be completed. There are no street lights on the bridge and there is only one light installed at one end of the road which is inadequate.”‘Every day, we still hope for news’Victor Sangle was the die-hard survivor. By the age of 26, he had survived cancer. Had had survived an amputation and lived a full life with a prosthetic limb.Prior to September 25, 2019, he had just returned from a bicycle expedition in Arunachal Pradesh.On the evening of September 25, he drove in his car from Kalyani nagar, where he stayed, towards Wanowrie. He was going to see his cousins who lived there.The rain was torrential. Pune had already received 100mm in two hours.As Sangle drove towards Wanowrie what he did not know was that the Bairobha nallah had breached its banks and a bridge connecting Camp to Wanowrie was under water.Sangle drove through it and as far as the official records of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Pune fire brigade and the Pune police go, he never made it.Victor Sangle driving his car, was washed away.Nine months since, no rescue agency has been unable to recover his body. The search, involving the NDRF and the fire brigade, extended 200 kilometres along the Mula-Mutha river, into which the Bairobha nallah flows. Prashant Ranpise chief fire officer said, “According to our records, he is still missing. He could not be traced despite the search.”Sangle’s immediate family declined an interview with HT, but said this much, “Every day, we still hope for news.”Rajesh Bansode, an extended relative of the Sangle family said that last month a call came in from an unknown person who claimed to have Sangle’s documents, like the Aadhar card.“However, there has been no response from the said number since. How these unidentified people called the family after such a long time needs investigation, as it is very suspicious. Because of the Covid situation, it became difficult for us to go to the police. The call came in from the Beed district of Maharashtra,” said Bansode.He went back for the dog... ‘came under the wall and was washed away’Fifteen-year-old Rohit Amle lived in the Ganga Teerth Society, Tangewala colony, Sahakarnagar. The Ambil Odha (stream) flowed by the society. On September 25, 2019, the Ambil Odha was not flowing; it had burst its banks and caused a flash flood. Rohit Amle was about to get away, when he remembered his pet dog was still in the house. He went back to save the dog. As he was exiting the society, the wall between the odha and the society collapsed . Rohit Amle and the pet dog, both perished in the flood waters.Rukmini Shinde (53), Rohit’s is grandmother, recounts the tragic events. “He had been staying with us ever since my daughter passed away. He did not inform us and came under the wall and was washed away. This is indeed tragic and we have received compensation. It was his birthday on June 18. It is a very painful experience we will have to undergo it for our lifetime,” she said. Rohit was a Class X student of Vidya Vikas School. Swapnil Shinde, his uncle, said, “We have very fond memories to share. Rohit was creative and intelligent. We did not expect that he will be no more with us.”PCB blames PMCAmit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), under whose jurisdiction the Bairobha nallah falls, said “The PMC had committed to make the bridge safe for commuters and it was given permission to carry out the repair and reconstruction work. However, things on the ground are different and the PMC must honour its commitment made to the board. The onus of repairs and other important things lie with the corporation,” he said.Covid closure for monsoon?The Bairobha nallah bridge in question has been in and out of quarantine since the Covid-19 pandemic began. Currently it is inaccessible, again, given its proximity to areas under lockdown. With the monsoon here, it may well be that no one will be allowed to access the bridge for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monsoon-preparedness-flood-alarm-saver-will-be-a-life-saver/story-DvxXB40Uynv15akHB62z3L.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation under scanner, CM orders probe into allegations of irregularities||The functioning of the Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation (PESCO) has come under the scanner as chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has marked an inquiry after receiving complaints regarding financial irregularities.PESCO was founded in 1978 to uplift ex-servicemen, war widows and their dependents in Punjab. PESCO has the distinction of being the first ex-servicemen corporation of India.An official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Several complaints have reached the chief minister (CM) about financial irregularities in PESCO. Being an ex-serviceman himself, the CM is concerned and has marked an inquiry into the matter.”Special principal secretary to the CM Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, who is also the secretary of defence services, confirmed the development and said the CM had tasked special secretary Moneesh Kumar with holding an inquiry. “Further course of action will be decided once the report is submitted,” he said. As per the PESCO Act the retirement age of employees is 58 years. The act allows the board to allow an extension for a period not exceeding two years, in exceptional circumstances, to an employee who is competent and physically fit. “However, there are several employees at the corporation whose age exceeds 60 years. In fact, some of the employees are nearing 70 years of age and are still working. The board has recruited them on a contractual basis, claiming that retirement rules were not applicable to contractual staff,” the official said. “The services of employees of the corporation are governed by Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation (Service) Regulations, 1993. These regulations are applicable to full time officers or employees of the corporation appointed on regular basis, and officers or employees employed on contractual basis subject to the terms of the said contract. How can the PESCO frame its own rules and regulations or overstep the PSECO Act or Punjab government’s financial rules?” asked the officer. “No clearance for providing salaries to contractual staff has been taken from the finance department or any local auditor of the Punjab government,” the official said. PESCO (Service) Regulations, 2012, clearly specify that the financial controller of the corporation has to be a qualified chartered accountant. “It is shocking to see that an ex-army officer who doesn’t have the basic qualification of a chartered accountant has been serving as the financial controller of this multi-crore corporation created for the welfare of ex-servicemen,” the official said.‘REPORT HAS ALMOST BEEN FINALISED’Moneesh Kumar, who is probing the matter, refused to share the results of the probe as the inquiry had been personally marked by the CM. “I have almost finalised the report. I will submit it in a day or two,” he said.Captain MPS Rattan (retd), who raised the issue, said “Punjab has highest number of ex-servicemen. Why are only a select few getting the chance to work after the age of 60? A financial audit is needed.” PESCO chairperson major general (retd) Amritpal Singh said the appointment of contractual staff and those above the age of 60 fell within the ambit of rules. It is an issue regarding interpretation of laws. “There is an inquiry marked and we are waiting for it as it will clear certain rules and regulations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-ex-servicemen-corporation-under-scanner-cm-orders-probe-into-allegations-of-irregularities/story-Y44vVChrhWq2gAA0eN1XMI.html
25-06-2020||Bangalore||CM BS Yediyurappa calls high-level meeting to discuss Covid-19 situation in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that a high-level meeting of state ministers and officials has been called to discuss the handling of the Covid-19 situation.“Covid-19 cases are increasing in Bengaluru. In its wake, we have sealed some areas in Bengaluru. Today we have called a meeting of ministers and officials where further handling of the situation will be discussed,” Yediyurappa told reporters here.He said that the state government has arranged all facilities to treat Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru.“But we are also thinking about the number of cases which is increasing in Bengaluru. I urge people to observe social distancing and maintain proper hygiene if Bengalurians do not want another seal down,” Yediyurappa said.Yediyurappa had, on Monday, also convened an emergency meeting with ministers and senior officials to evaluate the Covid-19 situation in the state capital.According to officials, a total number of 10,118 coronavirus cases have been reported in Karnataka, of which 6,151 have recovered while 164 others have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cm-bs-yediyurappa-calls-high-level-meeting-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-in-karnataka/story-GRVN1C3AM0IZAil8B7EbEJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||68-year-old found dead in Himachal’s Kullu||A 68-year-old man was found dead in Kullu on Thursday.Local residents found the man’s body was found near a tree in Jarad village around 8am. No suicide note or external injuries were found on the body, police said.The body was taken to the Kullu regional hospital for conducting postmortem.Confirming the incident, Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said the police were conducting an investigation. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (CrPC).If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. You can reach Mental Health and Rehabilitation Centre, Boileauganj, Shimla, at 0177-2633601 or visit www.hhmhrshimla.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/68-year-old-hangs-self-in-himachal-s-kullu/story-YiVjfBQVAQYgHiYVClIqrN.html
25-06-2020||Jaipur||76 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state tally reaches 16,085||As many as 76 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan in the last 24 hours, talking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 16,085 on Thursday, said the State Health Department.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSo far 375 people have lost their lives due to the virus, showed the data released by the Health Department. Currently, there are 3,064 active cases while 12,646 others have been discharged after having recovered.According to the data, as many as 7,40,855 samples have been tested in the state.Notably, the most number of coronavirus cases have been reported from Jaipur (3,120), Jodhpur (2,528) and Bharatpur (1,434) districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/76-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-tally-reaches-16-085/story-jwnEMnzCWi26qVxKFxwd5I.html
25-06-2020||Lucknow||Baby gharials return to Yamuna after almost a decade||Much to the astonishment of environmentalists and wildlife enthusiasts, the ghariyals of the Chambal river have chosen in a big way to nest and breed in the Yamuna, one of the most polluted rivers.The ghariyals nested and laid eggs in Etawah, near 30 km upstream of Yamuna at Bhaupura. On June 15, 43 juveniles emerged and swam in the river with the adults, drawing massive crowds from the villages.Curious onlookers said two of the hatchlings died and 24 could still be seen on the banks and in the river.Regional forest director Rajesh Kumar Verma said this was a heartening development. In order to protect the ghariyals, a team of forest guards along with volunteers from villages was deployed for round the clock monitoring.Rajeev Chauhan, conservation officer with Wildlife Institute of India said it was surprising the ghariyals were breeding in the Yamuna. Way back in 2011, the ghariyals ventured in the Yamuna near Haraur village for breeding for the first time but by and large the amphibians remained in their natural habitat, the Chambal.“The first reason that comes to my mind is that the lockdown has improved the water quality of Yamuna so the ghariyals have started moving to it in big numbers,” Chauhan said.This was a strong indicator that ghariyals had chosen the Yamuna as another natural habitat and the river could be a cornerstone in conserving bio-diversity if the work to clean it gained pace, he said.Even last year, ghariyals were seen in the Yamuna for breeding for the second time but on a much smaller scale, at a place where Yamuna and Chambal meet in Etawah near Sumer Singh fort.This year their number had considerably risen, said experts. They said there had been one sighting of ghariyals nesting in Yamuna downstream in Sajeti of Kanpur rural.After this discovery, the wildlife experts and enthusiasts have started a detailed study on this phenomenon with the help of their volunteers who are keeping a watch on ghariyals of Yamuna. Forest sub-inspector Tabish Ahmad said the experts had made the Bhaupura village their base to study and they were seeking help of the villagers.“When I was first told about this I could not believe it. I stared when I saw the ghariyals swimming with juveniles. This is one of the best things to have happened in Yamuna and Etawah,” said Ahmad.In 2007, an unspecified disease had claimed lives of more than 100 ghariyals in Chambal and their bodies were found in the Yamuna. Many experts from different countries conducted comprehensive researches, which included tagging transmitters, to find out of the cause and to help them in survival. One set of experts had blamed liver cirrhosis caused by high pollution level and another thought it was hunting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greens-thrilled-as-chambal-ghariyals-breed-again-in-yamuna/story-GxeP82OBYG9jirZYbnWYbN.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar resident wants to marry Pak-based fiancée, appeals to PM Modi for visa||A Jalandhar resident was looking forward to marrying his Pakistan-based fiancée this month. However, Covid-19 threw a wrench in his plans. The couple has now appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help them get visas. 32-year-old Kamal Kalyan, a resident of Basti Bawa Khel locality, had got engaged to 35-year-old Sumaila on January 30, 2018, online. “We had decided to get married this year and I had applied visas for my family members and me on March 21. However, the government announced a lockdown and we could not send documents to Pakistan,” said Kalyan. All my family members were excited because my fiance is also my distant relative. “This marriage would have sent a message of peace to our two countries,” he said. “I have approached the Indian and Pakistan embassies but due to the lockdown my file is under process and they have not cleared it. I do not know how long it will take and I want to get married soon,” he said, adding that he had sought help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have appealed PM Modi to grant visa to Sumaila and her family so that they can travel to India for our marriage,” he said. “Sumaila is the daughter of my father Om Parkash’s cousin Asiya. I have not met her and only communicated over the phone and through video calls but now we both want to live together,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-resident-wants-to-marry-pak-based-fiancee-appeals-to-pm-modi-for-visa/story-UmGut74v9891v3ZRAWJQYL.html
25-06-2020||Kolkata||Guardians protest in Kolkata, demand school fee waiver||Parents of students of different private schools in Kolkata have staged a demonstration, demanding 50 per cent waiver of tuition fees.Around 100 parents, under the banner of the United Guardians’ Association, staged the demonstration at College Square on Wednesday.They also reached out to the Chief Minister’s Office, demanding her intervention on the issue if the private schools do not heed to their pleas.“We demand that the school authorities take only the tuition fees from guardians this year and waive other charges such as transport, development and electricity,” said Supriyo Bhattacharya, the convenor of the association.“We also demand that the schools should charge only 50 per cent of the tuition fee and the schools that have taken the full amount already should return the half of it,” he said.Bhattacharya said if the demands are not met, the guardians will start a bigger movement. “Guardians are not in a position to pay full fees due to the economic hardships caused by the lockdown,” he said.Many guardians also staged protests in front of a private school in the Ranikuthi area in south Kolkata.Demonstrations also took place outside a school in the Chandni Chowk area in central Kolkata. Besides, some parents also protested against fee hike at a school in Durgapur in Paschim Bardhaman district.There has been a series of protests in the past one month against hike in school fees in different parts of the city, and the state.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has asked private schools not to hike fees, considering the difficulties faced by guardians in the present situation.Education Minister Partha Chatterjee also warned of strict action if any school went ahead with the decision to hike fees.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said the government should intervene and resolve the issue. “The guardians have been forced to hit the roads as they have been pushed to the wall,” he said.When contacted, several private schools said it was not possible to provide any such waiver in fees.“We were conducting online classes throughout this lockdown. Our teachers are working from home through laptops provided by the school. How can we reduce the tuition fees? We didn’t hike it this year but it is not possible to lessen the fees by half,” said the principal of a south Kolkata boys’ school.The principal of a school in Belgharia said, “The drivers of our school buses, the security staff, the maintenance staff cannot go without pay just because classes are not being held.” “The guardians knew very well they have to pay a particular amount while admitting their wards. Now, if all of them demand waivers how can that be possible? We can consider exceptional cases on humanitarian grounds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/guardians-protest-in-kolkata-demand-school-fee-waiver/story-rK8V0kBe3HGXyJRu1mEWDP.html
25-06-2020||Patna||Heavy rains eroding earthen diversions on Karmnasha river||The continuous heavy rains have increased the danger of a traffic halt on the GT Road (NH 2), connecting seven states, as the two earthen diversions on Karmnasha river are eroding.Water level in the hilly river is rising after the constant rain spells in its catchment area. Meanwhile, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is yet to construct the temporary steel bridge planned as an alternative for commute during rainy season.Adding to the problem, the inter-state truckers and passenger vehicles are already facing heavy traffic jam due to overloaded sand trucks being illegally operated on the bridge.The problem started on December 28 when three out of total five pillars of the bridge on Karmnasha, demarcating the borders of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, started developing cracks. The middle pillar was severely damaged as its both shoulders were cracked.“The 10-year-old four-lane bridge was constructed by PCL Company and was handed over to the NHAI in 2009,” Rajan Chaturvedi, NHAI toll point in-charge said.“The illegal sand overloading business rampant on the GT road from Bihar to UP is the main cause behind the damage of bridge,” an official from NHAI technical team arrived to access the damage, had said.Traffic was reinstated on the NH after 10 days when two earthen diversions were made on both sides of the damaged bridge.The NHAI also started construction of a 150m long and 8.5m wide two-lane steel bridge with an estimated cost of ₹11 crore to maintain the traffic in the rainy season when the strong river current would wash away the earthen diversions.This all was under alternative arrangements before the NHAI could repair or replace the regular four-lane bridge.NHAI technical manager Nagesh Kumar said that the work on steel bridge and approach roads on its both sides was going on war footing and was in the last stage.Talking about the illegal sand transportation, Kumar said,“Cases have been registered against nine sand loaded truck owners who had intentionally narrowed the lane near the entrance to cross the bridge during the night to dodge the UP police strict drive against overloading.”“The work on the bridge will be completed and it will be opened for traffic on July 1, if the weather situations are favourable,” he added.Meanwhile, heavy jam continued on seventh consecutive day on the southern lane of the NH approaching Uttar Pradesh.The traffic extended from Karmnasha to Mohania and thousands of trucks and other vehicles, including ambulances were seen struck in the 20km long jam.Meanwhile, the NHAI officials were trying to resolve the jam with help of local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/heavy-rains-eroding-earthen-diversions-on-karmnasha-river/story-8IMPGl5gaAwQtexWFJLMnJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Criminal case against two SAD workers triggers outage in Dakha||A criminal case against two Akali workers in Dakha snowballed into a controversy after Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali accused the Congress of indulging in ‘vendetta politics’ and implicating Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers in a false case to pressure them into withdrawing charges against Congress leader Daljit Singh Bhola Grewal.Ayali said a SAD worker, Gurpreet Singh Gopi , who was shot during the bypolls by Grewal on October 23 had been named in a criminal house trespass and assault case by the Mullapur Police.The naming of two SAD workers in the FIR triggered outrage among residents. Tossing social distancing norms, a large crowd gathered in support of the SAD workers.COMPLAINANT SAYS SHE DOES NOT RECOGNISE ACCUSEDThe complainant, Sukhdarshan Kaur of Jangpur, said she did not recognise the accused - Jasdeep Singh Jassa or Akali worker Gurpreet Singh Gopi - nor had she named them in the complaint.However, Ludhiana rural district police chief Viveksheel Soni said the complainant had submitted the nicknames of the accused in her complaint and also signed the statement.PROBE LAUNCHED“Now, the complainant has retracted her statement. The matter is being probed,” said Soni. Dakha seputy superintendent of police Gurbans Singh Bains has been charged with the investigation.Ayali alleged that the case was concocted by station house officer (SHO) Prem Singh. He accused the police of working at the behest of the Congress government.“Nearly nine months have passed but no headway has been made in the case against Grewal for shooting Gopi on the thigh while the worker tried to stop the leader from capturing the booth. Police are using cheap tactics so that Gurpreet withdraws his complaint,” said Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/criminal-case-against-two-sad-workers-triggers-outage-in-dakha/story-Svx349kbpY69tSVbhRfj7N.html
25-06-2020||Lucknow||Adityanath directs officials to provide registration facility to migrant workers through mobile apps||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said registration facility through mobile applications should be provided to the migrant labourers who have returned to the state. The chief minister made the remark during a presentation here on mobile applications -- ‘Aabhaa-Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Seva Mitr’ -- and ‘Rojgaar Junction’ portal, a statement said.Adityanath directed that the integrated mechanism should be developed for employment and self-employment of youth, labourers and workers, it said.“The apps and the portal should have provision for registration of migrant labourers, who have returned from other states,” he said.Additional chief secretary, vocation education and skill development, S Radha Chauhan said the applications have provision of skill mapping, and training of workers.The labourers have option of getting trained in 50 trades, he said. Mission Director, Skill Development Mission, Kunal Silku said along with registration of labourers, verification of the labourers will also be done through the mobile applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/adityanath-directs-officials-to-provide-registration-facility-to-migrant-workers-through-mobile-apps/story-BhwsgQw7LXARPZ7o9U3iyJ.html
25-06-2020||Lucknow||After Operation ‘patal’, police eye arms manufacturing gangs||After the recovery of large number of illegal firearms and ammunition during 48 hours of operation ‘patal’, the Prayagraj police are now planning to target illegal arms manufacturing units and weapon smugglers.The police seized around 70 countrymade firearms and 84 live ammunition during the drive while arresting around 60 criminals who were in possession of them during the two-day campaign.All of the recovered firearms were single shot pistols or ‘katta’ and none of the police teams claimed to have seized semi automatic .32 bore and 9 mm pistols which are smuggled from Munger district of Bihar and Khandwa district of Madhya Pradesh.During last few years, semi automatic handguns have become quite popular among criminals and even warring student groups have been found using them frequently, said a crime branch official.While a local made ‘katta’ is available for Rs 1000 to 5000 depending on its quality, semi automatic pistols are sold by weapon smugglers for Rs 20,000 to 40,000 a piece. Moreover, good quality single shot pistol or ‘katta’ were also brought from Munger into Prayagraj and adjoining regions for sale, official added.With easy availability of Munger and MP made pistols, the local illegal firearms manufacturers suffered a setback as although these pistols were costly, they were reliable and a status symbol among criminals and shooters.However, the business of local illegal firearms manufacturers and suppliers flourished once again after Special Task Force and Crime Branch teams, launched a massive crackdown against persons involved in smuggling of firearms from Munger and Madhya Pradesh.During last few years STF teams busted many gangs involved in illegal firearms smuggling and arrested dozens of their members. Besides, action taken by crime branch and local police teams break the backbone of the network of organised firearm smugglers.An STF official said not only in Prayagraj but teams have been following illegal firearms smugglers across the state. Although some of the gangs may be still active most of them have been busted and their members put behind bars.As Munger made-pistols were becoming scarce, local firearms manufacturers take it as an opportunity to regain their old market. As rocky terrains of trans-Yamuna were ideal for hideouts, many gangs started manufacturing of illegal firearms in rocky areas. At-least five illegal firearms manufacturing units were busted in Ghoorpur and adjoining areas around a year ago by crime branch and local cops. Huge cache of ‘katta’ and some locally made revolvers along with tools and equipments used in manufacturing them were recovered from them. Questioning from them exposed that they were supplying the firearms to local criminals.SSP Abhishek Dixit said although operation ‘patal’ was a 48 hours drive, police teams worked with dedication in recovery of firearms. Now focus will be laid on busting illegal firearms manufacturing units across the district. Efforts will be stepped up to trace and seize the remaining semi automatic pistols in the hands of criminals, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-operation-patal-police-eye-arms-manufacturing-gangs/story-2sCENX1OgrMDuD0YN140uJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 men arrested with 50g heroin, 1.5 kg cannabis in Himachal||Two people were arrested for possession of heroin and cannabis in two separate incidents on Thursday. One of the accused, Deepak, is resident of Rohtak, was held with 50 gram of heroin in Rampur Bushahr.Deepak was stopped during a traffic check near Khaneri. The heroin was found wrapped in a polythene bag kept in the dashboard. Police also found out that the accused had entered Himachal Pradesh without an entry pass. The accused and four police personnel have been institutional quarantined.A case under Sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused.In another incident, police on Thursday morning arrested a man with 1.5 kg cannabis (charas) in Kullu. The accused, Diwan Chand, 45, is a resident of Dobhi village, Kullu.The accused was arrested by police officers who were patrolling Bhulang Bihal. During the checking, police recovered cannabis from him and he was immediately arrested.Superintendent of Police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh confirmed the report and said that police are conducting the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-men-arrested-with-50g-heroin-1-5-kg-cannabis-in-himachal/story-O1bMPKTtJTzauvaielCuSM.html
25-06-2020||Ranchi||BJP demands Jharkhand minister’s resignation for ‘managing tender’||BJP’s legislature party leader Babulal Marandi on Wednesday demanded chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren to dismiss his cabinet colleague, rural development minister Alamgir Alam, and his Barhait assembly representative Pankaj Mishra for allegedly managing a government tender for the settlement of toll under Bardharwa Nagar Panchayat in Sahebgunj district.The controversy surrounding the tender came to the fore after an audio containing telephonic conversation between minister Alam, CM’s representative Mishra and a Pakur-based contractor Shambhu Nandan Kumar went viral. In the audio, Alam and Mishra were allegedly mounting pressure on the contractor to quit from participating in the bidding process.When the contractor didn’t budge and went to participate in auction on June 22, a mob, allegedly guided by Mishra, entered in the Nagar Panchayat building, pulled the contractor out and thrashed him.Following this, contractor Shambhu lodged an FIR against Alam, Mishra and nine others. Two counter FIRs were also registered against the contractor.Marandi, in a tweet, asked the CM to dismiss Alam and remove Mishra.Marandi said, “A minister is supposed to establish the rule of law and protect the interest of government’s revenue. He is not expected to misuse the power to manage tenders causing loss to the exchequer.”“Since the matter is directly related to you, a judicial probe should be set up in the matter to curb the illegal practice of middlemen and brokers who have created a profitable venture of managing tenders and transfer postings,” Maradi wrote in his tweet to CM Soren.BJP’s Godda parliamentarian Nishikant Dubey too drew the CM’s attention towards the issue in a tweet.Countering the allegations, Alam said, “It’s a conspiracy to defame me. Being a public representative, I owe a responsibility to address the problem of people of my constituency. Some people from Bardharwa came to me and lodged complaint against the contractor. I called him but he didn’t pick up the phone.”“Around 4.30pm, he called me back. I just requested him to withdraw from Bardharwa Haat Bazaar settlement. He offered that he would leave Rajmahal instead of Bardharwa. I told him that Rajmahal is not my constituency and my only concern is with Bardharwa. During the conversation, I neither threatened him nor pressurised him. It was just a request,” he said while speaking to media on Wednesday.The audio disclosed that soon after, the minister handed over the phone to CM’s representative Mishra, who told the contractor that he had no option except to quit from Bardharwa. “If you wouldn’t, you can’t carry your works independently in this region. Trouble will be created,” he said.The contractor then entered into a heated argument with Mishra. Being the CM’s representative, you can’t threat common mass. I will drag you to the court.” The contractor participated in the auction next day on June 22. “They had made arrangements to prevent my entry in Bardharwa. Riding on a motorcycle with my face covered under a helmet, I somehow managed to enter the Nagar Panchayat building. But, they pulled me out and assaulted me even in the presence of police personnel. Following the ruckus, the administration cancelled the auction process,” Shambhu said.He alleged that Mishra, through his henchmen, attacked him. Mishra, however, could not be be reached on phone despite repeated comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/bjp-demands-jharkhand-minister-s-resignation-for-managing-tender/story-MBxe6oPUZ7l0HIIFW8VybN.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four members of family, driver hacked to death in Punjab’s border district of Tarn Taran||Four members of a family and their driver were hacked to death at Kairon village in the Patti sub-division of Punjab’s border district of Tarn Taran on Wednesday night.Police said the dead were identified as Brij Lal, 60, his son Bunty, 25, his two daughters-in-law Amandeep Kaur, 24, and Jaspreet Kaur, 28, and the family’s driver Gursahib Singh, 35, who belongs to the same village.Amandeep and Jaspreet husbands Paramjit and Sonu, respectively, are drug addicts and are undergoing treatment at Tarn Taran drug-de-addiction centre.Brij Lal’s fourth son Gurjant Singh is also a drug addict and was not at home when the crime took place.The accused did not harm the four children of Amandeep and Jaspreet. They were sleeping near their mothers.All the dead were attacked on the neck, the police said.According to villagers, all four sons of Brij Lal have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-members-of-family-driver-hacked-to-death-in-punjab-s-border-district-of-tarn-taran/story-wgqrg9L5I2liWHBneE45wK.html
25-06-2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar visits key weir on river near Nepal border||In his first visit outside Patna post-lockdown, chief minister Nitish Kumar, along with water resources minister Sanjay Jha, Wednesday visited Jainagar in Madhubani to take stock of the flood preparedness. He is also likely to visit Valmikinagar in West Champaran and a few other north Bihar districts, which are prone to recurrent floods.After visiting the embankment at Jainagar, Kumar asked the WRD minister to get a proposal made for developing the old Jainagar weir into a modern, automated barrage at the earliest. “It is a historic gift for the Mithilanchal region, as it will also provide water for irrigation to thousands of acres of land,” said Jha.On his way to Madhubani by road, Kumar also visited the upcoming airport at Darbhanga to see the progress. According to sources, Kumar may undertake visits across the state for people’s feedback on development initiatives ahead of the Assembly elections due in the state later this year.The visit to Jainagar is also significant in the wake of the recent posturing by Nepal, which led to delay in carrying out repair work on the other side. He visited the embankment on the Kamla river at Jainagar in Madhubani and Naruar in Jhanjharpur, both places where breaches took place last year, and asked the authorities to speed up work in coordination with the authorities of the neighbouring country.When the CM reached there, work was going on. He saw the water level near the bridge and talked to the officials and engiineers. WRD principal secretary Sanjiv Hans and Madhubani’s district magistrate Dr Nilesh Deore explained to him the current situation with the help of map and sheet-piling work going on.“I have come to this bridge earlier also. Last year, water had overtopped the bridge. This should not happen and adequate arrangements should be made in advance,” the CM said.In a clear departure from the past, when Bihar’s water resource department’s engineers carried out monitoring and repair work on both sides routinely without any hassles, Nepal had stopped work on its side, but later permitted on the condition that the officials must have Coronavirus-free certificate.Kamla river, which originates from Churia range near Maithan in Sindhuli district of Nepal and flows into Bihar, had breached its embankments at seven places last year, causing severe inundation in the Mithilanchal region. For its repair, Kamla Canal division, Jainagar, had signed a memorandum with NNT Developers Pvt Ltd in March this year.However, some parts of two of the breaches on the right marginal embankment of the weir fell on to the no-man’s land on the Indo-Nepal border and the Nepal Armed Police had for the first time stopped work there in April itself. Despite fresh survey by the Madhubani and Nepal administration, it could not be carried out. Later, after the issued was flagged to the Centre, the Nepal authorities gave the go-ahead.After heavy rains in Nepal last year, the water level in Kamla river had suddenly gone up and it was flowing above the Kamla weir at Jainagar. Later, it inundated large parts. Though it is just the beginning of monsoon season, the authorities are alarmed at the prospect of heavy downpour in Nepal than in India, as the roots of Bihar’s devastation due to floods have always been in the Himalayan country. Kumar had on Tuesday directed the officials to keep a watch on vulnerable rivers like Kodi, Gandak, Kamla etc. in the bordering areas by developing proper coordination with the Nepal authorities, with focus on places where breaches were reported in the past. He asked the officials to ensure that communication network worked properly and there were adequate arrangements in the event of flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-kumar-visits-key-weir-on-river-near-nepal-border/story-INSX4olmiAPKFxKk32yGPK.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police SI shot dead in Fazilka||A Punjab Police sub-inspector (SI) was shot dead in Abohar sub-division of Fazilka district late on Wednesday night. The 32-year-old cop, Gurwinder Singh, was standing near a medical store in Basant Nagar when four men arrived in a car and shot at him thrice. The SI was rushed to a local civil hospital where he was declared brought dead.VICTIM CAME FROM A FAMILY OF COPS Gurwinder, whose father retired as an assistant sub-inspector, was recruited in the Punjab Police in 2017. His uncle is also posted at a local police station. A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said, “So far, it appears the cop was murdered for personal reasons However, Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police Hardiyal Singh Mann said the police was exploring multiple possibilities and will soon crack the case.” A case was registered against unknown assaulters. The victim is survived by his parents and two sisters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-si-shot-dead-in-fazilka/story-iLvLb8UFNY1na1zJ5qT4sI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 10 more Covid-19 deaths, 490 fresh cases||Ten Covid-19 deaths and 490 infections were reported in Haryana on Wednesday, with the state’s tally of total cases rising to 12,010, the Health Department said.Gurgaon reported six new fatalities, one person died in Faridabad and three Covid-19 deaths were reported in Rewari district, the state health department’s daily bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe total number of deaths due to novel coronavirus in Haryana now stands at 188, it said.Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, which fall in the National Capital Region, now have 75 and 65 fatalities, respectively, according to the bulletin.Of the 490 fresh cases on Wednesday, total 318 were reported from these two districts, it said.Active cases in the state are 4,897, while 6,925 people have been discharged after recovery, the bulletin said.The state’s recovery rate on Wednesday was 57.66 per cent, it said.Among the districts which reported fresh cases on Wednesday are Faridabad with 201 cases, followed by 117 in Gurgaon, 48 in Rewari, 29 in Sonipat, 19 in Bhiwani, while Palwal reported 17 new infections, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-10-more-covid-19-deaths-490-fresh-cases/story-j8jlVCx7VowuPu8srTeapK.html
25-06-2020||Ranchi||18 fresh coronavirus cases in Jharkhand take state tally to 2,219 ; death toll at 12||Eighteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Wednesday, while a person died due to coronavirus infections, the state government said in its bulletin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of people who have been found to be infected rose to 2,219 with the detection of the fresh cases, it said.So far, twelve people who tested positive for Covid-19 have died in the state, it added.There are 632 active cases in the state at present, it said.In all, 55 people recovered from the infection during the day, taking the total to 1,575.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/18-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-jharkhand-take-state-tally-to-2-219-death-toll-at-12/story-1NNWQ6NC5tPd5gF4o9nAKN.html
25-06-2020||Patna||Congress names Tariq Anwar as candidate for Bihar legislative council polls||In a surprise move, the Congress on Wednesday night announced that former Union minister and veteran leader Tariq Anwar will be its candidate for the biennial elections to the legislative council in Bihar.A statement to this effect was issued by AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, less than 24 hours before the process of filing nominations would come to a close on Thursday.A multiple-term MP from Katihar Lok Sabha constituency, Anwar had headed the party’s state unit in the 1980s but parted ways a decade later when he founded the Nationalist Congress Party along with Maharashtra strongman Sharad Pawar and P A Sangma from Meghalaya.He served as a member of the council of ministers in the Manmohan Singh government from the NCP quota but quit the party a couple of years ago when media reports quoted Pawar, the NCP national president, as having defended Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Rafale deal.Notwithstanding Pawar’s denial, Anwar returned to the Congress and was fielded from Katihar in the Lok Sabha polls last year. He, however, lost to a less-fancied candidate of the JD(U) by a margin of over 50,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/congress-names-tariq-anwar-as-candidate-for-bihar-legislative-council-polls/story-ctRuSGrCoXmhLBOlTgX4HN.html
25-06-2020||Patna||Oppn alliance in Bihar meets to discuss state polls||Leaders of the opposition grand alliance in Bihar on Wednesday decided to constitute a coordination committee to come up with a common minimum programme (CMP) for the upcoming state assembly elections, people familiar with the development said. A virtual meeting was held in this regard, which was attended by Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Shaktisinh Gohil, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and head of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) Mukesh Sahni. The RJD was represented by Rajya Sabha member Manoj Kumar Jha. The opposition leaders have resolved to put up a united fight to dislodge the Janata Dal (United)-led government in the polls which are scheduled for October-November this year. “A preliminary meeting of six political parties was held today to discuss the issues and concerns with respect to coming Bihar election. The parties reaffirmed solidarity & assured each other that we shall work together to expose the anti-people government of Bihar, “ Gohil tweeted. The leaders stressed the need for formation of the coordination committee and firming up the CMP before going to the polls, a Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/oppn-alliance-in-bihar-meets-to-discuss-state-polls/story-3QEXhPPdrBWAMX0ba7Z2ZI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||ED attaches ₹24-cr assets of realty firm||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached properties worth ₹24 crore belonging to a real estate firm that allegedly duped hundreds of investors of crores of rupees in various parts of Punjab. The firm, Nature Heights Infra Ltd, was being run by Abohar-based Neeraj Thatai alias Neeraj Arora, his wife Doll Thatai and another director of company Amit Kukkar, sources at the ED zonal office in Jalandhar said. Neeraj and Kukkar figure as accused in 31 FIRs filed by the investors in various police stations of the state, and were declared proclaimed offenders in 2017.In June 2019, ED had attached properties worth of ₹22.24 crore of Nature Heights, which was confirmed by the adjudicating authority in New Delhi. MG Gold Realtors Private Ltd, a sister concern of Nature Heights, was also involved in the fraud.The attached immovable assets include ₹10-crore properties belonging to MG Gold in Abohar, Mohali, Rajasthan and other parts of Punjab, the central agency’s officials said. The ED had started probing the case in 2017. During the course of probe, it received 491 more complaints from investors and 497 complaints from various consumer courts of the state. Investigations revealed that Neeraj, in a pre-determined way, tried to launder investors’ money for personal benefits, ED officials said.ED investigations so far have revealed that the firm’s promoters had duped investors to the tune of ₹50 crore on the pretext of allotting properties at different locations in Punjab. So far, firm’s properties worth of ₹46.5 crore have been attached. “Investigations are on to trace the remaining amount of proceeds of crime which may lead to attachment of more properties of Nature Heights Infra Ltd,” ED officials said. An investor said the company had circulated brochures inviting investments in colonies to be developed in Chandigarh, Talwara, Anandpur Sahib, Gobindgarh, Mohali, Zirakpur, Ferozepur and other locations in Punjab. The company allegedly collected crores of rupees from customers before shutting down all branch offices across the state and the promoters vanished in thin air.Investors neither got possession of properties nor their money was returned, officials said. “The firm used to offer cheaper plots at prime locations. Later, it surfaced that most of the colonies awaited approvals from the departments concerned. The company neither allotted plots nor returned the money. Even, the cheques issued by the company were dishonoured,” said another investor.The case was investigated by ED assistant director Deepak Rajpoot and assistant director (PMLA) Rohit Trehan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ed-attaches-24-cr-assets-of-realty-firm/story-I07LZ7uIIJrYpaHwzX3nCO.html
25-06-2020||City||Six months on, business partner held for killing woman in Kharar||The 35-year-old woman found dead at her immigration centre in Kharar in December last year was murdered by her business partner, police said on Wednesday.The body of Sharanjeet Kaur, a native of Rasulpur village, Fatehgarh Sahib, was found under a table inside the office of her coaching centre that was locked from outside. “The accused, Gurpreet Singh, a native of Fazilka, has admitted to killing the woman. He was arrested from Sante Majra on June 22,” said Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police (SP, Rural), Mohali, while addressing the media on Wednesday.“During interrogation, Singh admitted that he was in a relationship with the woman with whom he was running an immigration company in Desumajra, Kharar. After three years, he found out that she was married and had two minor children. They also had a monetary dispute. On December 12, they got into a fight in their office, and Gurpreet strangled her to death. After committing the crime, he fled the scene,” she said.The SP said the accused also suspected the woman of having another affair.Singh was produced before a Kharar court on Wednesday and sent to five-day police remand.During investigation, police had found CCTV footage of the immigration centre that showed Gurpreet entering the premises at 11.40am and leaving at 12.24pm on December 12.The deceased is survived by her husband, Paramjeet Singh, who works at a private firm in Fatehgarh Sahib, and two children. The accused has been booked under Section 302 (murder) the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-months-on-business-partner-held-for-killing-woman-in-kharar/story-5UKL4pBmK1ubogluUDyijP.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||21-year-old killed over taking late-night walk with wife in Patiala||A 21-year-old youth was killed by two persons allegedly over taking on a late-night walk with his wife in a locality of the Patiala city on Monday. The deceased is Mithun Patel (21), a native of Bihar who lived in a rented accommodation in Factory Area while the accused were identified as Jagmohan Singh of Shankarpur village in Patiala district and Bhupinder Singh of Kurukshetra district in Haryana. He was attacked with a liquor bottle, bricks and stones, the police said. Kishor Patel, the victim’s father, told to police that he along with his son and daughter-in-law was taking a walk near Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib around 12:15am when the accused intercepted them and asked why they were moving around with the girl.“When my son told them that she was his wife they started arguing with him. One of them hit my son with a bottle while the other attacked him with stones and bricks,” he said. Station house officer (SHO) Gurnam Singh said that the victim was rushed to Government Rajindra hospital where he died during treatment.A case was registered against the two under Section 302 (punishment for murder), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Grain Market police station. “We have started investigation. The accused will be arrested soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-year-old-killed-over-taking-late-night-walk-with-wife-in-patiala/story-BeLkj6jfyjz1yiVR2FCXSJ.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh may impose weekend curfew to contain Covid-19 cases||With the Covid-19 cases crossing the 400 mark in Chandigarh, the UT administration is mulling imposing weekend curfew in the city.The curfew, on the lines of that imposed in Mohali, will be enforced if there is a drastic increase in cases or instances of people violating social distancing norms.In Mohali, inter-district movement over the weekend is allowed only with e-passes, except for medical emergency, and all non-essential shops and services remain closed on Sunday. On Saturday, the curfew is till 5pm and after that movement is allowed only with e-passes.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, in the daily review meeting on Wednesday, directed all officials to enhance vigil and ensure that people violating social distancing guidelines and other hygienic instructions should be penalised through a special drive conducted by dedicated teams.Over the past few weeks, the city has seen a spike in cases coming from across the city rather than a few areas, as was the case earlier. Besides, nearly 50% of the recent cases comprise visitors to the city or their contacts.Badnore also directed the deputy commissioner to ensure that all visitors from outside the tricity be monitored for detection of symptoms. “They should not be allowed to violate the quarantine stipulations,” he said.The UT DGP was asked to ensure that vehicles carrying registration numbers from outstation and bringing visitors from outside were checked at the border points and their details were obtained for subsequent monitoring.Badnore emphasised the importance of citizens voluntarily following the safety guidelines, issued by health experts from time to time. He stated that though the administration was doing whatever best possible under the circumstances, yet the primary responsibility of following guidelines remained with residents.Pregnant women to be testedThe administrator also directed all hospitals to mandatorily test all pregnant women for Covid-19 on their admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-impose-weekend-curfew-to-contain-covid-19-cases/story-bRWkdAH1DfFV0z2cJrbRyI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hamdard resigns from Punjab Jang-e-Azaadi Foundation||Member secretary and chairman of the managing committee of Punjab Jang-e-Azaadi Memorial Foundation, Barjinder Singh Hamdard, who is editor of the Ajit Group, has resigned from all posts related to Punjab Jang-e-Azaadi Foundation in Kartarpur town of Jalandhar.As per his own publication report, Hamdard, in the resignation to Punjab government, cited that he is unable to continue on the positions in the foundation in the current situation. Hamdard was unavailable for comments.The Punjab government has spent over Rs 300 crore on the project which is spread over 25 acre on Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway. The first phase of the memorial was inaugurated in 2016 by the then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, while the second and final phase were inaugurated by Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh in 2018 and 2019, respectively.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged Hamdard to reconsider his resignation. Expressing his shock that Hamdard was “forced to tender his resignation due to uncooperative attitude of the Congress government and lack of proper funding”, the SAD president urged Captain not to accept Hamdard’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hamdard-resigns-from-punjab-jang-e-azaadi-foundation/story-oDhtEyIveOj9ixmdOjaexK.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh receives monsoon’s first rainfall in earliest onset since 2013||With 23.8mm rain, the city received monsoon’s first rainfall on Wednesday, six days before its estimated arrival on June 30, and the earliest since 2013. Officially declaring monsoon in northern parts of Punjab and Chandigarh, officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said more rain will follow on Thursday and Friday as it advanced over further parts of Punjab and Haryana.As per IMD data available so far, the earliest-ever onset of monsoon was on June 13 in 2008. The rainy season was last declared before June 24 in 2013 - on June 16, while it was declared just one day later on June 25 in 2011 and 2015. On the early arrival of monsoon, regional IMD director Surender Paul said, “This happened due to two reasons. The cross-equatorial wind flow was strong this year, which helped push the monsoon system northward faster, and the sea surface temperature also created favourable conditions for an early monsoon in the region.”Paul said the early onset of monsoon was likely to bring higher than normal rain this year, and showers in the monsoon months (June, July, August and September) may cross the normal of 845.7mm. Last year, monsoon remained 18% deficient, with 697.4mm rain during this duration. It was delayed by five days so lesser than normal rain was expected.UP TO 60MM RAIN TODAYPaul said moderate rain up to 60mm was likely on Thursday, but will decrease on Friday and will be followed by only cloudy weather on Saturday. He warned of a small possibility of heavy rain (over 60mm) on Thursday if conditions remained favourable. There were two spells of rain on Wednesday, with 22mm rain for an hour around 11.30am and 1.8mm rain around 3pm, as recorded at the IMD observatory in Sector 39.The maximum temperature decreased from 35.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday to 33.3 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, four degrees below normal. The minimum temperature, however, went up from 28.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday to 29.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, five notches above normal. In the next three days, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to remain around 33 degrees and 28 degrees respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-receives-monsoon-s-first-rainfall-in-earliest-onset-since-2013/story-l2qazoj9sd4T9KfyBe4cvN.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cops open fire in Jalandhar, arrest 2 without informing local police||Panic gripped a busy market near Bhagat Singh Chowk locality of the Jalandhar city on Tuesday afternoon when some persons, later identified as Haryana Police personnel, opened fire and took two men in their custody.The incident occurred around 3pm. A local police team that rushed to the spot found that a team led by Vijay Kumar, Kaithal CIA wing in-charge, conducted a raid to nab a proclaimed offender (PO) and his associate. The cops from the neighbouring state did not inform the local police about this.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP investigation) Gurmeet Singh said the Haryana cops arrested Ajay Kumar, a resident of Kaithal, and Karamjeet Singh of Jalandhar. He said Ajay was wanted by the Kaithal police in a case of jumping of parole while Karamjit was nabbed for sheltering him.“They fired one round to puncture the tyre of the car in which Ajay and Karamjeet were sitting to prevent them from fleeing. We are looking into the matter to take legal action against the team of cops as Jalandhar they did not keep the local police in loop,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cops-open-fire-in-jalandhar-arrest-2-without-informing-local-police/story-vTSwbMdBLiLvNtg1Ayj8aM.html
25-06-2020||City||Paddy seed scam: PAU imposes stringent rules on field trials, kisan club members left fuming||After a PAU Kisan Club member was found involved in selling trial seeds to the kingpin of the seed scam, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has imposed stringent regulations on field trials.The farmer, Baljinder Singh, a kisan club member and a resident of Bhundri village in Jagraon, had allegedly multiplied the seeds through alternative cropping in Hyderabad and sold several quintals to the kingpin of the seed scam, Kaka Brar, and Lakhwinder Singh alias Lucky Dhillon, owner of Karnal Agri Seeds in Dera Baba Nanak, Batala.Kaka Brar had purchased the seeds from Dhillon and Baljinder for Rs 70 and Rs 80 per kg respectively, and sold it for Rs 230 to 250 per kg.On Wednesday, representatives of various kisan clubs were told by PAU that they will not been given seeds of any new variety for trials this year. The move has resulted in much resentment among the farmers.Various farmer clubs expressed anguish over the move and said farmers are paying the price for the political tug- of-war over the alleged seed scam.Amrinder Singh Poonia, president of the kisan club, who was leading the delegation of farmers, said, “PAU had given varieties of seeds to farmers that are highly productive for short durations to farmers. This will help the farmers in many ways. One, farmers will pump less underground water and secondly, they will be able to harvest it early so there is enough time to manage stubble. Instead of helping the farmers with more field trials, curbs are being imposed due to political pressure.”PAU vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon said it was decided during a meeting held recently with food and civil supply minister that seeds of new varieties will be produced only by PAU and ICAR in the first year of its release and private dealers will be allowed thereafter. He said that as field trials fall under the purview of the university, they have decided to take measures to check the misuse of the grain harvested from these trials.These include reduction in plot size of field trials on rice from one canal to four marlas and aadhaar card details of farmers chosen for field trials will be collected by PAU and the state agriculture department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-seed-scam-pau-imposes-stringent-rules-on-field-trials-kisan-club-members-left-fuming/story-0ISR6HdsgWJeSeshCYW9WL.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal mining: HC summons SBS Nagar DSP, puts mining director on notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday put director, mining and geology, on notice on a plea from three people alleging false implication in a case of illegal mining registered by SBS Nagar police in May.The high court bench of justice HNS Gill also summoned SBS Nagar DSP for August 14 on the anticipatory bail pleas moved by accused Tarlochan Singh, Baljit Singh and Pankaj Kumar. The FIR was registered on May 26 under the provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Act, 1975, at Rahon police station in SBS Nagar.The court impleaded the director as a party in the case and also asked him and SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police to file their affidavits to indicate the details, including the ownership of the vehicles impounded in the FIR in question. The petitioners have been given interim protection from arrest and asked to join investigation.The court has taken serious note of the observation of a trial court in the matter that ‘it was very surprising that illegal mining at such a large-scale was going on in the area and entire state machinery was turning a blind eye’. “Rather it shows the active connivance of all those who were supposed to check it,” the trial court had observed in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-mining-hc-summons-sbs-nagar-dsp-puts-mining-director-on-notice/story-0ckZkBAiuLIKjmsa4PVLJL.html
25-06-2020||City||Allowed to provide dine-in facility till 8pm, restaurants in Ludhiana reopen to tepid response||A day after the state government allowed them to provide dine-in facility, the restaurants in Ludhiana opened to a lukewarm response on Wednesday.Many outlets, however, remained shut as the owners were either preparing to open or were deliberating upon the feasibility of opening the establishments with multiple restrictions imposed by the government on timings and gathering of visitors.Owners of the establishments that have reopened after remaining shut for more than three months said the decision taken by the government had given them hope and that business would get back on track in the coming days.Manager at Tea Hut in Sarabha Nagar, Mandeep Singh, said, “Footfall was low on the first day, but the announcement has given us hope that the business will slowly gain pace with the government announcing relaxations in phases. Seating arrangement has been changed to maintain social distancing; thermal screening of visitors is being done and hand sanitisers have been kept at every table.”President of hotel and restaurant association Amarvir Singh said, “Many restaurants have opened and others are making arrangements as shortage of labour is also an issue. Even though outlets had begun home delivery, they are relieved that their establishments have been opened for dine-in after three months of lockdown.”The restaurants were shut down after the imposition of curfew in the state on March 23. The government had allowed restaurants to open on May 8, but only for home delivery of food and takeaways till 8pm.‘TIMINGS UNSUITABLE FOR INDUSTRY’Owner of Penthouse on Ferozepur road, Sachin Goyal, said, “The bars have not been allowed to open and the dine-in facility has been allowed only till 8pm. Most customers like to go out only after 8pm. Opening the restaurant at this stage would end up increasing our fixed expenses.”Owner of Bruu Kiln on Malhar road, Karanjit Singh, said, “Very few people come out for lunch in Ludhiana and kitty parties are not taking place at all. As per the trends witnessed in Ludhiana, people do not come out for dinner by 8pm. We are looking into the possibilities and might open the restaurant for dine-in in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allowed-to-provide-dine-in-facility-till-8pm-restaurants-in-ludhiana-reopen-to-tepid-response/story-dWMYyu1o6LYPtE3z7aAJ1K.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dadumajra garbage plant possession: No relief for Jaypee group, matter adjourned till June 30||A local court on Wednesday refused to pass any order regarding restoring the possession of the Dadumajra garbage processing plant from Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) back to the Jaypee group.The Jaypee group had on Saturday moved court against the MC’s takeover of the Dadumajra waste processing plant, and sought restoration of the possession after which the court had asked the civic body to respond by Wednesday.However, the Chandigarh MC has sought more time to file a reply in the case, arguing that they have challenged the stay order in favour of the group in the Punjab and Haryana high court, and the matter was listed for Wednesday.The court has adjourned the matter till June 30.With the plant running much below its full capacity, that has resulted in the dumping of the garbage in the open, the MC General House had terminated the contract with the firm and directed MC officials to take its possession in March this year.The civic body had issued a termination notice on March 5, asking the firm to hand over the plant within a week. On this, the firm moved the court that ordered a stay for three months on March 12.After its elapse on June 12, MC issued a 24-hour notice on June 18, and took over the plant on June 19. On Saturday, the firm had approached the court again for restoring the possession and ensuring status quo ante (previously existing state of affairs).Deepali Puri, advocate appearing on behalf of the MC, said, “The three-month stay sought by Jaypee group was extended by one month, however, it was communicated to us on Saturday when the plant was already taken over by the MC. We have challenged their stay in HC and have asked time to file a reply in Chandigarh court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dadumajra-garbage-plant-possession-no-relief-for-jaypee-group-matter-adjourned-till-june-30/story-ZEKZ79AQYRPDBxp5emtqOI.html
25-06-2020||City||Four of a family, another man injured in land dispute in Mohali village||Four members of a family were seriously injured in a land dispute in Bharatpur village in Mohali district, the police said.The injured were rushed to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh, where their condition is said to be critical.One Gurwinder Singh of the opposite party was also injured and is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Phase 6 here.The victim’s family alleged that Gurwinder Singh had been admitted in the hospital only to gain sympathy. They also alleged that instead of taking legal action against the attackers, the Sohana police had registered a false case against them for molesting a woman of the village and forcibly entering her house.One of the injured, Rajinder Singh, said that he has ancestral land in Bharatpur and in the last few days, a quarrel had broken out between him and his relatives.Rajinder said that a few of his family members were seriously injured in the attack following the quarrel.Meanwhile, ASI Satpal Singh of Sohana police station said that all allegations of unilateral action against the police were baseless and fabricated. He said that Gurwinder was earlier surrounded and beaten by Rajinder and his accomplices. A case was registered against Rajinder and others. The ASI said that statements of injured Rajinder had also been recorded but his medical report had not been received yet. Upon receipt of the report, action will also be taken against the other party, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-of-a-family-another-man-injured-in-land-dispute-in-mohali-village/story-nz4kAGK9WnmYIplRoJZWAK.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar only Indian institute to feature in Times Young University Rankings 2020||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has emerged as the only Indian institution to appear in the Times Higher Education Young University Rankings 2020 released on Wednesday in the United Kingdom.Among the top 70 young universities, IIT Ropar has been ranked 62nd in the world.The young university ranking puts spotlight on the best universities under 50 years old and utilises five broad parameters of teaching, research, international outlook and industrial output to rate them.IIT Ropar director Sarit K Das said the driving force behind the success of the institute was its state-of-the-art-research infrastructure, dedicated to support world-class research, which boasts cutting-edge equipment and highly-qualified faculty.Professor Das said that IIT Ropar, a 12-year-old institute, had gained worldwide popularity for its global competitiveness. IIT Ropar has not only risen in the overall Times Higher Education World ranking but also in Asia University Rankings 2020, at 47 rank. “We’ve also improved our position in national ranking coming out as the best institute in the region of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh,” said professor Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/iit-ropar-only-indian-institute-to-feature-in-times-young-university-rankings-2020/story-dCuwBxHU6JTlvYI3XZldNI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has notified highest tuberculosis cases per lakh people||The union territory of Chandigarh has reported the highest number of tuberculosis notifications (cases) relative to its population as per the annual TB report 2020 released by the Union health ministry.The TB notifications per lakh population for Chandigarh are 605, followed by Delhi (574), and Puducherry (313). The high figures are largely due to these UTs providing diagnostic care for populations beyond their own boundaries, the report states.Accounting for patient movement post diagnosis, the notifications then change thus: Delhi (520/lakh), Chandigarh (306/lakh), and Puducherry (113/lakh).Out of the total 7,026 TB patients notified in the UT, 3,828 were transferred to other states and UTs, while 359 cases notified outside the UT were added back to the city’s tally.97% cases reported in govt hospitalsAccording to the report, the maximum portion (97%) of the cases has been detected in public sector institutions, and the remaining have been detected in private hospitals.According to the World Health Organisation, India is the largest TB-burden country in the world having an estimated incidence of 26.9 lakh cases in 2019.This year, another milestone has marked TB surveillance effort in India, with a record high notification of 24 lakh cases; an increase of over 12% as compared to 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-notifies-highest-tuberculosis-cases-per-lakh-people/story-jN8XgijBDHzMFEPVkKfkLP.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||BEHBAL KALAN FIRING: Two accused sent to 14-day judicial custody||The court of duty magistrate Harwinder Singh Sindhia sent advocate Sohail Singh Brar and Moga-based car dealer Pankaj Bansal to 14-day judicial custody for their alleged role in fabricating evidence in the Behbal Kalan police firing case on Wednesday.The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 firings on people protesting the Bargari sacrilege in Faridkot arrested Brar and Bansal, for allegedly helping accused policemen to construct ‘fake’ self defence theory by making fabricated bullet marks on the escort vehicle of Charanjit Singh Sharma, former Moga senior superintendent of police, and an accused in the case. Brar was arrested on June 16, while Bansal was held on June 20.Brar and Bansal were presented before the court after their three-day police custody finished on Wednesday. Both are former witnesses in the case.District attorney (DA) Rajnish Goyal, who appeared for SIT said that both the accused were in 14-day judicial custody by the court as no further police remand was sought by SIT.Defence counsel Gursahib Singh Brar said that the hearing was conducted through video conferencing as the SIT has not demanded further remand there was no argument. “Now we will apply for bail after looking into all the legal aspects. The record of daily dairy of SIT regarding recent investigation was sealed by the court on our request,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/behbal-kalan-firing-two-accused-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/story-WrHN5lV1BdDvHVESuykmzN.html
25-06-2020||City||One dead, 34 test positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 65-year-old man from Gur Mandi, Jalandhar, died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), while 34 others tested positive in Ludhiana on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Mustaq Ahmed. Medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said Ahmed was brought to DMCH on June 19 following complaints of influenza-like illness and shortness of breath. “His condition continued to deteriorate and he was kept on ventilator support, but he died this afternoon,” said the doctor.So far, 15 persons from other districts and states have died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana, while the virus has claimed the lives of 18 people from the district.As many as 649 persons have tested positive so far, out of which 410 persons have been cured. There are 218 active cases in the district.On Wednesday, five more cases were reported from the containment zones of Model Town and Prem Nagar in the Field Ganj area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dead-34-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-3TkmhmAqjjDfBzkLV4pcUJ.html
25-06-2020||City||Trader robbed of mobile phones worth ₹60,000 at gunpoint in Ludhiana||Five armed assailants stole four mobile phones worth Rs 60,000 from a trader in Hargobind Nagar area at gunpoint, the police said on Wednesday.Sandeep Jalan, the victim, whose shop is in Gur Mandi, said the incident took place on Tuesday evening when he returned home in Hargobind Nagar. He said that when he arrived outside the house, five men came from behind and overpowered him.One of the assailants pulled out a pistol and pointed at his head, said Sandeep. The accused fled with ₹15,000 cash and four mobile phones worth ₹60,000.A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trader-robbed-of-mobile-phones-worth-60-000-at-gunpoint-in-ludhiana/story-J2luqDcKAJzM0YCwV247CP.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Patiala college files complaint against portal for stealing data||A complaint has been lodged with the cyber crime cell of Punjab Police against a web portal that claims to be facilitating college and university admissions. In his complaint, Patiala-based MM College’s principal has accused the portal managers of siphoning off data of public universities and their affiliated aided colleges and then coaxing aspirants to take admissions in private universities based in Chandigarh and Jalandhar.Following numerous complaints from its colleges and school of management studies, the Punjabi University management too has decided to take legal action against the website — collegedunia.com — for the alleged wrong practice.“It is a major issue at a time when the admission process is on in government universities and their colleges. The web portal is working on the behalf of some private universities and luring aspirants on the pretext of easy admissions and placements, especially in management courses,” said Punjabi University vice-chancellor Prof BS Ghuman.It is learnt that after a student registers and enquires about admission in a government university or an affiliated and aided college in Punjab on the portal, he or she receives phone calls from the website representatives, who offer easy admission in private universities instead. The portal representatives even claim that they are authorised by the state universities and colleges to talk on their behalf.Ghuman said they have discussed the issue in detail and have decided to register a formal police complaint.“The process has been initiated for legal action against the portal as it will affect admissions in Punjabi University and its colleges,” he said. Ghuman said the varsity has not authorised any private website to admit students on its behalf.“Not only our college but other government-aided colleges are facing the same problem,” said Modi College principal Khushvinder Kumar, who is the president of the association of principals of aided colleges.“The website collegedunia.com is registering students on behalf of colleges using their logos and other information on their website. For instance, after registering for a course in MM College, the aspirant gets a registration confirmation message from a private university instead,” Kumar said.He said the website violates the intellectual property rights and was causing revenue loss to colleges by misleading the aspirants.Though there was no response to repeated calls and emails sent to the website, Twitter handle — @college_dunia — of the portal said: “There might be a confusion around the business model and plus we haven’t received any complaint so far. So, we can only comment if we see the content of the complaint. Collegedunia uses data that is available in the public domain and shares insights for the aspirants looking out for such colleges. We generally compare the colleges on the basis of cost and placements.”Cyber cell deputy superintendent of police Chiranjiv Lamba said they have received a complaint. “The matter is already brought into the notice of senior officials. A sub-inspector rank officer has been directed to investigate. Further action will be taken as per the law,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patiala-college-files-complaint-against-portal-for-stealing-data/story-I8Xpebvg59jt5F4gIFlLRJ.html
25-06-2020||City||Bhiwandi’s new civic chief proposes 5-point plan to tackle Covid-19||Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation’s new commissioner, Pankaj Ashiya has developed a five-point plan of action to reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The plan includes setting up mohalla clinics, involving community leaders in awareness drives, improving medical facilities, increasing contact tracing, and surveying all containment zones.“After studying the scenario in Bhiwandi, awareness and better health infrastructure seem to be the needs of the hour. We have conducted meetings with maulanas, and they will volunteer to spread awareness on safety measures and social distancing norms. Moreover, we have contacted six schools across Bhiwandi which will be converted into quarantine centres. All the ward officers and health department officials are aware of the five-point agenda that will help reduce the spread or break the chain of the virus,” said Ashiya, who began his new position on Monday. Ashiya was earlier the special monitoring officer for Covid-19 in Malegaon and played a key role in controlling the number of cases there. He was also posted in Thane for 10 days to assist the former commissioner Praveen Ashtikar to bring down the number of cases in five hotspots. Bhiwandi currently has more than 1,332 positive cases and 88 deaths.As part of the new Covid battle plan, the civic body will also increase the mohalla clinics in the city from the current 15. Locals suffering from fever, cold, cough, and malaria can seek treatment at these clinics.“One of the main reasons for the rise in mortality rate is because patients do not reach hospitals in time. Despite having symptoms, tests are not conducted. With the help of community leaders, the message to reach out to the mohalla clinics will be passed on. This will help patients get timely treatment,” said Ashiya.To improve medical facilities, the bed capacity in private hospitals along with a rate card will be displayed for the benefit of locals. Contact tracing will be carried out more extensively, and a survey of containment zones will be conducted.Officials from the municipal corporation also advised people to not touch the dead bodies of Covid-positive victims. “Their bodies are wrapped in plastic and handed over so the final rites can be conducted as per each one’s faith. However, only a few should be present at the funeral,” said an official from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-s-new-civic-chief-proposes-5-point-plan-to-tackle-covid-19/story-kyhaJlGLk5Ts2BK2Y6oc6L.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||5 tiger deaths in 10 days in state, NTCA enquiry reveals lapses||Over the last 10 days, five tigers have died in Maharashtra, including four deaths under unusual circumstances. An inquiry into the deaths by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) revealed lapses by the forest department.“The number of wild tiger deaths within a matter of days is worrying. We have directed our regional officer to investigate and submit a report at the earliest,” said Anup Nayak, member secretary, NTCA.A parallel internal investigation by the state forest department confirmed carelessness one case. “We have taken action against our staff for negligence in Tadoba buffer. An enquiry is underway in another case in Nagpur,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife).On Tuesday, an adult male tiger was found dead in Chatgaon range of Gadchiroli. “The animal was eight years old, and died in an infighting incident with another tiger,” said SR Kumaraswamy, deputy conservator of forest (Gadchiroli).Hemant Kamdi, assistant inspector general of forests, NTCA and investigating officer for the five deaths said there were no lapses in the Gadchiroli case.Between June 10 and 14, the putrefied carcasses of three tigers - tigress and her two cubs - were found at the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer in Chandrapur. Three arrested locals had confessed to poisoning the tigers.“There was a delay by the forest department in identifying the carcasses, and lack of seriousness in the entire investigation,” said Kamdi. “The protection regime needs to be enhanced. The tigress’ death was reported next to a road. It was detected late. The carcasses of her cubs, which were lying 200m away, were only detected after three days,” he said.So far nine tiger deaths have been reported in Maharashtra since January, of which six are from the Tadoba landscape.Kakodkar said, “One forest guard at TATR buffer has been suspended, and the range forest officer has been issued a show-cause notice. Follow up investigation is underway.”On June 22, 12 days after being captured for killing five people in Chandrapur, an adult male tiger (KT1) died at Nagpur’s Gorewada rescue centre. The post-mortem of the aberrant tiger revealed possible death due to septicaemia (a bloodstream infection).Kamdi said, based on his investigation, the exact cause of death was unclear. “The tiger had a 16cm wide and 9cm long abscess (with pus) on his left thigh. It may or may not have died due to septicaemia. Though lab reports will confirm this, the tiger was being treated with medicines used in septicaemia cases. The animal had no corroborative symptoms of septicaemia,” he said. Officials from the rescue centre said they had not assessed the tiger’s health based on blood reports post-capture. “We failed to collect blood samples as the tiger was extremely aggressive, and tranquilising him could have been life-threatening,” said Nandkishor Kale, divisional manager, Gorewada.Kamdi said this was noted in the enquiry report. “Identifying the tiger’s condition based on a blood test post-capture could have determined details about when the infection happened,” he said.“Further action in the Gorewada matter would be undertaken once final lab reports are received,” said Kakodkar.Meanwhile, the petitioner in the 2019 Avni tigress matter before the Bombay high court (HC), Sarita Subramaniam wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday calling for a judicial enquiry into the tiger deaths.”Healthy tigers are dying under the forest department’s watch. This is deliberate murder by officers, untrained vets, and the inept team at the rescue centre. We have called for the immediate transfer of such officers,” she said.Wildlife experts were concerned about rising tiger deaths. “Losing five tigers in 10 days is a big issue. From the tiger conservation point of view, the loss of the tigress and her cubs, and poisoning incident so close to a tiger reserve is extremely disappointing,” said Nitin Desai, director (central India), Wildlife Protection Society of India.Tigress death at Aurangabad zoo, swab samples sent for Covid-19 testA six-year-old tigress ‘Kareena’ died at the Siddharth Garden and Zoo, Aurangabad, early Wednesday morning. According to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), after the tigress was not eating properly since Sunday, zoo officials collected blood samples and test results showed she was suffering from a kidney ailment. “The animal was declared dead at 5.20 am, and her autopsy report stated that she died due to kidney disease. While her tissue samples have been sent for further analysis to a lab in Pune, we collected samples of her nasal and throat discharge using a cotton swab and sent it for Covid-19 test just as a precautionary measure as per the Central Zoo Authority protocol,” said a senior AMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-tigers-deaths-in-10-days-in-state-ntca-enquiry-reveals-lapses/story-ZoOO78951nuO1zeKrKwWsI.html
25-06-2020||City||Will increase Covid-19 beds for critical patients: New TMC chief||The new commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Dr Vipin Sharma, who took charge on Wednesday morning, said his priority will be to ensure that hospital beds are made available to all critical patients and build basic infrastructure for it. He also assured that the Covid situation in the city would improve in the next few days. Sharma, who replaced Vijay Singhal, said the focus will be on identifying and bridging gaps and strengthening the system. He conducted a review meeting with civic officials on Wednesday morning.Sharma was appointed as Thane civic commissioner late on Tuesday night, replacing Singhal, who was appointed merely three months ago in March.Responding to the recent incidents of deaths due to unavailability of beds, Sharma said, “Instead of providing hospital beds to Covid patients who do not have any symptoms, the beds should be made available to those who require them. Our focus will be to create basic infrastructure, so that no critical Covid patient remains without a bed.”A 2005 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Sharma had previously served as additional civic commissioner in Pune and collector of Latur.In his new role, his major challenges will be to flatten the Covid curve and deal with monsoon-related diseases and calamities in Thane. “We will work in areas where the strengthening of safety measures is needed. The focus will be on identifying the gaps and filling them. We will also carry forward the good work initiated by the previous commissioner. At present, I do not have a plan of action, and it will take at least two to three days to formulate one. The emphasis will also be on ensuring that people abide by social distancing norms, wear masks and adopt basic sanitization,” he said.BJP demands Jaiswal’s returnBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Narayan Pawar had demanded that instead of experimenting, the state should appoint ex-commissioner of Thane, Sanjeev Jaiswal, during this time of the pandemic. “He had successfully undertaken many projects in his five-year tenure and knows the city well. This is not the time to experiment with various permutations and combinations. The new commissioner might be good, however, he has no experience with Thane city and the people here,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-increase-covid-19-beds-for-critical-patients-new-tmc-chief/story-2X7clAHijr9OtZqD2t8upL.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 165 fresh Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported four more deaths and 165 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 4,633, according to field reports received till 10pm . Punjab has reported 113 deaths to date. A 63-year-old man of Kanjla village in Sangrur district died on Wednesday. Besides, 19 more people tested positive for the virus in the district. Those tested positive are from Malerkotla (10), Sangrur (6) and Dhuri (3).A 79-year-old man died of Covid-19 at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, health officials said. “A resident of Katra Khazana was admitted at GMCH when he complained of breathlessness. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension,” said civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“On Wednesday, 13 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, out of which 10 are fresh community transmission cases,” he said.In Jalandhar, 43 more persons contracted the virus, said Dr TP Singh Sandhu, nodal officer for Covid-19. Officials said that 43 persons, including 6 minors, who were tested positive for virus, were of age group of 2-70 years.Meanwhile, two cops tested positive for Covid-19 in Hoshiarpur district.In Patiala, seven persons tested positive for coronavirus. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said of total cases, four are from Nabha city, while one pregnant woman contracted infection in Paharpur village.Five people, including a pharmacist working in Patel Nagar Jalandhar, tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala. A 65-year-old man from Gur Mandi, Jalandhar, died of Covid-19 at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), Ludhiana, while 34, out of them 26 belonging to Ludhiana district, tested positive for the virus.Muktsar district witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday when 33 persons tested positive. District’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Paramjit Singh Sandhu said two were Canada returnees.Besides, five migrant workers were tested Covid-19 positive in Bathinda.Meanwhile, Mohali reported three new cases and a 29-year-old sub-inspector of Punjab Police tested positive for Covid-19 in Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-deaths-165-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-punjab/story-eJ0Pi13y3WCBPag7Jp0lPJ.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||No wetlands in Uran under our jurisdiction, only agricultural lands: NMSEZ tells state||The Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) has informed the state that there are no wetlands in the areas under its jurisdiction even though the state forest department had identified areas near the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary (TCFS) as satellite wetlands. NMSEZ is an integrated industrial township across 4,000 acres proposed in Uran, 26% of which is owned by state body City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) and 74% by private investors. In 2019, following allegations of debris dumping and mangrove destruction in Panje and other areas in Uran, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) directed the collector of Raigad to investigate the matter.In a letter dated May 13, accessed by HT and addressed to multiple departments of Raigad district administration, NMSEZ wrote, “We have seen that Panje is being loosely referred at several instances as ‘Panje wetland’ but in reality, there is no wetland in Panje nor any of the NMSEZ land leased by Cidco because it is agricultural land acquired by the Maharashtra government and handed over to Cidco for development of industrial and residential areas.”Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco confirmed this. “There are no wetlands in Uran in lands owned by Cidco. Submissions by NMSEZ are correct. The response was filed with the help of Cidco,” he said.NMSEZ also claimed there has been only one case of mangrove destruction in the last 10 years in its areas and only a 30-40 metre stretch is in a coastal regulation zone (where no construction is permitted). NMSEZ has pointed out that the state’s list of wetlands from January 2020 does not include Panje, Bhendkhal or Belpada. The state forest department’s TCFS management plan 2020-30 identifies these three areas in Uran as satellite wetlands in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). However, they are yet to be notified as such by the state environment department.Environmentalists contested NMSEZ and Cidco’s claims. “Panje has been identified as a wetland in the National Wetland Atlas and there are Supreme Court orders that direct the protection of those wetlands identified under the atlas,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-wetlands-in-uran-under-our-jurisdiction-only-agricultural-lands-nmsez-tells-state/story-bfNuAPevmcmtJ13eiVnk9J.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Sheena murder: Sanjeev Khanna’s bail plea rejected; Indrani seeks relief||The special CBI court on Wednesday rejected the plea of Sanjeev Khanna, one of the alleged accused in Sheena Bora murder case, for interim bail.Khanna, former husband of Indrani Mukerjea had approached the special court for interim bail on May 14, on the ground of spread of Covid-19 in jail. He has pleaded that the accused booked for murder does not fall under the category of the prisoners who cannot be released from jail, as recommended by the high power committee of Bombay high court.The CBI in its objection on Friday said that though the minutes of high power committee has not included murder charges, in the list of charges for which the bail cannot be granted, the court has to decide the plea on the merits. The CBI claimed that the prosecution has submitted enough evidence against Khanna to prove his role in the alleged murder of Sheena and subsequent act of destruction of her body and other evidence.After considering arguments from both the side, the court refused to grant any relief to Khanna. The detailed order would be made available to lawyers later.Meanwhile, Indrani approached the special CBI court for bail for the sixth time. While her previous bail plea is still pending for arguments by CBI, the fresh plea is filed on the ground of spread of Covid-19 in jail. She has alleged that she is vulnerable to contracting the virus. The special court has now asked the CBI to respond to the plea by Friday and scheduled arguments on the plea by July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sheena-murder-sanjeev-khanna-s-bail-plea-rejected-indrani-seeks-relief/story-W3RpahuhqDFY0IjSxoV61I.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||SBI employee accused of misappropriating ₹36 crore, gets interim protection from arrest||The Bombay high court on Tuesday granted temporary protection from arrest to a branch manager of the State Bank of India (SBI) who is accused of misappropriating ₹36 crore out of the fixed deposits of the Bombay Iron and Steel Labour Board.Byculla police booked Nikhil Roy, manager of the Mazagaon Circle branch of SBI, for criminal breach of trust and cheating on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Board on June 8, 2019.The board alleged that it had deposited ₹45 crore in fixed deposits, and the bank had in April 2019 issued a letter certifying the deposits, but the branch manager misappropriated amount of ₹36 crore, which was purportedly shown as premature withdrawal. Apprehending arrest in the case, Roy moved high court claiming that he had prematurely released amount of ₹36 crore - contained in four fixed deposit receipts on the request of the complainant board. He claimed that he processed the request, as it was supported by four separate resolutions of the board and had transferred the amount to four different entities, again as requested by the board.Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare opposed Roy’s plea. He submitted that no such resolution was passed by the board and none of the fixed deposit receipts were validly discharged. He pointed out that all the original receipts were still lying with the board, and investigation to ascertain genuineness of the resolutions and receipts is on.Justice SK Shinde, however, noticed that the confirmation letter of April 11, 2019 did not bear the outward number. When confronted with this, Thakare sought time to verify genuineness of the confirmation letter.On his request, justice Shinde placed Roy’s anticipatory bail plea for further hearing on July 10, with a direction to the public prosecutor to submit on interim report disclosing material particulars of the recipients of the amount alleged to be misappropriated.The court has also directed the police to release Roy on cash bail of ₹50,000 if he was arrested in the meantime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sbi-employee-accused-of-misappropriating-36-crore-gets-interim-protection-from-arrest/story-8EqlVTnJVwCUrrq4Kr4V7K.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 27-year-old Dubai-returnee becomes Amritsar’s first plasma donor||A 27-year-old man, who was found positive for the coronavirus after his arrival in Amritsar from Dubai, on Wednesday became the district’s first patient to donate his plasma after having recovered from the disease. The plasma of Gurvinder Pal Singh, a resident of the Chheharta area in the city, was successfully used on two Covid-19 patients at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 20 and underwent treatment at the isolation ward of GMCH for 15 days. “We are extremely thankful to Gurvinder for donating his plasma, as it can prove helpful in treating critically ill patients. The blood group of Gurvinder is ‘A’ negative and his plasma could be used for treating patients of the same blood group. None of the critically ill patients admitted in GMCH, however, has the matching blood group,” said GMC Amritsar principal Dr Sujata Sharma. “We sent his plasma to Ludhiana and took plasma of ‘B’ positive blood group in return. Using the ‘B’ positive blood group, the plasma therapy has been successfully given to two Covid-19 positive patients who are admitted here. One of the patients is a resident of the city while the other belongs to Pathankot,” Dr Sujata said. Under the treatment called convalescent plasma therapy, antibody-rich blood plasma of patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, is preserved for transfusion into critical patients. The GMC Amritsar got approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to treat Covid-19 patients with the therapy on June 19. So far, the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, had conducted the state’s only and successful convalescent plasma transplant. PLASMA BANK SET UP  IN GMCH AMRITSAR“Plasma bank has been set up in GMCH’s blood bank where plasma of Covid-19 recovered patients will be collected and stored. GMC Amritsar is now part of the Punjab’s plasma pool system through which we will now exchange plasma of Amritsar’s people with medical colleges of Patiala and Faridkot, so that plasma of each blood group can be available to treat patients,” Dr Sujata added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-27-year-old-dubai-returnee-becomes-amritsar-s-first-plasma-donor/story-z1i6GtI4Ftb1dAXpe8thtL.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||CM asks Modi to direct MCI to postpone MD, MS exams||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday tweeted that he has approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to direct the Medical Council of India (MCI) to postpone postgraduate medical (MD/MS) examinations, originally scheduled to start from July 15. “The final-year [senior resident-3] resident doctors who are required to take these examinations are presently working on the frontline in all government and municipal medical colleges, assisting the clinical management of Covid-19 patients. In the event these exams are held as per schedule, there would be a serious shortage of trained doctors during this very crucial period,” Thackeray mentioned in his letter dated June 18.The CM also requested that MCI be directed to postpone the entrance exam for super-specialty (DM/MCh) courses to a date after December 2020, after the MD/MS exams are over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-asks-modi-to-direct-mci-to-postpone-md-ms-exams/story-6PUD98UTu8Xonq2bdv48OL.html
25-06-2020||Pune||2 killed in mishap near Kamshet on Mumbai-Pune e-way||Talegaon Dabhade police have booked an unidentified person for killing two persons in a hit-and-run on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway near Kamshet-Lonavla stretch, on Tuesday morning. According to the police, the victims, Shaikh Abbas Mehmod Maula Ali, 30, is a resident of Vinoba Bhavenagar, Kurla West; and Abu Bahr Qureshi, 35, is a resident of Sakinaka, Mumbai. The accident was reported by a passer-by at 8am and the two were rushed to the nearest hospital. “The two were heading towards Mumbai. The incident took place in an open field, hence there were no CCTVs at the site. The vehicle and the driver are yet to be identified,” said S Jagdale, station house officer, Shirgaon police outpost. The bodies are sent for post-mortem and further investigation is on.Police have booked an unidentified person under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337, 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-killed-in-mishap-near-kamshet-on-mumbai-pune-e-way/story-4oZRAhnTT8rKpmHHyulegN.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Pawar is coronavirus for Maharashtra, says BJP MLC||A controversy broke out in the political circles in Maharashtra over Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLC Gopichand Padalkar’s unparliamentary remarks against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.Padalkar, also a Dhangar (shepherd) leader, while speaking to the media in Pandharpur, said, “Pawar only wants to do politics over Dhangar reservation. He has done injustice to several Bahujan groups. That’s why Sharad Pawar is the coronavirus that has infected Maharashtra.”NCP leaders slammed Padalkar’s remarks with youth NCP leaders threatening to blacken his face, while Pune party leaders planninga protest. “Sometimes leaders like Padalkar lose their mental balance and make remarks like these. What is his standing against a leader of the stature of Pawar? This leader slammed Modi and then joined his party to get a ticket,” said NCP leader and state housing minister Jitendra Awhad. BJP legislator Atul Bhatkalkar said the BJP did not support Padalkar’s remarks which were “unfortunate”. Leader of Opposition in the legislative Council Pravin Darekar said his party did not endorse such remarks. Former chief minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis also reprimanded Padalkar for the comment.“Sharad Pawar is not our enemy but a political opponent. I have discussed the issue with Padalkar and in no circumstances, his remarks can be justified. Padalkar has also accepted to take corrective steps,” said Fadnavis.Padalkar was recently nominated to the legislative Council by the BJP. In the Assembly polls, he had contested from the Baramati Assembly seat on a BJP ticket against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-is-coronavirus-for-maharashtra-says-bjp-mlc/story-HJVvjCIx9TgmZTuDlNNf2O.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stray dog sterilisation project: Failing to allot project to private firm, MC mulls using services of own vet||After failing to allot the stray dog sterilisation project to private players, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is considering to use the services of one its two veterinary doctors for the task.In the last 10-months, the MC has not undertaken dog sterilisation work in the city.The city has been witnessing a rapid increase in the stray dog population and the number of dog bite cases has also gone up by 35% in the last five years, as per the MC.According to the latest animal census, conducted by the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, the number of stray dogs reached 12,900 in 2019, up from 7,847 in the last census conducted in 2012.MC FLOATED 3 TENDERS SINCE AUGUST LAST YEARSince August last year, the MC has floated three tenders, inviting private companies to undertake the project. In the tender floated in August, the MC got no response. In the subsequent tenders, floated in December 2019 and February this year, the MC received one bid each but due to the single-bid tender norms, the MC was unable to allot the project to the firm that came forward.It is now planning to utilise the services of one the two veterinary doctors, hired on contract basis for the animal slaughterhouse.“The service of one veterinary doctor can be utilised for sterilising dogs in addition to his current duty. One veterinary pharmacist will assist him. Initially, the current staff will be used. There will be requirement of surgical packs and other equipment, which the MC intends to purchase,” said an MC official.The MC officials will be discussing the issue of stray dog sterilisation in the finance and contract committee (F&CC) meeting scheduled for Thursday. F&CC will also decide on deputing contractual veterinary doctor on additional duty for dog sterilisation.Sector 48 resident welfare association (RWA) president JJ Singh said, “The municipal corporation’s programme to neuter stray dogs is failing as their population continues to rise. Many people feed the stray dogs, which then sit in the neighbourhood parks of the Sector. Many residents feel scared while walking here especially in the evening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stray-dog-sterilisation-project-failing-to-allot-project-to-private-firm-mc-mulls-using-services-of-own-vet/story-0TqdLEdXjgSB3rLttB9H4J.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Recoveries rise at a faster pace, active cases go up slowly: BMC||While the number of recoveries in the city rose by 9,424 over the past 11 days, the active cases have risen by only 1,381, according to data collated by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).BMC data shows that 25,152 patients recovered from Covid-19 on June 12, which increased to 34,576 on June 23. On June 13, the city had 28,682 active Covid-19 patients, which went up to 30,063 on June 23. The number of new daily cases has not crossed 1,560 between June 13 and 23. Health experts from the civic body attributed the rise in recovery rate to higher testing – 4,500 tests every day. “Although it is still early to say, we are witnessing a gradual fall in the number of Covid-19 cases. As more patients are getting discharged, the recovery rate has gone higher,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC. Patients infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 take up to two to four weeks to recover from the infection. Health officials said as days pass, the curve of active cases will typically stay behind the curve of recovered patients. “In May, we had quarantined a large number of people from containment zones. Now, after 14 days of isolation, we are releasing them after they test negative,” said Shah.When the lockdown was relaxed on June 8, civic officials speculated that easing of restrictions was likely to add to the already rising number of cases. “With rising awareness, citizens are following safety rules such as physical distancing and wearing masks. This pattern is visible all across the country. Although we took time to surpass the rate of active patients due to the huge population, we have finally achieved it,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Most countries with the highest caseload have more recovered cases than active cases, with the United States an exception. Among the 50 countries with the highest case count, India ranks 29 in terms of recovery rate, according to Johns Hopkins University. The recovery rate in Germany is 91%, Turkey 84%, Israel 83%, Iran 78%, Italy 71%, Spain 62% and Russia 49%.Doctors said the number of recoveries is expected to continue to rise compared to active infections in the coming days, unless there is a sudden explosion of new cases during the monsoon.“We have to be more cautious with the arrival of the monsoon. We don’t know how this virus will react to the season,” said Dr Om Srivastava, an epidemiologist who is part of the state Covid-19 task force. “The next one week will be important to understand the pattern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recoveries-rise-at-a-faster-pace-active-cases-go-up-slowly-bmc/story-z9Gi0MHEWBS4oq0CGeWG9K.html
25-06-2020||City||Palghar fishermen rescue Olive Ridley turtle||Two fishermen, Ramdas Gajanan Tandel and Umesh Janardhan Tandel released an adult Olive Ridley turtle, weighing 25kg, after they found it entangled in fishing net, near Tembhi coast in Palghar, on Tuesday afternoon. One of its front flippers was injured. The fishermen presume that the propeller of a passing trawler in deep sea, may have caused the injury.Aniket Shirke, chief of the mangrove cell in Palghar, along with other officials reached the spot and took custody of the turtle. The turtle is currently at the Turtle Rescue Centre, run by the Wildlife Conservation and Animal Welfare Association (WCAWA), Dahanu.Olive Ridley turtles are found along Kelwe, Mahim, Tembhi, Shirgaon coasts in Palghar and majority of them are either injured by the passing trawlers in the deep sea or get entangled in fishing nets, said Shrike. “We cut the net using sharp knives and rescued the turtle. The rescue by the two fishermen is commendable,” said Prathamesh Prabhutendolkar, an animal activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-fishermen-rescue-olive-ridley-turtle/story-BUcZi5mTRQANC1rAk9HXuI.html
25-06-2020||City||1,000 poor patients treated, more to go at this free OPD||With many general practitioners shutting their clinics during the Covid-19 outbreak, non-governmental organisations Falah E Aam Trust, Student Islamic Organization (SIO), Jamat E Islami Hind (JIH) and doctors from VCARE Diagnostic and Medical Centre have come together to set up a free clinic in Kalyan (West), offering services that patients would usually receive at outpatient departments (OPDs). Over 1,000 patients have so far availed of the free service.Located at the SIO-JIH Office in Ghass Bazar, the free clinic operates daily, between 9am and 11am, with Dr. Mohammad Furqan Muzumdar in attendance. Dr Muzumdar is a director at VCARE Diagnostic and Medical Centre. Ghass Bazar, Ansari Chowk, Dooth Naka, Rohidas Wada and Govindwadi in Kalyan (West) were declared a containment zone on June 13. “When curbs were imposed, some organisations decided to come up with facilities to help residents in these areas. This is how we decided to open the free OPD. We are also providing diagnostic services with around 50% concessions,” said Dr. Muzumdar. “There are several doctors who have shut their clinics because either they got infected [by Covid-19] or are not willing to take risks. Many patients are clueless about what to do if they are sick. If any patient has Covid symptoms, they are compulsorily asked to visit the civic hospital,” he added.Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, doctors are supposed to keep their clinics open. Dr Prashant Patil, spokesperson for Kalyan Doctors’ Army, said “The civic body has already asked all general doctors to open their clinics and not deny patients. If there is any such doctor found not opening their clinic, residents can approach the Kalyan Doctors’ Army or the civic body. We will consult with the doctors and ask for justification.”For citizens who may have queries regarding tests and medical consultation, a helpline (8883968396) has been set up by VCARE Diagnostic and Medical Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-000-poor-patients-treated-more-to-go-at-this-free-opd/story-AIXVkIY4mEu4H2cW33QS4M.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Won’t allow CISCE exams for Class 10, 12 to be held in July: State to HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court that the state disaster management committee, in its meeting on June 22, decided that it could not permit the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to conduct pending exams from July 2, given the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the state had consistently maintained that it was principally against conducting exams during the coronavirus outbreak.A division bench of justice Dipankar Datta and justice SS Shinde, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Arvind Tiwari, a parent and advocate seeking cancellation of Class 10 and Class 12 board exams of the CISCE, was informed by the state that it had decided not to permit the exams to be held.Kumbhakoni submitted a note by Vandana Krishna, additional chief secretary, school education and sports department, stating that a meeting of the state disaster management committee had been held through video conferencing on June 22 under the chairmanship of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray.“It was decided that the state cannot permit the conduct of the ICSE exams [Class 10] from July 2, 2020, given the current Covid-19 situation in the state. This decision may be conveyed to the Hon’ble Bombay high court,” the note read.When petitioners in support of conducting the exams in July informed the court that some states could allow the rescheduled exams to be held, the court asked Kumbhakoni for the state’s stand in such a scenario. The AG submitted said that the council was free to take the students to neighbouring states and allow them to appear for the exams there. When asked if the state’s decision was applicable for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams as well, Kumbhakoni, who was assisted by government pleader Poornima Kantharia, submitted that the government had not addressed the issue as this petition was pertaining solely to CISCE exams. He added that the issue would be addressed as and when CBSE approached it.As CISCE is yet to submit its methodology of grading students who do not opt for the physical exams, the bench posted the hearing for June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-won-t-allow-cisce-exams-for-class-10-12-to-be-held-in-july-2-state-to-hc/story-QIB6vwNh2Kjf08xeklUarI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Finance committee forms panel to inspect road construction works in Ludhiana||The finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the Ludhiana municipal corporation has constituted a committee to inspect the road construction works for which the bids submitted by the contractors were less than 25-30% of the estimate prepared by the MC.The committee, which will be headed by MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh, was formed during an F&CC meeting held at mayor Balkar Sandhu’s camp office on Wednesday.Sandhu said,“The contractors’ bids were 25-30% less than what was estimated. After paying GST and keeping out their profit, only around 40% amount of the estimate, prepared by MC, will be used for construction of road. A contractor cannot perform quality work within this share.”At the meeting, F&CC approved 160 of the total 165 resolutions tabled in the meeting.The committee approved the agenda to provide 1,008 flats to slum dwellers, who have encroached upon government land in Rajiv Gandhi Colony. It also gave nod to installation of traffic lights in different areas in the city and appointment of a contractor to run the modern slaughterhouse, among others.Ludhiana MC sub-committee meeting: Report sought on construction of colonies, fee collectedAn MC sub-committee has sought a report regarding colonies in the city and the fee recovered from the respective colonisers.A meeting of the sub-committee was held at the Zone D office of the MC on Wednesday. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, along with councillors Jai Prakash, Mamta Ashu and Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Bhalla, attended the meeting.Ashu said, “In view of widespread illegal construction in the city, the committee has asked MC officials to present a report regarding colonies, fee collected and action taken against those found illegal in the last three years.”The officials have been asked to prepare the report in the next four days.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Illegal construction will not be allowed in the city. Strict departmental action will be taken against officials if any anomalies are found.”The sub-committee was formed by the MC General House to finalise change of land use (CLU) charges and external development charges (EDC) sought from residents.Earlier, the committee had alleged that the officials were charging the CLU and EDU rates, which had been rejected by the General House, to benefit builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-sub-committee-meeting-report-sought-on-construction-of-colonies-fee-collected/story-OKXxj8aexA6V5pfis30u0N.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: No ‘first come, first served’ this year||In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the state education department has simplified the admission process for first-year junior colleges (FYJC) in Maharashtra for the academic year 2020-21. The department said results of Class 10 will be out by July-end and the admission process for FYJC will begin in August.Every year, over two lakh students apply to colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that have over three lakh seats. According to the new guidelines that were issued late on Tuesday, there will be no ‘first come, first served’ (FCFS) rounds for admissions this year. Instead, special rounds will be conducted for students who do not get admission in regular rounds.FCFS rounds usually follow regular admission rounds wherein students can claim seats against vacancies across colleges in a particular city or district and are allotted seats on the basis of who claims them first. These rounds were introduced in 2018-19, but were criticised by many parents and experts as they allowed students with lower scores to get into coveted colleges against vacant seats. Similarly, a zero round for students who wish to take admissions for bifocal courses has been scrapped and these admissions will now take place through regular rounds. “The decision has been taken on the basis of complaints from parents about FCFS rounds. Some other changes have been made considering the current situation, to make the process easy for students,” said an official from the state education department.Admissions under various quotas such as minority, management and in-house will be granted as per the usual process. The department will make a provision for uploading documents on the online portal. Similarly, admission booklets will also be given online and students can also pay fees on the portal.This year, the government has decided to increase the quota for students with special needs to 4% from 3%, while the quota for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) has been reduced to 12% from 16% in accordance with the state rules.A total of 50% seats in junior colleges affiliated to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will be reserved for students of civic schools. After regular admission rounds are conducted, a special admission round will be conducted, followed by additional special rounds, in case, students are left without a seat.Students who fail to take admission in the college mentioned as their first preference can only apply in the special round with new preferences. Those who wish to opt out of the admission process (in case of migration or admission to diploma courses) can do so on the online portal. What is new this year?- No ‘first come, first served’ rounds to be held this year- Only regular and special rounds to be conducted for admissions based on merit - No zero round for bifocal admissions before the regular rounds. Students interested in bifocal courses can apply in regular rounds- Students will be given online admission booklets instead of printed books -Reservations for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes down to 12% from 16%- Reservations for students with special needs increased to 4% from 3%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-no-first-come-first-served-this-year/story-FeGGdmxkl2EN6JdYV9LSTK.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seven booked for killing factory worker in Ludhiana||Ludhiana police have booked seven unidentified people for the murder of a 53- year-old factory worker and attacking his colleague.The deceased man has been identified as Vakil Ahmed, who was living at the migrant quarter near Preet Nursing Home on Hambra Road.Station house officer (SHO) of Ladhowal police station, Balwinder Singh, said a case has been registered against unidentified persons based on the complaint of the deceased’s colleague, Arjun Pal.Pal said him and Ahmed were working at Satkar Paper Mill on Gospur Road in Hambra area. He said the incident took place at night on June 22 when they were returning home from work at night.“At around 10.15pm, six to seven men carrying weapons attacked us. I sustained injuries to the head and ran towards the factory for help while the assailants continued to assault Ahmed,” he added.Pal said that by the time the factory worker came to their rescue, the assailants had fled the scene.They were both rushed to a nearby nursing home from where Vakil was referred to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital where he succumbed to injuries on Tuesday.The SHO said the deceased had returned to work 10 days ago from his home. “Footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area is being checked to find clues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-booked-for-killing-factory-worker-in-ludhiana/story-8CnySksTE7ASafGJWSlmDK.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Following Chandigarh education dept order against school fee hike, parents demand money back||Parents of private school students across the city are demanding adjustment of 8% hiked fee amount for three months, which they had already paid before the education department barred schools from increasing the fee.The department had, on June 3, ordered that no private school in Chandigarh can increase the fee for the current academic year, in view of the economic slowdown due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The order also directed that schools can charge only tuition fee, at the same rates as in 2019-2020.Prior to this, the education department had, in March, directed all schools to reschedule the last date for depositing fee for the year 2020-21. However, on May 20, the UT administration changed its stand and allowed schools to charge only ‘tuition fees’ after which the schools charged fees at hiked rates for the month of March, April and May.In June, fresh orders barring schools from hiking the fee were released but by then, most parents had already paid the increased amount.Independent schools association president HS Mamik said, “The education department has created a lot of confusion. In most schools, 80 to 85 % of the parents have already paid the fees at the increased rates. The hike had been decided in December and we had also informed the department about the same.”“The matter is sub-judice in Punjab and Haryana high court. We will only adjust the fees if the high-court orders us to do so,” he added.Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh parents association, said, “Multiple complaints have been filed with the education department regarding this issue, however, there is no clarity by the department on the same. Moreover, the department is also silent on charging of late fees fine by schools, which in turn forces parents to pay hiked fees.”Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said he will examine the issue and said, “We will ask schools to adjust the future dues again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/following-chandigarh-education-dept-order-against-school-fee-hike-parents-demand-money-back/story-wlYXjEeNEcTOLstHYgUbfL.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Exams for medical, dental courses deferred: MUHS||A week after the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) announced that exams for all medical and dental courses will take place between July and August, they released another circular late on Tuesday stating that exams remain postponed till further notice. Authorities at MUHS said the decision was taken in view of the status of Covid-19 cases in the state.“The decision on exams remains suspended until we hear from the state authorities about the status of Covid-19. Students and colleges will be informed about the same,” stated the circular. Earlier this month, medical and dental students had requested MUHS that exams be cancelled, especially since many students are already involved in Covid-19 related duties in several hospitals across the state. After authorities refused to accept their request, students sought an extension of the ₹5-lakh Covid-19 insurance to appear for exams. MUHS had agreed to take up this matter with state government but has not responded on this as yet.Last week, the university announced that exams would be held and students would have the option of choosing an exam centre closer to their homes since many students are not back at their institutes. While students and parents are happy with news of the postponement, many have demanded that examinations be cancelled. “These students are risking their own lives and that of their family members by working on Covid-19 relief work. The state should not insist on exams now. Since all other university exams have been called off, professional courses can also follow the same, keeping in mind the health and safety of students,” said Anant Sharma, parent of a MBBS student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exams-for-medical-dental-courses-deferred-muhs/story-v7KIYBB1kmbwvYriGNrvQO.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Pay ₹28.38L for using Byculla building as quarantine facility: HC to BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will have to pay ₹28.38 lakh per month for using a newly constructed building at Byculla to use as a quarantine facility to keep about 950 high-risk Covid-19 contacts from E ward.The Bombay high court on Friday allowed the civic body to continue to use the building constructed by Neelkamal Realtors Tower, but subjected it to the condition that the civic body pay transit rent to 218 residentiary and commercial tenants who are to be accommodated in the building.The bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice NR Borkar said BMC will have to pay transit rent to the tenants from April 24, 2020, the date on which it took over the building. It further ordered it to clear the arrears in 15 days and start paying regular monthly rent from June 24.The court allowed use of the private building for quarantine purposes in view of the fact that majority of the tenants had not objected to or challenged the requisition of the building. Only nine tenants, who had filed an intervention application through advocate Vivek Shukla for payment of their transit rent, had raised objection.The order was passed on a petition filed by Neelkamal Realtors Tower challenging validity of a clause of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 that empowered the revenue and civic authorities to requisition private buildings. The developer also questioned BMC’s decision to take over a building constructed by them as part of the rehabilitation project at Byculla.BMC had responded to the petition contending that increasing number of Covid-19 patients as well as high-risk contacts in E ward, coupled with lack of appropriate constructed space for quarantine purposes, compelled the civic body to requisition the building.According to senior advocate Anil Sakhare, representing the civic body, about 975 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in E Ward and 2,699 are at high risk and they required to be quarantined. BMC has converted 234 flats in the building into a quarantine facility with a capacity of 1,000 beds, of which about 950 were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pay-28-38l-for-using-byculla-building-as-quarantine-facility-hc-to-bmc/story-nZRLOmpuUNH1vhMz7ViLNO.html
25-06-2020||City||155 people booked for not wearing masks in Kalyan, Dombivli||More than 155 people in Kalyan and Dombivli were booked on Wednesday for not wearing masks in public places as the police took action against the violators under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.In view of the rising cases of Covid-19, police authorities have decided to strictly implement the rule of mandatorily wearing a mask in public places and penalise those violating it. Kalyan police also distributed masks to people who were not wearing masks, in some places. Deputy police commissioner V Pansare said, “On Tuesday, we took action against 155 people for not wearing masks. We have started regular patrolling and also made announcements asking people to wear masks. However, as many still flouted the norms, we were left with no other option but to take action. We will continue this and, if need be, we will take a special drive for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/155-people-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-v9bMu9hMQr8rzOfOnBNNtJ.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Sanjay Kumar appointed new chief secretary; Ajoy Mehta named principal advisor to CM||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday appointed Sanjay Kumar as the new chief secretary of the state. The 1984-batch IAS officer will take charge on July 1. The incumbent chief secretary Ajoy Mehta is retiring on June 30.Kumar currently holds the position of additional chief secretary of the home department. He will serve a tenure of just eight months as he is expected to retire on February 28, 2021.The state government has also decided to appoint Mehta as principal advisor of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. He will take up the newly-formed position on July 1. “In the backdrop of the financial crisis, the chief minister’s secretariat has required an officer with vast experience to restart the state’s economy and administration with full vigour. Hence Mehta has been appointed as principal advisor to the chief minister,” said a statement released by the CM’s office on Wednesday evening.Earlier, Mehta has got two extensions to continue to work as chief secretary. He was expected to retire in September but was given the first extension of six months and another one of three months that will on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sanjay-kumar-appointed-new-chief-secretary-ajoy-mehta-named-principal-advisor-to-cm/story-sUsKup7G4JsMO2RZaIEC9J.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Manager of SoBo gym, two others held for organising party||Marine Drive police have arrested the manager of Islam gymkhana and an organiser and booked 50 people for arranging a post-wedding party in Islam Gymkhana at south Mumbai.Senior inspector Mrutunjay Hiremath of Marine Drive police station said, “As per preliminary inquiry, 50 people have been booked in the case and we arrested the manager of Islam Gymkhana and the organiser and co-organiser of the party for violating lockdown norms and risking spread of the infection under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as Disaster Management Act.”“After questioning, we have found names of 15 people while 35 people are still unknown. We have also found a video clip of the party. We will check it and if we found more than 50 people in the video, action will be taken against them,” said Hiremath. According to the police, the incident took place on Saturday around 9.30pm when a police van on patrolling duty noticed a group of people standing at the gate of the gymkhana. Upon inquiring, they learnt a dinner party was organised inside. A police team went inside and found around 50 people including senior citizens and children having dinner without maintaining social distancing, said a police officer adding that the party was organised without police permission.Despite repeated attempts, Islam Gymkhana authorities did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/manager-of-sobo-gym-two-others-held-for-organising-party/story-DnpPeoenPHNH0f3Zgt9WxI.html
25-06-2020||City||Senior traffic cop succumbs to Covid-19||A senior police inspector (PI) attached to the Traffic Department, Thane Rural police succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday morning in SevenHills Hospital, Andheri. He had been undergoing treatment for the infection since the past fortnight. The fatality in the state police force has reached 52, with 33 deaths reported from the Mumbai Police alone.The senior PI, aged 55, and his wife were admitted to the same hospital after testing positive, said Shantaram Walvi, deputy superintendent of police, Mira Bhayander. On June 22, the cop’s condition worsened and he was shifted to ICU where he died around 8am on Wednesday, said Walvi. This is the first recorded death of a police personnel in the twin cities of Mira and Bhayander, he added.The deceased cop had played an active role in coordinating traffic at the Hotel Fountain junction on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway when scores of migrants were proceeding to their hometowns, said Walvi. Around 4,287 police personnel in the state police force have tested positive for Covid-19, which includes 104 officers, said police sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-traffic-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-bpu6FMLKcnaFArpuVJc18L.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Govt forms task force for transport issues||Under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative, which looks at unlocking the state in phases, the Maharashtra government has formed a 13-member transport task force to study various issues related to transport and provide effective solutions.According to a government resolution issued on Tuesday, the task force will be headed by state transport minister Anil Parab and will also include representatives from autorickshaw/taxi unions, state truck/tempo associations, app-based cab services and bus owner associations, among others.Parab said, “We will be meeting this Friday via video-conferencing. We are looking to address all issues faced by owners/drivers of taxis, autos, buses, trucks and app-based services owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and resolve them.”To contain the spread of Covid-19, train services are currently operational only for people working in essential services. App-based services are also allowed in case of emergencies, whereas buses are allowed to ferry passengers, while adhering to social distancing norms.AV Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum said the state must also look at including citizen representatives in the task force. He said, “It is good that the state is considering the opinion of different stakeholders, but they must include citizen representatives and also people from the health sector. Ultimately, safety of all citizens is the most important aspect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govt-forms-task-force-for-transport-issues/story-1qsekNFh47tlVe3fIpDX3I.html
25-06-2020||City||Deceased cop tests positive for Covid-19||The Covid-19 test report of a 45-year-old constable attached to Manpada police station in Dombivli, who had died due to heart attack on June 19, came positive on Wednesday. Following the report, four of his subordinates were sent to home quarantine for 14 days. The constable, who lived in Kalyan with his four family members, was on duty till June 17. He faced breathing troubles on June 18, which was his weekly off, and the next day he suffered a cardiac arrest and died. Police officers said, “He did not have any symptoms. Only two days before his death, he complained about little breathing problem. After his death, his swab was taken for Covid-19 test and it came positive. We have asked four of his subordinate constables, who were in touch with him, to quarantine themselves. Their swabs have been sent for testing and the reports are awaited.”This is the fourth death of police personnel in the Thane police commissionerate region. Earlier, two deaths were reported in May and one in June.Meanwhile, a senior fire officer and two firemen of the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) have tested positive for Covid-19. The health department has traced their close contacts to test them. The senior fire officer is admitted at Holy Cross Covid Hospital in Kalyan (West), while the two firemen are admitted at Shastrinagar civic hospital and Tata Amanta quarantine centre.KDMC recorded 226 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Wednesday, taking total cases to 4,192 and deaths to 85.The Thane Municipal Corporation has recorded 197 positive cases and 10 deaths on Wednesday, taking total cases to 6,827 and deaths to 233 till now. Of all the new cases, only two patients are aged below 50, said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deceased-cop-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-FmU7dezqrHP7tfRSzUKnPL.html
25-06-2020||City||4-year-old drowns in pond in a Vasai pond||A four-year-old boy drowned in a pond in Diwanman, in Vasai (East), on Monday evening. His body was found floating by his mother. There is a small three-feet deep pond in a field, near the boy’s residence. The victim without informing his mother, went to play in the pond and drowned, said a neighbour. When the victim’s mother reached the pond, his body was found floating and the boy was rushed to a nearby hospital. But he was declared dead on arrival, as water had entered his lungs, said an officer. Vasai police have registered a case of accidental death and the post-mortem report is awaited. The victim’s father, Kamlesh works as a driver in the Vasai civic bus service, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-year-old-drowns-in-pond-in-a-vasai-pond/story-j1AF9nbIAfawlLJgQ9j2aI.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Students of govt polytechnic colleges can avail of fee waiver under CM Scholarship Scheme: Ludhiana DC||Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said students taking admission at Government Polytechnic College, Rishi Nagar, in first and second year can avail of fee waiver under the Punjab government’s Chief Minister Scholarship Scheme.He said that all students of Government Polytechnic Engineering Colleges are benefiting from the scheme. Sharma added waiver is granted on the basis of the student’s marks in Class 10 examinations. The DC added that 70% fee waiver will be granted to students who scored 60 to 70% marks, 80% for those who scored 70 to 80%, 90% for those who scored 80 to 90% and 100% fee is being waived off for students who scored between 90 to 100%.He said that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the admission forms are available on www.gpcgldh.ac.in. Registration for admission in underway at the college, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-of-govt-polytechnic-colleges-can-avail-of-fee-waiver-under-cm-scholarship-scheme-ludhiana-dc/story-oGUVgfwZxwHFinKf9FKHqO.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Future tense for co-operative banks?||As the Union cabinet approved ordinance to bring co-operative banks under the purview of Reserve Bank of India (RBI), concerns have been raised over the future of the co-operative banking sector that plays an important role in state’s agriculture and rural economy. Experts believe that some provisions in the ordinance will put the existence of the sector in danger as they will ultimately lead to its conversion in to commercial banking system and defeat its core principles and objectives.Vidyadhar Anaskar, chairman, Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank, said some provisions are welcomed as they will help in removing scope of financial irregularities, but others are likely to finish the sector. “The new ordinance will empower the RBI to remove directors or the entire board in case of any financial irregularities and can also appoint administrators. These reforms should be welcomed. But other provisions will lead to disaster for the sector,” he said. “For instance, we have to list it as a company and anyone can take all shares and rule it against today’s scenario that irrespective of the share-holding, a member will have the right of only one vote. It means all the shareholders have equal rights, which will not be same once new provisions will be implemented,” Anaskar said. “Similarly, capital of cooperative bank shares can be increased by a single source which is called as share linkage on loan. It means the borrower has to buy 5% shares of the total amount against unsecured loan and 2.5% shares against secured loan. But now RBI will allow us to borrow by the way of debentures, bonds preferential shares etc. which is against the principles of co-operative movement,” he said. The co-operative movement of the state has a three-tier co-operative credit structure, led by the Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank, the apex body for all DCC banks. The district-level banks (DCCB) are in the middle and 21,214 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) are at the bottom. Around 48.39 lakh borrowers of crop loan are from DCC banks, while members of PACS are around 1.09 crore, majorly farmers. The cooperative banks and societies play a major role in the state’s agriculture sector as well as rural economy. A majority of the DCC bank boards are under the control of Congress and NCP leaders. NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the BJP is working on its old agenda to end cooperative movement.“The BJP wants to end cooperative movement in the country, which is an alternative to capitalism,” Malik said.State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “Even this year, the cooperative banks of the state have sanctioned 46% crop loan of the total target whereas commercial banks have sanctioned only 7% crop loan. But since PM Narendra Modi-led government has come to power, several such decisions have been taken to dismantle the cooperative movement.”BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said the decision should be welcomed as it was going to safeguard the interest of depositors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/future-tense-for-co-operative-banks/story-B6zNDR8sYhq5LE5FOeh1hL.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Special shields to protect autorickshaw drivers||To prevent the spread of Covid-19 and make autorickshaws safer, drivers are getting protective shields installed between the driver’s and passengers’ seats. Mobile application-based cab operator Ola, which also operates autorickshaws in the city, on Wednesday made it mandatory to have a protective shield inside autorickshaws. “Autorickshaws are one of the most economical and widely used means of commute in our country. With these added safety measures for Ola Auto, both driver partners and citizens are assured of a comfortable and safe ride,” said Anand Subramanian, Ola spokesperson.Autorickshaw unions in the city have said they are encouraging drivers to put protective shields inside autorickshaws but are waiting for a decision from the state government. “We have asked drivers to put shields, but the material available is plastic. Plastic gets torn easily and not enough garages are providing the material. We are waiting for directives from the state government on the operation of autorickshaws and taxis,” said Shashank Rao, leader of Mumbai Autorickshaw Taximen’s Union. “I have been operating an autorickshaw in the city for over 10 years now. Under the present situation due to Covid-19, it is very important to have a shield. Many auto drivers have spent their money to install the covers. I will also be installing it soon,” said Aslam Shaikh, a Ghatkopar resident.Black and yellow taxi owners are also placing protective shields. “We have asked taxi drivers to start placing it as protective measures. We have installed shields in 10 taxis so far. The decision on introducing the shields in all taxis will be taken after state government directive.” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union.Currently only a limited number of autorickshaws and taxis are operating in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-shields-to-protect-autorickshaw-drivers/story-rz7cdhrFkuRdWyWa08sxnO.html
25-06-2020||City||18 of 27 villages from Kalyan to get separate council||After a decade long wait, the villagers of 18 out of 27 villages in Kalyan Taluka will now get a separate council. On the backdrop of civic polls to be held later this year, the state government has passed a notification to form a separate municipal body for the 18 villages on Wednesday, while remaining nine villages will still be under Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The villagers of these nine villages have demanded to be separated from KDMC. The 18 villages will come under a new municipal body - Kalyan Suburb Municipal Council stated the notification. The state has also given 30 days to register any objections and suggestions on this notification with the Thane collector.Earlier in March, the Maharashtra State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that a separate municipal council for 18 villages will be formed, while the remaining nine villages will continue to be a part of KDMCThe 18 villages include Ghesar, Hedutane, Umbroli, Bhal, Dwarli, Manere, Vasar, Ashele, Nandivl Ambernath, Adivli- Dhokli, Daudi, Chinchpada, Pisavli, Golivali, Mangaon. Nilje, Sonarpada and Kole.The nine villages that remain under KDMC includes Ajade, Sagaon, Nandivli Panchanand, Dharivali, Sandap, Usarghar, Katai, Bhopar and Deslepada.The All Party Union (Sarvapakshiya Hakka Saurakshan Sangharsh Samiti) representing the 27 villages that have been fighting for a separate civic body for almost a decade, is, however, going to object this notification stating they want a separate municipal body for all 27 villages.“We have been fighting almost a decade now asking for a separate municipal body for the entire 27 villages. The demand from our side is the same. We will follow the procedure and sent our reply to the state,” said Gulab Vaze, representative of the All Party Union.The union had claimed that the state has tactfully kept the 9 villages in KDMC which is income-generating villages as there has been some development in real estate in these parts while the remaining 18 villages have completely languished.Recently the State election commission in a letter dated on June 19, had asked the KDMC to start preliminary works for the civic polls, which was slated to happen in October – November. Now with the resolution passed for the 18 villages, the civic body will have to redesign its wards by eliminating the 18 villages. Presently there are 122 wards in the KDMC, which includes the 27 villages.“Whether to include the 18 villages in KDMC while doing the preliminary works will depend on the further directions from the state election commissioner. We will check with the commission,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-of-27-villages-from-kalyan-to-get-separate-council/story-guaHlhZYEaujkgUSXOmygJ.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Don’t believe rumours: MSEDCL over complaints on inflated bills||With an increasing number of people taking on social media to complain of “inflated bills” issued in June, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) on Wednesday appealed to citizens to not believe in rumours and check their bills on billcal.mahadiscom.in/consumerbill. “Many consumers are not checking their bill and believing in rumours that amount is high as compared to last year. People can check their usage on the link. They will understand that since everyone has been home during the lockdown period, the usage has been higher,” MSEDCL said in a statement. On Tuesday, state energy minister Nitin Raut also said that citizens can avail to pay the hefty bills in easy instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-believe-in-rumours-msedcl-over-complaints-on-inflated-bills/story-Mco4ZnkdqU2842iWjH8TvM.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Non-essential shops in civic markets can stay open on odd-even dates||Non-essential shops in city’s municipal markets will be allowed to operate on odd-even dates from Thursday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday gave it nod to open these shops in the markets while ensuring social distancing of visitors and taking other precautionary measures. However, a final call on the opening of shops will be taken by the assistant commissioner of that particular administrative ward, after taking into account the Covid cases in the areas.Mumbai has over 200 municipal markets including 16 private markets. So far, only essential shops in municipal markets were allowed to operate. However, shopping malls and market complexes will remain shut. The civic body has directed the markets to follow all procedures of social distancing and avoid crowding. A senior civic official said, “Shopkeepers have ensured that they will assist in arranging masks, gloves, sanitisers, as well as checking body temperature of each person, maintaining a safe distance and deploying private security guards to control crowd in the market if required.”Earlier on June 2, BMC had permitted opening of standalone shops on both sides of roads on odd-even days. Following this, the shopkeepers association of municipal markets had urged the civic body to allow opening of shops in the markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/non-essential-shops-in-civic-markets-can-stay-open-on-odd-even-dates/story-rnPHuYcg1wKp5tp1KEj7eM.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||‘Peak may have passed; gradual unlocking crucial to avoid spike’||With fewer cases of Covid-19 being reported in the city over the past few days, the state’s Covid-19 task force believes Mumbai might have crossed its peak between May 15 and May 31. Daily new numbers have recently plateaued, with 1,000 to 1,200 new cases as compared to the 1,200 to 1,700 that were reported previously. However, experts said Mumbai should exercise caution while lifting lockdown restrictions to avoid a repetition of Delhi, which has seen high load of cases following unlocking.On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,118 new cases of Covid-19, raising the city’s case tally to 69,528. The death toll touched 3,964 with 120 new deaths reported on Tuesday. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai stands at 28,548. So far, the city has a recovery rate of 53.2%, with 37,007 patients being discharged upon recovery. The fatality rate in the city as of Saturday was 5.70% and the doubling rate is at 39 days.Dharavi, one of the city’s hotspots, reported only 10 cases on Wednesday, which is the third lowest number of cases it has reported in a day since the first week of April. Five cases were reported on Tuesday and seven were reported last Saturday. The total number of cases from Dharavi is 2,199 and its death toll is 81.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed Covid-19 task force, said, “Mumbai might have passed the peak from May 15 to May 31. Many deaths now are of those who got infected during that time. We may see a spurt in cases with lockdown easing up and new relaxations coming in, but we have to be very careful. If we have relaxations in a controlled manner, we will be in a very comfortable position to tackle the virus. Now, in case of Mumbai unlocking, it will also mean gradually allowing citizens to travel in local trains that is Mumbai’s lifeline. However, we have to have a slab of 10-10% to increase the travel in local trains.”A second wave by mid-July?Dr Joshi warned of a second wave in July. “If we start everything from July 1, we might have a second wave around July 15, but we need to be very mindful of this. Our local trains are very well operational. We can have more people travel in it step by step. We have many areas where the doubling rate is over 40-45 days, and we can think of more relaxations there, but where the doubling rate is less than 30 days, we should not give much relaxation,” he said.Dr Peehu Pardeshi of Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS) said the city should be prepared to re-impose restrictions in case of a second wave. “It was noted that several new hotspots of Covid cases were found after lockdown relaxations were announced. This should not be the case as the relaxations should be closely monitored and reversible if we witness a second wave. We need to also keep in mind the sentiment of citizens as the relaxations should not result in sudden crowding of areas. Phases of relaxations with strict monitoring and ensuring social distancing should be the way forward,” said Pardeshi.On June 2, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had issued detailed guidelines to ease restrictions in Mumbai in tandem with the state government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ announced on May 31. BMC allowed easing of restrictions in a three-phased manner, from June 3, June 5 and June 8, which included allowing opening of some public spaces, non-essential shops and private offices. However, the current restrictions will remain in place till June 30, following which the state will review the situation in the city.Spike in MMR is threat to city’s flattening of the curveAccording to the state health department’s data, as of Tuesday, there are around 1.01 lakh Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) out of the total 1.39 lakh cases in Maharashtra. MMR accounts for 72% of the total cases in the state.Experts have pointed out that Mumbai’s economy is connected to its satellite cities, which make up the MMR. Dr Joshi said, “We can say Mumbai has plateaued today, but in MMR, with areas like Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli, we need to control the cases. Currently, Mumbai’s neighbouring cities are witnessing a peak, and they may settle down by July 15. We have to consider all this while unlocking.”Dr Joshi emphasised Mumbai was in “a very good position” with distancing norms being followed and the civic body systematically carrying out testing, tracing and quarantine of Covid-positive cases. “We have been cautious with opening up and should continue to do so, unlike Delhi. Delhi had very few cases compared to Mumbai, and I feel they unlocked too soon due to which today they have a load of cases,” he said.On the subject of lifting lockdown restrictions, BMC said it will wait on directions from the Central and state governments. “Earlier, lockdown was announced with certain relaxations up to June 30, and to implement anything after that we will require directions from the state government that will rely on the directions of the Central government until which status quo will be maintained,” said a BMC official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/peak-may-have-passed-gradual-unlocking-crucial-to-avoid-spike/story-JM8qDsbt0wsMwhHxT5Ny1K.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota now 12% for junior college admissions||The Maharashtra government has decided to reduce the reservation quota for students of the Maratha community from 16% to 12% for junior college admissions this academic year.The decision was taken following the order that was issued by the Bombay high court (HC), officials said.“We have decided to reduce reservation quota under the Social and Educational Backward Classes Act (SEBC) to 12% from 16% for junior college admissions (Class XI) for this academic year,” stated the government resolution issued by the school education department on Tuesday.The order is applicable for 15 municipal corporations — Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Vasai-Virar, Panvel, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati.School education secretary Vandana Krishna said, “SEBC quota has been reduced as per the orders of the HC. Also, online admission process for Class 11 is carried out only in these 15 corporations as there is no demand or need for the online admission process in rest of the state.”The erstwhile BJP- led state government has granted 16% reservation to the Maratha community by enacting the SEBC act, in government jobs and education in November 2018. The act was upheld HC on June 2019, but it said that the quantum of 16% was not justifiable and should be reduced to 12%-13%, as recommended by the state backward classes commission in its report as one of the main basis to grant reservation to the community.Later, it was challenged in the Supreme Court (SC). On February 5, SC, while hearing a bunch of petitions against Maratha reservation, refused to stay the HC order. The Apex court has now fixed the next hearing of the case on July 7.The state education department in its GR has also increased the quota for student with disabilities to 4% from the existing 3% for admissions in junior colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-now-12-for-junior-college-admissions/story-u5wTMWzKk1jCVCPFYOYQNP.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||State employees won’t get arrears of 7th pay commission this year||Employees of Maharashtra government will not get this year’s instalment to clear arrears of seventh pay commission. Struggling with the financial crisis, the state government has decided to defer the payment for a year. “We have decided to defer the second instalment as arrears of seventh pay commission for a year considering the adverse impact on the economy,” states the government resolution issued by the finance department on Wednesday.The state has decided to implement recommendations of the seventh pay commission from January 1, 2019. The arrears amount was divided into five annual instalments. This year’s instalment of ₹5,000 crore for its 18 lakh employees including 7 lakh pensioners was due on July 1, said a senior official from the finance department.Earlier, the state has deferred March month’s salary of its officers from Class A, B and C. The ongoing financial crisis has led the state government to declare a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal year, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than Rs 40,000 crore in March and April 2020 owing to the Covid-19 outbreak.The state, expecting the cumulative losses to be more than ₹50,000 crore in the current fiscal, has also decided to not take up new development schemes and scrap or defer the schemes that can be put on hold. Among other measures, the government has also decided to stop recruitment for government jobs, meaning that recruitment underway for 35,000 posts is unlikely now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-employees-won-t-get-arrears-of-7th-pay-commission-this-year/story-6JDgtNLJPZn1J4Nj7KsM9K.html
25-06-2020||Mumbai||State reports sharpest 1-day spike of 3,890 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded its sharpest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,890 fresh infections, taking the total past 1.40 lakh cases to 142,900. The previous record single-day jump was on June 20 (3,874 new cases). The state also reported 208 more fatalities, taking the toll to 6,739. Mumbai recorded 1,118 new infections and 82 fatalities on Wednesday, inching closer to the 70,000 mark for cases at 69,528 total infections.Of the deaths reported on Wednesday, 72 occurred in the past 48 hours and 136 deaths were before that, the state health department said. Thirteen deaths were reported in Solapur, 10 in Nashik, nine in Navi Mumbai, eight in Jalgaon, five in Kalyan-Dombivli, three in Thane, one each in Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Akola, and Satara. The death of a person from another state was also reported.The state has been recording over 3,000 cases for over a week, but Mumbai, which has contributed the most to the state tally so far, has been seeing fewer cases, while Mumbai’s surrounding areas, such as Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, are seeing more since last week.According to the state health department data, Thane city recorded 214 new cases on Wednesday, while Navi Mumbai recorded 340 new cases. Kalyan-Dombivli saw 268 new cases and Thane district recorded 220 new cases. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar recorded 163 and 121 new cases, respectively.Meanwhile, Pune recorded 425 more cases on Wednesday, while Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nashik saw 76 and 108 new cases respectively. Aurangabad saw 127 new cases. The state health department has already ramped up bed capacity and other health infrastructure in these areas to tackle increasing cases.In the past 14 days, Mumbai has recorded 16,861 cases and averaged 1,204 cases daily. A senior bureaucrat said that the figures are “good signs” for Mumbai, but the “concern” are new hotspots in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Senior officials said that poor contact tracing by respective municipal corporations are to be blamed for it.“These are good signs for Mumbai. We certainly hope that the trend continues and that there is no second wave in wake of the relaxations given. MMR is seeing a rise in cases, due to poor contact tracing by local bodies. The data we see shows that they do not go beyond the family. Unless contacts are traced thoroughly, we cannot have targetted testing,” said a senior bureaucrat requesting anonymity.A senior state government official said that the increasing case fatality rate in the state is a cause of concern. The rate in the state is at 4.72%, which is much higher than the country’s rate of around 3.18%. The official said, “There are 11 known variants of this virus. Eight of them lead to asymptomatic patients, while the three other strains lead to symptoms in patients. Out of these three, one causes fatalities. There needs to be a virology study on it for doctors to understand the rise in fatality rate,” he said. The state health department has sought drugs, including remdesivir, from the Centre to increase the recovery rate in the state.The state also discharged 4,161 patients on Wednesday, pushing the recovery rate to 51.64%, from 50.09% on Tuesday. The total number of patients discharged in the state so far stands at 73,792. The number of active cases in the state stands at 62,354. The state has so far tested 8,23,775 samples and has a positivity rate of 17.34%. Currently, 5,57,948 people are in home quarantine and 33,581 people are in institutional quarantine, data from the health department stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-reports-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-3-890-covid-19-cases/story-Y8Neqrl1Ael2w5dTiVqq8K.html
25-06-2020||Noida||Developers to employ returned migrants at sites, PM Modi to inaugurate project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday will inaugurate a project for developers in Noida and Greater Noida, and other state cities, to employ people at their construction sites.When the country-wide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), millions of migrant workers began their journey back to their home states as jobs dried up in cities, including Noida and Greater Noida. With construction activities beginning to pick up pace with the central government many restrictions since May 4, work is returning to construction sites.The Uttar Pradesh government on May 29 had signed a memorandum of understanding with the national real estate development council (Naredco), an autonomous self-regulatory body under the aegis of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, in order to employ at least 250,000 people who have returned to its cities from other states.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will present letters of employment and also interact with migrants to encourage them to work with motivation at new workplaces. We had assured the UP government to employ 250,000 migrants and now it is time to train them and engage them at different construction sites. We will provide jobs in next 2-3 months as the construction is starting at the sites,” said RK Arora president of the UP unit of Naredco. Naredco will submit a project report at the event to be held in Sector 94 on the site of project being developed by Supretech Supernova. PM and CM will interact with migrants via video-conferencing.According to Naredco, around 60% of out of the migrants will be employed in Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway and Ghaziabad sites. “The remaining migrants will be employed in cities like Meerut, Lucknow and other districts. The developers are starting the construction at their sites after completing formalities required,” Harendra Yadav, a developer member of Naredco.The UP government has also shared another list of 900,000 returned migrant workers with Naredco.“The government wants to provide employment to returned migrant workers under its ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ project that aims to skill and employ at least 3 million returning migrant workers across the state,” said Satish Mahana UP industry minister. The central government has identified 116 districts across the country that have witnessed the return of migrants in large numbers. In UP there are 31 districts, where over than 35,000 migrants returned from Mumbai, Delhi and other big cities.“The government wants to provide jobs to who have lost their livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has identified and prepared a database of all those, who have lost jobs and returned to their home towns due to covid 19 pandemic. The government is trying to rehabilitate these migrants in the state,” said Dhirendra Singh BJP MLA from Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/developers-to-employ-returned-migrants-at-sites-pm-to-inaugurate-project/story-MVl13ehBDCpajbQARAlpQL.html
25-06-2020||Noida||Three of high-rise held for assaulting security guards||Police arrested three residents of a highrise in sector 74 on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting guards of the society.The incident occurred around 2 am in Supertech Capetown society. According to other residents, the men were inebriated at the time of the incident.“They were trying to get out of the society. There was a girl also with them and she had first started arguing with the guards who had stopped them from leaving at that hour (curfew between 9pm to 5am due to the Covid-19 pandemic). The matter soon escalated and the men took out some bats and sticks they had in their vehicle and started assaulting the guards unprovoked,” said Arun Sharma, president, Apartment Owners Association of the society.The incident happened at the main gate patrolled by almost eight guards who reported the matter to the police and society officials. A team from sector 49 police station rushed to the spot and took the men into custody.The suspects were identified as Gautam (20), Abhinav (22) and Sandeep Vijay (34). Police said there were others also with them, but were not involved in the assault.“Two guards were injured after which the three were booked under section 151 of the criminal procedure code (preventive arrest),” said senior sub-inspector, Rajneesh Tyagi, sector 49 police station.Based on the complaint of the guards, an non-cognizable report was also registered against the suspects under sections 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of trust) of the Indian penal code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-of-high-rise-held-for-assaulting-security-guards/story-OblnnaDy0tx4wOosYhjkfL.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: In Gurugram, more than 1,000 samples collected in one day||Gurugram on Wednesday stepped up its ante against Covid-19 with more than 1,000 samples being collected — the highest ever — for testing in the last 24 hours.Previously, at least 932 samples had been collected on June 21.Nearly 71% of the total samples collected were sent to private labs for testing, with the remaining making their way to government labs. The total count of people infected with SARS -CoV-2 in the district reached 4762 on Wednesday, with 117 new cases reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll stood at 75.Officials said that at least 1,083 samples were collected in the last 24 hours, of which, 767 were collected in private labs and 316 in government labs. The samples collected includes both for RT-PCR and rapid antigen detection tests. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The aim is to conduct almost 1000 tests on a daily basis.” In April, the district on an average was doing 192 tests daily and the positivity rate was 0.9%. The number of tests in a day increased to 257 on an average in May, with the positivity rate climbing to 9%. A sudden spike in the cases from June 1 onwards was seen with the test numbers increasing to 459 tests on a daily basis, that saw the positivity rate climb to 37%. At least 633 tests were done on Tuesday, out of which 117 are positives while 516 are negative. The positivity rate stood at 18.5%.”The health department has been focusing on increasing testing in Gurugram due to which RT-PCR tests is now being conducted in Civil Hospital, sector 10. Officials said that nearly 170 tests are done in Civil Hospital daily, while the remaining samples being sent to PGIMS Rohtak. On the other hand, five private labs are also conducting Covid tests at the government approved rate of Rs 2,400 per test..Currently, out of 4762 confirmed cases, 1811 are the active and 2,876 have recovered from the illness. Out of the 1811 cases, 1234 are in home isolation, 68 are under institutional isolation, 424 in different private hospitals while 85 are under critical care. Six deaths were also reported on Wednesday, taking the total death toll due to the virus to 75 in the district. Out of these, 44 deaths were caused due to co-morbidities. Gurugram’s current mortality rate is 1.6%.Gurugram contributes nearly 37% to the state’s Covid-19 burden. At least 12010 cases have been reported in the state after 490 new cases were confirmed on Wednesday. Out of which 6925 patients have been discharged while 4897 are undergoing treatment. The total death count of the state is 188, where Gurugram adds to nearly 39% of the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-gurugram-record-1-000-samples-collected-in-one-day/story-SCmtE0WDgDYSZQXLkifjxO.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||50 rapid antigen detection tests conducted in city, 100 tests in Gandhi Nagar today||Gurugram finally rolled out the rapid antigen tests, with the first batch of 50 people getting tested with the new kits in Sadar Bazar area on Wednesday. The plan, health officials said, was to conduct 100 tests in Gandhi Nagar area on Thursdays. “All the 50 antigen tests conducted at the malaria office in Jacobpura, Sadar Bazar, on Wednesday were negative. Of those tested, four had Influenza Like Illness (ILI) based on which the team collected their nasal and throat swabs for RT-PCR,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), these tests look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The state health department has already placed an order for 100,000 kits.People who were tested included contacts of Covid-19 patients.The new rapid antigen test, developed by a South Korean company and manufactured in Manesar, is highly specific (99.3% to 100%) — meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test.The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.Yadav said that if a person tests positive for coronavirus, they will be referred home isolation or immediately hospitalized based on the symptoms. “On Thursday, the rapid test numbers will be increased to 100 and it will be done in Gandhi Nagar area of the city,” he said.According to Yadav, to observe the trend of Covid-19 spread in the city, the antigen detection test will be done in different pockets of Gurugram . “Based on the test analysis, the department later will figure out a plan on how to go about with conducting more tests on a daily basis. Already, a serological survey to study community transmission of the virus has been launched. Routine RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) — often considered the gold standard in front-line testing for Covid-19 —tests will continue simultaneously,” said Yadav. The district’s health department till Tuesday had received 8,000 rapid antigen kits — which can deliver Covid-19 result within 15-30 minutes. Yadav said that the kits will be used in areas that are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. As per data, the most affected areas in Gurugram city at the moment are Chanderlok with 290 cases, Gandhi Colony having 190 Covid-19 cases, Tigra with 226 cases and Patel Nagar with 181 cases. To conduct antigen tests, which require safety precautions similar to RT-PCR tests, the department has trained at least seven lab technicians. The plan is to deploy Ayush doctors too. “Nineteen doctors from the Ayush department will be roped in to help the team conducting the antigen tests. They will be involved in contact tracing and finding suspected cases who require testing and also to determine whether a positive patient should be home isolated or hospitalised,” said Yadav.Last week, during a review meeting with Union home affairs minister Amit Shah on Covid-19 management in Delhi-NCR, Haryana was directed to use the antigen detection tests widely to cover more people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/50-rapid-antigen-detection-tests-conducted-in-city-100-tests-in-gandhi-nagar-today/story-OQ06BYcxCrHYmDPhUtHy6N.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: NHAI, PWD rectify infra to prevent water logging at Rajiv Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday installed an 18 metre pipe in the low lying area at Gurugram’s Rajiv Chowk to divert the water to a drain to prevent waterlogging during the monsoon at Rajiv Chowk at the U-turn towards civil secretariat.NHAI officials said the matter had been raised by Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla during his visit to the site on Saturday, after which they took it up with a contractor and a pipe was installed to ensure water does not collect. Singla had visited Mahavir Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower Crossing, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk on Saturday to take stock of measures by various civic agencies ahead of the monsoon.“As there is a low-lying area at Rajiv Chowk water gets collected there, which causes problems especially for two wheeler riders and pedestrians taking a U turn towards the Civil Secretariat, during rains. I have asked all agencies that wherever water logging takes place, pipes and pumps should be installed to divert the water into drains so there is no problem in monsoon,” said Singla. NHAI officials said all issues raised during the visit are being resolved. “The pipe will ensure that water does not collect at the spot on Rajiv Chowk,” said Vikas Malik, manager, NHAI. In a related development, the Public Works Department (PWD), which is getting constructed the Mahavir Chowk flyover, said they have pumped all the sewage that had got collected at the construction site. “This was possible after a lot of effort as no civic agency knew the source of this sewage and after hectic efforts we came to know this water was coming from pipes of Municipal committee from MDI Gurugram and areas around it. None of the agencies knew about the existence of these sewage lines as these had been laid back in the seventies. Now we have plugged the leak and removed the water,” said Rajeev Yadav, executive engineer, PWD, adding that there was no rainwater collected there.At Atul Kataria Chowk, PWD officials said they have connected the drains with master storm water drainage to prevent waterlogging at this spot. “We have connected the drains and now the problem of waterlogging will be resolved. We are also in the process of cleaning the area and removing the earth spread there, due to construction work”, said Yadav.Referring to the issue of waterlogging, Singla said he also visited the old city colonies and asked officials to take immediate measures. “We will also focus on measures to boost rainwater harvesting so that water doesn’t get wasted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-nhai-pwd-rectify-infra-to-prevent-water-logging-at-rajiv-chowk-atul-kataria-chowk/story-mgu29S29r3a5OduAUqKymM.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Fadnavis steps in to contain damage after BJP MLC likens Sharad Pawar to coronavirus||Former chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis reprimanded his party colleague Gopichand Padalkar for likening Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar to the coronavirus.As Padalkar’s unsavoury remarks on Wednesday turned into major a political controversy with NCP threatening to launch state-wide protests, Fadnavis tried to douse the row during his visit to Solapur.“Sharad Pawar is not our enemy, but a political opponent. I have discussed the issue with Padalkar and in no circumstances, his remarks can be justified. Padalkar has also agreed to take corrective steps,” said Fadnavis.Padalkar, a newly elected Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) member and Dhangar community leader, had said, “Pawar is coronavirus for Maharashtra. For all these years that he led Maharashtra, Pawar has oppressed bahujans.”Padalkar’s remarks triggered a political row as NCP workers in Marathwada burnt his effigy, while the party’s Pune and Mumbai unit threatened to launch state-wide stir on Thursday.The NCP leader while questioning Padalkar’s political standing, said, “He, till recently, abused Narendra Modi, but later joined the BJP for the MLC’s post. Padalkar will have to a pay price for his remarks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fadnavis-steps-in-to-contain-damage-after-bjp-mlc-likens-sharad-pawar-to-coronavirus/story-AbxwrEWE6URQLvBEwzBeQM.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Only small fraction of patients reaching Covid centres in Delhi for screening||Only 438 patients who tested positive for Covid-19 were able to reach Covid Care Centres (CCC) for a clinical assessment — as mandated by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday — on Monday and Tuesday due to lack of transportation, according to Delhi government data.There were 6,856 new cases added on Monday and Tuesday.The Delhi government has strongly opposed a June 20 order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal -- all persons who test positive for Covid-19 are to be taken to CCCs for a clinical assessment, to determine if the patient should be recommended home isolation or be admitted to a facility -- on the grounds that it will be impractical to implement and put an unneccesary strain on infrastructure.According to the state government data, which HT has reviewed, 294 Covid-positive patients were screened across 19 CCCs on Monday. The number dropped to 144 on Tuesday.Data for Sunday — a day after the DDMA order was issued -- and Wednesday was not immediately available, but district officials said the turnout at the centres on Sunday was low.On Wednesday, districts continued to face difficulties in transporting patients to these centres and sending them home, if cleared for home isolation. The Capital’s 163 dedicated Covid-19 ambulances have already been burdened with the city recording an average of more than 3,000 cases a day over the last week. The East district administration on Wednesday even requisitioned DTC buses to ferry Covid-19 patients to care centres.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds temporary charge of the health ministry, wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday, urging him to revert to the previous system. District officials said the rule is mandatory since it has now been ordered by the Directorate General of Health Services as well, and needs to be enforced, but added that they were asking the police to intervene only in some rare cases. “It’s wrong to trouble a Covid-positive person by calling in the police. We are trying our best to convince people to go to centres for the clinical assessment. The use of force is a last resort and is seldom being used in this scenario,” said a government official who asked not to be named.“The number of Covid patients who are being screened at the CCCs is turning out to be very low. This is because it is practically impossible to bring everyone to these centres. A few asymptomatic patients were also unwilling to go, saying they did not see the rationale behind a second round of screening after testing positive through an RT-PCR test,” said a south district official on condition of anonymity.Reports showed that over the past two days, most patients who were screened at CCCs were at the one in the DDA flats in Narela and DUSIB flats in Dwarka Sector 16. Both centres screened 79 people on Monday and Tuesday. In Shahdara district’s CCC at the police quarters in Mandoli, 62 people were screened. At Teerapanth Bhawan in South district, just 61 underwent screening.Of the 19 CCCs in the city, there are at least eight facilities where no newly tested positive patients were screened on Monday and Tuesday. These include the CCCs in the Police Training School (PTS) Dwarka, Birla Mandir Dharamshala and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg. Only between 10 and 12 people were screened at Care Centres in Bakkarwala and PTS Wazirabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/only-small-fraction-of-patients-reaching-covid-centres-in-delhi-for-screening/story-S8RCZ7u8FKQ3j17AaVTeEN.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Safety first: No treks to forts this year amid Covid-19 pandemic||After the ban of tourists at monsoon destinations like dams and waterfalls, now an order has been issued restricting people from visiting forts across the state.According to the order issued by Rajendra Jadhav, Bhor sub-divisional officer, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the common public will be banned from visiting forts like Torna and Rajgad, among others, this year.Earlier this month, Naval Kishore Ram, Pune district collector, had issued an order banning entry to all tourist places frequented by people during monsoon season, in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic.“Every year many accidents take place at the forts during monsoon. This year keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis we don’t want to risk the lives of people so we have decided to restrict movement at these places,” said Jadhav.According to officials in Velhe taluka there are two Covid-19 active cases and 34 cases , while in Bhor, there are two active cases and 17 cases.Velhe and Bhor talukas receive incessant rains due to which many tourists visit Panseth, Warasgaon, Bhatghar and Niradevghar dams. Along with dams, forts like Torna, Rajgad, Rayri, Rohideshwar see a huge footfall.Regions of Bhor and Velhe taluka also have famous waterfalls like Madhe ghat, Dhanepacha, Baneshwar waterfalls and Dhyansehwar temple which is a major attraction during the weekend.Vinayak Devdhar, assistant police inspector, Sahayak Police Nirakshak of Velhe police station, Thane, said, “We will have strict police bandobast at all these places. Those who try to flout the rules will be penalised. It is our request to the public to support us.”On Wednesday, district collector Ram visited the Bhor district. He said, “Administrators, health officials and police are doing a great job by keeping people’s safety as a priority. Due to their efforts, we have managed to keep the cases in control. People should support us in keeping them safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/safety-first-no-treks-to-forts-this-year-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-UTgMlfBElZDWdaklbK8WQL.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Pune reports 17 deaths, 501 fresh positive Covid-19 cases||The city, on Wednesday, reported 501 fresh Covid cases within 24 hours, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune city to 13,654.The number of patients in critical care on Wednesday is 277 with 155 persons discharged, after being declared cured of the virus; this puts the discharged count at 8,100, according to information released by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department.The city, on Wednesday, also reported 17 deaths related to Covid-19 (coronavirus), caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the virus-related death toll in the city to 545.The ages of the deceased patients range from 29 to 80. The oldest patient to die was an 80-year-old from Ganj peth who was admitted to the Tarachand hospital. He suffered a cardiac arrest with myocardial infarction along with the Covid infection.Of the 17 deceased, four patients were from Sassoon Hospital, two each from Sahyadri Hospital, Kothrud, Symbiosis Hospital and Tarachand Hospital; and one each patient from Sahyadri Hospital, Hadapsar; Sahyadri Hospital, Ahmednagar road; Inamdar Hospital, Bharati Vidyapeth Hospital; Noble Hospital; Jehangir Hospital; and Naidu Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-17-deaths-501-fresh-positive-covid-19-cases/story-C4pZJQWIjX7q1XKirq1PCO.html
25-06-2020||Pune||90 days under lockdown has residents clashing with officials in containment zones||It’s been more than three months since the nationwide lockdown had been imposed in the city. Some areas, declared as containment zones, have been under complete lockdown since the start even while most other parts of the city are being opened up under the government’s Unlock 1.0 plan.After 90 days under restrictions, residents of the areas, particularly in central parts of Pune, have become restless and disputes with police and civic authorities are often reported. Most of these areas are slums like Lohiyanagar, Parvati Darshan, and Tadiwala road where economic activity, including non-essentials shops, are still shut.Pune police on Tuesday held a meeting to discuss various issues, including ways to prevent residents from stepping out of their homes in these containment areas and maintaining law and order in other parts. Most of these areas under restrictions are still reporting huge number of Covid-19 cases on a daily basis. As on June 21, Lohiyanagar had 66 active and 312 cases while Tadiwala road has 151 active and 1,252 cases.“The major challenge is of keeping people inside containment zones like Lohiyanagar as they have been in complete lockdown state for the last 3 months,” said K Venkatesham, Pune police commissioner, in his tweet. The police commissioner also mentioned that crimes such as body offences are on the rise in some parts like Hadapsar, Yerawada and Chatuhshrungi areas.“We are working on this issue as there are several areas which have been under lockdown since the beginning and the PMC is providing them ration kits at their doorsteps. In some areas with the help of Special Police Officers (SPOs), our policemen have arranged whatever they needed directly to their homes. However, people are still a little restless in these containment zones which have been under lockdown since the beginning. At least 30 such areas in and around Pune city have been identified and we are working to solve the issues. Engaging with residents is the only way we can do what we are doing and we are bringing it to the notice of PMC officials and local politicians,” said Venkatesham.Sagar Abnawe, a resident of Lohiyanagar area, said, “It has become difficult for all of us to survive on a day-to-day basis, all the residents here belong to the labour class or below poverty line. We get to eat, only when we used to work and now none of us work. Earlier, we were getting ration kits, but now hardly any help is being provided to us. We are aware that the number of cases is increasing, but at the same time the government should figure out a way to lift the lockdown in our area.”The PMC on its part has decided to review containment zones every week instead of 15 days to open up areas where there are fewer cases.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “We are working on alternative plans at the containment zones which are under lockdown since the beginning. All the necessary essential goods are been supplied regularly to the residents there, if they have any complaints, they can contact our PMC teams deployed in their areas.”Dr Soumitra Pathare, consultant psychiatrist, director, Centre for Mental Health, Law and Policy at ILS, said, “People have been stuck inside their homes from the past three months, so it is normal they are getting restless. So it is a challenge for the police department to control the movement of people.”“The houses of people in the containment zones are small. Due to the lockdown, all family members are at home and there can be fights and unhappiness among members. So the only solution is allowing them restricted movement in a safe manner,” said Dr Pathare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/90-days-under-lockdown-has-residents-clashing-with-officials-in-containment-zones/story-G1OQ3ZImP5BG8H8Zdnca7O.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal, Sisodia ask Centre to roll back rule mandating visit to Covid centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked the Centre to withdraw an order mandating every individual diagnosed Covid positive through a swab test to be taken to a Covid care centre (CCC) for clinical assessment of symptoms, equating it with “detention”, even as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah to roll back the directive which he said was putting a burden on the administrative machinery fighting the pandemic.“I have received many requests to reverse the home isolation-related order, especially from people with mild symptoms or no symptoms, because it is not feasible. If the police and district administration arrive as somebody’s residence and takes that person to a Covid centre, it is equivalent to 15 days’ detention,” Kejriwal said.The new health assessments protocol formalised by the administration on Monday says every new Covid-19 patient must visit a government facility, a process that requires special ambulances and increased deployment of medical staff, and raises the risk of infection among anyone who is involved in the exercise. “Suppose, someone’s 80-year-old mother gets Covid-infected, and she is asymptomatic or has mild symptoms, how can she be taken to a quarantine centre and why? At home, she will be taken care of better by her children. Those who can be treated at home should be isolated at home and those who need medical attention can be taken to hospital. Why force everyone into a Covid centre. Such an order is not correct.” the CM said after inaugurating a 100-bed covid health centre set up at a banquet hall attached to Lok Nayak Hospital in central Delhi.Kejriwal said, “Why should a person with high fever be forced to stand in a queue for assessment of Covid symptoms when that can be done at home? The Delhi government and central government are working in cooperation with each other. I would like to request the Centre to roll back the order.”Earlier in the day, Sisodia urged Shah to roll back the order that has sparked a row. “It’s not a matter of the Amit Shah model versus Arvind Kejriwal model of fighting Covid-19. It’s about ensuring minimum inconvenience to the public and also that the administrative machinery fighting the pandemic is not overburdened,” Sisodia said at a briefing via a video conference, a day after the Delhi government said in a letter to the L-G that the old system of assessing Covid-19 patients at their residence to determine if they are fit for home isolation must be brought back.Also, on Wednesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – chaired by lieutenant-govenor (L-G) Anil Baijal – wrote to the six-member expert committee set up by the L-G earlier this month, seeking help on the matter and directed them to submit a proposed standard operating procedure (SOP) by Thursday.The letter, which HT has seen, said: “The subject of the letter (SOP for management of patients who have tested covid positive) is self-explanatory for consideration by the advisory group… I am directed to request you to kindly consider the issues raised in the letter (attached) of the deputy chief minister urgently and submit a proposed SOP in this regard in 24 hours.”The six-member advisory group is led by Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A senior official in the DDMA said, “These are technical things and demand a scientific approach. So, the DDMA has written to the expert committee seeking guidance.”Sisodia, who has been holding the additional charge of the health portfolio after health minister Satyendra Jain tested Covid-19 positive and is undergoing treatment, said the rule to visit a CCC was causing chaos.“Delhi is reporting over 3,000 Covid-19 positive cases daily. We have written to the L-G, explaining how his directive is causing chaos. We have urged him to roll back his decision. The district authorities are in the process of arranging buses to adhere to the order and they are overburdened. We have requested the L-G to preside over a meeting of the state disaster management authority at the earliest. However, we have not got any response yet,” Sisodia said.Delhi on Wednesday reported 3,788 new cases, taking the overall count to 70,390. The health bulletin reported 64 deaths, pushing the count to 2,365.The Delhi government was earlier conducting a similar assessment by sending health officials to residences of Covid-19 patients.But last Friday, Baijal scrapped the home isolation practice and issued a controversial order making a five-day institutional quarantine mandatory for all patients, including those with mild symptoms who were eligible for home quarantine. The order was, however, reversed the following day after furore.The rollback of Friday’s order, however, came with the condition that all patients should be taken to CCCs for a clinical diagnosis.The official notification issued on Monday by the director-general of health services (DGHS), Delhi, specified that all those who tested positive through the RT-PCR test should be taken to CCCs for a clinical diagnosis of their symptoms. Those who tested positive through rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are to be assessed in the clinics.The order said a medical officer is empowered to take a call on whether a Covid-19 patient should be sent to a hospital or a Covid-19 Health Centre (CHC) or can undergo self-isolation at home.A separate team will visit the residence of a Covid-19 patient to check if facilities required for self-isolation, such as a room with a separate toilet, etc, were available so that others in the family do not get infected, the order said.Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, said: “If many Covid-19 patients visit CCCs, it will create multiple problems. It increases the exposure risk for healthcare workers; attendants, who accompany Covid-19 patients in ambulances; and also ambulance drivers, among others. Besides, a Covid-19 positive case can multiply to three in no time. In this context, it’s a logistically better option to send an equipped team to a Covid-19 patient’s residence.”The Bharatiya Janata Party criticised the Delhi government for the requests sent to the Union mister and L-G. “The situation in Delhi came under control only after the central government intervened. The Aam Aadmi Party government is politicising the issue of Covid patients being sent to care centres for clinical assessment because it exposes their failure on the healthcare infrastructure front,” said BJP’s Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-sisodia-ask-centre-to-roll-back-rule-mandating-visit-to-covid-centre/story-S8zBEzPtCmCnuILRp7mBuJ.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi has seen three Covid nodal officers since crisis began||Ever since the Covid-19 crisis started in the Capital in March, the city administration has seen at least three Covid-19 nodal officers and three new principal secretaries in key departments managing the pandemic in Delhi, government records show. On Monday, the services department, after the approval of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, appointed 1990-batch IAS officer Bhupinder Singh Bhalla as principal secretary (home) and designated him the “nodal officer for the overall management of Covid-19” in Delhi. Bhalla replaced 1988-batch IAS officer Satya Gopal who was the additional chief secretary (home) in the Delhi government. A Delhi government spokesperson on Wednesday said that in the last three months, key officers involved in the management of corona crisis have been frequently changed without taking the elected government into confidence. The L-G’s office in its response said that Baijal and the Central government have rather augmented Delhi’s team of top Covid-19 officials by requisitioning senior bureaucrats to the Capital. As per records, Satya Gopal, who was the additional chief secretary (home), was the first top officer to be made the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Delhi. However, on June 7, he was replaced by principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt. But, with Monday’s order, the nodal officer was changed for the second time and now Bhalla is managing the task. Similarly, the health department has also seen several changes. Till mid-April, the department was being led by secretary (H&FW) Padmini Singhla. On April 15, the L-G appointed Rajesh Prasad as Singhla’s boss in the position of principal secretary (H&FW). Then on June 7, Prasad was removed from the post and Vikram Dev Dutt took over. The Delhi government spokesperson said, “Removing officers from important posts without any reason affects the morale of all officers who are all working very hard during this crisis. It also disturbs the chain of command as every new officer has to first get a hang of all the ongoing efforts. Continuity of the officers in such key positions is very important so that the understanding of the crisis developed by them is utilised to fight the pandemic proactively.”To this, the L-G office said what is being done for Covid management in Delhi is “actually just the opposite” to what the Delhi government is claiming. “We would like to highlight that it was the L-G who in the past few weeks has brought in officers from the municipal corporations in Delhi to aid the government. Also, several senior bureaucrats have also been deputed in Delhi from other union territories by the government of India to help the Delhi government,” said a spokesperson in the L-G office. When it comes to hospitals, the medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, which is Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 hospital, has also been changed thrice since the hospital started treating Covid-19 patients. After initially overseeing the creation of the isolation wards in the hospital Dr Kishore Singh was removed from the position of the medical director. Keeping the extraordinary situation in mind, despite having crossed the age limit of 62 years, former director of the hospital Dr JC Passey was appointed as medical director of the consolidated Lok Nayak campus -- including GB Pant hospital, Guru Nanak eye centre, and Maulana Azad Medical College. He too was removed from the post, allegedly after the central government sought clarification from the Delhi government on why he had been appointed as MD despite having crossed the age of 62. Later, Dr Suresh Kumar from the department of medicine took over the charges as medical director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-has-seen-three-covid-nodal-officers-since-crisis-began/story-9gfre6zmOISQXxufHzs9JJ.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Nursing staff at GTB Hospital double up as human couriers||Until May 29 afternoon, when the government designated East Delhi’s 1,500-bedded Guru Teg Bahadur(GTB) hospital as a fully Covid facility, Aakash Sharma worked at its emergency department as a nursing orderly. His colleague Sarita Yadav was posted at the gynaecology ward. Now that the hospital is treating only Covid-19 cases, Sharma and Yadav are now doubling as human couriers to help relatives of patients deliver their messages and personal items.Due to poor mobile phone connectivity in some parts of the building and a ban on the entry of non-medical employees inside wards, these couriers are very much in demand among relatives of Covid patients.GTB hospital is Delhi’s second-largest Covid hospital. The biggest exclusive coronavirus treatment facility is Lok Nayak hospital in Central Delhi with 2,000 beds. As the hospital is admitting only Covid patients, at least 10 nursing orderlies earlier with outpatient departments, surgery and other units are now working as messengers. Working in 8-9 hour shifts, Sharma and Yadav sit behind the police barricades along with security guards, waiting to receive messages or items from the relatives of patients. Wrapped in sanitised polythene bags with names of patients and ward number neatly written in bold and upper case, the packets they deliver could be a copy of the Bhagavad Gita, a handwritten note, an extra set of clothes, a prayer book, a religious thread or a bottle of hair oil.While most patients have mobile phones, there are some -- elderly or critically ill -- who do not or cannot use one because of their medical condition. They rely on people such as Sharma and Yadav to pass on their messages. ‘According to the health department, there were 265 Covid patients at the hospital on Wednesday.  Explaining how they work, Sharma said, “We wait at least 30 minutes to collect a bunch of items to be taken inside. We ask the relatives to write the name of the patient on the packet. Our job is to take it inside. We are proud of our jobs during this pandemic. The relatives thank us when they get a confirmation from the patient that the items have been delivered.” Sharma has delivered everything from medical papers to spectacles to prayer books and mobile phones.Outside the Blood Transfusion Centre building, which leads to the hospital’s isolation wards, the hospital’s security has placed four barricades of Delhi Police. There are around 250 patients inside. Rajinder Singh, a security supervisor at the gate, and his men stop every relative from crossing the barricades. “We explain that even they will be at a risk if they go inside. They all want to go in. Some are rude and argue. We ask them to hand over the items to designated employees. These people are standing here with us in this hot sun only to help the relatives. The package will definitely reach the patient,” Singh said.On Wednesday morning, Dheeraj Kumar, 21, had gone to the hospital with a bottle of hair oil for his mother. “My mother uses this specific hair oil every morning. It is part of her routine. She could not get it in the hospital. I told her over the phone I have got it. She was happy,” Kumar said while handing over the packet to Yadav over a layer of police barricades, which ensures social distancing. Another relative, Harjit Singh, stood behind Kumar with a cell phone charger. Singh was worried when his mother’s phone was switched off. She was admitted to the facility on Monday. “I called the hospital’s helpline number and they confirmed that she was fine. But they could not connect me to her. I came to the hospital on Tuesday and was told by an employee (Sharma’s colleague also working as a courier), that my mother had forgotten her phone charger. I will hand this (cell phone charger) over to them. It will reach her in half an hour, and I can still stay connected with her,” Harjit said. Medical director Dr Sunil Kumar said they want to ensure patients and relatives do not face any harassment. “We cannot allow anyone from outside inside the wards. Our nursing orderlies across all wards are there to help. People should understand and cooperate,” he said.Though the hospital has allowed all patients to use phones, at least three relatives HT spoke to said connectivity in the upper floors was a problem, making it almost impossible to speak to the patients or doctors.Anuj Singh, a guest teacher at the government school in Chandni Chowk, said it was difficult to get an update from the doctors about her husband’s health. She said, “My husband told me over the phone that his oxygen level dropped rapidly. I have come here but they are not allowing me inside. I want to speak to the doctors but I am not able to get in touch with them.”Dr Sunil Kumar said they have started a facility for patients to get regular updates from the hospital. “Our doctors work in shifts. It may not be possible for doctors to take every call and respond to the patients. It is also not practical to let all relatives inside the wards. There is a dedicated command centre that has information about every patient. The command centre’s phone number is pasted across the hospital. Our doctors send information to the centre. Relatives can just call up the centre to find out what the doctor has advised. Apart from this, there is another number to know real-time health updates about patients.” The 24*7 helpline for information related to patients at GTB hospital is 9625900550.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nursing-staff-at-gtb-hospital-double-up-as-human-couriers/story-kVJqjY9CW0dvUYMVqgIX6H.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||Bedlam as patients refuse to travel to Covid-19 centre in crowded ambulance||The government’s new guidelines that every new Covid-19 patient be taken to a Covid Care Centre (CCC), to assess if they need home isolation or hospitalisation, triggered chaos at Vasant Kunj’s B-1 block containment zone on Tuesday night as at least 15 patients refused to visit a CCC at YMCA near Connaught Place, locals and police said.The patients were reluctant to travel together in the ambulance arranged by the district administration, saying they were afraid of contracting a “heavier viral load from other infected persons”. Many demanded that they should be allowed to remain in home isolation or permitted to hire a private ambulance if their visit to the CCC was mandatory, senior police officers privy to the development said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Doctors, however, refuted the residents’ claim that they might contract a more virulent strain by travelling with other infected persons.“If two Covid positive patients were in close proximity with each other, it will not influence the disease pattern. If the virus is inside a body, then the severity of symptoms will depend on the affected individual’s response to the disease. Mild symptomatic cases will not turn severe merely by coming in contact with a severely symptomatic patient,” Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, medicine, Moolchand Hospital, said.The order directing the mandatory screening of all Covid patients at CCCs was issued by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Monday and has been opposed by the Delhi government.On Wednesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said they would request the L-G to withdraw the order, because sending each and every patient to a CCC would result in chaos.Also read: India’s largest coronavirus facility shapes up in DelhiPatients and their families started objecting to the mandatory visits around 9pm, when the ambulance reached the containment zone and all patients were asked to get in. When the resistance continued for more than an hour, district officials asked local police to intervene.Officers from the Vasant Kunj North police station reached the containment zone and requested patients to comply, and warned them of legal action if they failed to do so. “Even then, only five patients got into the ambulance and visited the CCC by around 10.30pm,” Ingit Pratap Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (southwest) said.On the other hand, patients and their family members said some of the positive patients were elderly and required attendants.They also pointed out that none of the 15 patients was symptomatic.Also read: Herd immunity can be achieved at 43%, new study on Covid-19 finds“My husband is 78-years-old, weak and has had a knee replacement. He needs help walking. I was not comfortable with sending him in the ambulance, along with other infected persons as it might expose him to a higher viral load. The doctor who called us insisted that he should be sent to the YMCA CCC despite us requesting him to either allow us home isolation or to arrange a private ambulance on our own,” the wife of an elderly patient, who was shifted to a private hospital by his family members in the night itself, said.The father of another patient, a 31-year-old chemist who was among the five to visit the CCC, said, “No medical team had come along with the ambulance. As the ambulance looked shabby and unhygienic, we were reluctant to send our son in it. But when the police officers warned us of legal action, we had no choice but to comply.”Also read: Door-to-door survey in Delhi to map coronavirus spreadSome patients also claimed they were waiting for the ambulance since afternoon and it only arrived by 9pm.“The positive patients included young women. Their families refused to send them off in the night,” a police officer, who had intervened in the matter said.The district magistrate (DM) of New Delhi was not available for comment as calls and text messages sent to her remained unanswered.The local residents’ welfare association (RWA) distanced itself from the incident and its officials refused comment.On Wednesday, 14 patients were taken to the CCC in two ambulances arranged by the district administration. “The doctors examined us and asked us to remain in home isolation. Seven patients were sent in each ambulance. All of us returned home and have isolated ourselves,” a 46-year-old patient, who along with her husband and 21-year-old daughter had tested positive for Covid-19, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-intervene-as-vasant-kunj-patients-refuse-to-go-to-covid-centre-in-crowded-ambulance/story-yWC6KP4Q4CbFtSk3EXG00N.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||10k beds, 18k tonnes of ACs: What to expect in Delhi’s biggest Covid facility||Five rows each of 16 iron cots -- topped with mattresses covered with un-creased white bedsheets, neatly folded white blankets and thin pillows with blue covers -- are laid out at a distance of five feet from each other. On one side of each bed stands a grey plastic chair and on the other side rests a plastic stool with a sealed water bottle and a small soap atop it.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe mud floor is bare, and from the high roof hangs slow-moving fans, which would offer little comfort from the humidity but for the cool breeze flowing in from outside after a light drizzle.On Wednesday, this was a patients’ section up on display at the campus of Radha Soami Satsang Beas in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur, which is set to be the biggest Covid-19 temporary hospital in India with over 10,000 beds.“The mud floor will be covered by carpets and then topped with vinyl sheets for easy cleaning. The hospital will be cooled by 18,000 tons of air-conditioners,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate (south), even as workers began spreading vinyl sheets at one corner of the facility.The Delhi government had taken over the campus, roughly the size of 22 football fields in its effort to ramp bed strength and add medical infrastructure to combat the rapidly rising cases of the coronavirus disease in the city. The Delhi government is seeking to further increase the number of beds available for patients by setting up makeshift hospitals in 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls. The idea is to add 15,800 beds for sick patients. Five hundred converted railway coaches will add another 8,000 beds for the city’s Covid-19 patients.On Tuesday, home minister Amit Shah had tweeted that a large part of the facility would be operational by Friday and manned by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).THREE SEPARATE SECTIONSSonalika Jiwani, IAS officer and sub-divisional (SDM) of Mehrauli, said the facility is divided into three sections: the largest for the patients, another for nurses and doctors, and the third will serve as the command section.“For patients, there will be 116 sections of 88 beds each. In the first phase, we’ll have 2,000 beds ready by Thursday. The entire facility will be ready by the first week of July,” she said.By Wednesday, dozens of large air-conditioners were already installed even as more were on their way. With the air-conditioners yet to be functional, the site was serviced by the fans hanging from long poles. While there is one fan on an average for every three beds, they will practically be useless for most patients going by how far the beds are placed from one another.THE FACILITIESEvery patient will have a bed, a stool, a chair, a small plastic cupboard, a dustbin and utensils, and will be given a toiletry kit. The beds will either be the foldable iron cots, or ones manufactured using cardboard.“Individual phone and laptop charging facility will be available for each bed. Patients can also bring their laptops, but for any video or audio application, they will have to use headphones,” said DM Mishra.Food will be served to the patients by volunteers who will roll them on trolleys along the rows of beds. “The Satsang is capable of cooking food for three lakh people a day. So, that will not be a problem,” said the DM.TOILETSThere are 600-odd toilets at the centre with 70 portable toilets -- including three special ones for physically challenged people -- stationed outside. “We will bring more portable toilets. The aim is to have one toilet for every 10 patients at least,” said the DM.Sanjeev Tiwari, the operations head of YLDA India Pvt Ltd, the firm hired by DUSIB to set up portable toilets, said that each toilet can be used about 200 times before the waste needs to be taken away. “Suction vehicles will be ready to take away the waste and make the toilets usable immediately. The toilets will be cleaned twice a day and once at night,” said Tiwari.The DM said that the sanitation work will be carried out by an agency to be hired by South Delhi Municipal Corporation. “All the workers will wear PPE suits. We are working out a plan to ensure there is minimal interaction between the workers and the patients,” said the officer.For uninterrupted water supply, the government has installed hydrants for the underground reservoir facility that has a capacity of 1.7 lakh litres. “The water supply capacity has been augmented. The Delhi Jal Board will check samples five times a day to ensure that the quality of water is good,” said Raghav Chadha, the DJB’s vice-chairman who visited the place on Wednesday.RELATIVES WON’T BE ALLOWEDRelatives of patients won’t be allowed inside the gates. “We would prefer if they can send the patients here in ambulances, but even if they bring them themselves, they’ll have to handover the patients to us at the gates and leave,” said DM Mishra.To handle the admission and discharge of patients, the authorities will use an e-hospital app that is being developed by the National Informatics Centre, said the DM. A team will work on 400 computers at the centre, he said.The officer said that MTNL has been asked to provide landline and internet connection at the facility. “We have also requested a telephone tower firm to install requisite towers nearby so that the patients do not have problems in browsing the internet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-000-beds-18-000-tonnes-of-acs-what-to-expect-in-delhi-s-biggest-covid-facility/story-s3oKBP6IqzlauUlVUECJHN.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||DU admission: Aspirants unable to procure OBC/EWS certificates owing to pandemic shutdown||Those seeking admission under the other backward class (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) categories to undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Delhi University (DU) colleges have a new hurdle to surmount -- of getting new certificates attesting to their eligibility issued amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Aspirants said government attested certificates, issued on or after March 31, 2020, are mandatory to get an admission under these categories.A group of teachers have also written to the administration asking that candidates be admitted based on previously issued certificates in the backdrop of the pandemic. DU, as a rule, demands certificates issued on or after March 31 in the year of admission. The university has allowed candidates to upload the acknowledgement slip of certificate application with the admission form, and stipulated that the new certificate be produced at the time of admission.But Ananya Mandal, 18, seeking admission to BA (Hons) in Economics, said she had visited the subdivisional magistrate’s (SDM) office in Mehrauli for getting an OBC certificate. “I was told that we will have to apply online since the staff in the office was occupied with Covid-19 duty. I tried to fill the form online on the doorstep delivery website but that’s not working properly. Even if I apply online, officials from the SDM’s office will visit my home for verification. This will compromise the safety of my family members from the pandemic. Why can’t we take admission with the previously issued certificate?” she said.Sonalika Jiwani, SDM Mehrauli, said the website is working and they are receiving applications. “However, our staff have been diverted to Covid duty and therefore we are not being able to send them for verification work. There can be some delay but we are trying to issue these certificates,” she said.Citing the fact that many students will not be able to apply for new certificates online, DU’s SC, ST and OBC teachers’ association on Tuesday wrote to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi that candidates be admitted upon furnishing a self-declaration and a previously issued certificate. “The nationwide lockdown was announced before March 31 this year to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, due to which the government and non-government officials remained away from work for a long time. Many DU aspirants seeking admissions under the OBC category or any other category could not get an updated certificate issued this year. Many candidates do not have access to the internet to apply online. Hence, in this situation, candidates should be allowed to take admission this year with the previously issued certificates. They can submit a new certificates once the situation improves,” Hansraj Suman, chairperson of the association, said in the letter.Suman said several other candidates are facing similar issues in getting EWS certificates. “Many candidates from different parts of the country approached us saying they are unable to apply for the certificates online. Many living in rural areas do not know how to apply online. The number of applications under OBC and EWS are very few as of now,” he said.By Wednesday evening, 44,000 paid applications were received for admissions to undergraduate courses. Of these, 5,600 were under OBC and 700 under the EWS category.Similarly, of the 15,958 paid applications for postgraduation courses, 2,900 were under the OBC category and only 489 under the EWS category. “Last year, the number of applications under the OBC was more than 16,000 within a week of admissions starting. But this time it’s not even 10% of that figure. The number of EWS applications were low last year as the category was just introduced. But it should have risen this year,” Suman said. Shobha Bagai, dean of admissions, DU, said candidates should at least apply online for the new certificates. “Both OBC and EWS certificates can be applied and issued online in many states. At least aspirants can upload the application slip with the form. We are aware of the situation and we will definitely help students if more time is needed to produce new certificates,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-admission-aspirants-unable-to-procure-obc-ews-certificates-owing-to-pandemic-shutdown/story-crKktVlrnj1FZ4eU0eQ2QN.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||First patients arrive at rail coach isolation facility in Delhi||Two Covid-19 positive patients were shifted to the railway coaches-turned isolation wards at the Shakurbasti station washing shed on Wednesday -- the first ones to check into a railway facility across the city. In all, 503 railway coaches have been turned into makeshift Covid-19 isolation wards and are stationed at nine different stations in Delhi.“First patient arrived at Shakur Basti COVID Care Center of Railways in New Delhi. We are committed to provide all necessary help in this fight against COVID-19,” railways minister Piyush Goel tweeted. Senior northern railways officials refused to share the details of the two patients and said that the number of patients in the isolation coaches may increase by night. The train coaches facility is meant only for patients with very mild to moderate symptoms, they said. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed by Railways, Army Medical Corps and the Delhi government for the Covid care centres in train coaches have also been issued. The SOPs details the roles that various agencies, including the railways and Delhi government, will play while running the isolation facilities in 503 coaches. A reception centre has been opened at the Shakurbasti station for the administration of the Covid care coaches and the patients. An emergency control room has also been set up at the site by the railways. This will be manned 24x7 by the railway officials for coordinating and providing assistance. As per the SOPs, doctors and paramedic staff in the isolation coaches are to be deployed by the Army Medical Corps. “The coaches at Shakurbasti have been placed under a shed and fans have been provided in each coupe for optimum air circulation and better temperature control, said Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of Northern Railway. He said several arrangements have been made in the isolation coaches as per the agreement between the Delhi government and the Ministry of Railways. Kumar said northern railways will be responsible for the basic infrastructure and maintenance of the premises, apart from cleaning and sanitisation of platforms, providing housekeeping materials (linen and blankets), management of bio-toilets, power and electric supply arrangements, water, communication facilities, signage and marking of different areas. “Supply of oxygen cylinders and catering in the isolation coaches will also be done by the railways. While the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will secure the railway station premises and the platform areas where the coaches are placed, the Delhi Police will secure the outside and adjoining areas of the station,” said Kumar. Since the isolation coaches are handed over to the local administration, the identification of patients, their transportation, admission and discharge will be taken care of by the health department of the state government. The patients in the isolation coaches are to be treated as per the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) protocol. In case the health of patients in isolation coaches deteriorate, they will be shifted to Covid healthcare centre in an ambulance provided by the DGHS or hospital, said the CPRO. Railways officials said that Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital in Pitampura is the primary hospital attached to the isolation coaches. The hospital would provide the requisite medicines, medical equipment and material along with coach attendants. Coach sanitation and waste segregation and disposal will also be the responsibility of the hospital, a press statement released by the northern railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-patients-arrive-at-rail-coach-isolation-facility/story-UlhYJ9nuNgJ0HAfKum3glI.html
25-06-2020||Delhi||In 100 days of Covid, many lessons for Lok Nayak hospital||Four days after the city reported its first case of Covid-19 on March 2, Lok Nayak hospital had sprung into action to take on the virus challenge.The health hub had immediately set aside 11 isolation rooms for Covid-19 patients, with the hospital admitting its first Covid-19 patient on March 17. In the next 100 days, Lok Nayak hospital had treated 3,760 Covid-19 patients – most with severe infection. Now, as the city reports more than 3,000 cases of the virus daily, the 2,000-bed hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 only treatment facility, making it the biggest such health hub in the state and Delhi government’s prime weapon against the virus.The hospital also helped fill a gap in the procedure by offering dialysis for Covid patients and also helping in deliveries of Covid-19 positive women.“We have provided 1,130 dialysis sessions to Covid-19 positive patients – the highest in north India. So far, there have been 144 babies born to Covid-19 positive mothers – 60 through c-section and 84 through normal deliveries. Our doctors, nurses, and staff have worked tirelessly to provide patient care,” said Dr Suresh Seth, medical director of the hospital.Starting with the wards in the emergency block of the hospital, the entire hospital was converted into a Covid-19 facility by April. The out-patient clinics were initially moved to the segregated orthopaedic block of the hospital and then completely shut by March-end. Patients already under treatment at the hospital started being shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Dilshad Garden. The hospital set up beds in their out-patient clinic area as well.“This was unthinkable. I had never imagined that the scale of the outbreak would be this big. We had set aside some isolation rooms and one ward for Covid-19 patients. I would have thought that this would be enough. The hospital had 107 ventilators, I never imagined we might need more,” said Dr Kishore Singh, the then medical director of the hospital.The hospital’s only isolation ward — with its own separate elevator — had been created during the H1N1 outbreak of 2009-10.One of the doctors who worked in the ward, remembered, “At that time, we just had one-floor with its own OPD for patients with flu-like symptoms. There were about 18 ICU beds and that’s all we needed. PPE kits were to be worn only inside the ICU and in the general area we used to just wear masks and gloves. A medicine -- Tamiflu – was already available and all doctors working in the H1N1 area were put on it. After one batch of doctors finished their duties, the fear for the others was less. In this case, people are getting more scared day by day.” Healthcare workers were the first to be impacted by Covid-19, with several cases being reported from among the community in the first two months, all of which were traced back to hospitals or contact with other healthcare workers. “We had anticipated an increase in the number of cases. But this rapid exponential surge in the number of cases has definitely caught us a little off-guard. At the time, we thought that there would be maybe 50-100 cases a day. A committee formed by the CM had said that we should be ready for handling 1,000 cases a day. But, we did not imagine a scenario beyond that,” said Dr JC Passey, who had been the director of the hospital for 49 of the 100 days, while it was transitioning to become a complete Covid-19 facility.In the 100 days, the hospital has had to learn hospitality. “We were not used to providing toiletries and buckets to patients, meals as well as snacks. These were earlier taken care of by the relatives of the patients. Initially, we had trouble in estimating and understanding what might be needed where,” said a nurse from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.These were uncharted territories for the hospital and they have been troubleshooting as and when problems arise. When they faced complaints of families not being able to communicate with patients, they set up a help-desk with tablets to connect them digitally.“We have started with ten tablets today (Wednesday). And, we will be adding one tablet in each ward slowly. All the relatives of the patient can come to the help desk and video call their family members,” said Dr Kumar.Delhi has been reporting over 3,000 cases a day and there are 124 hospitals – both government and private – that treat Covid-19 patients. The government is also working on setting up makeshift hospitals in hotels, banquet halls, stadiums, and railway coaches. Almost 15,000 people with the infection are in home isolation as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-100-days-of-covid-many-lessons-for-lok-nayak-hospital/story-xgKhFnoYgfZrehEHSnXwbJ.html
25-06-2020||City||Man kills wife, dies after consuming pesticide in Ludhiana’s Gurdev Nagar||A 40-year-old migrant labourer allegedly hacked his wife to death and then killed himself by consuming pesticide in Ludhiana’s Gurdev Nagar area on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.As per information, the accused had an altercation with his 25-year-old wife on Tuesday night. The couple, along with their three children and some relatives, lived in an abandoned house near Ashok Vatika Park of Gurdev Nagar and used to iron clothes for a living.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Jatinder Chopra said the accused’s eldest son told the police that his father was a drunkard and used to have frequent fights with the victim, who was his second wife.The first wife had died after giving birth to the son.“On Tuesday night, the couple had an argument following which the victim went to sleep. The accused turned up later in the night with a sharp-edged weapon and attacked her on the neck, killing her on the spot,” the ACP said.He then allegedly consumed pesticide and tried to flee the spot with his toddler daughter. The relatives, who live in the adjoining room, woke up on hearing the gate open. They discovered the woman’s body in a pool of blood and raised an alarm.The accused, meanwhile, started frothing at the mouth and collapsed. He also told them that he had consumed pesticide.The relatives rushed him to the civil hospital, from where he was referred to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where he was declared dead on arrival.The ACP said they are probing the case from all angles and are yet to recover the weapon used in the crime.The accused’s eldest son, 17, in his statement to the police, said that he and his siblings, aged six and one, were sleeping in the same room but he did not see the crime take place. He found out about his stepmother’s death after his relatives woke him up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-wife-dies-after-consuming-pesticide-in-ludhiana-s-gurdev-nagar/story-d22tCAnyda7tlzj2vEXh9M.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Pune software company employee duped of Rs 1.9L by ‘friend’||A software professional working with a multinational company in Hinjewadi has been duped of Rs 1.9 lakh by a ‘friend’ who promised him delivery of a used car at the cost of Rs 95,000.The man, who made the promise, has been identified only as Arnav Chavan, according to the complainant. The complainant has told the police that he met the person once in December 2019 after which they became friends.The complainant had been looking for a new car. He told the police that during a phone conversation, the suspect ensured him a used Honda Civic car for Rs 95,000. However, the suspect said that the repair work on it like tyre and batteries would require some more investment.Through multiple transactions ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 or more, the complainant transferred Rs 1,91,500 to an account number provided by the suspect. The transactions took place between December 2019 and February 2020.“We are checking the whereabouts of the suspect to see if he is from around here or another region,” said police sub-inspector R Angaj of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the suspect at the Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/software-company-employee-duped-of-rs-1-9l-by-friend/story-ExbaWDK7IG3AJeB3LETulJ.html
25-06-2020||City||After Galwan Valley makes news, explorer’s biography to be translated into English||With the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) becoming a bone of contention between India and China , officials of Jammu and Kashmir are planning to digitise historical articles on Ladakh and J&K that are published in Sheeraza, a monthly magazine issued by Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture, and Languages (JKAACL).Ghulam Rasool Galwan had discovered the valley in the 19th century and his biography has been published in one of the special editions of Sheeraza.For years, the academy has published in-depth articles on J&K and Ladakh, its history, culture and heritage. The officials say that the academy is now planning to translate those articles from Urdu, Kashmiri, Gojri, Punjabi, and Hindi to English for the younger generation. It will also be using social media to promote the rich content with it for decades.Academy secretary Muneer A Raqeeb said the digital platforms and social media sites like Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, web sites, and web pages are now the future. “We are starting the process to use these platforms to connect with the younger generation and connoisseurs of good literature living in various parts of the country. We will be digitising Sheeraza and Hamara Adab.”He said that the academy had published articles on Ghulam Rasool Galwan and now everybody wants to know about him and his family and their links with the Galwan Valley.A former secretary of the academy, Rafeeq Masoodi, said: “It’s going to be of great help to our younger generation to access it once shared on social media.’’He added that Ghulam Rasool Galwan was born in Leh in 1878 and worked as a guide for European explorers and went on several expeditions around Tibet, Central Asia and Ladakh. It was then that he discovered the valley.Former associate professor of Kashmir University Rafi Ahmad Makhdoomi said only those people knew about the Galwan Valley and its history who have been reading or doing research on the Silk Route. “The younger generation came to know about the valley only after the Indian and Chinese troops clashed there,’’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/works-of-j-k-academy-of-art-culture-set-to-get-a-digital-makeover/story-i38u1NzxOEYZwQ1fOcmcJN.html
25-06-2020||Pune||Two killed in hit-and-run on Pune-Mumbai Expressway||Two men in a pick-up truck were killed in a hit-and-run case along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Tuesday morning.The victims have been identified as Shaikh Abbas Mehmod Maula Ali, 30, a resident of Vinoba Bhavenagar in Kural West, Mumbai; and Abu Bahr Qureshi, 35, a resident of Sakinaka, Mumbai.While one of them is a driver, the other person was a headload worker, according to the police.The two were in a pick-up truck van registered in Vasai, Mumbai. The two were heading towards Mumbai when the incident took place.“There were batteries in the truck. The incident took place in an open field. There are no CCTVs at the site of the incident,” said S Jagdale, station house officer, Shirgaon police outpost.A passerby vehicle reported the about the accident around 8 am and took the two to the nearest hospital.The bodies were sent for postmortem at a local government hospital as the police are investigating about the incident.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337, 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 194, 134(1)(2) of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-pune-mumbai-expressway/story-29W0XaSTMxBKYHGgEudGJI.html
25-06-2020||Gurugram||Unlock tales: With 50% rent, storage spaces are a win-win for both tenants and landlords||Exorbitant rents, salary deductions, job insecurity — times are tough! So how does one survive in such difficult circumstances? Well, young professionals have found a way by relocating their stuff to storage facility for a month or two, till they return from their home towns.Social media timelines are filled with posts by professionals offering to keep belongings of others at their rented space for 50% or a lesser amount. Anish Bakshi, who had posted about one such storage facility on a Gurugram group on Facebook, says, “The idea is just to help out people who are being made to pay full rent for their rooms in Gurugram, even though that they are not living here anymore because most organisations have given work from home (as an option or mandate). We are offering storage in our flats. I’ve mostly received enquiries from bachelors who are moving or have already moved to their home towns.”A 22-year-old marketing manager in Gurugram, Anamika Manhas, sharing her experience, says, “I couldn’t move to the new house and there was a lot of family pressure to return to my home town, Jammu. I flew two days before lockdown. It’s been three months that I’m here now, and all my stuff was at my rented place and the notice period was over too. I couldn’t physically come and move my stuff (clothes, kitchenware, etc). So, when I found out about this service, I felt it was very helpful. I paid around ₹4,000 for a month and my stuff is all safe.”  For Varun Kataria, who owns flats and PGs in Delhi-NCR, storage space has become a means to sustain him during these times. This landlord says, “Jo log Maharashtra, UP se hain woh iss time Gurugram aana safe nahin samajh rahe... People who were living on rent in Delhi-NCR have reached out to me from across the country including Mumbai, UP, and even south India. We sent a vendor to get their luggage picked up, and then confirmed with the owner each item on the check list. After all this checking, we sent a video to the owner on WhatsApp to confirm.”Aditya Kaushal, a 32-year-old fraud investigator with an MNC in Gurugram, tells us, “I was travelling prior and have been with my family in Jammu since March, and couldn’t go back to Gurugram because of lockdown. There is a huge rent burden wherein I’m not using the premises but still have to pay the rent. My stuff was lying in the house (refrigerator, washing machine, etc.). Initially we had a discussion with the owner about the salary cuts that I had to bear, but the owners didn’t agree to reduce the rent. The only option thus left was to find a storage facility and move our stuff over there. I took help of movers and packers, and a friend helped me too. And now when the landlord saw us vacating it, he thought he’d loose a steady income so offered to reduce the rent by 40% till the time we come back!”Those who are renting out their place for storage are ensuring to share all crucial information in advance, before allocating the space. Kovid Ummat, an advertising professional who is renting his two rooms as storage space, says security is a concern, too. “We ensure that I and the other party share all details prior. Somewhere this came out of our own need, as one of my flatmate had left for Agra before the lockdown. And when we came home, we realised that it was uncertain as to when will WFH stop. The rent was a completely avoidable expenditure at this point. So we guys thought to take out our stuff and put it in a warehouse, and in the process realised that they aren’t many warehouses. This made us open two rooms for people who required this facility. It’s an equal opportunity for all. There are people like us who don’t want to spend anything like ₹30,000 as monthly rent when they aren’t even living in these places.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/unlock-tales-with-50-rent-storage-spaces-are-a-win-win-for-both-tenants-and-landlords/story-rTpf3zyByIDfZzwt5QVmcL.html
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two blocks of Panjab University sealed after employee tests positive for Covid-19||Two Panjab University buildings — Aruna Ranjit Hall and administrative block — were sealed after a female employee tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Another woman, a 38-year-old from Khuda Lahora, also tested positive on Wednesday, taking the count of infections in Chandigarh to 420.The 37-year-old PU employee, a resident of Sector 29B, works at the re-evaluation branch located in Aruna Ranjit Hall. She had last attended office on June 19.The university spokesperson said around 30 contacts of the employee, including three family contacts that lived on the campus, had been identified and asked to remain in quarantine as a precautionary measure.Meanwhile, the UT health department has also indentified 10 workplace contacts — six from Chandigarh, three from Punjab and one from Panchkula. They have been put under home quarantine.According to health officials, the PU employee is a relative of an already positive patient, who hails from Himachal Pradesh and is admitted at PGIMER.PU registrar professor Karamjeet Singh said as an employee posted at the re-evaluation branch was found infected and it was suspected that she and her family may have come in contact with employees of other branches, Aruna Ranjit Hall and the administrative block had been sealed and sanitised as a precaution.In the meantime, all officers posted in these blocks will seek information from their charges as to whether they had any contact with the employee.Of the 420 confirmed cases in Chandigarh, 322 have recovered and six have succumbed to the virus. The city now has 92 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-blocks-of-panjab-university-sealed-after-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-v1bk9ThJr1hOlTSmnxbqBL.html
25-06-2020||Pune||KYC expiration pretext used in multiple cases of online fraud||A text message with a pretext of KYC expiration for a popular e-wallet was sent to multiple victims of online fraud in Bibvewadi, Pune. A 61-year-old man was duped of Rs 1,11,138 after he called a phone number mentioned in an SMS he received on his mobile phone on April 17, according to police. He lost money from three different bank accounts.In a similar incident, another person was duped of Rs 1,96,393 after he called the number mentioned in an SMS he received on April 17.In yet another case registered on Sunday, a 55-year-old man lost Rs 43,998 through multiple transactions.All complainants in the case are above 55 years of age.The SMS warned the complainants of expiration of know-your-customer (KYC) sections of their e-wallet. The SMS provided them with a phone number on which they could call to extend their KYC.Once the complainants called the number, the callers tricked them into making a transaction of Rs 1 and told the complainants that the transactions failed due to expired KYC.To update the KYC, they were asked to download an application called Quick Support App onto their mobile phones. The application provided access to the bank details of the complainants’ links with the e-wallet. Without sharing any more details of the case, police inspector crime Muralidhar Khokale of Bibvewadi police station said that the police station has received more such complaints.The trend of using the false pretext of the e-wallet’s KYC expiration to commit online fraud started around a year ago, according to police inspector Jayram Paygude of the cyber police station.“People share confidential information, OTPs and download whatever the caller asks them to without verifying. That is a problem,” said PI Paygude.The cases have come on the radar of the city police’s cybercrime cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kyc-expiration-pretext-used-in-multiple-cases-of-online-fraud/story-7XVGjpucS2tXiN2nf2kBNI.html
25-06-2020||Bangalore||Complete shutdown in parts of Bengaluru to fight Covid-19: BS Yediyurappa||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to enforce complete and full lockdown in four major areas of the state capital, following a sharp rise in the coronavirus cases.At a cabinet meeting called today to take stock of the situation, Yediyurappa decided to enforce complete shutdown in KR Market, Chamarajapete, Kalasipalya and Chickpete.Briefing reporters after the review meeting, minister for revenue and municipal administration R Ashoka said that some of the quarantined are leaving their phones behind and roaming around, thus evading strict government regulations. He warned that police would register a criminal case against those breaking quarantine rules. The government has also promised to notify tariff rates for treatment in private hospitals shortly.In the recent past, the government has been an active votary for opening up the state for more activities. The same willingness to open the economy was conveyed by chief minister BS Yediyurappa in the chief ministers’ video conference with PM Modi.The development follows after the state saw its biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 453 new virus cases being registered on Sunday. Out of them 196 were from Bengaluru.On Monday, the state capital at 126 new cases accounted for half of the Covid-19 cases registered today - 249. Bengaluru (urban and rural) with 958 cases account for nearly a third of all active cases in the state.Incidentally unlike in the past where spikes were due to an influx of people coming back from different states, contact history of the new patients indicates that it has been locally transmitted.Till date Karnataka has reported 9,399 Covid-19 positive cases with 152 deaths and 3,523 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/complete-shutdown-in-parts-of-bengaluru-to-fight-covid-19-bs-yediyurappa/story-l49pM1UAbdJHagmo2BIMtJ.html
25-06-2020||World||Had ‘very frank’ discussion with China on ‘unprovoked aggression’: Pompeo||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said that he had a very frank discussion with his Chinese counterpart Wang Jiechi about the “unprovoked aggression” by Beijing on a number of fronts.During the meeting in Hawaii last week, Pompeo said he also pressed for “more transparency” from China on the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic for the good of the world. The meeting which was kept under wraps till the meeting day, took place amidst tensions between China and the US on a range of issues. “I met with Yang Jiechi last week in Hawaii. We had a very frank discussion about the Chinese Communist Party’s unprovoked aggression on a number of fronts and I pressed him for more transparency on Covid for the good of the world,” Pompeo told reporters at a press conference on Wednesday. “We’re concerned by Beijing’s behaviour and we’re not the only ones. And he and I talked about that. Our friends and partners are finding their voice and taking action to counter China’s malign activities, particularly in Europe,” he said. President Donald Trump has announced a number of retaliatory measures against China last month, slamming China for imposing a controversial national security law on Hong Kong that undermines the autonomy of the former British territory. The top US diplomat has led Trump administration officials in criticising Beijing for a lack of transparency and disinformation campaign on the coronavirus since it emerged in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. American officials have indicated that Washington intends to punish Beijing over the spread of the pandemic that has hit America, making it the worst affected country with over one lakh deaths. Last week Pompeo criticised the Chinese Army for “escalating” the border tension with India and militarising the strategic South China Sea. He also described the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) as a “rogue actor.” In a scathing attack on the Chinese government, Pompeo said that the Communist Party of China wants to undo all the progress the free world has made through institutions like the NATO and adopt a new set of rules and norms that accommodate Beijing. “The PLA (People’s Liberation Army) has escalated border tensions with India, the world’s most populous democracy. It’s militarising the South China Sea and illegally claiming more territory there, threatening vital sea lanes,” Pompeo said, a day after he expressed deep condolences to India on the death of 20 soldiers in violent clashes with the PLA troops at the Galwan Valley in Ladakh on June 15. China’s official Xinhua news agency reported last week that Yang and Pompeo agreed to take action to implement in earnest the consensus reached by the heads of state of the two countries and maintain contact and communication. Yang conducted in-depth exchanges with Pompeo on China-US relations as well as global and regional issues of mutual concern, the report said. Both sides fully expounded their respective stances and deemed the dialogue to be constructive. They agreed to take action to implement in earnest the consensus reached by the heads of state of the two countries and maintain contact and communication, the report added. Yang is a member of the Politburo of the CPC Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee. China’s government-controlled media has attacked Pompeo as “evil,” “insane” and an “enemy of mankind” for accusing Beijing for trying to mislead the world about the severity of the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/had-very-frank-discussion-with-china-on-unprovoked-aggression-pompeo/story-URXvGgCe4s2ak2FGRu3ERL.html
25-06-2020||World||UK: India a ‘focus country’ for forced marriages||A dedicated unit dealing with forced marriages in which at least one individual is a British citizen said on Thursday that it recorded less number of cases related to India in 2019 – 65 – compared to those in 2018 (85), but India remains among the UK’s top ‘focus’ countries on this issue. Officials define forced marriage as one in which one or both spouses do not (or, in the case of some adults with learning or physical disabilities or mental incapacity, cannot) consent to the marriage, and violence, threats, or any other form of coercion is involved.Coercion may include emotional pressure, physical force or the threat of it, and financial pressure. In an arranged marriage, by contrast, both parties have consented to the union but can still refuse to marry if they choose to. Forced marriage is a criminal offence in the UK.The Forced Marriages Unit comprising officials from the Foreign Office and the Home Office said the number of cases linked to India in 2019 was 65 cases (5 per cent of the total cases handled during the year).“This is lower than in 2018 when 85 cases were linked to India. There was a higher proportion of older victims as well as male victims compared with other key focus countries. 23% of the cases were linked to London and 89% of the cases related to victims while they were in the UK”, it said.There have been cases of parents taking children on holiday to their countries of origin, and forcing them to marry there against their will.In 2019, the unit gave advice or support in 1,355 cases related to a possible forced marriage. The highest was in relation to Pakistan (559), followed by Bangladesh (144) and India (65). The officials said the statistics represent only the cases that have been reported, adding that forced marriage is a hidden crime and that the figures will not reflect the full scale of the abuse.The unit was established in 2005 to lead on the UK government’s forced marriage policy, outreach and casework. It operates both inside the UK, where support is provided to any individual, and overseas, where consular assistance is provided to British nationals, including dual nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-india-a-focus-country-for-forced-marriages/story-wf3NRIHSuWpSvMdmiogB7O.html
25-06-2020||World||The real British cuppa: Envoy deploys military to make tea||Talking about how to make a British cup of tea can be a sensitive issue: it no longer remains just a storm in a teacup when envoys of the United Kingdom and the United States ‘spar’ on the issue, with the former calling in the military to make the point.There are many versions around the world of how to make a perfect cup of tea, but when a young American in London showed hers that involves mixing milk with powdered lemonade, cinnamon, cloves, sugar and Tang, adding a teabag, microwaving it and calling the concoction ‘British tea’, the Brits were rather furious.Tea had a key role in American independence – remember the Boston Tea Party – so the young American’s exertions on social media earlier this month resonated at many levels, prompting the British ambassador to the US to deploy the military to show the world how the perfect cuppa is brewed.“I see there’s huge interest in how to make a British cup of tea. So I’ve called in my military advisers to get this in the record. The Anglo-American relationship is defined by tea. We’ve had a number of requests to show how to make a real cup of tea,” said ambassador Karen Pierce.She followed it up with brief footage of army, navy and air force personnel from the field explaining and showing to make the perfect brew. The army man said with understated contempt: “You don’t need a microwave to make a cup of tea”.Thousands of Brits joined in to offer their views on the subject, many in strong terms.Not to be outdone, the US ambassador to the UK, Woody Johnson, responded on Wednesday, but he diplomatically side-stepped the issue and showed how he makes coffee, much to the horror of many Britons who prefer the traditional tea.Johnson said on camera from his kitchen: “I’m going to make an American cup of coffee, the way I do it every day. Responding to Ambassador Pierce’s perfect cup of tea and her instructions”, and went on to add boiling water to instant coffee and some milk, calling it “perfect”.Italians who love the Bialetti way of making coffee were not impressed, suggesting that Johnson may have responded to Pierce, but may have opened another front in the brewing storm across the US and Europe.For the record, most of the tea consumed in the UK, US and elsewhere is grown in India, where ‘chai’ is brewed in ways different to that in Britain and is reflected in popular culture and public discourse at many levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-real-british-cuppa-envoy-deploys-military-to-make-tea/story-CT9onvMASpSv7Qs4DcK0BJ.html
25-06-2020||World||WHO says getting backing it needs as France, Germany express support||France and Germany expressed their backing for the World Health Organization in fighting the coronavirus on Thursday, with Germany saying it will contribute some half billion euros in funding for the U.N. agency this year.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, talking at a news conference in Geneva, said the agency, widely criticised by the United States, was getting all the financial and political support it needed.More than 9.44 million people have been reported to have been infected by the coronavirus globally and 481,672​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. (Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay, Joseph Nasr, Silke Koltrowitz and Matthias Blamont; Writing by Nick Macfie; Editing by Catherine Evans)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-getting-backing-it-needs-as-france-germany-express-support/story-sumjNmoSC7zQ3Ap6wNyuVO.html
25-06-2020||World||Pakistan airline says 150 pilots grounded after crash probe||Pakistan’s state-run airline announced Thursday it would ground 150 pilots on charges they obtained their pilot licenses by having others take exams for them.Abdullah Hafeez, a spokesman for Pakistan International Airlines, said the decision comes after a probe into last month’s PIA crash that killed 97 people in the city of Karachi.Hafeez, without sharing specific details, said a process to remove the 150 pilots who possessed tainted licenses had been initiated.“We will make it sure that unqualified pilots never fly aircraft again,” he told The Associated Press.The move by PIA to ground the pilots comes a day after the country’s aviation minister, Ghulam Sarqar Khan, said 262 out of 860 pilots in the country had “fake” licenses. He made the revelation while presenting preliminary findings to parliament of a probe into the May 22 Airbus A320 aircraft crash in Karachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-airline-says-150-pilots-grounded-after-crash-probe/story-0wNjLCa4Lnh0r26hAemohN.html
25-06-2020||World||‘How to lose an election’: French President Macron gets it all wrong in Paris||President Emmanuel Macron was surveying a glacier in the French Alps on a visit in February when an aide forwarded a video that had just been posted online, showing his choice for Paris mayor masturbating.Benjamin Griveaux’s campaign was already floundering, a month out from the first round of the election, and his naiveté in falling for a simple sting meant Macron had to choose: back a loyal and trusted ally, or sack him.“Be there for him,” Macron told advisers, according to a member of his inner circle. “And if he decides to press on, circle the wagons.”Macron has consistently rewarded the early backers of his 2017 bid for the presidency, party insiders say. But within 48 hours, Griveaux had stood down, leaving Macron’s hopes of winning the capital in tatters.Interviews with more than a dozen ministers, presidential aides and party insiders who spoke on condition of anonymity reveal how miscalculations cost him dear, and portray a leader who can put loyalty before competence and fail to judge character.Macron had hoped that local elections would provide the grassroots base that his young centrist party, LaRem, lacks ahead of his 2022 re-election bid.And Paris’s City Hall, long in the grip of the left, seemed there for the taking.The capital welcomed the former investment banker into the Elysee Palace with open arms in 2017. One in three Parisian voters backed LaRem in last year’s European elections.And a year ago, before Griveaux’s nomination, incumbent Socialist mayor Anne Hidalgo was deeply unpopular for her efforts to reduce traffic in the capital, and surveys showed a Macron candidate beating her.TURNING GOLD TO LEADNow, three days before Sunday’s nationwide municipal elections, Macron’s stand-in candidate, former health minister Agnes Buzyn, is polling more than 20 points behind Hidalgo, seemingly having lost ground since the first round in March.One disgruntled LaRem lawmaker put it simply: “We had gold in our hands and we turned it to lead.”LaRem’s campaign crumbled with the sting on Griveaux, but the seeds of defeat had been sown months earlier, with Griveaux’s selection.The 42-year-old was one of the ‘Macron Boys’, the clique that helped propel the president to power. In July 2019, a LaRem committee picked him over Cedric Villani, an eccentric maths genius known for his spider brooches and silk cravats.But many saw Griveaux, who served as Macron’s first government spokesman, as arrogant and patronising.When the video was posted - by a Russian protest artist whose girlfriend had lured Griveaux into sending the video - few in the party rallied round him. “He wasn’t liked. Neither by the public, nor by party members,” said an official inside LaRem. “The time has come when you have to say it like it is.”MATHS MAVERICKTo be sure, Macron’s own popularity had slumped during months of anti-government ‘yellow vest’ protests in early 2019, which were driven by public anger at a leader seen as aloof. It fell again last winter during weeks of demonstrations against pension reforms, and transport strikes.But Macron’s confidant compared the loyalty to Griveaux to an alliance forged in war.“It’s like (French wartime resistance leader) De Gaulle and the Communists: They had nothing in common but, 20 years later, once he was in the Elysee, the General still took calls from those who had been with him in London.”Macron also underestimated Villani, winner of a Fields Medal, mathematics’ equivalent of a Nobel Prize.Villani had entered politics, and parliament, in 2017 with LaRem but, after being rejected as its mayoral candidate, decided to run as an independent, and ate into Griveaux’s support.Party officials urged Macron to offer Villani an incentive to drop his maverick campaign, reminiscent of Macron’s own rise to power, or eject him from the party.But the president held back, telling a small group of reporters that “emulation” was a positive. Socialist and conservative rivals gleefully pointed to the disunity.Two sources close to Macron said he had believed Villani’s bid would naturally fade. It was only in January, when Griveaux slipped to third in surveys, with Villani further behind, that Macron summoned the mathematician. Even then, he failed to change Villani’s mind.As one government minister put it: “We’ve done almost everything we shouldn’t have done. It could end up as a handy guide: ‘How to lose an election’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-to-lose-an-election-french-president-macron-gets-it-all-wrong-in-paris/story-T8XZFZuEor4Hq3Fbj9k0CM.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Over 30% of pilots in Pakistan have fake licenses, not qualified to fly’: Pak aviation minister||More than 30 percent of civilian pilots in Pakistan, roughly 1 in every 3, are not qualified to fly and have fake licenses, aviation minister Ghulam Sarwar Khan said on Wednesday as reported by CNN. While addressing the national assembly, Khan said that over 260 pilots in Pakistan had paid someone else to take exams on their behalf.Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) has grounded all its pilots with fake licenses with immediate effect. The country has over 850 active pilots serving various domestic airlines, including the country’s flagship airline PIA, and other foreign carriers. The findings were revealed after an investigation was led into a PIA plane crash in Karachi last month that killed nearly 100 people. Khan, on Wednesday, told Parliament that the pilots of the PIA plane that crashed on May 22 were not focussed during the flight, news agency PTI reported. He pointed out their “overconfidence and lack of concentration” as some of the reasons for the tragedy that killed 97 people on board. “The pilot ignored the instructions of the air traffic controllers and the ATC, on the other hand, did not inform the pilot about the engine colliding... the pilots were discussing corona throughout the flight. They were not focussed. They talked about corona [...] their families were affected. When the control tower asked him to increase the plane’s height, the pilot said ‘I’ll manage’. There was overconfidence,” Khan told the national assembly on Wednesday while presenting the interim investigation report on the plane crash.The Airbus A320 aircraft from Lahore to Karachi crashed in a residential area near the Jinnah International Airport in Karachi on May 22. It was carrying 91 passengers and a crew of eight aboard before it crashed into the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir, minutes before landing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-30-of-pilots-in-pakistan-have-fake-licenses-not-unqualified-to-fly-pak-aviation-minister/story-hd6059ghP0kWDrfgsTi6TK.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Cash for favors’ row brings new trouble for UK PM Johnson||A member of Boris Johnson’s government and a “cash for favors” dispute he’s embroiled in has become the latest political headache for the premier after a difficult few months battling the coronavirus pandemic.Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick, under fire since it emerged that he approved a planning development from businessman Richard Desmond who later donated money to the Conservative Party, released documents Wednesday showing he’d exchanged text messages with Desmond prior to the decision.The UK’s main opposition Labour Party described the events as a “cash for favors” scandal. Jenrick told the House of Commons on Wednesday any allegations that his view on the construction project could have been swayed by meeting Desmond were “wrong” and “outrageous,” and said he knew “nothing” of the donation.The closeness of Jenrick’s contact with Desmond adds to the controversy around the episode, which has seen calls for his resignation and risks further damaging the popularity of Johnson’s Conservative Party. Despite winning a strong majority six months ago, the Tories’ poll standing has declined as the the U.K. has recorded one of the highest coronavirus death tolls in the world.Questions over Jenrick’s actions follow the backlash over Johnson’s key aide Dominic Cummings, who was the focus of a media frenzy and became a national talking point after allegedly breaking lockdown rules, as though there’s one rule for the governing elite and another for the masses.Labour accused Jenrick of rushing through approval of Desmond’s project -- a 500-apartment, 44-storey development at Westferry Printworks, a former printing plant in east London -- to help the businessman avoid paying a new community infrastructure levy that was to be imminently introduced. The charge would have cost Desmond at least 30 million pounds ($37 million).DonationA redacted email from a civil servant included in the documents published on Wednesday said Jenrick had been “insistent” on issuing a decision quickly, noting the upcoming tax change.Desmond made a 12,000 pounds donation to the Conservative Party two weeks after Jenrick issued the decision. Jenrick later reversed the decision after the local council sought a judicial review, conceding he had acted unlawfully.“He rushed through the decision specifically to help the developer,” Labour’s Shadow Secretary for Communities and Local Government Steve Reed said in a statement. “The public must be reassured that there is not one rule for the Conservatives and their wealthy donors and another rule for everyone else.”In a sign of Johnson wanting to move on from the Jenrick affair, the U.K.’s top civil servant Mark Sedwill sent Reed a letter on Wednesday stating that the prime minister considers the matter closed.Defending JenrickBusiness Minister Nadhim Zahawi defended Jenrick’s actions.“There is no smoking gun here,” he told the BBC. “The intention was to get more housing built quickly for people that really need it. But when there was a perception of bias, Robert Jenrick pulled this thing and will allow a different minister to decide.”Asked whether Desmond had enjoyed privileged access and what he would say to voters in the north of England who thought this looked unfair, Zahawi replied: “If people go to a fundraiser in their local area, Doncaster, for the Conservative Party they’ll be sitting next to MPs, other people in their local authority. They can interact with different parts of the authority.”Still, he insisted: “The access didn’t buy this billionaire a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cash-for-favors-row-brings-new-trouble-for-uk-pm-johnson/story-GWF5bR3K18bNCRmGTkJaaI.html
25-06-2020||World||Eiffel Tower reopens after a three-month coronavirus break||The Eiffel Tower on Thursday welcomed back visitors after the coronavirus outbreak forced the Paris landmark into its longest period out of action since World War Two.Strict hygiene and safety measures have been put in place for the re-opening.Visitors can access the 324 meters high (1,062 feet) tower only via staircases until early July, with elevators off-limits for the time being because of safety considerations. In addition, visitors are not allowed to go any higher than the second floor of the tower, and anyone over the age of 11 is required to wear a face covering.Managers say they hope to get operations fully back to normal later in the summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eiffel-tower-reopens-after-a-three-month-coronavirus-break/story-cVBYaRAKxKa4Ts5t8I0zhO.html
25-06-2020||World||16 vaccines against Covid-19 enter clinical evaluation stage, 125 candidates in preclinical evaluation: WHO’s draft landscape||With nearly 10 million Covid-19 patients across the globe and over 4.8 coronavirus fatalities, the need for a Covid-19 antidote becomes more urgent by the day.The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc.’s experimental vaccine, ChAdOx1-S, has become the first to enter the final stages of clinical trials against the coronavirus disease. But Oxford and AstraZeneca’s collaborative initiative is not the only one in the race to arrive at a potential Covid-19 vaccine. According to the World Health Organisation’s draft landscape of Covid-19 vaccines, there were 10 candidates in the advanced clinical trials and 115 in preclinical evaluation stages on June 12. On June 22, 13 experimental vaccines were there in clinical trials and another 129 in the preclinical evaluation stage. The latest WHO draft notifies 16 experimental vaccines to be in clinical trials and another 125 in the preclinical evaluation stage as of June 24.CanSino Biological Inc./Beijing Institute of Biotechnology; Moderna/NIAID; Wuhan Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm; Beijing Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm; Sinovac; Novavax; BioNTech/Fosun Pharma/Pfizer; Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences; Inovio Pharmaceuticals; Genexine Consortium; Gamaleya Research Institute; Clover Biopharmaceuticals Inc./GSK/Dynavax; Anhui Zhifei Longcom Biopharmaceutical/Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences; Imperial College London and Curevac are 15 other contenders who have their experimental vaccines in the clinical trials phase, WHO’s latest draft landscape states.Spearheading the effort to formulate a Covid-19 vaccine are US-based Moderna Inc. and China’s Sinovac Biotech - both will enter the final stage of trials next month. Beijing-based China National Biotec Group Co. is the latest to receive regulatory approval to conduct phase 3 trials of its Covid-19 vaccines in the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday.Indian companies are also partnering to develop vaccine candidates that are currently in the preclinical trial stages.Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnerships with US-biotech firm Codagenix, Austria’s Themis Bioscience and Oxford-AstraZeneca. Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad is working on three vaccine candidates. Delhi-based Panacea Biotec is partnering with Refana Inc. in the US to develop an inactivated whole virus vaccine. Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and Hyderabad-based India Immunologicals have also formed partnerships to develop Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16-vaccines-against-covid-19-enter-clinical-evaluation-stage-125-candidates-in-preclinical-evaluation-who-s-draft-landscape/story-I1eEsmXCXPYyCA1f3wwohM.html
25-06-2020||World||Lufthansa’s 6 billion-Euro German recapitalization gets EU nod||Deutsche Lufthansa AG won European Union approval to receive a 6 billion-euro ($6.75 billion) recapitalization from the German government, hours before shareholders vote on the rescue package that will dilute their stakes.The European Commission said in a statement on Thursday that Germany’s plan to take a 20% stake in Europe’s largest airline is in line with strict state-aid rules. The EU approval covers Germany’s 300 million-euro equity participation, a 4.7 billion-euro silent participation with features of a non-convertible equity instrument and a 1 billion-euro silent participation with the features of a non-convertible debt instrument.Germany’s bailout for Lufthansa overcame one major roadblock when the airline’s biggest stockholder said he’d vote in favor of the rescue package at a special shareholder meeting later Thursday. He had earlier criticized a steep discount being granted to the German government on a 20% stake, and held the votes to single-handedly stop the share sale.The EU approval comes with tight conditions to ensure the aid is repaid swiftly and Lufthansa doesn’t use taxpayer funding to expand its business. Ryanair Holdings Plc has already threatened legal action against the aid it says unfairly helps Lufthansa over other rivals in Germany.The aid approval doesn’t cover a 3 billion state loan guarantee that the EU says it will handle separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/lufthansa-s-6-billion-euro-german-recapitalization-gets-eu-nod/story-2bSvxUbgdbLWnaCWIzCGGJ.html
25-06-2020||World||25 Taliban terrorists killed in airstrike in Afghanistan’s Balkh province||As many as 25 Taliban terrorists have been killed in an airstrike in northern Balkh province of Afghanistan on Wednesday night.The airstrike occurred in Dawlat Abad village in Balkh district, TOLO news quoted Munir Ahmad Farhad, spokesperson for the provincial governor, as saying.According to local sources, the airforce had targeted a farmer’s house and during the strike four civilians, including a child and a woman, were killed.This claim, however, has been rejected by Farhad and other officials of the 209th Shaheen Military Corps.Taliban has not issued any statement on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/25-taliban-terrorists-killed-in-airstrike-in-afghanistan-s-balkh-province/story-KHzDNDAIW4NG83oeakFaQN.html
25-06-2020||World||Vote to extend Putin’s rule faces little protest in Russia||They’ve offered prizes ranging from gift certificates to cars and apartments. They’ve put up billboards and enlisted celebrities to urge a “yes” vote. They’ve encouraged state-run businesses like hospitals and schools to pressure employees to register at the polls.Russian authorities seem to be pulling out all the stops to get people to vote on constitutional amendments that would enable President Vladimir Putin to stay in office until 2036 by resetting the clock on his term limits.The country’s divided opposition, meanwhile, has failed to mobilize a significant protest amid the audacious election campaign and the weeklong voting that begins with early balloting Thursday. Instead, critics are raising questions about the vote’s legitimacy.“Nothing will prevent the Kremlin from getting the formal result they need,” said former Kremlin speechwriter-turned-political analyst Abbas Gallyamov.The amendments include a change in the constitution that would allow the 67-year-old Putin, who has ruled Russia for over two decades, to run for two more six-year terms after his current one expires in 2024. Other amendments talk about improving social benefits and effectively ban same-sex marriage, tapping into the country’s social conservatism and concerns about plummeting incomes.The amendments have already been approved by both houses of parliament, the country’s Constitutional Court and were signed into law by Putin, and the vote is seen as an effort to put a veneer of democracy on the controversial changes. Putin says he’s sure the “absolute majority” of Russians approve of them.According to the Levada independent polling center, 44% of Russians said in late May they would vote “yes,” and 32% would vote “no” but only 25% of the “no” respondents planned to vote.“Those who don’t support the amendments are not mobilized. (They are) demoralized and don’t know what to do,” said Denis Volkov, a sociologist with the Levada Center.The opposition has sent mixed signals. Its best-known figure, Alexei Navalny, has dismissed the vote as illegitimate, saying it doesn’t make sense to participate, even if voting against the amendments.“Do you want to go and vote ‘no’? This strategy seems naive and a bit laughable to me. But if that’s what your heart wants - go and vote ‘no.’ The main thing is to not recognize (the vote’s legitimacy), because it’s a scam,” Navalny said on his YouTube channel.Navalny’s team has backed a strike by election workers who don’t want to risk contracting coronavirus at polling stations. But the strikers admit they haven’t gained much traction -- an open letter has so far gathered a little over 500 signatures. In Moscow alone, there are about 2,000 workers, said Sergei Lebedev, who signed the letter, adding that he had expected more support.“Reporters often ask whether we want to derail the vote. Of course not,” he said, adding he doubted that enough poll workers would strike.The vote was set for April but was postponed due to the pandemic. Putin rescheduled the vote to conclude by July 1, saying that Russia has passed the peak of its outbreak, even as the number of new infections still hovers around 9,000 a day.Some Moscow politicians and journalists launched a “No!” campaign against the amendments, but the virus lockdown prohibited rallies, and authorities have detained even single pickets.Most of the operations took place online. Live YouTube rallies and hashtag campaigns on social media revealed that a significant number of people don’t support the amendments, said Yulia Galyamina, one of the founders of “No!” However, she admitted it could not compete with the Kremlin’s operation.“Society is under the influence of ubiquitous (state) propaganda. We have neither the resources, nor the opportunity, to organize propaganda of this scale,” Galyamina said.The biggest problem vote organizers face is turnout — luring people to the polls after weeks of coronavirus lockdowns and at a time when public support for Putin is dwindling: In April and May, his traditionally high approval ratings reached an all-time low of 59%, according to the Levada Center.Authorities have turned to using incentives. In the Siberian Krasnoyarsk region, a constitutional quiz has been organized — conveniently near polling stations — with top prizes of a car or an apartment. Moscow authorities have allocated 10 billion rubles ($145 million) for gift certificates to shops and restaurants for voters.There also have been appeals to patriotism and even homophobia. One video used gay stereotypes to promote the message that without the amendments, same-sex couples would be able to adopt children.Critics say the way the vote has been organized leaves room for manipulation and fraud. To keep big crowds from forming, polls will be open for seven days through July 1. It’s not clear who will keep an eye on ballot boxes during regular disinfection breaks, when everyone, including poll workers and monitors, must leave the premises.There also will be fewer independent monitors because more bureaucratic hurdles have been added.Online voting has also been allowed in the Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod regions, which have a combined population of nearly 16 million.“The whole procedure from start to finish is aimed at covering up rigging, which will be very convenient to carry out,” says Grigory Melkonyants, co-chair of the independent election monitoring group Golos.Critics say those tactics reflect the government’s struggle to mobilize supporters. They note that social media posts from celebrities supporting the amendments have been flooded with comments against them.The opposition has shifted its focus to exposing potential vote fraud. (AP) PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vote-to-extend-putin-s-rule-faces-little-protest-in-russia/story-Ihy1fp2RPZIOSAPDbVMQFI.html
25-06-2020||World||Covid-19 cases top 1.92 lakh-mark in Pakistan, toll nears 4,000||The coronavirus cases in Pakistan crossed the 192,000-mark after 4,044 new COVID-19 infections were detected in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Thursday.According to the ministry of national health services, 148 more people died due to the deadly virus in the country, taking the death toll to 3,903. With the detection of 4,044 new cases in the last 24 hours, the coronavirus tally in the country now stands at 192,970, it said. Sindh reported maximum number of 74,070 infections, followed by 71,191 in Punjab, 23,887 in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, 11,710 in Islamabad, 9,817 in Balochistan, 1,365 in Gilgit-Baltistan and 930 in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. A total of 81,307 patients have recovered so far from the disease.Health authorities have so far conducted 1,171,976 coronavirus tests, including 21,835 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-top-1-92-lakh-mark-in-pakistan-toll-nears-4-000/story-6mEX3AxpymRTPurfwSqRmO.html
25-06-2020||World||New Zealand’s Jacinda Ardern holds big poll lead as election looms||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern continues to hold a sizable lead over the opposition ahead of an election in September, though recent bungles at the border may have eroded some of her support, a new poll shows.Ardern’s Labour Party was on 50% in a 1News/Colmar Brunton poll published Thursday in Wellington, down from 59% in the same survey just over a month ago. The main opposition National Party was on 38%, up from 29%, after it changed its leader. The election will be held Sept. 19.Ardern’s support may have been hurt by recent revelations that New Zealand’s border controls have been too lax, allowing two women with Covid-19 to exit quarantine early to attend a family funeral without being tested. National’s change of leader to Todd Muller from Simon Bridges is also helping to rekindle its support.Still, if the poll results were replicated on election night Ardern’s party could govern alone. That is an unlikely outcome in New Zealand’s proportional representation electoral system, which lends itself to coalition governments.Labour’s current coalition partner New Zealand First was on 2%, well below the 5% required to return to parliament. However, its ally the Green Party was on 6%, giving the center-left a robust margin over the center-right.The poll was conducted June 20-24 and had a margin of error of 3.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-jacinda-ardern-holds-big-poll-lead-as-election-looms/story-ma9E1J4zA9avazWe6smXyI.html
25-06-2020||World||Japan confirms plans to cancel deployment of US missile defence system||Japan’s National Security Council has endorsed plans cancel the deployment of two costly land-based US missile defence systems aimed at bolstering the country’s capability against threats from North Korea, the country’s defence minister said Thursday.The council made its decision Wednesday, and now the government will need to enter negotiations with the US. about what to do with payments and the purchase contract already made for the Aegis Ashore systems.The council is expected to also revise Japan’s basic defence plan later this year to update the missile defence program and scale up the country’s defence posture.Defence Minister Taro Kono announced the plan to scrap the systems earlier this month after it was found that the safety of one of the two planned host communities could not be ensured without a hardware redesign that would be too time consuming and costly.The Japanese government in 2017 approved adding the two Aegis Ashore systems to enhance the country’s current defenses consisting of Aegis-equipped destroyers at sea and Patriot missiles on land.Defence officials have said the two Aegis Ashore units could cover Japan entirely from one station at Yamaguchi in the south and another at Akita in the north.The plan to deploy the two systems already had faced a series of setbacks, including questions about the selection of one of the sites, repeated cost estimate hikes that climbed to 450 billion yen ($4.1 billion) for their 30-year operation and maintenance, and safety concerns that led to local opposition.Kono said Japan has signed contract worth nearly half the total cost and paid part of it to the U.S.Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has steadily pushed to step up Japan’s defence capability, said last week that in light of the scrapping the government would need to reconsider Japan’s missile defence program and do more under the country’s security alliance with the US.Abe said the government would consider the possibility of acquiring pre-emptive strike capability, a controversial plan that critics say would violate Japan’s war-renouncing Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-confirms-plans-to-cancel-deployment-of-us-missile-defence-system/story-EOmkAqLBBK4rEqqy8fqZnK.html
25-06-2020||World||Vietnam’s PM says nation is in no rush to open its doors||Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc says the country will not rush to open its borders to foreigners as it strives to prevent a second wave of the novel coronavirus outbreak that has hit other countries, according to a post on the government’s website.Phuc said the country is not going to open up to tourists yet and the travel of foreign experts, high-level workers and investors into Vietnam will be closely monitored, according to the post. Allowing Vietnamese people to work abroad will also be watched closely.“There is no story of rushing to open the doors,” Phuc said, adding that those allowed to enter Vietnam must continue to adhere to isolation requirements.Vietnam said earlier this month that it is considering the resumption of some international flights to and from destinations that have had no novel coronavirus cases in the past 30 days, according to a statement on the government’s website. Officials have also discussed some flights between Vietnam and countries such as China, South Korea and Japan.Vietnam’s aviation authority has cautioned against the gradual resumption of international flights until the fourth quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-s-pm-says-nation-is-in-no-rush-to-open-its-doors/story-eWTfb2V4uZw6fFXpjSyt6O.html
25-06-2020||World||With a jab at Donald Trump, Nancy Pelosi unveils new ‘Obamacare’ bill||Flicking a dismissive jab at president Donald Trump, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled a plan Wednesday to expand “Obamacare,” even as Trump’s administration is about to file arguments in a Supreme Court case to strike it down.Pelosi announced an upcoming floor vote on her measure, setting up a debate that will juxtapose the Democrats’ top policy issue, Trump’s unrelenting efforts to dismantle Obama’s legacy, and the untamed coronavirus pandemic.On Thursday, the Trump administration is expected to file papers with the Supreme Court arguing that the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional.Pelosi wants her bill on the House floor Monday. Trying to overturn a health insurance expansion providing coverage to about 20 million people “was wrong any time,” Pelosi said.“Now, it is beyond stupid,” she added. “Beyond stupid.” Covid-19 cases are rising in major states like Texas, Florida and California, and millions of workers who have lost coverage in the economic shutdown to contain the virus can rely on the health law as a backup.The White House said Pelosi is just playing politics. “Instead of diving back into partisan games, Democrats should continue to work with the president on these important issues and ensuring our country emerges from this pandemic stronger than ever,” spokesman Judd Deere said Wednesday in a statement.Pelosi’s legislation has no chance in the Republican-controlled Senate. Her bill would expand subsidies, allowing more people to qualify for coverage under the ACA.It would financially squeeze some states that have refused to expand Medicaid under the health law.And it would empower Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices — a position Trump once favoured but later abandoned.It would also undo the Trump administration’s expansion of short-term insurance plans that don’t have to cover preexisting medical conditions, something Democrats say will undermine a central achievement of the ACA.Democrats won control of the House in 2018 on their defense of the health care law. Since then, that chamber has voted on most of the measures in Pelosi’s plan in one form or another.But, as underscored in a memo last month led by Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chair Cheri Bustos, D-Ill., the broader goal is to make Republicans squirm.“Republicans at all levels own this lawsuit’s attack on Americans’ health care,” said the memo.“They will be held responsible for their party-wide obsession with throwing our health care system into chaos and stripping health care from 20 million Americans during a global pandemic.” Obama’s law has grown more popular since Trump’s unsuccessful effort to repeal it in 2017, when Republicans controlled both the House and Senate.In May, a poll from the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation found that 51 per cent of Americans view “Obamacare” favourably while 41 per cent have unfavourable views.An earlier Kaiser poll found also found that nearly 6 in 10 are worried they or someone in their family will lose coverage if the Supreme Court overturns either the entire law or its protections for people with preexisting medical conditions.In the case before the court, Texas and other conservative-led states argue that the ACA was essentially rendered unconstitutional after Congress passed tax legislation in 2017 that eliminated the law’s unpopular fines for not having health insurance, but left in place its requirement that virtually all Americans have coverage.The conservative states argued that elimination of the fines made the law’s so-called individual mandate unconstitutional.US District Judge Reed O’Connor in Texas agreed, adding that the mandate was so central to the law that without it the rest must also fall.The Trump administration’s views on the law have shifted over time, but it has always supported getting rid of provisions that prohibit insurance companies from discriminating against people on account of their medical history.Nonetheless, Trump has repeatedly assured Americans that people with preexisting conditions would still be protected.Neither the White House nor congressional Republicans have specified how. A federal appeals court in New Orleans found the health law’s insurance requirement to be unconstitutional, but made no decision on such popular provisions as protections for people with preexisting conditions, Medicaid expansion and coverage for young adults up to age 26 on their parents’ policies.It sent the case back to O’Connor to determine whether other parts of the law can be separated from the insurance requirement, and remain in place.Democratic-led states supporting the ACA appealed to the Supreme Court. It’s unclear if the court will hear oral arguments before the November election.A decision is unlikely until next year. The court has twice upheld the law, with Chief Justice John Roberts memorably siding with the court’s liberals in 2012, amid Obama’s reelection campaign.The majority that upheld the law twice remains on the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-a-jab-at-donald-trump-nancy-pelosi-unveils-new-obamacare-bill/story-ojfBkjKLlXf1UtFxRU6tfI.html
25-06-2020||World||CEPI finds manufacturing capacity for 4 bn doses of coronavirus vaccines||An influential foundation focused on preparation and response to epidemics that is backing nine potential coronavirus vaccines has identified manufacturers with capacity to produce four billion doses a year, the group’s top manufacturing expert told Reuters.The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation (CEPI)plans to have two or three manufacturing plants for each vaccine, James Robinson, a longtime biopharma executive leading CEPI’S vast manufacturing push, said in an interview.“Right now, we know we can do the two billion doses that we have as our kind of our minimum target” by the end of 2021, he said. Also Read: Oxford vaccine against Covid-19 in final stage of clinical trialsThe group is planning for eight to 10 regional distribution sites “so that we don’t have to make everything centrally and try and ship it around the world,” he said.Even with no existing approved vaccines, CEPI is already getting manufacturing and supply chains lined up in a quest to ensure coronavirus vaccines are distributed equitably around the globe.The Oslo, Norway-based group is backed by 14 governments, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and Britain’s Wellcome Trust.CEPI has deployed up to $829 million so far in the search for a COVID-19 vaccine through partnerships with nine developers, with the hope that at least some will be successful.Also Read: Covid-19 updates: South Africa begins first trials for Covid-19 vaccineThey are Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc, the University of Queensland with CSL Ltd, CureVac, Moderna Inc with U.S. government backing, Novavax Inc, the University of Oxford with AstraZeneca, Clover Biopharmaceuticals, the University of Hong Kong, and a consortium led by Institut Pasteur and including the University of Pittsburgh and Themis Bioscience, which was recently purchased by Merck & Co.Robinson said CEPI has taken initial steps toward securing manufacturing capacity with more than 200 biopharma or sterile vaccine production companies.“Most people don’t believe that four billion is possible. I do,” he said. Robinson, a manufacturing consultant who has worked at some of the world’s biggest vaccine companies including Sanofi and Merck, said his group has done “matchmaking” based on manufacturers’ capabilities and the specific needs of the various vaccines.Effective vaccines are seen as critical to stopping a pandemic that has infected more than 9.3 million people and killed nearly 480,000 globally with little sign of letting up.CEPI is taking care to ensure that the work to produce a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 does not sideline other critical vaccines. That has been a particular concern in less developed countries, Robinson said.‘ALL HAS TO BE BUILT FROM SCRATCH’Manufacturing capacity has been easier to locate for vaccine candidates that employ traditional technology. But three of the candidates CEPI is backing involve more complex mRNA- or DNA-based technology.Since there has never been a licensed vaccine using those approaches, no network of contract manufacturers exists to support high-volume production, Robinson said. “The capacity just isn’t there and it all has to be built from scratch,” he said. Access to medical glass is another known bottleneck. To overcome it, CEPI has purchased enough glass vials for two billion doses and is considering purchasing more.“We don’t want vials to be the reason we don’t have enough vaccine,” he said.CEPI is keeping packaging products it chooses uniform, so it can fill vials and finish packaging for any of the vaccines, rather than tailoring them to individual products. They have done the same with rubber stoppers that seal the vials and aluminum flip caps to cover them.“Some companies are choosing not to use our network ... and they’re also purchasing their own vials,” Robinson said. That will allow more capacity for smaller biotechs and university labs that do not have sophisticated supply chains.One other massive challenge facing CEPI is the need to work with dozens, if not scores, of regulators globally.“Each regulatory agency could ask for something different, so our job is a bit more complex,” Robinson said. A CEPI regulatory working group has been looking into ways to try to standardize requirements to the extent possible, Robinson said. “But then each of the countries that receive the vaccine also need to license it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cepi-finds-manufacturing-capacity-for-4-bn-doses-of-coronavirus-vaccines/story-w9ivn8E6FDE850K2SHjn2I.html
25-06-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson terms India-China faceoff ‘very serious, worrying’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called on India and China to engage in dialogue to sort out their border issues as he described the escalation in eastern Ladakh as “a very serious and worrying situation” which the UK is closely monitoring. The first official statement of Johnson came during his weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) in the House of Commons here on Wednesday. Responding to Conservative Party MP Flick Drummond on the implications for British interests of a dispute between a “Commonwealth member and the world’s largest democracy on the one side, and a state that challenges our notion of democracy on the other,” he described the escalation in eastern Ladakh as “a very serious and worrying situation”, which the UK is “monitoring closely”.Also Read: China’s dragon act on LAC to be decoded by General Naravane in high-level meet today “Perhaps the best thing I can say… is that we are encouraging both parties to engage in dialogue on the issues on the border and sort it out between them,” the Prime Minister said. In a statement in New Delhi on Wednesday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India and China have agreed that expeditious implementation of the previously agreed understanding on disengagement of troops from standoff points in eastern Ladakh would help ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas.Also Read: At 4-hr long India-China border talks, focus on de-escalation and disengagement During the diplomatic talks between India and China, the situation in the region was discussed in detail and the Indian side conveyed its concerns over the violent face-off in Galwan Valley on June 15. Twenty Indian Army personnel were killed in the clash. The talks were held in the midst of escalating tension between the two countries following the violent clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-terms-india-china-faceoff-worrying-situation-calls-for-dialogue/story-EXYepty3Kq66MIYiEgMLHI.html
25-06-2020||World||Divided Koreas mark 70 years since war began, but no treaty in sight||Seventy years after the Korean War began, prospects for a peace treaty to officially end the conflict appear as distant as ever, as the two Koreas held low-key commemorations on Thursday amid heightened tension on the peninsula.The 1950-1953 Korean War ended in an armistice rather than a peace treaty, leaving US-led UN forces technically still at war with North Korea. South Korean leaders in 1953 opposed the idea of a truce that left the peninsula divided and were not signatories to the armistice.South Korean veterans of the war were due to gather to commemorate the anniversary, including at one event where US President Donald Trump and other international leaders were expected to deliver video messages.North Korea’s ruling party newspaper ran a front-page commentary calling for people to follow in the footsteps of those who fought to defend the nation.“Several decades have passed, but the danger of war has never left this soil,” the newspaper said, blaming “hostile forces” for seeking to crush North Korea.Two years ago, a flurry of diplomacy and summits between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and the presidents of the United States, South Korea, and China raised hopes that even if the North’s nuclear arsenal was undiminished, the parties might agree to officially end the technical state of war.Those hopes have been dashed, however, with North Korea accusing the United States and South Korea of clinging to hostile policies, and Washington pressing Pyongyang to abandon its growing arsenal of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles.A series of follow-up meetings and working-level talks failed to close the gap between the two old enemies, and North Korea has taken an increasingly confrontational tone, resuming short-range missile launches, blowing up an inter-Korean liaison office and severing communication hotlines with South Korea.On Wednesday, North Korea said it had decided to suspend plans for unspecified military action against South Korea, but warned it to “think and behave wisely”.Historians have estimated the war may have caused as many as 1 million military deaths and killed several million civilians. Thousands of families were divided with little contact as the heavily fortified Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) cut the peninsula in two.“The unresolved state of the Korean War has had devastating consequences for Koreans, from the separation of thousands of families to the extreme militarization of the Korean Peninsula,” said Christine Ahn, international coordinator for WomenCrossDMZ, a group that advocates for peace in Korea.Despite misgivings from many in the United States, South Korean officials are pushing more forcefully for an end to the armistice arrangement, saying that it appreciates the role of the United Nations Command, South Korea’s alliance with the United States should evolve with the times.“It is time for Korea to take centre stage in maintaining its own peace and security, by ending the current state of armistice and establishing a permanent peace regime on the Korean peninsula,” South Korea’s Vice Foreign Minister Cho Sei-young said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/divided-koreas-mark-70-years-since-war-began-but-no-treaty-in-sight/story-8Fr9QszNTLvRD3XRFenBpL.html
25-06-2020||World||Democracy under threat during pandemic, global leaders warn||Over 500 political and civil society leaders, Nobel laureates and rights groups, on Thursday warned that some governments were using the coronavirus pandemic to “tighten their grip on power,” undermining democracy and civil liberties.In an open letter signed by former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, actor Richard Gere and Nobel Peace Prize laureates Shirin Ebadi, Lech Walesa and Jose Ramos-Horta, among others, the authors called the ongoing pandemic a “formidable global challenge to democracy.”“Democracy is under threat, and people who care about it must summon the will, the discipline, and the solidarity to defend it,” the authors wrote. “At stake are the freedom, health, and dignity of people everywhere.”The letter -- the aim of which is to raise “awareness and mobilise citizens” -- was initiated by the Stockholm-based International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA).“Just as the pandemic is already having massive economic and social consequences, it is very likely already having very profound political consequences,” Kevin Casas-Zamora, the organisation’s secretary general, told AFP.Stressing that it was still early days and the full impact on democracy would have to be evaluated later, Casas-Zamora noted there were already worrying signs.Casas-Zamora pointed to “cases like Hungary where basically the emergency powers invoked by the government had no expiration date.”Those powers were lifted however by a unanimous vote in parliament on June 16 that took effect the following day.Casas-Zamora pointed also to Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte’s expansion of emergency powers and El Salvador’s use of detention centres as other causes for concern.Noting that emergency powers were a “legitimate part of the arsenal” of democratic governments to deal with exceptional circumstances, Casas-Zamora said the exercise of those powers had to be “proportional to the emergency.” Speaking of how to balance strict measures such as lockdowns with protecting liberties, he noted that it was still hard to gauge exactly which strategy was most efficient.As a result, it was important to not fixate on whether you had the “correct” policy but instead on whether you could adjust that policy. “There’s a greater chance of finding that right balance if you are able to experiment and able to correct and adjust your public policies,” Casas-Zamora said.Another worry was that not only would some governments overreach with their policies, people would also become “numb” to those types of overreaches when gripped by fear of the disease.“A fearful citizenry tolerates that and becomes used to a more constrained space to exercise their fundamental rights,” Casas-Zamora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democracy-under-threat-during-pandemic-global-leaders-warn/story-s1p8vEJ5mdvStzOVWoRBnJ.html
25-06-2020||World||Despite ‘higher than anticipated’ spike, Turkey not considering Covid-19 lockdowns||Turkey isn’t considering tightening its lockdown restrictions even though the number of daily coronavirus infections registered since they were eased is “higher than anticipated,” the health minister has said. Speaking to reporters following the weekly meeting of the country’s scientific advisory council, Fahrettin Koca blamed the uptick in cases on widespread complacency and failure to comply with social distancing. “We can say that the numbers are higher than what we anticipated,” Koca said. “We see that many people are under the perception that we have returned to normal. This perception must rapidly be deactivated,” he said. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereTurkey has witnessed an increase in the daily number of infections after the government authorised cafes, restaurants, gyms, parks, beaches and museums to reopen and eased stay-at-home orders for the elderly and young at the start of June. The country has been registering average daily infections of around 1,260 since June 12, up from around 800 to 900 previously. Koca on Wednesday reported 1,492 new confirmed cases in the past 24 hours, bringing the total infections registered in the country since March to 191,657. He also said there were 24 new Covid-19 deaths, taking the total to 5,025. Last week, Koca said the resurgence of cases following the easing of restrictions were within expected limits. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On Wednesday, the Interior Ministry said more than 7,000 people were fined for failing to wear masks on Monday and Tuesday — the first two days that Turkey started imposing fines in 62 provinces where the wearing of masks has been made mandatory in public spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-higher-than-anticipated-spike-turkey-not-considering-covid-19-lockdowns/story-igZ24B86uIeAb92tHQSNAN.html
25-06-2020||World||US immigration agency prepares for laying off more than 13k employees||The US agency in charge of processing immigration applications said on Wednesday it was preparing to furlough nearly 70% of its workforce unless it received fresh funding, a move employees say could bring an already backlogged system to a virtual halt.US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is dependent on fees from new immigration applications for its operations and is facing a historic budget shortfall.Republican President Donald Trump has made cutting legal and illegal immigration a centerpiece of his 2020 re-election campaign. New regulations and a series of executive actions, along with travel restrictions put in place in response to the coronavirus pandemic, have dramatically reduced the number of immigrants coming to the United States. A USCIS spokesperson said in a statement that the agency has already seen a 50% drop in fees since March when most travel and immigration stopped as countries moved to control the spread of coronavirus. USCIS has asked for a $1.2 billion bailout from Congress to avoid the projected staff reductions.“On or before July 2, approximately 13,400 USCIS employees will receive notice that if USCIS must proceed with an administrative furlough, they would be furloughed beginning August 3,” the USCIS spokesperson’s statement said. The furloughs, if implemented, “will for sure cause noticeable delays immediately,” said one USCIS employee who asked not to be named because they were not authorized to speak on the record. “There are already so many backlogs to work through. It’s insane to even contemplate how bad this is going to get.” The staff of the Refugee, Asylum and International Operations division of USCIS was informed in an email seen by Reuters that notices were being sent on July 24 and 25 to approximately 1,500 employees of the 2,200 on staff in that unit. Those kept on would be a “skeleton crew” to “keep the lights on,” the email said.On Monday, Trump signed a presidential proclamation banning entry for several categories of temporary visa holders and extended a ban on some green card applicants, which the administration said would help open more jobs for unemployed Americans. Critics say the measures will hurt the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-immigration-agency-prepares-for-laying-off-more-than-13k-employees/story-WWFv5vxAJWM3ohf5t2a9FM.html
25-06-2020||World||Newborn Mexican triplets have coronavirus, but parents do not||Mexican health authorities are trying to understand how a set of newborn triplets became infected with the novel coronavirus even though neither one of their parents tested positive for the virus. Health authorities called the case “unheard of.”The triplets, a girl and two boys, were tested four hours after being born at 7-1/2 months last week in the central state San Luis Potosi, health authorities said. Initially, health authorities said the mother was believed to be an asymptomatic carrier of the virus. But her tests later showed that neither she nor the father were infected. “The parents’ results are negative, which catches our attention,” said Monica Rangel, secretary of health for the state, during a news conference on Tuesday.“We specifically requested since yesterday ... that a group of experts investigates the case.”Two of the babies born on June 17 are in good health and show no symptoms of Covid-19, doctors treating the triplets said, while the third one has pneumonia but is in stable condition.Rangel said the triplets will remain hospitalized and under observation.Mexico has reported more than 190,000 coronavirus cases and a total of 23,377 deaths, making it seventh in most virus-related deaths in the world, according to a Reuters tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/newborn-mexican-triplets-have-coronavirus-but-parents-do-not/story-83GknMghqPCBDCNq1i7ezL.html
25-06-2020||World||Trump administration says Huawei, Hikvision backed by China’s PLA: Report||The Trump administration has determined that top Chinese firms, including telecoms equipment giant Huawei Technologies and video surveillance company Hikvision, are owned or controlled by the Chinese military, laying the groundwork for new US financial sanctions, according to a document seen by Reuters on Wednesday.A US defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the authenticity of the document and said it had been sent to Congress. Washington placed Huawei on a trade blacklist last year over national security concerns and has led an international campaign to convince allies to exclude it from their 5G networks.The list of 20 companies that Washington alleges are backed by the Chinese military and operate in the United States was first reported by Reuters. It also includes China Mobile Communications Group and China Telecommunications Corp as well as aircraft manufacturer Aviation Industry Corp of China. The designations were drawn up by the Defense Department, which was mandated by a 1999 law to compile a list of Chinese military companies operating in the United States, including those “owned or controlled” by the People’s Liberation Army that provide commercial services, manufacture, produce or export. The Pentagon’s designations do not trigger penalties, but the law says the president may impose sanctions that could include blocking all property of the listed parties.Huawei, Hikvision, China Mobile, China Telecom, AVIC and the Chinese Embassy in Washington did not respond to requests for comment. The Pentagon has come under pressure from lawmakers of both US political parties to publish the list, amid rising tensions between Washington and Beijing over technology, trade and foreign policy.Last September, top US Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer, Republican Senator Tom Cotton and Republican Representative Mike Gallagher penned a letter to Defense Secretary Mark Esper raising concerns about Beijing’s enlisting of Chinese corporations to harness emerging civilian technologies for military purposes.“Will you commit to updating and publicly releasing this list as soon as possible?” they asked in the letter.On Wednesday, Cotton and Gallagher praised DOD for releasing the list and urging the president to impose economic penalties against the firms. The White House did not comment on whether it would sanction the companies on the list, but said it saw it as “a useful tool for the US Government, companies, investors, academic institutions, and likeminded partners to conduct due diligence with regard to partnerships with these entities, particularly as the list grows.”The list will likely add to tensions between the world’s two largest economies, which have been at loggerheads over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic and China’s move to impose security legislation on Hong Kong, among multiple points of friction that have worsened this year. Last week, China threatened retaliation after President Donald Trump signed legislation calling for sanctions over the repression of China’s Uighurs.The list “is a start, but woefully inadequate to warn the American people about the state-owned and -directed companies that support the Chinese government and Communist Party’s activities threatening US economic and national security,” Republican Senator Marco Rubio, who sponsored the Uighur bill, said in a statement. SPOTLIGHT ON US TIESThe list will also turn a spotlight on US companies’ ties to the Chinese firms as well as their operations in the United States. In 2012, US-based General Electric Co set up a 50/50 avionics joint venture with AVIC, known as Aviage Systems, to supply equipment for China’s C919 passenger jet. The Defense Department list also includes China Railway Construction Corp, China Aerospace Science and Industry Corp (CASIC), as well as CRRC, the world’s largest maker of passenger trains, which has clinched contracts in Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago and Los Angeles by underbidding rivals.The companies did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Many of the companies listed are already in the crosshairs of US regulators. Both Huawei and Hikvision were added to a Commerce Department blacklist last year, which forces their US suppliers to seek licenses before selling to them. In April, the US Justice Department and other federal agencies called on the Federal Communications Commission to revoke China Telecom (Americas) Corp’s authorization to provide international telecommunications services to and from the United States. The telecoms regulator rejected a similar request by China Mobile last year that had been pending for years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-says-huawei-hikvision-backed-by-china-s-pla-report/story-ikNTsUdqkoRkqzFxtfkLSM.html
25-06-2020||World||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange accused of conspiring with ‘anonymous’ hackers||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange conspired with hackers affiliated with the “Anonymous” and “LulzSec” groups, which have been linked to numerous cyber attacks around the world, according to new indictment by the US Justice Department.Assange, who’s detained in the UK on a US extradition request, gave the leader of LulzSec a list of targets to hack in 2012 and told this person that the most influential release of hacked materials would be from the Central Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency or the New York Times, according to a statement Wednesday from the Justice Department.The LulzSec leader was cooperating with the Federal Bureau of Investigation at the time, according to the statement.An Anonymous and LulzSec-affiliated hacker stole emails through a data breach of an American intelligence consulting company that were published in WikiLeaks, according to the statement. Assange indirectly asked that hacker to spam that company again, the US said.The indictment released Wednesday doesn’t add new charges against Assange but broadens the conspiracy allegations against him, according to the Justice Department. The indictment continues to allege that Assange conspired with Army Intelligence Analyst Chelsea Manning to crack a password hash to a classified US Department of Defense computer, the US said.The US has charged Assange with endangering national security by conspiring to obtain and disclose classified information. He’s accused of working with Manning to get classified documents from databases containing about 90,000 Afghanistan war-related activity reports, 400,000 Iraq war-related reports and 250,000 State Department cables.The docket in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, doesn’t list a lawyer representing Assange in the criminal case. The UK firm representing Assange in the extradition proceeding didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment on the new indictment sent outside regular business hours.The case is US v. Assange, 18-cr-00111, US District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wikileaks-founder-julian-assange-accused-of-conspiring-with-anonymous-hackers/story-SO8wPPwuISBZNDYVnrOyqI.html
25-06-2020||World||US senator seeks entry fee hike for national parks, draws analogy to Taj Mahal||An influential US Senator has moved a legislation seeking to charge an additional fee between USD 16 and USD 25 from foreign nationals visiting the country’s national parks, arguing India does the same for monuments like the Taj Mahal. Such a proposal as an amendment to the Great American Outdoors Act moved by Senator Mike Enzi is aimed to generate the much-needed fund required to maintain and upgrade several of the top monuments and national parks in the US. To address the current maintenance backlog of parks, it would cost nearly USD 12 billion, according to National Park Service. In comparison, last year, the entire budget for the National Park Service was USD 4.1 billion. The amendment is completely offset and provides a permanent solution, the Senator said. “The way that my amendment works is by asking our foreign visitors, who as the numbers show are increasingly enjoying our parks, to pay USD 16 or USD 25 more when entering the country,” Enzi said. According to a study by US Travel Association, nearly 40 per cent of people who come to the US from abroad are visiting one of the national parks. That’s over 14 million people who come from abroad and visit national parks, he said. “It’s great that people from all over the world recognise the value in these national treasures, but this increased visitation is adding to the maintenance backlog and it is only fair that we ask them to help maintain these national treasures,” he said. Enzi said that there was nothing novel about the concept as anyone who has visited an attraction outside the US has probably encountered such fees in one way or another. “For example, foreign visitors at the Taj Mahal in India will pay an USD 18 fee, compared to a fee of only 56 cents for local visitors. At Kruger National Park in South Africa, visitors from outside the country will pay a USD 25 fee per day, compared to a USD 6.25 fee for local visitors,” Enzi said. Many European countries like Spain, France, and Italy charge a tourist tax on hotels rooms that is used to pay for tourism infrastructure, he added. Enzi proposed to increase the domestic fee as well. “No one likes to pay more for things, especially during times like these, but to maintain these national treasures for future generations, we either borrow money and put it on the national credit card or we take some modest steps to address the issues responsibly,” he said. “My amendment only raises entrance fee by USD 5 and annual passes by USD 20, so bringing a vehicle into a park would still be cheaper than taking a family of four to a movie or visiting an amusement park for a day,” Enzi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senator-seeks-entry-fee-hike-for-national-parks-draws-analogy-to-taj-mahal/story-qaW34B05fSaunqm0JrHmmI.html
25-06-2020||World||UK government advised to harness Covid-19 pandemic to speed zero-carbon aims||From creating jobs in home insulation to hiking dirty fuel taxes and expanding electric-vehicle charging, Britain’s government should harness the Covid-19 pandemic to accelerate cuts in planet-heating emissions, an advisory panel said on Thursday.With public support for low-carbon shifts growing and the state spending billions to boost its flagging economy, now is “a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” to ramp up the transition, said John Gummer, chair of Britain’s Committee on Climate Change.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“If we are to emerge successfully from Covid-19, there is only one route and that route is one that enables us also to fight climate change,” said the head of the independent advisory body, which released its annual progress report on Thursday.That document said Britain was moving toward its commitment, made a year ago, to produce no more emissions than it can offset or store by 2050 - but steps so far “do not yet measure up to the size of the net-zero challenge”.To speed up action, the government should use the coronavirus crisis - including fresh public concern about unexpected risks and willingness to change behaviour - to push ahead on new climate-smart policies, the report said.Those should include retrofitting homes and buildings to make them more energy-efficient, which would provide work in all regions, it noted, as well as strengthening the electricity supply network to support increased use of renewable power.The country’s emerging electric-vehicle charging network should be rapidly expanded, and only new vehicles that are zero emissions sold by 2032, it said. Work on flood defences, as climate risks rise, should also be brought forward, it urged.Efforts to train workers for low-carbon jobs, to ensure a fair green transition, should be a priority, along with protecting nature through more forest protection and tree planting, and better managing agricultural land, it added.Even improving Britain’s broadband network - to enable more people to work at home - could have big climate benefits, said Chris Stark, chief executive of the Committee on Climate Change.And hiking fossil fuel taxes now while oil prices are low could raise $15 billion over the next decade in badly needed new tax revenue - and help push people towards low-carbon alternatives, he said.“We are not short of ideas of what can be done here,” Stark told an online briefing, noting many of the proposed changes “stack up on straight economic grounds” as well as making sense for climate action.Renewable power - in large part from offshore wind - is now the cheapest electricity option in Britain, he said, one reason the country’s emissions dropped by more than 3% last year even as global emissions continued to rise.With Britain moving to the final stage of leaving the European Union at the end of 2020, clean power could be one pillar of its new post-Brexit identity, he said.“We’re almost at the point where you can envision an energy system based on renewables, especially wind, and no one blinks when you say it. It’s absolutely amazing,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in an interview.‘WIN-WIN’Adair Turner, a senior fellow at the Institute for New Economic Thinking, a New York-based think-tank, said government spending on things from renewable energy to home retrofits and tree planting could quickly create jobs while curbing emissions.“This is a clear win-win opportunity which must be seized,” he said in a statement.Camilla Toulmin, a senior associate with the London-based International Institute for Environment and Development, said Britain - host of the delayed COP26 U.N. climate talks - could not afford “a slowdown or delay to climate action in 2020”.Climate impacts are being felt both abroad and in Britain, she said in a statement, noting that despite the global pandemic “the climate crisis has not stopped”.Climate activist group Extinction Rebellion said some of its members planned to protest on Thursday at the Treasury in London against what they saw as “criminal inaction” by the government so far toward achieving its net-zero goal.That goal was enshrined in law last year following large-scale street protests and other civil disobedience by the grassroots movement and other climate campaign groups. The Committee on Climate Change report draws on recommendations made by the Climate Assembly UK, a citizen panel set up by several parliamentary committees with members selected to reflect the demographics of Britain’s diverse population.Nearly 80% of the assembly’s 108 members agreed in a secret ballot that government steps to boost the economy after Covid-19 should be designed to help achieve Britain’s net-zero target.And almost all - 93% - agreed that, as the virus lockdown eases, the state, employers and others should encourage shifts in lifestyles to become more compatible with reaching net-zero.Gummer said Committee on Climate Change members hoped the government would rapidly turn many of their recommendations into policy that is then quickly put into practice.“What we don’t want from the government is a lot of good-hearted statements (and) the beginnings of policies that are not being implemented,” he said.Changes in the law often take several years to take effect, but with climate threats surging and the country’s zero-carbon deadline drawing closer, “we haven’t got five years”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-government-advised-to-harness-covid-19-pandemic-to-speed-zero-carbon-aims/story-BNGUcAMpmYCjIkDMKIbuzH.html
25-06-2020||World||US doubles bounty on IS leader who succeeded Baghdadi||The US Department of State’s Rewards for Justice Program has increased the bounty - now up to USD10 million -- for information leading to the identification or location of ISIS’s new leader Amir Muhammad Sa’id Abdal-Rahma al-Mawla. This represents a doubling of the previous reward of up to USD 5 million announced in August 2019.Al-Mawla -- also known as Hajji Abdallah and Abu-’Umar al-Turkmani -- succeeded Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi as the leader of ISIS following Baghdadi’s death during a US military operation in October 2019. Al-Mawla helped drive and justify the abduction, slaughter, and trafficking of members of Yazidi religious minority groups in northwest Iraq, and he oversees the group’s global operations.Born in Mosul, Iraq, in 1976, al-Mawla was a religious scholar in ISIS’s predecessor organization, al-Qaida in Iraq, and steadily rose through the ranks of ISIS to become the deputy emir.On March 18, 2020, the Department of State designated al-Mawla, as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT).As a result of this designation, US persons are generally prohibited from engaging in any transactions with al-Mawla, and al-Mawla’s property and interests in property subject to US jurisdiction will be blocked. In addition, it is a crime to knowingly provide, or attempt or conspire to provide material support or resources to ISIS. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-doubles-bounty-on-is-leader-who-succeeded-baghdadi/story-q6k8ROh3eICgSS9TrgaMBJ.html
25-06-2020||World||Europe on track to reopen borders by July 1, US citizens likely to be left out||Americans are unlikely to be allowed into more than 30 European countries for business or tourism when the continent begins next week to open its borders to the world, due to the spread of the coronavirus and President Donald Trump’s ban on European visitors.More than 15 million Americans are estimated to travel to Europe each year, and such a decision would underscore flaws in the Trump administration’s handling of the pandemic, which has seen the United States record the highest number of infections and virus-related deaths in the world by far.European nations appear on track to reopen their borders between each other by July 1. Their representatives in Brussels have been debating what virus-related criteria should apply when lifting border restrictions to the outside world, which were imposed in March to stop all non-essential travel to Europe.In recommendations to EU nations on June 11, the European Commission said “travel restrictions should not be lifted as regards third countries where the situation is worse” than the average in the 27 EU member countries plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.That is likely to rule out people living in the United States, where new coronavirus infections have surged to the highest level in two months, according to figures compiled by Johns Hopkins University. After trending down for well over a month, new US cases have risen for more than a week.The US on Tuesday reported 34,700 new cases of the virus, bringing its total to more than 2.3 million cases and over 121,000 dead. The virus outbreaks in Brazil, India and Russia are remarkably high too, and it’s also unlikely that the EU will let their citizens in.In contrast, aside from a notable new outbreak tied to a slaughterhouse in western Germany, the virus’s spread has slowed across the EU and particularly in the 26 nations that make up Europe’s visa-free travel zone known as the Schengen area.For the EU’s executive arm, the key criteria for opening up to the outside world should include the number of new infections per 100,000 population — the exact ceiling is up for debate — and the country’s overall response to the pandemic, in terms of testing, surveillance, treatment, contact tracing and reporting cases.EU envoys are trying to agree on objective, scientific criteria so the decision to put a country on the admission list or not is based on facts and not political considerations. Southern European countries like Spain, Italy and Greece are desperate for tourists to return and breathe new life into their virus-ravaged economies.The bloc aims to revise the list of countries allowed to enter every two weeks based on developments, with new countries joining or possibly even denied access to Europe depending on the spread of the disease. The commission hopes that exemptions can be given to foreign students, non-EU citizens who live in Europe and certain highly skilled workers.But more than epidemiological criteria, any country being considered would first be expected to lift its own travel restrictions for people from all EU and Schengen nations, the commission said, adding “it cannot be applied selectively.” Brussels fears that opening up to countries outside in ad hoc way could lead to the reintroduction of border controls between nations inside the Schengen area, threatening once again Europe’s cherished principle of free movement, which allows people and goods to cross borders without checks.This principle of reciprocity on its own should rule out US citizens, at least initially.In a March 11 decree, Trump suspended the entry of all people from the Schengen area. More than 10 million Europeans usually visit the United States each year.“The potential for undetected transmission of the virus by infected individuals seeking to enter the United States from the Schengen area threatens the security of our transportation system and infrastructure and the national security,” Trump’s proclamation said.A top French diplomat, speaking anonymously in line with the French presidency’s customary practices, stressed that the EU decision will not be a political one.“It will be made on a basis as objective as possible which is the spreading of the virus,” the diplomat said.The official also stressed that Trump “has taken very early measures consisting in preventing people coming from China, then EU countries, from entering the US.” The EU commission also wants the bloc to be open as soon as possible after July 1 to the Balkans region, including citizens from Albania, Bosnia, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Serbia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-on-track-to-reopen-borders-by-july-1-us-citizens-likely-to-be-left-out/story-47fVcJuFvOC7kWa7RmdjqL.html
25-06-2020||World||US coronavirus infections soar to near record in 24 hours||The number of new coronavirus infections in the United States is approaching record daily levels, with more than 35,900 cases recorded in the past 24 hours, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.That brings the number of cases in the country to nearly 2.4 million, the tracker from the Baltimore-based university showed at 8:30pm local time Wednesday (0030 GMT Thursday), after several days in which the number of cases has surged.Nearly half of the 50 US states have seen an increase in infections over the past two weeks, with some -- such as Texas and Florida -- posting daily records. The Hopkins tracker also showed Wednesday that 756 people had died of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours.That brings the death toll to 121,932 in the world’s leading economic power, by far the most bereaved by the pandemic on the planet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-infections-soar-to-near-record-in-24-hours/story-kzU3Adk9Iu9ftXkDpclfcK.html
25-06-2020||World||Covid-19 updates: South Africa begins first trials for Covid-19 vaccine||The global fight against Covid-19 pandemic is intensifying with medical experts and drugmakers from across the world ramping up effort to arrive at the potential coronavirus vaccine and treatment.With nearly 10 million Covid-19 patients across the globe and over 4.8 coronavirus fatalities, the virus has almost the entire planet under its grip and the need for a Covid-19 antidote becomes more urgent by the day.American biopharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences has said it will soon start clinical trials for an inhaled formulation of its antiviral drug remdesivir used for the treatment of Covid-19. Remdesivir has made great strides in its role in the formulation of a vaccine against the contagion. Here are the latest development on Covid-19 vaccine and treatment:• The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc.’s experimental vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, is the first to enter the final stages of clinical trials. If the trial is successful, the Oxford Vaccine Group expects to launch the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of this year, • The first clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Oxford University begins in South Africa. • A Chinese military research institute has been approved to test its second experimental coronavirus vaccine in humans, the eighth Chinese candidate in clinical trials.• Experts believe that Patanjali Ayurved Ltd’s claim of a breakthrough cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) needs vetting. •The UK has started immunisation of about 300 people with a new coronavirus vaccine as part of a trial led experts at Imperial College London.• The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation (CEPI) - an influential foundation focused on preparation and response to epidemics - has identified manufacturers with capacity to produce four billion doses of Covid-19 a year. The CEPI is backing nine potential coronavirus vaccines. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-gilead-sciences-inc-s-antiviral-remdesivir-could-be-priced-up-to-5-080-per-course/story-MchBReXBpX3qz6SnaH5q2K.html
25-06-2020||World||Canada confronts racism in police in wake of indigenous deaths||As Americans protest the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other black people at the hands of police, Canadians are facing a reckoning of their own.Since April, six indigenous people have been fatally shot by police, including a woman killed during a “wellness check,” and a video went viral of a First Nations chief being beaten by Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers in March.Race troubles in Canadian policing have been thrust into the spotlight in recent weeks, following the global Black Lives Matters protests and the succession of cases of police violence against indigenous people.“There is systemic racism in Canada,” said Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at a news conference this month, calling for investigations into the recent cases to be made public.“It means that indigenous peoples, black Canadians and racialized Canadians are far more likely to suffer violence at the hands of the authorities and police than non-racialized Canadians,” he said.In the decade spanning 2007 to 2017, indigenous people accounted for more than a third of people shot to death by RCMP officers, despite numbering just 5% of the population.A study in Nova Scotia found black residents were six times more likely to be subjected to street checks than were white people.Among those slain since April, Chantel Moore was killed in New Brunswick after police were called to her apartment to check on her well-being.Police say she attacked an officer with a knife, but her family questioned why non-lethal force was not used to subdue her.A week later, Rodney Levi was shot and killed when the RCMP were called to remove him from a church minister’s barbecue and said he was carrying knives.The chief of his indigenous community said on Facebook that Levi had mental health issues.In Alberta, video footage showed Athabasca Chipewyan First Nations Chief Allan Adam being punched, tackled and choked during his arrest over an expired license plate.RCMP Commissioner Brenda Lucki released a statement acknowledging “systemic racism” in the police force, after initially refusing to use the term.The RCMP is omnipresent, operating federally across the country and also contracted to serve by eight out of ten provinces, the three territories and 153 municipalities.As in the United States, calls are growing to demilitarize police and reallocate funds to community-oriented supports such as mental health and housing.“We need to figure out how we deconstruct that combative and aggressive culture that exists within police forces,” said Chief Arlen Dumas, Grand Chief of the Assembly of Manitoba Chiefs.Dumas advocates police body cameras and an emphasis on de-escalation of potentially violent confrontations.Other recommendations being considered include installing veteran detectives and specialized indigenous policing units.Officers frequently work with indigenous communities for only two years and don’t speak the language, said Rebecca Kudloo, president of Pauktuutit Inuit Women of Canada, an advocacy organization.Recently publicized letters of complaint from a legal aid board found women in the territory suffered violence and racism at the hands of the RCMP. In the letters obtained by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, the board said indigenous women were forced to undergo “humiliating and degrading” strip-searches by RCMP officers.The RCMP in Nunavut said its commanding officer was aware of the complaints and was awaiting completion of a review into the allegations.Relations between the RCMP and indigenous communities can be traced to its origins as a paramilitary colonial force in the 1870s, said Steve Hewitt, senior history lecturer at the University of Birmingham.“Mounties” moved indigenous people forcibly onto reservations and removed indigenous children from their families to attend residential schools, a policy intended to assimilate them into Euro-Canadian culture.Hewitt suggested starting over, as in Northern Ireland where the sectarian Royal Ulster Constabulary was replaced by a new police force to help ease partisan troubles.“I just think the whole thing is rotten to the core,” he said.Former RCMP officer Chad Haggerty told the Thomson Reuters Foundation that when he was on the force in Alberta, insults by colleagues about indigenous people like himself were “as common as coffee.”One officer said “I was hired because I was an Indian and I should be back on the reserve policing,” said Haggerty, who served for 17 years and works at a law firm. In Manitoba, a law-enforcement program at the University College of the North is trying to get more indigenous people into policing and teach approaches such as community problem-solving.“When you put that uniform on, it represents a lot of things that First Nations people don’t agree with,” said Chris Pallan, an indigenous former RCMP officer who runs the program.He recalled a community elder calling police “the people that take our children away.”“People don’t forget that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-confronts-racism-in-police-in-wake-of-indigenous-deaths/story-HSNnQCFB4bKoteKvKCuU4M.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Can confidently respond to new Covid-19 outbreaks’: Australian PM Morrison||Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday he has confidence the country could move ahead with easing restrictions as it can respond and deal with new coronavirus outbreaks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“There will be outbreaks...we can’t go stop-go-stop-go and we can’t flick the light on-and-off-on-and-off-and-on-and-off,” Morrison said, referring to restrictions to curb the spread of the virulent disease.“So what I’m saying is we are going ahead, we built the protections to deal with outbreaks.”Australia reported its first Covid-19 death in more than a month on Wednesday, as concerns about a second wave of infections saw thousands of people queue, sometimes for hours, to be tested for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-confidently-respond-to-new-covid-19-outbreaks-australian-pm-morrison/story-td5ZN4nOZSjaQov4pXWV8N.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Coming back and biting us’: US sees Covid-19 make a comeback||Hospital administrators and health care experts warned desperately Wednesday that parts of the US are on the verge of becoming overwhelmed by a resurgence of the coronavirus, lamenting that politicians and a tired-of-being-cooped-up public are letting a disaster unfold.The US recorded a one-day total of 34,700 new Covid-19 cases, just short of the nation’s late-April peak of 36,400, according to the count kept by Johns Hopkins University.While new cases have been declining steadily in early US hot spots such as New York and New Jersey, several other states set single-day case records this week, including Arizona, California, Mississippi, Nevada and Texas. Some of them also broke hospitalization records, as did North Carolina and South Carolina.“People got complacent,” said Dr Marc Boom, CEO of the Houston Methodist hospital system. “And it’s coming back and biting us, quite frankly.” The stock market slid sharply Wednesday as the virus’s resurgence clouded investors’ hopes for a relatively quick economic turnaround. The virus in the U.S. has been blamed for over 120,000 deaths — the highest toll in the world — and over 2.3 million confirmed infections.Florida’s single-day count of new confirmed cases surged Wednesday to 5,500, a 25 per cent jump from the record set last week and triple the level from just two weeks ago.In Texas, which began lifting its shutdowns early on, on May 1, hospitalizations have doubled and new cases have tripled in two weeks.At Houston Methodist’s eight Texas hospitals, the Covid-19 patient count has tripled in the last month, to 312. About 20 per cent of the coronavirus tests the hospitals conduct now come back positive, compared with roughly 2 per cent to 4 per cent in mid-May.If the trends don’t change, the 2,000-bed hospital chain could have 600 coronavirus patients in the next three weeks and could be forced to cancel nonessential surgeries, Boom said.“We need everybody to behave perfectly and work together perfectly” to slow the infection rate, Boom said. “When I look at a restaurant or a business where people ... are not following the guidelines, where people are just throwing caution to the wind, it makes me angry.” In Arizona, cases will probably exceed statewide hospital bed capacity within the next several weeks if the trend continues, said Dr. Joseph Gerald, a University of Arizona public health policy professor.“We are in deep trouble,” said Gerald, urging the state to impose new restrictions on businesses, which Gov. Doug Ducey has refused to do. Without such steps, Gerald said, the death toll will reach “unheard-of” levels.Infectious-disease expert Dr. Peter Hotez said he worries that the states will squander what time they have to head off a much larger crisis.“We’re still talking about subtlety, still arguing whether or not we should wear masks, and still not understanding that a vaccine is not going to rescue us,” said Hotez, of the Baylor College of Medicine in Texas.Texas Gov. Greg Abbott initially barred local officials from fining or penalizing anyone for not wearing a mask as the state reopened. After cases began spiking, he said last week that cities and counties could allow businesses to require masks. Both Abbott and Ducey are Republicans.In Florida, several counties and cities have recently started requiring masks in public places and cracking down on businesses that don’t enforce social distancing rules.In a sign of the shift in the outbreak, New York, Connecticut and New Jersey announced they will require visitors from states with high coronavirus infection rates to quarantine themselves for 14 days. That is a turnaround from March, when Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis issued such an order for visitors from the New York City area, where cases were surging at the time.Cases are also surging in some other parts of the world. India reported a record daily increase of nearly 16,000 new cases, with an outbreak in the capital city of New Delhi becoming a rising concern. Mexico, where testing rates have been low, also set a record with more than 6,200 new cases.But China appears to have tamed a new outbreak in Beijing, once again demonstrating its ability to quickly mobilize its vast resources by testing nearly 2.5 million people in 11 days. China on Wednesday reported 12 cases nationwide, down from 22 the day before.In Europe, countries are both easing and increasing restrictions as the outbreaks evolve. Slovenia reintroduced mandatory use of face masks in public transportation and other enclosed public spaces after cases spiked in recent days, while Belgium said theaters and swimming pools could reopen next month. Infections there have nosedived over the past two months.In Africa, African Centers for Disease Control and Prevention chief John Nkengasong said the outbreak is “picking up speed very quickly,” with a steep increase in cases and deaths as more countries loosen lockdowns. Africa has seen nearly 325,000 cases and over 8,600 deaths.Worldwide, more than 9.2 million people have been confirmed infected, and close to a half-million have died, by Johns Hopkins’ count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coming-back-and-biting-us-us-sees-covid-19-make-a-comeback/story-cDkWavIBrWcrbAxBM1DqNJ.html
25-06-2020||World||Mexico reports 947 more Covid-19 deaths, 2nd highest daily toll||Mexico confirmed 947 more Covid-19 deaths Wednesday, the country’s second-highest daily toll since the coronavirus pandemic began. The highest daily toll came June 3 with 1,092 deaths.The Health Department said the country has seen a total of 24,324 deaths so far.The number of confirmed cases rose by 5,437. The case load has increased by about 5,000 each day in the last two weeks, and the total now stands at 186,847.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe numbers are clearly an undercount, given Mexico’s very low rate of testing.Mexican officials have repeatedly predicted the peak of the pandemic had been reached, or would do so soon, only to be proved wrong.The Health Department’s epidemiology director, José Luis Alomía, used almost comically couched language Wednesday, saying the country is on “a slight tendency that may insinuate a descent” in infections.Because the case load continues so high, authorities have had to delay planned re-openings of theaters and concert halls.One of Mexico City’s biggest venues, the Arena Mexico, announced Wednesday that it will start drive-in movie screenings starting July 4.Mexico City once had drive-ins, but most closed years ago. One company resumed outdoor screenings in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-reports-947-more-covid-19-deaths-2nd-highest-daily-toll/story-zklCB9AYgMHxcWPKQdY9BP.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Will act to check the spread of Beijing’s ideology’: US NSA||President Donald Trump’s national security adviser has warned China that the United States is waking up to the threat that it believes the Chinese Communist Party poses “to our great way of life” and will act to check the spread of Beijing’s ideology. Robert O’Brien said his speech challenging China was the first of many in the coming weeks by senior administration officials, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Attorney General William Barr and FBI Director Christopher Wray. “The days of American passivity and naivety regarding the People’s Republic of China are over,” O’Brien told a group business leaders in Phoenix. “America, under President Trump’s leadership, has finally awoken to the threat of the Chinese Communist Party’s actions and the threat they pose to our great way of life.” This latest verbal offensive is an extension of Trump’s harsh words for Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus, which has killed more than 120,000 Americans. It follows on the heels of former national security John Bolton’s book that alleges Trump was soft on Chinese President Xi Jinping and other authoritarian leaders to advance his own political agenda.  According to Bolton, Trump asked Xi for China to buy more agricultural products to help the president win farm states and told the Chinese leader that he was right to build detention camps to house thousands of Chinese ethnic minorities. That statement could make the president’s tough-on-China mantra a hard sell. The Trump campaign released an online video last month that included clips of former Vice President Joe Biden previously describing the Chinese as “not bad folks” and saying economic growth in China was in the U.S. interest. O’Brien harsh words come as China has rebuffed US efforts to negotiate a three-way nuclear weapons treaty with Russia and as the administration seeks Beijing’s help in getting North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons. The White House also is trying negotiate a new US-China trade agreement. The Trump adviser said the consensus for decades among American policymakers was as the US invested more in China and trained more Chinese engineers, scientists, bureaucrats and others, the faster China would liberalise — first economically and then politically. He said the US welcomed China into the World Trade Organization in 2001 with concessions and trade privileges while playing down China’s human rights abuses and the theft of US technology, which hurt American businesses. “As China grew richer and stronger, we believed that the Chinese Communist Party would liberalise to meet the rising democratic aspirations of its people,” O’Brien said. “This was a bold, quintessentially American idea. It was born of our innate optimism and by the experience of our triumph over Soviet communism. Unfortunately, it also turned out to be very naive.” O’Brien offered a list of Chinese activities that he said were aimed not only at repressing its own citizens, but influencing Americans. He said he was not attacking the Chinese people, but the Chinese Communist Party. He said China has worked to eliminate “unfriendly” Chinese language media outlets worldwide and has turned to Twitter to spread anti-American disinformation. In more than a dozen American cities, people listen to FM radio stations with “subtle pro-Beijing propaganda,” O’Brien said. Earlier this week, the administration designated the US operations of four major Chinese media outlets as “foreign missions” — an action that could force some of their staff to leave the country. He cited China’s cybersecurity activities that he said collect personal data on millions of Americans. He said the administration is working to prevent certain companies such as the tech giant Huawei that are closely tied to the Chinese Communist Party’s intelligence and security apparatus from accessing US data. Under Trump, the US has imposed restrictions on US semiconductor technology from going to Huawei and has limited the People’s Liberation Army’s ability to use student visa programs to place its officers in US colleges and universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-act-to-check-the-spread-of-beijing-s-ideology-us-nsa/story-hr1kyoO677LF9xm9Dx4yEI.html
25-06-2020||World||Mexican president’s plan to meet with Trump draws criticism||Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said Wednesday he plans to travel to Washington to meet with President Donald Trump, an announcement that was met with a storm of criticism in Mexico.López Obrador said he wants to make his first trip abroad in the first week of July to mark the start of the new US-Mexico-Canada free trade accord, which was negotiated with the Trump administration.Trump is deeply unpopular in Mexico because of his remarks about the country. And Mexicans remember former President Enrique Peña Nieto’s ill-starred meeting with Trump that many feel strengthened Trump as a candidate in the 2016 election. Mexico’s Foreign Relations Department then issued a statement saying López Obrador’s administration wants to steer clear of the US elections.The two leaders have displayed surprisingly cordial relations despite ideological differences. Trump said of López Obrador on Tuesday: “He’s really a great guy. I think he’ll be coming into Washington pretty soon.” López Obrador has called Trump a friend and said his administration has shown respect for MexicoRoberto Velasco Álvarez, the Foreign Relations Department’s director of North American affairs, wrote in his Twitter account that “Mexican diplomacy is based on building bridges with all people.”“The main objective of the meeting proposed by President López Obrador is promoting our interests, and is not related to internal (US) political processes,” Velasco Alvarez wrote.The critics were out in force, though.Mexico’s former ambassador to the US, Arturo Sarukhán, called the trip “a colossal political, electoral, diplomatic and long-term strategic error.”“Trump is only interested in using the Mexican president as a theatrical prop for the elections,” wrote Sarukhán. “For broad sectors of US society, visiting Trump now, when the country is experiencing its deepest social and ideological crisis in 50 years ... will be interpreted by many here as a show of support for the most polarizing president in modern US history.”Though he is famous in Mexico for declining international travel, López Obrador said early Wednesday that he wants to go to Washington. He said he hopes Canada will participate in the meeting as well, “but at any rate we will go because it is very important to participate at the launch of an agreement that I consider historic.”The president has studiously avoided conflict with Mexico’s much larger neighbor, even after Trump threatened to put crippling tariffs on Mexican goods imported into the US unless Mexico did more to stop migrant caravans. Mexico effectively blocked the caravans.Trump angered many Mexicans when as a candidate in 2016, he said Mexicans crossing the border brought drugs, crime and “tremendous infectious disease” to the US. At the time, critics said Peña Nieto gave him a pulpit when he invited both US candidates to Mexico City in 2016, but only Trump accepted. After taking office, Trump continued to promise to build a border wall and make Mexico pay for it.In a recent piece for the Washington Post, Mexican columnist León Krauze wrote about the 2016 meeting, “Why would López Obrador, who was so critical of Peña Nieto’s decision to prop up Trump during a contentious election, risk international opprobrium and condemnation at home over the exact same mistake?”Krauze noted López Obrador hasn’t yet discussed meeting with Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden.“It could simply be another step in the Mexican president’s strange appeasement of the American president, a plan that has led him to embrace controversial immigration measures far from the humanitarian approach he promised as a candidate,” Krauze wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-president-s-plan-to-meet-with-trump-draws-criticism/story-hFw9fOglCMaGLEh7dKYjYJ.html
25-06-2020||World||Pak lands in FATF’s ‘Grey List’ after failing to check flow of money to Jaish, Lashkar||The global terror financing watchdog, FATF, on Wednesday decided to keep Pakistan in the “Grey List” as it has failed to check flow of money to terror groups like the LeT and the JeM, officials said.    The decision was taken at the Financial Action Task Force’s  third and final plenary held virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The plenary was held under the Chinese Presidency of Xiangmin Liu. “The FATF plenary decided continuation of Pakistan in ‘Grey List’ till its next meeting to be held in October,” an official privy to the development said. The decision has been taken as Pakistan has failed to check flow of money to terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-lands-in-fatf-s-grey-list-after-failing-to-check-flow-of-money-to-jaish-lashkar/story-FOY5QGNagqfqsP2ZYBLdFM.html
25-06-2020||World||‘Safe haven’: US report punches holes in Imran Khan’s track record against terrorists||Pakistan continues to serve as a safe haven for regionally focused terrorist groups and allows outfits including the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed to operate from its territory, the US State department said in a new report released on Wednesday. The US indictment of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s track record in fighting terrorists comes against the backdrop of Islamabad’s brazen support for terrorists killed in encounters with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan’s foreign office counts them as “innocents”.Wednesday’s assessment by the US state department, which counted Pakistan as one of the countries that provide safe harbours for terrorists, is unlikely to go down well with Islamabad that faces a review by the anti-terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force in October. Islamabad was given a four-month reprieve after the FATF had to put off a scheduled review of Pakistan due to the coronavirus pandemic.German report spotlights Pakistan’s nuclear proliferation recordPakistan, along with Iran, North Korea and Syria are trying to obtain necessary products and know-how for nuclear weapons through illegal procurement efforts in Germany, according to the annual report of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution for the German State of Baden-Württemberg.The report said Pakistan had for many years been operating an extensive military nuclear weapons and carrier programme. “This is primarily directed against the “arch enemy” India, which also possesses nuclear weapons,” the report said. The German report noted Pakistan’s dependence on acquisition of western technology and procedures for maintenance and development and warned there could be efforts to illegally procure them in Germany.“In addition to acquisition of products (dual-use goods), the secondment of scientists to universities, institutes or research establishments is also important. This also applies to institutions in Baden-Württemberg,” the report said.In its Congressional-mandated annual report 2019 Country Reports on Terrorism, the State Department noted that Pakistan had taken modest steps to counter terror financing and restrain India-focused terror groups following the Pulwama suicide bombing in February 2019 that landed Imran Khan in a spot when the Jaish-e-Mohammed claimed responsibility for the bombing in Kashmir. But it hadn’t gone far enough.“Thus far, however, Islamabad has yet to take decisive actions against Indian- and Afghanistan-focused militants who would undermine their operational capability,” the report said.It also noted that Pakistan’s pledge under its 2015 action plan to dismantle all terrorist organizations without delay and discrimination was still unfulfilled. Pakistani authorities had indicted Lashkar founder Hafiz Saeed and 12 of his associates in December last year but had “made no effort to use domestic authorities to prosecute other terrorist leaders such as JeM founder Masood Azhar and Sajid Mir, the mastermind of LeT’s 2008 Mumbai attacks”.Both of them, the report said, “are widely believed to reside in Pakistan under the protection of the state, despite government denials”.“Several terrorist groups that focus on attacks outside the country continue to operate from Pakistani soil in 2019, including the Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, and Jaish-e-Mohammed,” the state department report said.The report indicted the Imran Khan government and military for their inaction, underlining that they “acted inconsistently with respect to terrorist safe havens throughout the country” and did not take sufficient action to stop certain terrorist groups and individuals from openly operating in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-still-a-safe-haven-for-terrorists-says-united-states-in-new-report/story-YBOIdRYtN5KiHZH5z2a3VP.html
25-06-2020||World||Rare books on Sikhism, Punjab emerge in London sale||A London-based rare books dealer on Wednesday launched a collection of rare books, original manuscripts and artwork on India that includes several first editions of work on Sikhs, Sikhism and Punjab dating from early eighteenth century.The 40-item collection from dealer Peter Harrington includes the first translation of the Adi Granth into English and several travel narratives set in the kingdom of Ranjit Singh, and military handbooks dedicated to Sikh customs – hailed in them as ‘the bravest and steadiest of soldiers’.Others offering glimpses of life in India under British rule include a book by Captain Lakshmi, who was appointed by Subhash Chandra Bose as commander of the Rani of Jhansi Regiment in the Indian national Army, and three elusive monographs on the ruling families of Punjab, written or inspired by Lepel H. Griffin, a colourful official in nineteenth century British India.Glen Mitchell, senior book specialist at Europe’s largest anquarian book dealer, said: “We have seen an increased interest in the last 20 years from collectors of works from the Indian sub-continent, and the demand for 19th and early 20th century British accounts of this fascinating period in colonial history continues to attract a core group of collectors based both in the region and diaspora in the UK and beyond.”“Topics that remain enduringly collectable include those focused on military exploits, colonial exploration, seminal religious texts, ethnographical, geographical, botanical and zoological accounts, and of course administrative, historical and political works,” he added.Highlights of the collection include an eyewitness account of Ranjit Singh’s kingdom written by Shahamat Ali, the expedition leader’s Indian-born munshi and inscribed by him to the earl of Shaftesbury; The Life of Robert Lord Clive, Baron Plassey by Charles Caraccioli – the first biography of Clive, considered something of a character assassination by his enemies within the East India Company; and I.N.A. Defence. Subject People’s Right to Fight for Freedom – two contemporary publications of the address delivered by J. Bhulabhai Desai in defence of members of the INA on trial for treason.Pom Harrington, owner of Peter Harrington, said: “While we have curated selections on Asia in the past, this is our first dedicated catalogue on works from India”. “The wealth of rich illustrations, lithographs, maps and coloured plates really lent themselves to creating an interactive and immersive digital-only catalogue that allows our clients to scroll through details and additional images of these fine works”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rare-books-on-sikhism-punjab-emerge-in-london-sale/story-It445bHhVoPN2bUC7Qi2dM.html
25-06-2020||India||Pune records 725 new Covid-19 cases, 16 succumb to infection in last 24 hours||Pune on Thursday detected 725 new Covid-19 cases, taking the district’s coronavirus tally to 18,240. With 16 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, Pune’s death toll has now risen to 655, Dr Bhagawan Pawar, District Health Officer said.Maharashtra’s Pune district was one of the first coronavirus hotspots in the state, which remains the worst-hit by the pandemic recording 4,841fresh Covid-19 cases today.The death toll rose to 655 with 16 more coronavirus patients succumbing to the infection during the same period, the health department official said.ALSO READ | Nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally to over 4.7 lakhOf the 725 fresh cases, at least 560 were from Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which now have 14,320 patients.At least, 202 patients were also discharged from hospitals today, the official said.With 102 new cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad, the Covid-19 count in the industrial township has risen to 2,427.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in rural and Pune Cantonment Board areas has currently increased to 1,493, the health department official said. India on Thursday recorded 16,922 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours – the highest so far- pushing the nationwide tally to 4,73,105.According to the Union health ministry’s data, the number of active cases in the country stands at 1,86,514. The country also saw 418 deaths in the last 24 hours, which hiked the death toll to 14,894.A day earlier, on Wednesday, the country had recorded the highest single-day jump of nearly 16,000 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-records-725-new-covid-19-cases-16-succumb-to-infection-in-last-24-hours/story-aLbOuWwyYZ2V73YRy5LeAP.html
25-06-2020||India||Fresh charge sheet against Rana Kapoor and DHFL’s Wadhawans||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a charge sheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his daughter Roshni Kapoor, and the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, alleging that the Kapoors and the Wadhawans conspired to siphon off public money and benefit themselves, two officers familiar with the development said.The charge sheet comes just before the 60-day filing deadline from the date of arrest was to end. The Wadhawans were arrested by CBI on April 26 from a Mahabaleshwar government facility, after it was found that they had slipped out of Mumbai quietly with their family during the lockdown. They have already been questioned and are currently lodged in a jail in Mumbai.A senior CBI officer cited above said they will soon arrest Rana Kapoor and interrogate him. The agency’s first charge sheet, the two officials said, focuses on an alleged criminal conspiracy by Rana Kapoor in the investment of Rs 3,700 crore by Yes Bank in short term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018, for which Kapil Wadhawan allegedly paid a kickback of Rs 600 to the Kapoor family in the garb of a loan of Rs 600 crore. According to the agency, the money was given by Wadhawan to M/s DOIT Urban Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises, in which Roshni Kapoor is a director.This money, the second officer said, was given on the basis of a mortgage of a property that has a much lower marker value by considering its future conversion from agricultural land to the residential land. DHFL never repaid the bank’s Rs 3,700 crore investment, and neither did the bank ask for it, the agency said in its charge sheet.Subsequently, Yes Bank also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers Pvt Ltd – a company belonging to Dheeraj Wadhawan for their Bandra reclamation project. The money reached the parent company DHFL without any investment in the said project, the officer added.CBI suspects that over 100 shell companies were used by the Kapoor family for diverting money, the first officer said. He added that this may be the first of the many charge sheets which will be filed in the case.Kapoor’s lawyer Subhash Jadhav and the Wadhawans’ lawyer Amit Desai declined to comment.Rana Kapoor has also been charged by the Enforcement Directorate for money laundering.While filing its charge sheet on May 6, ED said that Rana Kapoor used the Yes Bank as his “personal fiefdom” to carry out alleged illegal activities and was the architect of a financial fraud to create wealth for himself and his family. The 62-year-old former banker was accused of “impropriety, illegality and rampant misuse of power” by ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-charge-sheet-against-rana-kapoor-and-dhfl-s-wadhawans/story-BZmDxaOGd6h9n5RivYVJAO.html
25-06-2020||India||Telangana stops Covid-19 tests for 2 days as labs struggle with backlog||The Telangana government on Thursday announced suspension of Covid-19 tests for two days in Hyderabad and surrounding districts amid a massive backlog of samples waiting to be tested even as the state recorded a whopping 920 fresh cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours.The capital city of Hyderabad alone accounted for 737 out of 920 cases as the state’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 11,364. There were five more casualties taking the total death toll to 230. The government had stepped up the rate of testing over the past week following criticism from all sides and a reprimand from the state high court over low testing in the state for a long time.From less than 300 tests a day last month, the number of tests went up to 36,000 on June 16. Subsequently, an average of 2,500 to 3,000 tests were conducted in the last one week. On Thursday alone, 3,616 tests were conducted taking the cumulative number tests to 70,934.However, the 10 government labs and 18 private labs which were newly permitted, have not been able to handle the number of samples arriving in them. By Thursday, as many as 8,235 samples were still pending in the labs for testing and the authorities said collection of more samples without testing the pending ones will create problems.Director of public health and family welfare G Srinivasa Rao said collection of samples by conducting special camps has been stopped for two days so that the testing of pending samples was completed and labs and collections centres are sanitized.The official said in a statement that each sample has to be tested within 48 hours and till then it has to be preserved in controlled temperature. “If there is delay in testing the samples, it may show false positive results,” he said.The director, however, said collection of samples through special camps was paused but tests in hospitals would continue uninterrupted. Those with suspected symptoms of Covid-19 can get themselves tested in hospitals.Meanwhile, following an alarming rise in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in Greater Hyderabad, which accounted for 70 per cent of the total cases in the state, several business houses announced voluntary lockdown for a period ranging from seven to 10 days as a precautionary measure.On Thursday, many shops at the Pathergatti business hub were closed as local traders decided not to open their shops for the next few days. “As the number of Covid-19 cases has been going up sharply, we had no other option but to close down our business activities,” Abid Moinuddin, president, Pathergatti Traders Association said.More shopkeepers declared that they would not open their shops for at least one week. The Lad Bazaar Bangle Market Association also decided to close down their shops for a week from Friday onwards.The Hyderabad Kirana Merchants Association and textile traders of famous General Bazar in Secunderabad also announced closure of shops till July 3, while Hyderabad and Secunderabad sanitaryware merchants announced closure up to July 5 and troop bazar merchants in Abids up to July 8 ..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-stops-covid-19-tests-for-two-days-as-samples-deluge-labs/story-VFtqRD0HHoAFg8iOy7SYvM.html
25-06-2020||India||Clubs, malls, restaurants will open in Chhattisgarh from Friday||Chhattisgarh government issued orders to reopen clubs, shopping malls, restaurants and hotels from Friday and permitted passenger buses to operate within the state.An order issued on Thursday evening further states that cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, amusement parks, theatre, bar, auditorium and assembly halls will remain shut.Secretary, general administration department, Kamalpreet Singh said all these places will have to strictly adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOP) and maintain social distancing guidelines.For Coronavirus Live Updates“The buses can stop only at specified stops and the driver, assistant driver and all passengers must wear a mask each. Social distancing has to be maintained while boarding and de-boarding. The operator has to regularly sanitise the bus,” the order stated.The order further said that during travel, passengers and crew cannot consume betel (paan), gutkha, tobacco or smoke, they cannot spit either.“The operators will keep a record of the driver and co-driver daily and the record of passengers travelling from the starting point to their destination should be maintained,” said the order.In another order issued by Singh, it is mentioned that all clubs, shopping malls, restaurants and hotels have been allowed to operate while complying with social distancing and other protocols.In case any area is declared as a containment zone, then only essential services will be allowed there, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clubs-malls-restaurants-will-open-in-chhattisgarh-from-friday/story-h71qrC07glkYCQ90VmbecM.html
25-06-2020||India||Lightning kills 24 in UP, 83 in Bihar, PM Modi expresses grief||More than 100 people are reported to have died in incidents of lightning in the past 24 hours reported from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. At least 24 people were killed and 12 others were injured in lightning incidents in various districts of Uttar Pradesh, according to officials quoted by news agency PTI.The deaths in UP were far less than the 83 fatalities recorded in Bihar over the last 24 hours. At least 30 people were also injured due to thunderstorms and lightning across the state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his grief at the deaths caused in the two states and said that state governments were busy in conducting relief operations.“I have received the painful news of loss of several lives due to lightning and heavy rains from some districts in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The state governments are assiduously carrying out relief operations. I express my condolence to the families of the victims of this tragedy,” the PM tweeted.More than 15 cattle were also killed in Bihar’s Khagaria district. Large scale destruction of property was also reported from various districts of the state.Also Read: 83 killed after being hit by lightning in Bihar13 lives were reported lost in Gopalganj district followed by eight deaths each in Madhubani and Nawada districts and six each in Siwan and Bhagalpur, while 5 deaths were reported from East Champaran, Darbhanga, and Banka districts.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief at the loss of life and has announced a compensation of Rs four lakh each for the kin of the deceased and proper treatment for the injured persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-kills-24-in-up-83-in-bihar-pm-modi-expresses-grief/story-3Meb4RB5cM3a88AG5vcyFJ.html
25-06-2020||India||CBI files chargesheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, daughter Roshni and Wadhawans||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his daughter Roshni Kapoor and promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan alleging that the Kapoors and Wadhawans conspired with each other to siphon off public money and benefit themselves, two officials familiar with the development said.The agency’s chargesheet comes just before the 60-day deadline for filing a chargesheet from the date of arrest was to end. Wadhawans were arrested by CBI on April 26 from a Mahabaleshwar government facility after it was found that they had slipped out of Mumbai quietly with their whole family during the lockdown. Under the prevention of corruption act, CBI is supposed to file a chargesheet within 60 days of the arrest of an accused failing which the person is eligible for bail.A senior CBI officer cited above said they will soon arrest Rana Kapoor and interrogate him. Wadhawans have already been questioned and are currently lodged in jail.ALSO READ | YES Bank fraud: Wadhawans seek bail on ‘merits of the case’The agency’s first chargesheet, officials said, focuses on criminal conspiracy by Rana Kapoor in the investment of Rs 3,700 crore by Yes Bank in short term debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018, for which Kapil Wadhawan paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to the Kapoor family in the garb of a loan of Rs 600 crore. This amount was given by Wadhawan to M/s M/s DOIT Urban Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Roshni Kapoor is a director.This money (Rs 600 crore), CBI has found, was given to DOIT on the basis of a mortgage of a sub-standard property having very meager value and by considering the future conversion from agricultural land to the residential land. The DHFL never repaid the bank’s Rs 3700 crore neither the bank asked.Subsequently, Yes Bank also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers Pvt Ltd – a company belonging to Dheeraj Wadhawan for their Bandra reclamation project. The money reached the parent company DHFL without any investment in the said project.ALSO READ | Yes Bank Fraud: Court refuses to release properties sealed by CBICBI suspects that over 100 shell companies were used by the Kapoor family for diverting their ill-gotten wealth. The officers hinted that this is the first of many chargesheets which will be filed against the fraudsters.Kapoor’s lawyer Subhash Jadhav and Wadhawans’ lawyer Amit Desai refused to comment.Rana Kapoor is first former MD-CEO of a private bank ever been chargesheeted by both CBI and Enforcement Directorate.Earlier, while filing a chargesheet for money laundering against him on May 6, ED had claimed that Rana Kapoor used the Yes Bank as his “personal fiefdom” to carry out illegal activities and was the architect of a financial fraud aimed at creating wealth for himself and his family.The 62-year-old former banker has been accused of “impropriety, illegality and rampant misuse of power” in what the anti-money laundering probe agency described as the hallmark of a scam that had been brewing for many years.ED has claimed in its chargesheet that practices followed by the Yes Bank under Kapoor’s regime promoted a poor credit and compliance culture, centralization of power and lack of institutionalization, putting it in a situation where its survival came into question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-daughter-roshni-and-wadhawans/story-ASJscouLgvIo0Jh5xki9TO.html
25-06-2020||India||Odisha reduces rates for Covid-19 tests in private labs||The Odisha government on Thursday slashed the rates of tests for Covid-19 at private laboratories from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,200 a day before opposition Congress and other parties are to stage demonstrations over reduced testing for coronavirus.State health secretary Pradipta Mohapatra said four government-authorised private laboratories in the state will now charge Rs 2,200 instead of the present cost of Rs 4,500 for Covid-19 tests. The labs are at KIMS, SUM, Apollo Hospital and KIIT-TBI in Bhubaneswar.Covid-19 tests in government labs, most of which are attached with hospitals are free.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“We expect the number of tests to go up after reduction in the price. People who can afford the cost can now visit any of these labs and get tested,” said Mohapatra.On Friday, the Congress and 13 other parties are scheduled to stage a demonstration in Bhubaneswar over declining Covid tests in the state.“In April, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced that 15,000 samples will be tested every day but the number of tests being done does not cross 4,000 per day,” alleged PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik. He also alleged that all migrants returning to the state are not being tested before they are sent to their homes.The ruling BJD has rubbished the opposition’s charge. Government chief whip Pramila Mallick said that when the country is limping back to normalcy and witnessing a “steep growth in Covid-19 recovery rate, Congress and Left parties are trying to mislead people by creating panic.”Health and family welfare department officials said a serological survey to gauge the spread of infection will begin in Puri on Saturday with people undergoing rapid antibody tests. The rapid antibody test will be conducted in Ganjam, Gajapati districts, Bhubaneswar and Badamba-Narsinghpur area in Cuttack district from the first week of July. At least 50,000 test kits are being brought for the serological survey.On Thursday, the Odisha government also framed a new set of guidelines for infection prevention and control in private hospitals and nursing homes following a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases among hospital workers.At least 33 healthcare workers in three hospitals of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack have tested positive for Covid-19 since Monday.Health secretary Mohapatra said private hospitals in the state will bear the cost of the treatment of their workers if they get infected in course of duty. “The promoter and/or the management of private hospitals also owe responsibility for implementation of the infection prevention and control measures,” he said. All private hospitals have to ensure completion of training of its staff within seven days and submit a certificate to the authorities concerned.The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has already issued notice to nine private hospitals in the city for flouting the protocols. Blue Wheel Hospital in Bhubaneswar, where 27 patients and staff tested positive for Covid-19, was sealed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reduces-rates-for-covid-19-tests-in-private-labs/story-1xb69J031uYhhZfiozA6YP.html
25-06-2020||India||BJP MP Rupa Ganguly demands CBI enquiry into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha lawmaker Roopa Ganguly on Thursday backed the demand for a CBI enquiry into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and said it was important to uphold justice.She also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in her series of tweets with a hashtag #cbiforsushant. “We will be answerable to our future generations if we the parents, the colleagues, the friends and the family and the citizen of India fail to uphold justice now. I think an independent CBI investigation is necessary,” Ganguly tweeted.Sushant Singh Rajput’s prayer meet: Bhojpuri actors Akshara Singh, Manoj Tiwari pay tributeRajput’s family members and some political parties have already demanded a CBI probe into his death. The actor was found dead at his Bandra apartment on June 14. The Mumbai police have received the final post-mortem report and the cause of death has been identified as ‘asphyxia due to hanging’.“What I cannot understand is why such a brilliant inquisitive mind would choose such an alternative without any provocation,” Ganguly tweeted.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father confirms actor was looking to get married early 2021Rajput’s death has evoked a sharp debate around nepotism in the Indian film industry blocking entry and rise of young talents, which may sometimes possibly lead to extreme steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-rupa-ganguly-demands-cbi-enquiry-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-zMPLYJWaF29oq4y7SZVTFN.html
25-06-2020||India||Pakistan involved in efforts to illegally acquire nuclear tech from Germany: Official report||Pakistan and North Korea continue to be involved in attempts to illegally obtain nuclear products and know-how from German hi-tech companies as part of efforts to develop their atomic weapons programmes, a new report by German authorities has said.The annual report from the Office for the Protection of the Constitution in Baden-Württemberg, a state in southwest Germany, said the country is an “important area of operation” for clandestine efforts by Pakistan, North Korea, Iran and Syria to obtain nuclear technology as it is a leading industrial nation and home to numerous hi-tech firms.The report for the year 2019 was made public by authorities in Baden-Württemberg on June 16. This is the second time in less than six months that German authorities have expressed concern about Pakistan’s efforts to illegally procure technology used in atomic weapons.The report, which is in German, said: “Iran, Pakistan, North Korea and Syria are still pursuing such efforts. They aim to complete existing arsenals, perfect the range, deployability and effectiveness of their weapons, and develop new weapons systems. They are trying to obtain the necessary products and relevant know-how...through illegal procurement efforts in Germany.”Such countries also “constantly develop and optimise their procurement methods” to circumvent existing export restrictions and embargoes, the report said.“To conceal the actual end user, they can procure goods in Germany and Europe with the help of specially established cover companies and, in particular, transport dual-use goods to risk states. Typical bypass countries include the United Arab Emirates, Turkey and China,” the report added.Potential sources of nuclear know-how are universities, non-university research institutions and research and training departments of companies, the report said.“In order to minimise risks, the State Office for the Protection of the Constitution sensitises those responsible to make them aware of the danger and possible consequences of illegal knowledge transfer,” it added.In a specific section on Pakistan, the report said the country has operated an extensive programme for nuclear weapons and delivery systems for many years. “This is primarily directed against the ‘arch enemy’ India, which also possesses nuclear weapons. For maintenance and further development, Pakistan is dependent, among other things, on the acquisition of Western technology and procedures,” the report said.“In addition to the acquisition of products (dual-use goods), the secondment of scientists to universities, institutes or research establishments is also important. This also applies to institutions in Baden-Württemberg.”In November last year, the German government had responded to a question from several lawmakers of die Linke (Left Party) by saying it believed there has been a “sharp increase” in Pakistan’s activities in recent years to illegally procure technology used in nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) weapons.The government’s reply dovetailed with concerns expressed by Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz (BfV), the domestic intelligence service, which had said in a 2018 report on proliferation-related matters that there has been a “massive increase” in Pakistan’s attempts to clandestinely procure nuclear goods in Germany and other Western countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-involved-in-efforts-to-illegally-acquire-nuclear-tech-from-germany-official-report/story-IYmWCqpkgBknPXmNfkTrNL.html
25-06-2020||India||Pak high commission officials were recruiting Kashmiri youth for terror: Official||Sustained efforts by officials of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi to allegedly recruit young men from Kashmir for terrorist training was one of the factors behind India’s decision to halve the strength of the mission, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Reports from intelligence agencies show that 399 young men from Jammu and Kashmir had been issued visas by the Pakistan high commission since January 2017, and the current whereabouts of 218 of them are unknown, the people said on condition of anonymity.India asked Pakistan on June 23 to reduce the strength of its mission in New Delhi by 50% in a week, saying the actions of Pakistani officials were part of a “larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism”.Pakistan rejected and condemned what it said were “baseless Indian allegations” and informed New Delhi of its decision to reduce the Indian high commission’s strength within seven days as a reciprocal measure.The people cited above said intelligence reports had shown that Pakistan has been targeting young men from Kashmir for terrorist training, and equipping and arming them to carry out attacks similar to the one in Pulwama in February 2019.“The officials of the Pakistan high commission were involved in these efforts to foment trouble in Jammu and Kashmir. Such attacks are used by Pakistan to project internationally as the work of local resistance fighters,” said a person.Citing one specific instance, the people said five heavily armed terrorists of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were tracked and killed by security forces on April 5 after they infiltrated into Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir from Dudhnial in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir on the night of March 31-April 1.Three of the five terrorists were identified as Adil Hussain Mir, Umar Nazir Khan and Sajjad Ahmed Hurrah, all residents of Jammu and Kashmir who had travelled to Pakistan in April 2018 on visas issued by the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi, the people said.Indian security agencies have uncovered other instances of Pakistani officials in New Delhi being allegedly linked to terror activities. While investigating the case of Jammu and Kashmir Police’s deputy superintendent Davinder Singh, who was caught with two Hizbul Mujahideen commanders on January 10, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) found that all three were in “constant touch” with an assistant in the Pakistani mission named Shafqat, the people said. Shafqat, they added, was allegedly a conduit for hawala transactions and terror financing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-officials-in-new-delhi-recruiting-kashmiri-youth-for-terror-official/story-acHZIIfBIvBoYRAU6oreYN.html
25-06-2020||India||Delhi records 3,390 Covid-19 cases, widens undesired lead over Mumbai||Delhi recorded 3,390 new Covid 19 positive cases and 64 cases of fatalities due to the infectious disease on Thursday. The total number of positive cases registered in the capital so far stands at 73,780—the highest for any city in the country. Capital also reported 3,328 recoveries in the last 24 hrs which has taken the total number of discharges to 44,765. 2,429 people have succumbed to the disease in the city ever since the outbreak, according to the data released by the health department.Mumbai is the second worst affected city in the country with a case count of 70,878, with the reporting of 1,350 new cases on Thursday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesDelhi had recorded 3,947 cases on Tuesday, its largest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases so far. The capital currently has 26,586 active cases, less than half of total cases registered in the city-state.Earlier today, a major bone of contention between the Delhi government led by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) party and L-G Anil Baijal was resolved with the Raj Bhawan withdrawing its earlier direction which had made it mandatory for Covid-19 patients, including those under home isolation, to visit Covid care centres for health assessment.The Arvind Kejriwal government has been vociferously opposing the move, claiming it was not only impractical given the additional stress it was likely to put over the existing health infrastructure but was also inconvenient for patients under home isolation, whose visit to a Covid-care centre was likely to increase the chances of further spread of the infection.Also Read: Delhi L-G reverses Covid order on home isolation after meeting CM KejriwalDelhi L-G today issued a revised order, which said, medical teams will visit patients at their residence to assess whether they can stay in home-isolation or need to be sent to hospital. Baijal added that the decision was taken in accordance with the guidance given by Union home minister Amit Shah in the meeting held on June 21 to review and strengthen surveillance mechanism for Covid positive cases in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-3-390-covid-19-cases-widens-undesired-lead-over-mumbai/story-ZDfMBNg72daiuD7Ob9DfVJ.html
25-06-2020||India||US shifting military to face Chinese threat to India and Southeast Asia: Mike Pompeo||The Chinese threat to India and Southeast Asia is one of the reasons the United States is reducing its troop presence in Europe, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Thursday in response to a question at the Brussels Forum virtual conference.Pompeo was asked why the US had reduced the number of troops it has based in Germany. The US Secretary of State said that if US troops were no longer there, it was because they were being moved to face other places. The actions of the Chinese Communist Party meant there were “threats to India” and countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and the South China Sea. The US military is “postured appropriately” to meet these “challenges of our time”, he said.Also Read: India should assess China’s actions, not words | HT EditorialPompeo noted that the Trump administration had carried out a long overdue strategic posture review of the US military two years ago. The US had carried out a fundamental relook at the threats it faced and how it should allocate its resources, including intelligence and military and cyber.As part of this exercise, Pompeo said it was felt that the capacity to deter Russia or other adversaries wasn’t determined any longer “by having a bunch of folks garrisoned some place”.“So we really went back to fundamentally relook at what is the nature of the conflict, what is the nature of the threat and how should we allocate our resources. Whether that is our resources in the intelligence community, our resources in the air force, the marines. our broad set of allocations of the security apparatus,” he said.“The decision that the President made with respect to Germany is an outcome of a collective set of decisions about how we are going to posture our resources around the world,” he said, pointing that this would imply that there would be fewer American resources in some places.“There will be other places - I just talked about the threat from the Chinese Communist Party - ... threats to India, threats to Vietnam, threats to Malaysia, Indonesia, South China Sea challenges, the Philippines. We are going to make sure we are postured appropriately to counter the PLA (People’s Liberation Army). We think that is the challenge of our time and we are going to make sure we have resources in place to do that,” he said.Earlier, he announced the formation of a US-European dialogue on China so that the Atlantic alliance could have a “common understanding of the threat posed by China”. Pompeo said the two sides needed “a collective data set” on China’s action so the two could take action together.Also Read: India must build stronger deterrence to deal with China’s Xi Jinping | OpinionSpeaking about the Chinese threat, he cited the “bloody border confrontation with India,” Beijing’s South China Sea activity and its predatory economic policies as evidence.Asked whether Huawei was part of the Chinese “surveillance state,” Pompeo said Chinese security force personnel worked on the top floor of the company headquarters and Chinese law required Huawei to pass any data, including personal data, to the Chinese Communist Party whenever the latter asked. He said there was more evidence that he could not state in public.The day before the US foreign minister had tweeted: “The tide is turning toward trusted 5G vendors and away from Huawei. The world’s leading telecom companies-Telefonica, Orange, Jio, Telstra, and many more-are becoming ‘Clean Telcos.’ They are rejecting doing business with tools of the CCP surveillance state, like Huawei.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-shifting-military-to-face-chinese-threat-to-india-and-south-east-asia-pompeo/story-9zqoaeuFQVwA8wbUQMVXjI.html
25-06-2020||India||India hopeful professionals will continue to be welcomed in US: MEA||India on Thursday said the US administration’s decision to temporarily suspend entry of some categories of non-immigrant visa-holders till December is expected to affect the movement of skilled Indian professionals.However, India remains hopeful that its professionals “will continue to be welcomed in the US in future” as that country has always welcomed talent, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.US President Donald Trump signed an executive order on June 22 temporarily suspending various categories of visas for immigrants, including the issuance of fresh H-1B visas and L-1 visas (for inter-company transfers), till December 31. This was done because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.ALSO READ | Anger, disquiet and some relief in H-1B circlesIndians are the main beneficiaries of the much sought-after H-1B visa programme to gain entry to the US as skilled immigrants.The temporary suspension of entry of certain categories of non-immigrant visa-holders and their family members is “likely to affect movement of Indian skilled professionals who avail of these programmes to work lawfully in the US,” Srivastava said.“We are assessing the impact of the order on Indian nationals and industry in consultation with stakeholders. People-to-people linkages and trade and economic cooperation, especially in technology and innovation sectors, are an important dimension of the US-India partnership,” he added.Srivastava pointed out high-skilled Indian professionals “bring important skill sets, bridge technological gaps and impart a competitive edge to the US economy”.He added, “They have also been a critical component of the workforce that is at the forefront of providing Covid-19-related assistance in key sectors, including health, information technology and financial services.”Indians currently account for more than 70% of the 85,000 H-1B visas given out every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopeful-professionals-will-continue-to-be-welcomed-in-us-mea/story-Uw5H6Dh6Cr1yBP2juAeNRO.html
25-06-2020||India||Indian Railways cancels all regular trains till August 12||The Indian Railways on Thursday announced cancellation of all regular trains till August 12. “It has been decided that regular time-tabled passenger services including Mail/Express, passenger and suburban services stand cancelled up to 12.08.2020,” the Railway Board said in a notification.“It has also been decided that all the ticket booked for the regular time-tabled trains for the journey date from 01.07.20 to 12.08.20 also stand cancelled.”All tickets booked for the regular time-tabled trains from July 1 to August 12 also stand cancelled and full fares will be refunded.All special Rajdhani, mail and express trains that started operating from May 12 and June 1, however, will continue to operate. The latest round of cancellations of trains comes in the background of a surge in Covid-19 cases across the country.In a notification on May 15, the Railways had cancelled all trains scheduled for travel till June 30, 2020, and decided to refund the tickets. On Tuesday, the Railways had announced cancellation of all tickets booked for regular trains on or before April 14 and said it would soon start generating refunds for those tickets.Trains were cancelled across the country due to the lockdown that began on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. It was only on May 16 that restricted passenger train services resumed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-cancels-all-regular-trains-till-august-12/story-tBRegPga5DXCYXSzTenu3L.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Not the way women react’: Karnataka court to complainant in rape case||Granting advance bail to a rape accused, the Karnataka High Court has expressed its reservations about the genuineness of the complainant’s case while observing that her explanation that “after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep, is unbecoming of an Indian woman.” The court also found it difficult to believe at this stage that the complainant was subjected to rape on the false promise of marriage “in the given circumstances of the case.”The complainant is the employer of the accused for the past two years, it noted.“Nothing is mentioned by the complainant as to why she went to her office at 11 pm; she has also not objected to consuming drinks with the petitioner and allowing him to stay with her till morning; the explanation offered by the complainant that after the perpetration of the act she was tired and fell asleep, is unbecoming of an Indian woman,” Justice Krishna S Dixit observed. “This is not the way our women react when they are ravished,” the judge further observed while allowing the plea on June 22.Agreeing that the charges of rape, cheating and intimidation against the petitioner were serious in nature, the court observed that “seriousness alone is not the criteria to deny liberty to the citizen when there is no prima facie case from the police.”The court took note of a letter allegedly written by the complainant that she would withdraw the complaint if a compromise was brought about.“Nothing is stated by the complainant as to why she did not approach the court at the earliest point of time when the petitioner was allegedly forcing her for sexual favours,” the court observed.Further, the judge also found no ground to deny the accused advance bail as the victim did not offer any explanation for not alerting the police or the public about the conduct of the petitioner when she had been to a hotel for dinner and the petitioner, having consumed drinks, came and sat in the car.The court imposed a slew of conditions on the petitioner while granting him the relief including the execution of a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and not tampering with evidence. (The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-way-women-react-karnataka-court-to-complainant-in-rape-case/story-kttr101zMMhOGgDLknT4uM.html
25-06-2020||India||Delhi, Maharashtra among 5 states likely to get first lot of Covid-19 drug||Homegrown pharma major Hetero has started delivering the generic version of antiviral drug Remdesivir to states across the country for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Sold under the brand name Covifor, the drug has been priced at Rs 5,400 per vial and will be available at hospitals to treat the coronavirus infection. Delhi and Maharashtra -- the two worst-hit states in the country by the coronavirus pandemic will be the first to receive the first batch of the antiviral medicine. The Hyderabad-based drugmaker has dispatched 20,000 vials of Covifor to five states. Besides Maharashtra and the national capital, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the other two states that will receive the first batch of the drug. Telangana, which has seen a sudden surge in coronavirus cases in the last one week, is the fifth state that will receive the first batch of the medicine.On Sunday, pharma company Hetero had announced it has received both manufacturing and marketing approval for the investigational antiviral drug Remdesivir, from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to treat Covid-19 patients. A day earlier, on Saturday, another India-based pharma firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals launched antiviral drug Favipiravir, to be sold under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms.ALSO READ | After FabiFlu, Hetero’s antiviral drug Covifor gets DCGI approval to treat Covid-19 patients“The first set of 20,000 vials in two equal lots of 10,000 each, one of which, will be immediately supplied to Hyderabad, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra is ready,” a Hetero spokesperson said.The other batch will be supplied to Kolkata, Indore, Bhopal, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi, Vijayawada, Cochin, Trivandrum and Goa within a week’s time, in order to meet emergency requirements, the spokesperson said.“Covifor is the first generic brand of Remdesivir which is indicated for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Through Covifor, we hope to reduce the treatment time of a patient in a hospital, thereby reducing the increasing pressure on the medical infrastructure, overburdened currently due to accelerating infection rates,” M Srinivasa Reddy, Managing Director, Hetero Healthcare Limited told news agency ANI.Covifor will soon be accessible to both public and private healthcare facilities across the country, according to the pharma firm. The company has set a target to produce one lakh vials of the drug in three-four weeks.ALSO READ | Glenmark launches Covid-19 drug at Rs 103 per tabletThe drug is available in 100 mg vials and is injectable. It needs to be administered intravenously in a hospital in a critical care set-up, under the supervision of a registered doctor. The recommended dose for adults and pediatric patients is 200 mg on Day 1 followed by once daily maintenance doses of 100 mg for five days.Covifor is likely to play a vital role in bringing down mortality rates caused by coronavirus, the company spokesperson said.Earlier in June, the Union Health Ministry included the use of anti-viral drug Remdesivir as part of “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency-use in its updated Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 patients.The drug cannot be administered to a pregnant or lactating mother and children below the age of 12 years. Patients should not have liver problems and renal complications either, the health ministry document had indicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-maharashtra-among-5-states-likely-to-get-first-lot-of-covid-19-drug/story-e1NNobWRk6jZRoYCSVt1MK.html
25-06-2020||India||BJP-led govt in Manipur back in saddle as 4 NPP MLAs withdraw resignations||Eight days after they withdrew support to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led ruling coalition in Manipur headed by N Biren Singh, all four MLAs of the National People’s Party (NPP) made a u-turn on Thursday and decided to be part of the government again.The four legislators met Governor Najma Heptulla at the Raj Bhawan in Manipur’s capital Imphal on Thursday afternoon and expressed their support to the government. All four are likely to be re-inducted as ministers soon.“A delegation of National People’s Party led by Conrad Sangma along with Himanta Biswa Sarma called on me and all the 4 MLAs gave their letter of support to the BJP led government in the state of Manipur,” Heptulla tweeted after meeting the NPP legislators.The development comes a day after the four MLAs, who had left Imphal on Tuesday, met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi. They were accompanied by NPP national president and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and senior Assam minister and convener of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Himanta Biswa Sarma.“Both leaders gave us a very patient hearing and all issues which were there we expressed them all in detail to them. They have understood what the problem is and have assured that all issues will be addressed and taken care of,” Sangma told journalists earlier on Thursday on arrival at the Imphal airport.“That is why after assurance given by Mr Shah and Mr Nadda we have decided that we will be withdrawing our resignations and NPP will continue to support the BJP government.”The three-year-old BJP-led coalition had run into a crisis on June 17 when three BJP MLAs resigned from the party and six other legislators - four from the NPP, one from Trinamool Congress and one Independent - withdrew support to the N Biren Singh’s government.Citing differences with Singh’s style of functioning, the NPP MLAs as well as the TMC and Independent legislators joined hands with opposition Congress and formed a Secular Progressive Front (SPF) to oust the government.Citing that the government has become a minority, the SPF leaders met the Governor twice seeking convening of a special assembly session to hold floor test on the government’s majority.Despite the numbers not being in their favour, the BJP candidate, Manipur’s titular king Sanajaoba Leishemba won the Rajya Sabha election on July 19 securing 28 votes to Congress candidate T Mangibabu’s 24.While these developments were underway, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team questioned Congress leader and former chief minister O Ibobi Singh in Imphal on Wednesday in connection with a case of alleged misappropriation of funds.It is alleged that the former CM while he was chairman of Manipur Development Society (MDS) between June, 2009 and July, 2017 misappropriated government funds worth Rs 332 crores along with others.“The only way for BJP to be in power in Manipur is by using CBI against Congress MLAs, manoeuvring Raj Bhawan to slow down attempts by Congress to form government along with allies and by giving pressure to Manipur MLAs by calling them to Delhi,” Manipur Congress spokesperson Nignombam Bupenda Meitei said.“The entire machineries have been abused to stop the floor test. This is BJP’s destruction of the Constitution,” he added. Despite winning 21 seats to Congress’s 28, BJP had been able to form government in Manipur in 2017 with support of four NPP MLAs, four Naga Peoples Front MLAs and one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent in the 60 -ember House.Due to disqualification of four MLAs by the Speaker, resignations by three BJP MLAs and resignation by a turncoat Congress MLA in March, the Manipur assembly’s strength has been reduced to 52.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-led-govt-in-manipur-back-in-saddle-as-4-npp-mlas-withdraw-resignations/story-1jks8EV9zXKQ3b768GHR8K.html
25-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to buy cow dung from farmers, 5-member team to decide rates||Cow dung will now be procured from breeders and farmers by the Chhattisgarh government in a push to make cattle rearing economically profitable. In the process, it will also become the first state to attempt such a thing. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, addressing a press conference, said that the scheme will be launched on the occasion of ‘Hareli’, a local festival.The rate of cow dung, the CM said, would be fixed in the next eight days and for that a five-member ministerial committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of agriculture and water resources minister Ravindra Chaubey.“There has been a tradition of open grazing in the state of Chhattisgarh, which results in loss of crops ... The stray cattle in cities cause road accidents, loss of life and property. Second, the cows are abandoned after they stop giving milk and hence to make cow rearing a profitable business, the government has decided to procure cow dung from farmers and cattle owners,” said the CM.The urban administration department has been directed to make complete arrangements to prevent stray animals roaming in the cities. The department will be responsible for purchasing cow dung and production of vermicompost.“The purpose of this scheme is to promote cattle rearing in the state and to benefit the cattle owners, who are mostly farmers. The government tried to strengthen the rural economy of the state through the ‘Narva, Garuva, Ghuruwa, Badi’ scheme in which we have developed cowsheds in 2,200 villages of the state. In the next two-three months, about 5,000 more cowsheds will be developed in the state. This scheme is an incremental step forward,” said the CM.A committee of IAS officers has also been constituted under the chairmanship of the chief secretary to determine the process of procurement of cow dung.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-buy-cow-dung-from-farmers-5-member-team-to-decide-rates/story-KoLohaiQymtUXkbdD0TooJ.html
25-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times:83 killed after being hit by lightning in Bihar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.83 killed after being hit by lightning in Bihar, PM Modi tweets on the disasterIn Bihar, at least 83 people lost their lives while 30 others were injured in thunderstorms and lightning that struck several parts of the state on Thursday. The lightning also killed more than 15 cattle in Khagaria district. Large scale damage to property has also been reported from various districts. Read more‘The result is before people’: Patanjali’s fresh defence of Coronil after states slap banPatanjali Ayurveda Limited CEO and Yoga Guru Ramdev’s associate, Acharya Balkrishna issued a clarification on Thursday amid accusations that the Ayurvedic product Coronil, produced by the Haridwar-based firm, was not approved as an alternate medicine to treat coronavirus disease by the government. Read moreVande Bharat Mission- 4th phase to begin from July 4The government has firmed up plans to launch the fourth phase of Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indian citizens stuck in foreign destinations from July 3, according to news agency ANI. Read moreCBSE CTET 2020 exam postponed, check details at ctet.nic.inThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has postponed the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET), which was scheduled to be conducted on July 5. The new examination dates for CBSE CTET 2020 will be announced after the situation becomes more conducive for the examination to be held. Read moreUS economic recovery looks to be weakening in some states with Covid outbreaksThe US economic recovery is showing incipient signs of weakening in some states where coronavirus cases are mounting.The ebbing is evident in such high-frequency data as OpenTable restaurant reservations and follows a big bounce in activity as businesses reopened from lockdowns meant to check the spread of Covid-19.Read more1983 World Cup: Five interesting facts from India’s campaignWhenever the future generations will talk about India’s rise to the zenith of world cricket, they will always go back to the year 1983. The Indian cricket team did achieve several firsts before 1983 and did put in some world class performances against much stronger opposition.  Read moreManoj Bajpayee on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘I hadn’t achieved anything till the age of 34’Sushant Singh Rajput’s Sonchiriya co-star Manoj Bajpayee has said that he had achieved nothing till the age of 34, which is how old Sushant was when he died last week. Manoj also said that he will always remember Sushant as a man who embraced his small-town origins. Read moreAmazon, Flipkart, others to add ‘country of origin’ label on online goodsAmazon India, Flipkart and other e-retailers will soon be highlighting Chinese goods sold in India online. Essentially, the e-retailers will be adding a ‘country of origin’ label to the goods sold online in the country. However, it remains uncertain when the e-commerce companies will start adding the ‘country of origin’ label to their product listings on their respective platforms. Read moreMichael Jackson: The King Of Pop and fashion iconMichael Jackson, better known as the King Of Pop is considered on of the greatest entertainers in the history of music, and although the last few years of his life were embroiled in controversy, the singer-songwriter still holds a place in the hearts of many, even 11 years after his death, on 25 June, 2009. Read more12-year-old Kerala boy’s model train made from paper wows Railway Ministry. WatchFor ages, trains have fascinated children of all ages. From choo choo-ing with a model steam engine to creating a full track complete with a station, many kids tend to have extra love towards trains. But Adwaith Krishna, a 7th standard student has taken his fascination for trains to another level. Read moreWatch: Donald Trump clarifies ‘slow down testing’ remark as Covid cases rise in USA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-83-killed-after-being-hit-by-lightning-in-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8wjf5N8DstM6IriV9ppzOO.html
25-06-2020||India||Imran Khan calls Osama Bin Laden a ‘shaheed’ in parliament, gets hammered||Just a day after the United States called out Pakistan as one of the “safe havens”, Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday called al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden a ‘shaheed’ or martyr. PM Khan was speaking in the national assembly, elaborating how Pakistan has been humiliated across the world despite having sacrificed lives in the war against terrorism.“The way we helped America in the ‘war on terror’ and the humiliation that my country had to face. I don’t think there has ever been any other country that supported war on terror and had to face criticism from them. If they are not successful in Afghanistan, Pakistan is held responsible for that too. Openly,” PM Khan told the National Assembly in a widely-circulated video.WATCH | Osama bin Laden a martyr: Pak PM Imran Khan while criticising USAImran Khan, who had described his foreign policy as his government’s biggest achievement, then went on to relate two instances when he said, people of Pakistan were deeply embarrassed.“One was when Americans killed Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad. Shaheed kar diya (was martyred). But what happened after that. The entire world hurled abuses at us. Our ally (US) entered our country and killed someone without even telling us. It was a big humiliation,” Khan said, before going on to describe the drone attacks on Pakistan as the second set of incidents that embarrassed the country.Osama bin Laden was killed in a military operation by US Navy Seals in 2011 at the Garrison town in Abbottabad.Imran Khan’s description of Osama bin Laden as a ‘shaheed‘set social media abuzz as soon as a video of his remarks got out.Imran Khan was immediately panned by the opposition leaders from the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz and Pakistan Peoples Party.“Remember that Osama Bin Laden can be the PM’s hero but not the nation’s. He was and will remain a criminal of the state and the people,” PPP’s Senator Sherry Rehman said, adding that Imran Khan’s words will go down in history.PML-N senior leader Khawaja Asif also panned Imran Khan. According to a report in Dawn, Asif said Osama bin Laden “brought terrorism to our lands, he was a terrorist through and through and he [PM Khan] calls him shaheed?”There has been no clarification from Imran Khan, who has been seen to defend Osama bin Laden in the past. Like when he was reported to have argued that one person’s freedom fighter could be another’s terrorist. Indian diplomat Vidisha Maitra had pointed to such statements from PM Khan in the United Nations General Assembly when she took the prime minister to the cleaners. Putting the spotlight on Pakistan’s track record of supporting and creating terrorists, she asked PM Khan if he would deny that “he was an open defender of Osama bin Laden”.Khan has made repeated controversial statements over the years, including during a trip to the US in 2019 when he claimed the ISI provided Washington with a lead that helped them find and kill bin Laden, according to news agency AFP. The cricketer-turned premier has long been criticised by opponents for overly sympathising with militants, with rivals once dubbing him “Taliban Khan”.Imran Khan’s remarks on Thursday came just a day after the United States State Department called out Pakistan for its continuing support to terrorists targeting India and Afghanistan.In its report that classified Pakistan as a safe haven for terrorists, the state department underlined that Jaish-e-Mohammad founder Masood Azhar and 2008 Mumbai terror attacks mastermind Sajid Mir were “widely believed” to be living “under the protection of the state” in Pakistan. The report had mirrored concerns expressed by New Delhi on numerous occasions about Pakistan’s complicity in sponsoring, promoting or supporting terrorists operating from its territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-calls-osama-bin-laden-a-shaheed-in-parliament-gets-hammered/story-NPqnKnuxukaHmSgFp5q8rN.html
25-06-2020||India||Maharashtra reports 4,841 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day jump||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike with 4,841 new Covid19 cases, taking the tally of total coronavirus infections in the state to 1,47,741--within touching distance of 1.5 lakh mark. The state also reported 192 deaths on Thursday, taking the total number of casualties in the state to 6,931.Maharashtra is India’s worst affected state by the coronavirus disease and accounts for nearly one-third of India’s total 4,73,105 positive cases as on Thursday. It also accounts for a big chunk of all deaths recorded in the country with a death rate of 4.69%.Mumbai case count crossed 70,000 mark with reporting of 1,350 new cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 70,878. City’s death toll has reached 4,062 with 98 new casualties, according to data released by the state health department.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA total of 3,661 people were declared recovered from the disease in the state on Thursday, leaving 63,342 active patients. A total of 77,453 patients have been discharged from treatment facilities in the state till Thursday.Earlier today, 11 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Mumbai’s slum colony of Dharavi. The tally of Asia’s largest slum has risen to 2,210. No fresh death was reported from the area, said a BMC officialAlso Read: Two fire incidents reported in Mumbai, no casualtiesOf the 192 deaths on Thursday, some are expected to be backlog from past weeks, cleared for release today. Senior BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had earlier today alleged that the Maharashtra government was not reporting the number of deaths in the state caused by the pandemic accurately. He alleged under reporting of around 1,000 Covid-19 deaths, according to PTI.On June 15, he had made a similar allegation in a letter written to CM Uddhav Thackeray.“As per my information, the death of 1,000 people caused due to Covid-19 in the last three months has not been reported so far. Any death happening due to Covid-19 should be reported within 72 hours. But it is not happening,” Fadnavis alleged.Government had reported additional 1,328 deaths last Tuesday on account of reconciliation of past data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-4-841-covid-19-cases-today-its-highest-single-day-jump/story-slZCgoOgAcYuAyFMnImj4O.html
25-06-2020||India||‘The result is before people’: Patanjali’s fresh defence of Coronil after states slap ban||Patanjali Ayurveda Limited CEO and Yoga Guru Ramdev’s associate, Acharya Balkrishna issued a clarification on Thursday amid accusations that the Ayurvedic product Coronil, produced by the Haridwar-based firm, was not approved as an alternate medicine to treat coronavirus disease by the government.Balkrishna reiterated that all procedure to manufacture the “medicine” was followed by the firm and the application for the alleged medicine’s license was based on “evidence” of the compounds used therein.“We’ve followed all procedures to manufacture the medicine -Coronil. We applied for the license based on classical evidence of the compounds used in the medicine. We worked on the compounds and put out the results of the clinical trial before people,” Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Uttarakhand government had yesterday said that Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy was granted a license by the state government for producing immunity boosters and not a medicine to treat Covid-19 and it issued a notice to the firm seeking a satisfactory reply within 7 days failing which the license could be withdrawn.Patanjali’s ‘breakthrough’ needs vetting, say expertsUttarakhand government’s action followed Union AYUSH ministry’s direction to the Ayurvedic firm, founded by popular Yoga Guru Ramdev, to stop advertising Coronil as a viable treatment for coronavirus disease. The ministry said the product needed to be vetted for all regulatory compliances and its efficacy.Following the doubts raised on the product, launched with fanfare on Tuesday, Rajasthan and Maharashtra government said they won’t allow its sale in their territories unless it is cleared by the AYUSH ministry. In another related development, a complaint has been filed against the company in a Bihar court questioning the claim that it can cure coronavirus disease.Also Read: BJP MLA defends Patanjali after Maharashtra Minister calls its Covid medicine ‘spurious’Balakrishna had claimed yesterday that the doubts over Coronil and Swasari were result of lack of communication, which had been addressed with the submission of all documents demonstrating 100% compliance with the norms set for clinical trials of such medicines. On Thursday, he added that all the processes for obtaining the license were followed.“We have not done anything wrong while obtaining the licence. We did not advertise the medicine (Coronil), we just tried to tell people about the effects of the medicine,” Balkrishna said.Ramdev had said the medicines were developed by Patanjali Research Center, Haridwar in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science, Jaipur.The Uttarakhand government has also submitted some documents pertaining to necessary clearances and license to Patanjali to the Centre.Uttarakhand’s Ayurved department’s licence officer Y S Rawat said the notice is being issued to the firm to explain from where it got the permission to launch a “corona kit” as a cure for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-result-is-before-people-patanjali-s-fresh-defence-of-coronil-after-states-slap-ban/story-nCnCRDWpVYVw8C1T9nieZP.html
25-06-2020||India||83 killed after being hit by lightning in Bihar, PM Modi tweets on the disaster||In Bihar, at least 83 people lost their lives while 30 others were injured in thunderstorms and lightning that struck several parts of the state on Thursday. The lightning also killed more than 15 cattle in Khagaria district. Large scale damage to property has also been reported from various districts.After media reports of 83 people being killed in a single day due to lightning in Bihar emerged, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences on Twitter. “In some districts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, heavy rains and lightning caused the death of many people. The state governments are engaged in relief work with promptness. I express my condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives in this disaster,” the prime minister tweeted on Thursday.“13 people died in Gopalganj, eight each lost their lives in Madhubani and Nawada, six each in Siwan and Bhagalpur, 5 each in East Champaran, Darbhanga and Banka, three each in Khagaria and Aurangabad, two each in West Champaran, Kishanganj, Jehanabad, Jamui, Purnia, Supaul, Buxar and Kaimur and one each in Samastipur, Sheohar, Saran, Sitamarhi and Madhepura,” Disaster Management Principal Secretary, Pratyaya Amrit said.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has expressed grief at the loss of lives and has announced a compensation of Rs four lakh each for the kin of the deceased and proper treatment for the injured. He asked people to adhere to safety norms during bad weather conditions and follow the guidelines issued from time to time by the disaster management department. The secretariat said monetary help to those who had lost animals and cattle will also be extended.Reports from Gopalganj said all the victims were farmers and residents of Barauli, Manjha, Vijaipur, Uchkagaon and Kateya localities. The lightning stuck when they were working in their fields.There was chaos at the Gopalganj Sadar Hospital, where the victims were brought for treatment. The entire emergency ward was itself flooded. Attendants of the injured patients created a ruckus, but the situation was brought under control after intervention of senior medical officials.District magistrate Arshad Aziz said seven injured people were admitted in Sadar Hospital for treatment. He said compensation would be given to the families of the deceased as per the rules.In Khagaria, a woman died and five minors were injured in Choutham locality. More than 15 cattle also died after being hit by lightning. The accident occurred while all of them were working in a paddy field.Five people were killed by lightning strikes in Darbhanga. Officer in-charge of the district disaster management department, Pushpesh Kumar said that in Uchhati village under Biraul block a woman died on the spot due to lightning while she was planting paddy in the field.Two women were injured in the incident. The injured women were sent to the Primary Health Center for treatment.Reports from Madhubani said that eight people including four of a family, besides a farmer and two others were killed in the Phulparas and Benipatti police station areas. Officials in East Champaran said, while a 49-year-old man died and three others were injured at Belwatiya village under Sagauli police station of East Champaran, a 14-year-old girl, a resident of Surendra village under Raxaul police station, was killed in the lightning strikes.“All the three people who sustained injuries are undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Sagauli and the body of the deceased has been sent to Motihari Sadar Hospital for autopsy,” said Mithilesh Kumar, station house officer, Sagauli police station. In neighbouring West Champaran district, two villagers were killed in Narkatiaganj subdivision of the district.Last year too, lightning had killed 39 people in Bihar during the monsoon season. (With inputs from Sandeep Bhaskar in Bettiah and Bishnu K Jha in Darbhanga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-killed-after-being-hit-by-lightning-in-bihar-pm-modi-tweets-on-the-disaster/story-gSpahwCcHeMj24iMyIUMbM.html
25-06-2020||India||Vande Bharat Mission- 4th phase to begin from July 4||The government has firmed up plans to launch the fourth phase of Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate Indian citizens stuck in foreign destinations from July 3, according to news agency ANI. It quoted external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Shrivastava to say that phase-4 of the mission will particularly focus on countries that have a large number of Indian citizens who have registered with the government to return.The development follows the announcement of government’s decision to explore the possibility of establishing bilateral arrangements to address concerns of discrimination against airline carriers from other countries, who were not given permission to operate flights from India.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government had said on Tuesday that it was contemplating establishing bilateral bubbles-- India-US, India-France, India-Germany and India-UK in response to demands from airlines in these countries to fly out passengers from India. The development on Tuesday followed restrictions imposed by the US on operating Vande Bharat flights to destinations in that country beyond a 30 day deadline.The order said Air India will have to file applications for authorisation for repatriation flights at least 30 days before the date of the proposed flight.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19A total of 96 flights to various cities in the US between June 12 and July 2 under the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission won’t be affected by the restriction imposed by the US.The Vande Bharat Mission, which commenced from May 7, is in its third phase, which began on June 11.According to the latest data released by the ministry of civil aviation, Air India group has operated a total of 1,414 flights (both inbound and outbound) carrying a total of 182,313 passengers till June 24, 2020.The ministry has also said that a total of 4,87,303 repatriation requests were received from Indians citizens stranded in various countries of which 2,63,187 have been brought back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-bharat-mission-4th-phase-to-begin-from-july-4/story-tpZOvNMzRIZroebtyNSHfI.html
25-06-2020||India||Over 50% of passengers want to wait for at least 6 months before they travel by air again: IATA survey||Mumbai: International Air Transport Association (IATA), a trade association of the world’s airlines since 1945, had conducted a survey in 11 countries, including India and the United States of America (USA), and announced its results at a webinar on Thursday.The results are far from encouraging, as the survey found that confidence for air travel among passengers have hit rock bottom by early June because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic compared with the ground realities in mid-March, when the outbreak was still at a nascent stage.The outcomes are based on two rounds of surveys conducted with 4,700 respondents in mid-March and early June.“Over 50% of the passengers said they would travel by air after at least six months,” said Amitabh Khosla, director, India, IATA, at the webinar titled, “Restoring confidence in air travel” that was organised by US-India aviation cooperation programme.“There is a major problem in gaining passengers’ confidence at the moment,” he added.The findings showed that in mid-March 60% of the respondents had said they would return to the air travel within a couple of months, despite the pandemic.But by early-June, the cautious optimism has changed, as 45% still held that view.While 18% of the respondents in mid-March had booked their tickets three days in advance, but 41% did so by early June amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. An overwhelming 83% of the respondents said they wouldn’t travel by air if it involves a mandatory 14-day quarantine period.“There is a need for better travel insurance in a bid to regain passengers’ confidence,” Khosla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-of-passengers-want-to-wait-for-at-least-6-months-before-they-travel-by-air-again-iata-survey/story-ceeNpNQT5bWCCcgOeueouN.html
25-06-2020||India||KCR’s daughter Kavitha to lead protests by Singareni coal mine workers tomorrow||Coal mine workers under the aegis of the Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS) will stage protests at all the mines of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in the state on Friday, opposing the recent decision of the Centre to privatise 42 coal mines across the country.The strike will be led by Kalvakuntla Kavitha, former Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP from Nizamabad and daughter of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. It will be the first major agitation to be led by Kavitha, after her defeat in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019.Kavitha, who is the former honorary president of TGBKS strongly opposed the Centre’s decision to privatise Singareni Collieries, which is one of the profit-making public sector undertakings.She called upon the coal mine workers to burn effigies of the Central government at all the Singareni coal mines on Friday. “The coal mine workers will participate in the 24-hour strike on June 2, to highlight the issue and attract the nation’s attention,” she said in a statement.Apart from TGBKS, all other national trade unions of Singareni Collieries have announced a three-day strike from July 2 to 4 in protest against the privatisation.Representatives of the All India Trade Union Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Hindustan Mazdoor Sangh, the Confederation of Indian Trade Unions, who had a meeting in Godavarikhani last week gave a notice of the upcoming strike to the management.The trade union leaders demanded that the Centre withdraw its proposal to privatise coal mines and e-auction of 50 blocks of coal mines in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-s-daughter-kavitha-to-lead-protests-by-singareni-coal-mine-workers-tomorrow/story-OVbYVANn0gf7wHRgSsec2M.html
25-06-2020||India||Kerala’s guidelines for expats’ return impractical, says MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs has told the Kerala government that its guidelines that expatriates returning home from Persian Gulf countries should wear personal protection equipment (PPE) to contain the spread of Covid-19 are impractical for the ministry to implement.“We’ll be observing standard operating protocols (SOPs) issued by Home and Health Ministries. The SOPs say that expatriates will have to follow the SOPs being implemented in those countries. Kerala government’s guidelines are impractical for the MEA to implement,” minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said according to ANI.At least 149 Vande Bharat and 171 chartered flights are expected to land in Kerala with expatriates in next two weeks.“Kerala government has issued some special guidelines for the expatriates who want to return to Kerala from Gulf countries. Regarding this, MEA has informed the government that state-specific protocols cannot be implemented,” the minister said.The Kerala government which had earlier said that expatriates should have Covid-free certificates before flying home, scrapped that demand on Wednesday after the Centre said tests are not feasible in Indian missions but insisted that passengers will have to wear PPE during the flights.The state government had maintained that Covid-free certificates were a must because most of Kerala’s coronavirus cases were people who had come from abroad or other states.The state’s insistence on Covid-free certificates had drawn fire from the opposition and the expatriates as insensitive||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-guidelines-for-expats-return-impractical-says-mea/story-vCbBvpKLbc3mtIBRTCSjyL.html
25-06-2020||India||CBI chargesheets Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, daughter and DHFL promoters for fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), on Thursday, filed a chargesheet in the case against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and the promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan. The former Yes Bank chief’s daughter Roshni Kapoor has also been named in the chargesheet.Earlier in the first week of March, a case was registered against Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans in connection with the Yes Bank fraud. Wadhawan was arrested during the lockdown after he managed to reach his farmhouse outside Mumbai. The case was in connection with suspicious loans sanctioned by Yes Bank and alleged quid pro quo kickbacks received by Kapoor and his family from DHFL’s Wadhawans.The chargesheet also mentions DOiT Urban Ventures Ltd (DUVPL), owned by Kapoor’s daughters, while DHFL has been named as an accused in the Yes Bank scam.It has been alleged that between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL. “Simultaneously, Kapil Wadhawan paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore to Rana Kapoor and his family members in the garb of a builder loan of Rs 600 crore given by DHFL to M/s DOIT Urban Ventures, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAB Enterprises in which Bindu Kapoor is a director and 100% shareholder. Furthermore, the daughters of Rana Kapoor are 100% shareholders of DOIT through Morgon Credits,” states CBI’s FIR in the case. CBI further alleged that DHFL gave Rs 600 crore to DOIT on the basis of a mortgage of a sub-standard property having very meager value and by considering the future conversion from agricultural land to the residential land. DHFL had not repaid the bank’s Rs 3,700 crore till date, it adds.Yes Bank also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers Pvt Ltd whose Director is Dheeraj Wadhawan and is a DHFL group company for their Bandra reclamation project. The amount was transferred by RKW Developers to DHFL without investing anything in the project for which it was sanctioned, the CBI FIR further states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-chargesheets-yes-bank-founder-rana-kapoor-daughter-and-dhfl-promoters-for-fraud/story-GPSiCDTJGrw4xEahM9sacO.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Picking pocket during crisis’: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacks centre over fuel price hike||In continuation of her offensive against the BJP government, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on Thursday, accused the centre of “picking pockets” of people during a time of crisis, while referring to the continuous hike in fuel prices by oil companies despite relatively low cost of international crude due to global uncertainties triggered by the impact of coronavirus outbreak. She added that her party staged successful protests on the matter in Uttar Pradesh today.“The government, by hiking the prices of Diesel and Petrol for the 19th continuous day today, has made this clear that the BJP has greater interest in picking people’s pockets even in the times of a crisis. The Congress party staged protests in all of UP today. The people are not willing to put up with this loot any longer,” she tweeted on Thursday afternoon.Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 79.92 per litre from Rs 79.76 during the day while diesel rates were increased to Rs 80.02 a litre from Rs 79.88. The diesel price were increased for the 19th day in a row since the price revisions began on June 7 after a gap of close to three months due to the lockdownAlso Read: Another hike in fuel prices, diesel crosses Rs 80 a litre mark in DelhiThe Congress has launched nationwide agitation on the issue, with its state units leading protests on the issue in their respective regions.Earlier today, UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and several other party activists were arrested while protesting in Lucknow, said PTI. Congress workers had started their protest from the party headquarters in Lucknow and were going towards the Vidhan Sabha when they were stopped by the cops, the agency said.Priynaka is the party general secretary in charge of eastern UP and has been leading the party’s drive to oppose the government on the issue of fuel price hike.“ The government has created history by picking people’s pockets in the times of crisis. Diesel prices have now crossed the price of petrol. When the prices of crude oil are sliding across the world, look at this method of looting people. The government raises the price of petrol and diesel by a few paise every day so that they avoid the impression of a rise in prices by Rs 8 a litre or Rs 9 a litre in one go,” she had said in another tweet 24 hours ago.Congress has organized protests in several states over the issue. In Madhya Pradesh, senior party leader Digvijaya Singh was booked along with other party workers for taking out a cycle march to protest on the issue.Also Read: FIR against Digvijaya Singh, 150 Congress workers for cycle march against fuel price hikeIn Haryana, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda slammed the centre alleging the rising fuel prices were bound to have a cascading effect and burden common people and farmers the most due to their dependence on diesel for irrigation and transport.In Bihar, opposition leader Sharad Yadav said that the double whammy of fuel price rise along with Coved pandemic will result in setbacks for the BJP in the coming Bihar elections, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/picking-pocket-during-crisis-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-attacks-centre-over-fuel-price-hike/story-lT04vdXE2Hilo2UmVfEd8N.html
25-06-2020||India||Assam fire: NGT imposes interim fine of Rs 25 crore on OIL, forms committee||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the formation of an expert committee to probe the blowout and the subsequent fire of a natural gas well operated by Oil India Limited (OIL) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district and the damage caused to human life, wildlife, and the environment because of the industrial disaster.Acting on two different cases filed in the matter, the NGT in an order passed via video-conference because of the restrictions imposed due to the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak on Wednesday also directed OIL to deposit an initial amount of Rs 25 crore to the Tinsukia district administration for the damage caused by the blowout on May 27 and the subsequent fire on June 9.The gas well located at Baghjan had a blowout --- an uncontrolled release of gas and oil condensate --- on May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, which killed two firefighters and over 1,600 families, who were living close to the site of the industrial disaster, were displaced.The eight-member expert committee will be headed by retired Justice BP Katakey of Gauhati high court and will have members from the Central Pollution Control Board (CBCB), the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and also the district magistrate (DM) of Tinsukia.The committee has been entrusted with the responsibility to probe cause of the blowout, the extent of loss and damage caused to human life, wildlife, and environment, damage and the health hazards caused to the public and whether any contamination of the air, water, and soil of the area close to the gas well has taken place.It will investigate contamination of water in the nearby Dibru river, impact on Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and Maguri Motapung wetland, determine people responsible for the fire, assessment of compensation to those affected and preventive, and also suggest preventive measures.The tribunal directed the committee to submit its preliminary report “as expeditiously as possible and not later than 30 days” from the date of issue of the order.The next date for the hearing has been fixed on July 29.“In view of the prima facie case made out against OIL on the extent of damage caused to the environment and biodiversity, damage to both human and wildlife, public health and having regard to the financial worth of the company and the extent of damage, we direct OIL to deposit an initial amount of Rs 25 crore with the district collector of Tinsukia and shall abide by further orders of the tribunal,” the order stated.The blowout and fire destroyed nearly 30 houses, covered houses, trees and water bodies in the area close to the well, which is barely 500 metres from Maguri Motapung wetland, an eco-sensitive habitat for rare species of birds, and about a kilometre from DSNP.Efforts to control the fire and plug the blowout, which are expected to take a month, are underway. But, incessant rainfall in the area since Monday and the collapse of a bridge on Wednesday on the main route leading to the gas well have hampered work and transportation of both men and materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-fire-ngt-imposes-interim-fine-of-rs-25-crore-on-oil-forms-committee/story-gifpZon4vLps2VAzU0UC2O.html
25-06-2020||India||China amassing troops along LAC since May violating all norms, says India||India on Thursday held China responsible for the violent faceoff at the Galwan Valley in Ladakh and accused it of amassing troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in violation of all agreed norms.The Indian position on the months-old standoff was outlined in a lengthy and sharply worded statement from the external affairs ministry as tensions simmered due to the continuing Chinese military build-up in several sections of the LAC, especially in Ladakh, which has been the focus of the stand-off.Explaining the context of the standoff and the issues the two sides are trying to address, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a statement: “At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC. This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements, especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas.”This agreement states each side will keep its military forces in areas along the LAC to a “minimum level compatible with friendly and good neighbourly relations”. Following the Chinese build-up, India had to make “counter deployments and the resulting tension has thereafter expressed itself”.New Delhi reiterated that it has been patrolling in Galwan Valley for a long time, and has never attempted to change the status quo. However, it added the same has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side.Both sides had developed patterns of patrolling over many years and it is the “reasonable expectation that patrols will not be obstructed in the discharge of their legitimate duties”. However, the Indian side has experienced obstruction to patrolling that is often accompanied by efforts to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC.Indian troops are fully familiar with the LAC’s alignment in all sectors and abide scrupulously by it. They have also patrolled all along the LAC, including in Galwan Valley, “for a long time”, the statement said.Yesterday, China, for the first time, admitted casualties on its side in the violent brawl with Indian soldiers, but claimed that “numbers were not very high”. On the other hand, 20 Indian soldiers died defending their country on June 15.On Tuesday, Zhao Lijian, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, had dismissed as “fake news” a statement by minister VK Singh that the PLA could have suffered double the number of casualties compared to the Indian army.China on Wednesday launched a twin diplomatic attack against India with its foreign and defence ministries blaming New Delhi for the Galwan Valley clash and alleging that the external affairs ministry and Indian media were spreading false information about the incident.On June 20, India, for the second time, rejected China’s claim on Galwan Valley in Ladakh and reiterated that the violent clash of June 15 was triggered by Chinese efforts to build structures on the Indian side of the LAC. The MEA spoksperson had said the position with regard to Galwan Valley was “historically clear”. He added, “Attempts by the Chinese side to now advance exaggerated and untenable claims with regard to Line of Actual Control (LAC) there are not acceptable. They are not in accordance with China’s own position in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-amassing-troops-along-lac-since-may-its-conduct-in-disregard-of-all-norms-says-external-affairs-ministry/story-wZCi4M558ZeAutP8m7ERpJ.html
25-06-2020||India||Delhi L-G reverses Covid order on home isolation after meeting CM Kejriwal||The Anil Baijal-led Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday agreed to reverse his order that mandated all Covid-19 patients visit state-run Covid facilities for an evaluation. Baijal made the announcement on Twitter over the controversial rule that has drawn widespread criticism from the public and the Arvind Kejriwal government.In two tweets, Baijal’s office said only Covid patients who do not have adequate facilities at home to ensure physical segregation and do not have other medical conditions would be shifted to Covid Care centres and other facilities.Also Read: Only small fraction of patients reaching Covid centres in Delhi for screeningRaj Niwas said the disaster management authority, which is empowered to notify Covid-19 rules for national capital Delhi, had agreed to modify the standard operating procedure to meet the twin objectives of “containment of local spread & provision of timely medical care for Covid positive cases”.The decision was taken at the meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) headed by the Lt Governor. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has been a vocal critic of the June 20 order, is the vice chairperson.Now mild and asymptomatic people in Delhi will not have to queue up at Covid Care Centres, or CCC, for their clinical assessment.“Yes, the L-G has agreed to revert to the old system where a team led by the district surveillance officer (DSO) will visit the house of the Covid positive patient to decide whether home isolation can be recommended,” Sisodia told Hindustan Times before heading into a Press conference to make the formal announcement.In a statement, the L-G office also clarified about the process of assessment. “It was decided that all cases who test positive by Rapid test for COVID-19 antigen will be examined by the Medical Officer on duty at the testing site to assess the severity of illness i.e. pre- symptomatic/asymptomatic/mild/moderate or severe. The assessment made by the Medical Officer on site shall effectively constitute an assessment made at the COVID Care Centre,” the statement read.For those who test positive through RT-PCR Test, the patient shall be allowed home isolation if, as per the assessment of Home Isolation team sent by the District Surveillance Officer (DSO), the patient is mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic and has a residence of two rooms or a separate room and a separate toilet for the patient. He/she will be provided a contact number for any consultation required by him along with details of CATS Ambulance call number for transfer to hospital in case symptoms develop, the L-G’s office said.“If the said patient has moderate/severe symptoms with co-morbidities, he shall be transferred to the CCC/CHC/Hospital. In case his residence is not found to be fit for home isolation by the surveillance team, the patient will be admitted to COVID Care Centre for isolation as per MoHFW guidelines,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-governor-tweaks-covid-order-on-home-isolation-after-meeting-kejriwal/story-MFnHDHMaiMRdyRR5mokTDK.html
25-06-2020||India||In Telangana and Andhra, pvt school teachers now struggle as daily wage earners||Thirty-year-old Payili Satyanarayana, a post-graduate in Telugu literature from Telangana’s Nalgonda district who was working as a teacher, had never imagined in his life that he would ever work as a daily wage labourer in cotton fields.But he is now compelled to do it to feed his small family, as the Covid-19 pandemic turned his life topsy-turvy. “I was working as a teacher in a private school in Suryapet town for a paltry salary of Rs 15,000 a month. Yet, it was a noble profession with respect in society. But the pandemic has made my life miserable,” Satyanarayana said.As his school was forced to close down abruptly due to the lockdown, Satyanarayana returned to his native village Aakaram in Shaligouraram block of Nalgonda district along with his wife and eight-month old son. “The school management paid me just Rs 5,000 for the month of March and threw up its hands. We had no other source of income to survive,” he lamented.Having no other option, Satyanarayana joined the other village youth to enroll himself as a labourer under National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme (NREGP) to earn his living. “I was paid Rs 150 per day as wages for doing desilting work in a local tank. But that was hardly enough. Later, I joined as a labourer in cotton fields, where I am getting around Rs 300 per day,” he said.The economic crisis has also forced him to swallow pride of being a post-graduate and take up any work to survive. “If I start thinking about my qualification, I will die of starvation,” Satyanarayana quipped.It is the same story with 40-year old Zaheer Ahmed Sheik, a double-post graduate from Mancherial district in northern Telangana, who worked as a Hindi teacher in a corporate school in Hyderabad for a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 till the Coronavirus pandemic struck.“Since I cannot survive in Hyderabad without a job, I came back to my town and have been working at an LPG warehouse doing loading and unloading of gas cylinders. I get Rs 500 per week. Besides, I also do painting of buildings. In all, I am earning Rs 5,000 a month,” said Zaheer, a father of two teen-aged sons. “I am scared if I think about the future,” he said.Tumki Praveen, a mathematics teacher from Jagtial town, frantically searched for a respectable job after he lost one in a private school. Finally, he ended up as a fruit seller in the market. “What else can I do? I don’t have money even to do a petty business,” he said.While Balaraju from Siddipet town, a science teacher, has taken to selling snacks (mirchi bajjis) and other eatables in a roadside kiosk, Karunakar, a post-graduate in English from the same town is earning Rs 400 per day working as a construction labourer and Ganne Jamuna from Jagtial has taken to her family profession of beedi making.According to Sheik Shabbir Ali, president of Telangana Private Teachers Federation, there are 11,700 recognised private schools in the state. “As per the official statistics, as many as 1,20,350 teachers were working in these schools, but unofficially, the number is more than 2.5 lakh. All of them are now on the roads,” he said.Though some corporate schools and big institutions have resumed online classes for the students, Shabbir Ali said, they engaged only a few teachers for it. “In many districts, several big schools have formed into a group and engaged common teachers to take up online classes for their students,” he said.In the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the situation is no different. Several private school teachers, who were suddenly rendered jobless, are forced to sell vegetables, work as construction labourers and daily wage workers.“I earned a lot of respect among students as a maths teacher and principal of a private school. But now, I have lost my job and am forced to go from street to street to sell eggs,” rued Nageshwara Rao of Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district.Didde Ambedkar, president of Andhra Pradesh Private School Teachers’ Union, said there are more than 12,000 recognised private schools in the state that provided employment to 1.25 lakh teachers. “Many schools have not paid salaries to the teachers since February, much before the lockdown was imposed,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-and-andhra-pvt-school-teachers-now-struggle-as-daily-wage-earners/story-R1Mr89YS9g3lh1s4XBN4xM.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Coronavirus won’t peak in UP’: Akhilesh jeers at state’s handling of Covid crisis||Akhilesh Yadav has alleged that the UP government is not conducting enough number of Covid-19 tests and therefore the claims regarding successful management of the disease were misleading. The former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also questioned the UP government’s data on the number of beds available to treat coronavirus patients. “Coronavirus disease will never peak in the state of Uttar Pradesh because the honourable chief minister of the state is not getting enough tests conducted. How is it possible to assess when the disease is going to peak if enough tests are not conducted. Look at Delhi, they are going to conduct tests,” Akhilesh said drawing a comparison.Earlier this month, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditynath had told Hindustan that the state, as of June 5, had 32 labs in both private and public sector hospitals to test Covid samples. The state was testing around 12,000 people every day on an average and aimed to increase it to 20,000 by the end of June, he had said.Also Read: ‘Need to know the truth’: Akhilesh Yadav doesn’t agree with PM Modi’s statement on ChinaAkhilesh also contested Adityanath’s claim that work on several new medical colleges in the state was in progress. Akhilesh said the state government should name the new medical colleges it has built during its tenure.“The government must tell us if they have built any new medical college in the state. All they have done is to change the name of existing medical colleges,” the former UP CM said during an exclusive interview with Hindustan editor in chief Shashi Shekhar.On June 5, UP CM Aditynath had said that his government had managed to double the number of government hospitals in the state in the last three years.“There were only 12 government hospitals in the state since 1947 but the current UP government, since 2016, has started or is in the process of starting 30 new medical colleges, there are two functional AIIMS in UP right now-- in Gorakhpur and Rae Bareli,” Adityanath had said.Also Read: Adityanath directs officials to provide registration facility to migrant workers through mobile appsAkhilesh also questioned the state government’s claims on the number of beds available for the treatment of Covid cases. “BJP government claims to have readied one lakh beds for treatment of Covid patients. I am wondering how they reached the landmark after initially claiming to have only 36,000 beds,” Akhilesh asked. He suggested that there were only a few large medical hospitals in the state and therefore the claim of 10,000 Covid beds appeared to be out of sync with the reality.“Uttar Pradesh’s biggest medical colleges include KGMU and Ram Manohar Lohia institute in Lucknow and there are a few others including one in Saifai, Agra and Meerut. I want to know how many beds are ready in Lucknow alone,” Akhilesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-won-t-peak-in-up-akhilesh-jeers-at-state-s-handling-of-covid-crisis/story-vW7o1LlFCXF3CiZfx1SqJN.html
25-06-2020||India||Monsoon covers most parts of the country at least a week in advance||New Delhi: Monsoon has covered most parts of the country until Thursday. Usually, monsoon covers all parts of the country by July 8. Now, only parts of Rajasthan; Punjab and Haryana are left to be covered, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Monsoon arrived in Delhi on Wednesday and covered the city and all parts of the national capital region (NCR) on Thursday.IMD scientists said certain synoptic features this monsoon such as the development of cyclone Nisarga over the Arabian Sea, which coincided with the onset of monsoon over Kerala, and the formation of a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal soon after that helped the northern limit of monsoon (NLM) -- the northern-most boundary up to which monsoon rains have advanced -- advance very rapidly over the country.Monsoon is early over several states by at least a week, IMD’s NLM map showed.“Monsoon has already covered entire Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, most parts of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and entire Delhi as on Thursday. This is because of a number of favourable conditions that helped the monsoon advance. Cyclone Nisarga had formed over the Bay of Bengal on June 1, which coincided with the arrival of monsoon over Kerala. We had a very good low-pressure system formed over the Bay of Bengal (around June 8), which helped monsoon advance both on the east and west coasts. There was a brief lull between July 16 and 22, but rains picked up again. We are seeing a good progression of monsoon,” said K Sathi Devi, head, regional weather forecasting centre.The monsoon has been 22% excess of the long-period average (LPA) till Wednesday.LPA is the average rainfall recorded between June and September, calculated during the 50-year period, and is kept as a benchmark while forecasting the quantitative rainfall for the monsoon season every year.Due to the shift of trough of low-pressure northwards and convergence of strong southerly or south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east, widespread rain with heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely to continue over the region for the next three to four days, IMD’s Thursday bulletin said.Light to moderate rains can be expected in Delhi-NCR in the next two to three hours, said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-covers-most-parts-of-the-country-at-least-a-week-in-advance/story-mZTSjOOYus7YDJVQZ547RI.html
25-06-2020||India||3 more cops die of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, force’s death toll climbs to 54||Three more Maharashtra Police personnel succumbed to the infectious Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in the force to 54, officials said on Thursday.At least, 38 police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, the Maharashtra Police said.Till date, about 3,239 police personnel have been cured and discharged and another 991 more security personnel are undergoing treatment for the pathogen.ALSO READ | 4 Mumbai Police personnel succumb to Covid-19, 1,233 cops recover and join workWith 1,42,900 confirmed cases of Covid-19 so far, Maharashtra remains the worst-affected state in the country by the coronavirus pandemic , according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. In the last 48 hours, as many as 185 new Covid-19 positive cases and two more deaths were reported among Maharashtra Police personnel on Wednesday.According to a Maharashtra Police statement, the total number of positive cases has risen to 4,288 including 991 active cases, 3,239 recoveries, and 54 fatalities so far.India on Thursday recorded 16,922 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the highest till date, increasing the country’s coronavirus tally to 4,73,105.ALSO READ | Nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally to over 4.7 lakhA Central team led by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and June 29 to interact with the state government officials and coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for the management of Covid-19 in those states, a statement from the Health Ministry indicated on Thursday. Across the country grappling with the deadly virus, in the last 24 hours, a total of 13,012 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals and other medical facilities. So far, a total of 2,71,696 patients have been cured of the coronavirus infection, according to health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-cops-die-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-force-s-death-toll-climbs-to-54/story-UctCgbrKgt9NVcigFwCxCK.html
25-06-2020||India||BJP MLA defends Patanjali after Maharashtra Minister calls its Covid medicine ‘spurious’||A BJP MLA in Maharashtra on Thursday took on the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh for red flagging Patanjali Ayurved’s medicine that claims to cure Covid-19 and saying that “Maharashtra won’t allow sale of spurious medicines”.Following the controversy over Patanjali Ayurved’s claim that its medicine Coronil is a cure for Covid-19, Deshmukh tweeted that the National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) in Jaipur will find out whether clinical trials of ‘Coronil’ were done at all. Patanjali is promoted by yoga guru Ramdev.“The National Institute of Medical Sciences, Jaipur will find out whether clinical trials of @PypAyurved’s ‘Coronil’ were done at all. An abundant warning to @yogrishiramdev that Maharashtra won’t allow sale of spurious medicines.#MaharashtraGovtCares#NoPlayingWithLives,” the minister tweeted.Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by Covdi-19 with a tally of over 1.4 lakh including more than 6,700 deaths so far.Hours later, Ram Kadam replied to Deshmukh’s tweet, attaching a document that he claimed was approval of NIMS of the clinical trials of Coronil.“Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh’s tweet on Patanjali’s Coronil medicine on Coronavirus calling it as spurious. He also said that clinical trial approval from NIMS will be awaited. I would like to inform the Respected Home Minister that clinical approval is there” Kadam said in his tweet.1/1 .Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's tweet on Patanjali's Coronil medicine on Coronavirus calling it as spurious. He also said that clinical trial approval from NIMS will be awaited. I would like to inform the Respected Home Minister that clinical approval is there https://t.co/cnXCtN6HV3 pic.twitter.com/YPcLeGh556NIMS University (formerly known as National Institute of Medical Sciences) is a private university in Jaipur that was set up in 2008.In Jaipur, Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said that Ramdev did not take permission from the state government for the clinical trials that Patanjali conducted.Sharma said that the state government had not received any proposal for clinical trials for the drug, nor had they given any permission to anyone in this regard.He also warned of strict action if anyone was found selling Patanjali’s medicines that claim to cure Covid-19.NIMS director Dr Anurag Tomar said that all the necessary approvals for the clinical trials had been taken and permission from Clinical Trials Registry- India (CTRI) was taken before the trials were conducted.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of AYUSH asked Patanjali to provide details about the medicine and to stop advertising the products. It also asked the Uttarakhand government to provide details of the license given to Patanjali to manufacture the medicine.On Wednesday, the Uttarakhand government said that the license issued to Patanjali pertained to the development of immunity boosters and not a medicinal cure for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-defends-patanjali-after-maharashtra-minister-calls-its-covid-medicine-spurious/story-17eRN9PVBeyOFULlKKDTWP.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Need to know the truth’: Akhilesh Yadav doesn’t agree with PM Modi’s statement on China||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has demanded that the central government tell the “truth” regarding recent Chinese incursions that led to violent clashes in the Galwan Valley along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, claiming lives of 20 Indian soldiers on June 15. Akhilesh also said that he didn’t agree with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement at the recently held all-party meet regarding the status at the China border, which had triggered a political controversy.“The government should tell the truth to the people. People want to know exactly what happened at the border. BJP wants to say everything but the truth to the public. There are reports that Chinese troops build up at the LAC in Ladakh continues, this raises a big question over our national security,” Akhilesh said in an exclusive interview with Hindustan editor-in-chief Shashi Shekhar.Akhilesh was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement in which he claimed that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”, while sharing details of circumstances surrounding clashes between Indian and Chinese army personnel. Watch l ‘BJP cites past to hide present reality’: Akhilesh Yadav on India-China faceoff “I do not agree with the statement given by the prime minister, there are several Indians who do not agree with his statement. This is an issue concerning national security and integrity; therefore it is important that the people and political parties are told the truth,” Akhilesh said.Also Read: UK PM Boris Johnson terms India-China faceoff ‘very serious, worrying’Akhilesh said that his party stands with the government on the issue of national security but expressed surprise how Chinese managed to increase their build up at the LAC leading to incursions attempting to change the status quo without getting noticed. He added that the Doklam incident should have served as a warning to the Indian government.“The question around China is a big one. India faces greater threat from China than Pakistan. The leaders from Samajwadi Party have said that before,” Akhilesh said.The Samajwadi Party leader, who has also previously served as the chief minister of India’s largest state of Uttar Pradesh, backed measures including economic ones to contain China but not without ensuring that it doesn’t impact Indian businesses and markets.“SP has told the Centre that we need a long term strategy to contain China or we won’t succeed. We need to protect our markets and our business leaders. We can’t take rash decisions that adversely impact our economy,” Akhilesh said.He said that his party has maintained that India should upgrade its infrastructure on borders along China. He added that SP has been demanding construction of a highway at Lipulekh since 2012.Hitting out at the BJP government’s handling of the border crisis with China, Akhilesh said that the BJP tends to blame the previous Congress governments at the Centre instead of talking about its own work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-know-the-truth-akhilesh-yadav-doesn-t-agree-with-pm-modi-s-statement-on-china/story-72MWX3acTnaXCqFA05eJSP.html
25-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health ministry team to visit three states to assess Covid crisis and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Health ministry team to visit Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana to assess Covid-19 crisisA Central team led by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and June 29 to interact with the state government officials and coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for the management of Covid-19 in those states, a statement from the Health Ministry indicated on Thursday. Read moreKarnataka minister rules out full lockdown in BengaluruAmid speculation of another lockdown in Karnataka to contain rising cases of Covid-19, Revenue minister R Ashoka on Thursday ruled out a full lockdown of the state capital Bengaluru. “Lockdown will not be imposed on the entire city of Bengaluru,” he said. Read moreNodal officer of Punjab’s Moga district tests positive for Covid-19Moga’s nodal officer for coronavirus disease, Dr Naresh Amla, 27, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said three other health department officials on Covid-19 duty with Dr Amla, including district epidemiologist Dr Manish Arora, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. Read moreWHO says getting backing it needs as France, Germany express supportFrance and Germany expressed their backing for the World Health Organization in fighting the coronavirus on Thursday, with Germany saying it will contribute some half billion euros in funding for the U.N. agency this year. Read more‘Delhi passed on him’: Former IPL COO reveals reason behind Daredevils not picking Virat Kohli in 2008When India won the 2008 Under-19 World Cup, there was firm spotlight on young Virat Kohli. He was the skipper of the Indian colts and was instrumental in taking his country to victory. Read moreShe dons the hat of a Captain, YouTuber and mum with ease. Her story is winning the Internet“Feeling so empowered”, “such an inspiration” - these are just two examples of the kinds of comments shared on a recent post by Humans of Bombay. The pictures shared in the post show the woman they’re talking about. Read moreHappy 46 Birthday Karisma Kapoor: Here are some of Lolo’s best looksWithin the ever-changing fashion game, it can sometimes be hard to stay relevant and on point all the time. With trends that come and go faster than early monsoon showers, keeping up with them is a daunting task, let alone participating. Read moreWatch: Manipur crisis | ‘Stable govt, can prove majority anytime’: Ram Madhav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-health-ministry-team-to-visit-three-state-to-asses-covid-crisis-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6xoF5aEEIU44tngUZ3BPsK.html
25-06-2020||India||Public outcry over contentious environment ministry regulation||The environment ministry has received thousands of requests for extending the time frame for submitting public comments or objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020, which is set to expire in five days on June 30.The draft, which is expected to overhaul the process of environmental regulation of infrastructure projects, is in the eye of a storm because it has contentious clauses on regularising projects that violate environmental norms and shortening the time frame for public hearings.The environment ministry has received thousands of requests from civil society organisations, legal researchers and students in the past month for further extending the period for comments and addressing concerns regarding the draft. “We have informed the environment minister’s office about these representations. A decision hasn’t been taken on extending the time for comments. As of now, it stands at June 30,” said Sharath Kumar Pallerla, director (policy wing) in the environment ministry. The draft notification was first released for comments on March 23 and people were provided a 60-day window to send comments or objections. But owing to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown and stiff resistance from environmental groups, the environment ministry had extended the time frame for comments from May 22 to June 30.“The draft has been in the public domain for nearly 100 days now. In fact, we issued a zero draft to get people’s comments in April 2019, following which we held public consultations in several cities on the draft. Recently, we had consultations with industrial associations and accredited environmental consultants. But still we are receiving representations to extend time on this notification,” Pallerla said. After June 30, the thousands of comments received on the draft will be submitted to an expert committee, which will vet the comments and incorporate them in the draft if the members think it’s necessary or the draft will be notified as is.An RTI enquiry filed by an activist, a copy of which HT has seen, said the environment ministry was flooded with representations on the draft. Till April 20, the ministry had received 1,190 emails, of which 46 emails included suggestions and 1,144 emails had requests for extending the time frame for submitting comments. A joint secretary in the ministry had said she received more than 4,000 representations.“Since the EIA notification and any change thereto is of great significance to the management of environment in the country as a whole and to the matters of access and utilisation of natural resources…it is suggested that we may extend the time frame to a total of 180 days from the time of issue on March 23,” she wrote in a note to the environment minister. The note was, however, signed off with June 30 as the date till which the period for comments will be extended. Pallerla confirmed the ministry had received a lot of requests, following which it decided to extend the time for public responses. More than 50 university student unions, college environment clubs and youth groups from different parts of the country wrote to the environment ministry on Thursday, demanding the draft be put on hold and rewritten according to recommendations by environmental experts. “As we emerge from Covid-19, we need to make a choice about what kind of India we wish to live in. Our youth have decided to grow up on a land which has thriving forests and clean rivers, a balanced economy that places importance on sustainability and communities, and a system of policymaking that promotes dialogue with the citizens of India,” the statement by student unions said. The students’ campaign against the current draft EIA 2020 is led by Ashoka University along with members of All India Students Association, Youth4Swaraj, JNUSU, Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), Jain University and Jindal Global Law School.The students wrote they had observed the effects of a weak environmental policy in recent months, as in the case of Mumbai’s Aarey forest, which was cleared to build a metro shed despite massive protests, Vizag’s LG Polymers gas leak on May 7 and Assam’s Baghjan gas blowout, which has allegedly destroyed a wetland and threatened biodiversity in Dibru Saikhowa National Park.“The environment ministry has 725 days, almost two years to issue the final notification based on the number and nature of comments received. Many of them are demanding strengthening environmental regulation in the light of the threefold crisis of health, climate and economy. This period between the draft and final notification should not be used to introduce the proposed changes into the existing 2006 notification, as has been done in the past with other laws such as the coastal regulation zone,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-outcry-over-contentious-environment-ministry-regulation/story-oQCimK5ldF50ZKMtaAQN2H.html
25-06-2020||India||Andhra HC closed till Sunday due to Covid-19 outbreak||The Andhra Pradesh high court (HC) on Thursday announced the suspension of its functioning till Sunday on the ground that there was an outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a day after HC registrar-general B Rajasekhar (59) died of cardiac arrest in Vijayawada.Chief Justice JK Maheshwari has directed that the functioning of the HC has been suspended till Sunday “due to an outbreak of Covid-19”, according to a notification issued by the HC registrar.The notification also said the work of metropolitan sessions judge court in Vijayawada has also been suspended till Sunday.Though the notification said the reason for the sudden closure of the HC for four days was an outbreak of Covid-19, it did not specify whether it occurred within the premises of the court.A senior advocate, who refused to be quoted, said the decision was taken following the sudden death of Rajasekhar on Wednesday. He was declared dead at a private hospital in Vijayawada.“We were told Rajasekhar had tested Covid-19 positive after he passed away. He had come in contact with a few judges before he collapsed in the court. Besides, some judges also went to the hospital to pay their last respects. The Chief Justice might have announced holidays for the court in a bid to sanitise its premises,” the advocate said.It is not yet known whether the Chief Justice, other judges and staff members of the court would undergo Covid-19 tests following Rajasekhar’s death, he added.The Chief Justice recently issued stringent guidelines for all the court employees, security personnel and visitors in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.As per the guidelines, the court officials and staff should not leave the headquarters without prior permission from the registrar-general. If anybody goes out by obtaining a permit, then that person must undergo quarantine before resuming duty.Thermal screening at the court’s entry point is mandatory and only those who are found wearing masks are allowed to enter the premises.There is strict compliance with social distancing norms and visitors to the court are allowed to stand in designated circles, the notification added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-closed-till-sunday-due-to-covid-19-outbreak/story-Y8GFpkxioRLrKEDK97EvjP.html
25-06-2020||India||‘We lost golden hours’: Kerala activists rue delay in Covid-19 evacuation of expats||Mohammad Hussein (47) was working in Qatar for the last 20 years and was planning to return to India in May. In April, his family got a call from an organisation working among the expatriate community saying he contracted Covid-19 and his condition was serious. There was no news after this - a week later, his family in Kozhikode (north Kerala) got the photos of his burial.A substantial number of people from Kerala are working in the Gulf. According to the latest information, 296 people from the state died due to the coronavirus disease in the Gulf but activists working among expatriates say their number is more. Hussein’s family members at least got photos but others were not so lucky. And some families, who can afford, are keeping bodies of their dear ones in mortuary in the hope they can be brought back once the virus situation improves. “My father’s body is in a morgue in Bahrain. And we are paying through our nose. We hope the body can be brought back once the situation improves,” said the daughter of another deceased. The number of Kerala Gulf diaspora is estimated to be 18 lakh (2018 figure). And the remittances they sent that year was around 19 per cent of the total remittances sent by Indians abroad. In 2019, the figure jumped to Rs 1 lakh crore, the highest in the country, according to the state level bankers’ committee.The diaspora community has always helped the state government. They have loosened their purse strings in the times of disasters, but the community now feels it has been let down by both Centre and state governments during the Covid-19 pandemic.Union minister V Muraleedharan said that when the government started the flight services in May, the Centre was ready to fly at least 36 flights per day to Kerala. He said that the Kerala government restricted the number of flights to less than 12 saying they won’t be able to handle so many flights.The state government has, however, denied this.The expatriates, meanwhile, say that many lives could have been saved if the members of the community were evacuated in early days of the pandemic. “Even countries like Pakistan and the Philippines took their citizens in March-April and the country waited till the situation deteriorated. We lost golden hours. Many lives could have been saved if we’d evacuated them in early months. Now the state government itself says expatriates can be super spreaders,” said Reji Kuttappan, a writer and migrant rights activist.Their desperation was quite visible when the government-run non-Keralite resident association (Norka) opened a website in April for those who want to return and more than four lakh (4,56,431 to be exact) got themselves registered in two weeks. The state government said that 90,000 people have returned to the state but the Norka website puts the number at 55,905 till June 22.The expatriates say what really pained them is the fact that they were being stamped as super spreaders in many areas. Hate campaigns against those coming back to the state have been reported in north Kerala where 60 per cent of expatriates hail from. “Even CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the state put restrictions on returnees to check super spreaders. His words sent a wrong message,” said Mansoor Paloor, convenor of the Indian Overseas Congress.But Vijayan denied any laxity on the part of the state government and said there was a concerted move to array expatriates against the government. “We never blocked any flights. We took some decisions to check super spreaders and community spreading. More than 90 per cent of the cases in the state are imported, people came from abroad or other states,” he said. But Congress-led Opposition criticised the state government saying it was more interested in its records, not welfare of stranded people and that led to many deaths. “The government could have brought them home and treated them here instead of leaving them to death abroad,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy.As the Centre and state spar over evacuation, the death rate in the expat community is steadily going up. There was a big outrage after the state made Covid-free certificates mandatory for returnees but the government stood its ground till the Centre rejected it saying tests were not feasible in embassies. At one point, the state said it was ready to send kits to test people before boarding flights but many expatriates feel the tussle and confusion cost them dearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-lost-golden-hours-kerala-activists-rue-delay-in-covid-19-evacuation-of-expats/story-xn5dyv2Pahwih0xXFIQgIK.html
25-06-2020||India||Projects in Western Ghats threaten hinterland tourism: Stakeholders to Javadekar||Around 150 tourism stakeholders have written to Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar and Minister for Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel, raising ecological concerns about three Central government projects that are likely to adversely impact the development of hinterland tourism in the coastal state.The projects are “directly opposing Goa’s 25-year vision to revamp the economy”, the letter stated.Goa is set to lose around 55,000 trees and 185 hectares (ha) of pristine forest cover in the Western Ghats for these projects such as the expansion of National Highway 4-A (NH 4-A), double-tracking of a railway track, and a new power transmission line.The railway project is expected to wipe out around 98 ha, or over half of the total green cover that is likely to be lost because of these three projects.The environmentalists have taken an exception to the concessions offered by the South Western Railways, which operates the line that is slated for double-tracking.Though the railway authorities have submitted an undertaking and have made provisions for eight underpasses for the crossing of wild animals in consultation with the state forest department, these concessions have failed to impress the environmentalists.“These projects will lead to widespread deforestation in the area. The future development of hinterland tourism will be adversely affected. Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park are an integral part of Goa’s nature tourism. The current community-based tourism initiatives within the protected areas will be destroyed. It will damage the local economy and deny an opportunity to make Goa a global leader in sustainable tourism,” the letter stated.“Biodiversity conservation, which can be a major tourist attraction, requires locals’ support for the implementation of various community-driven programmes and make them champion the conservation causes,” it added.This is the second letter addressed to Javadekar, urging him to reconsider the environmental clearances.Earlier, environmental researchers and conservationists had written to the minister, warning him of severe ecological consequences if these projects see the light of the day.Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park are the state’s oldest and largest bio-diverse reserve and are home to many tourist attractions such as the 12th Century Tambdi Surla temple carved out of basalt rock, gurgling Devil’s Canyon, and Dudhsagar Falls.“The state’s tourism industry is staring at an uncertain future, as the Central government is overlooking the ecological concerns and making hazardous industrial concessions,” said Pooja Rani, co-founder of Khoj-aao! Adventures, a member of the Responsible Tourism Collective, and one of the signatories to the letter. “Hinterland tourism has a huge potential to create jobs. Dudhsagar Falls has a massive captive mass market. The authorities need to promote small scale, locally-owned initiatives for agriculture and nature tourism sectors,” said Ashok Malkarnekar, a partner at Dudhsagar Plantation.The projects, which have been in the works for the past two years, were approved during the 57th meeting of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) under the MoEFCC on April 20.The meeting was held via video-conference amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were enforced from March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/projects-in-western-ghats-threaten-hinterland-tourism-stakeholders-to-javadekar/story-2DUU8wcDfmhYzr8nwlztQJ.html
25-06-2020||India||Karnataka minister rules out full lockdown in Bengaluru||Amid speculation of another lockdown in Karnataka to contain rising cases of Covid-19, Revenue minister R Ashoka on Thursday ruled out a full lockdown of the state capital Bengaluru.“Lockdown will not be imposed on the entire city of Bengaluru,” he said.On Friday, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is scheduled to meet all legislators from Bengaluru cutting across party lines to take a decision on the capital.Yediyurappa’s deputy C N Ashwath Narayan also cautioned that another lockdown might trip the economic revival.“That’s (lockdown) a suggestion by many opposition leaders. At present that question doesn’t arise. Revival of economy has just started. Livelihood is very essential. If you go back, I think it becomes very difficult and people will face problems,” said C.N. Ashwath Narayan according to ANI.Earlier in the day, chief minister Yediyurappa had expressed concern over rising Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru and urged people to maintain social distancing and sanitisation to avoid another lockdown.On Monday, the government had decided to seal four major areas in the state capital Bengaluru to contain the spread of Covid-19.The state’s health minister B Sriramulu said that there is no community transmission in the state.“Seal down has been implemented at four locations in Bengaluru. More tests are being done in these locations. We have also made arrangements to test senior citizens,” Sriramulu said after a cabinet meeting according to ANI.“Situation is under control, there’s no community transmission. We’re working with the CM. We took opinion from experts. They’re of the opinion that people from outside are coming to Bengaluru so the number of cases are increasing here,” he said.Covid-19 cases in Karnataka crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday. Earlier, JD (S) leader and former CM H D Kumaraswamy had demanded that the government impose a 20-day statewide lockdown to prevent the rapid spread of the virus.On Wednesday, Kumaraswamy appealed to the people of the state to impose a self-declared curfew and stay at home asserting that life was more important than the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-rules-out-full-lockdown-in-bengaluru/story-BjFa6eVcTMTdNplbgE8svK.html
25-06-2020||India||Health ministry team to visit Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana to assess Covid-19 crisis||A Central team led by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana between June 26 and June 29 to interact with the state government officials and coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for the management of Covid-19 in those states, a statement from the Health Ministry indicated on Thursday. Across the country, in the last 24 hours, a total of 13,012 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals and other medical facilities. So far, a total of 2,71,696 patients have been cured of the coronavirus infection, according to health ministry data. India’s recovery rate currently stands at an encouraging 57.43%, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.ALSO READ | Nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally to over 4.7 lakhCovid -19 positive cases per lakh in India now stands at 33.39 as against the world’s 120.21 cases per lakh. The deaths per lakh in the country are currently amongst the lowest in the world with 1.06 deaths per lakh against the global average of 6.24 deaths per lakh, the health ministry’s data said.India on Thursday recorded 16,922 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the highest till date, increasing the country’s coronavirus tally to 4,73,105.According to the Union health ministry’s update on Monday morning, the number of active cases in the country are 1,86,514. The country also saw 418 fatalities in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 14,894.Earlier, India had recorded another highest single-day jump of nearly 16,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.National capital Delhi, which is the second worst-hit state in terms of coronavirus caseload and deaths, overtook Mumbai after the number of cases soared by 3,788 to touch 70,390. ALSO READ | ‘Take strict action’: Delhi HC’s directive against erring hospitals amid Covid-19 pandemicMumbai, has so far recorded 69,625 cases, according to official figures.In all, 12 states now account for more than 10,000 coronavirus cases as they continued to report record daily spikes that were mainly attributed to augmented testing.In India, Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic accounting for almost one-third of the country’s tally with over I.40 lakh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-team-to-visit-gujarat-maharashtra-telangana-to-assess-covid-19-crisis/story-KvZ4zpfYaljvj4MeFzepNL.html
25-06-2020||India||India crosses 2 lakh daily Covid test mark, riding on Atmanirbhar Bharat push: Govt||The Central government on Wednesday released figures to underline that India had come a long way in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic since its outbreak in the country in February this year. Union health ministry cited crossing of a major landmark of more than 2 lakh daily tests to recall the capacity enhancements done in the last two months to boost coronavirus containment efforts.“A total of 75,60,782 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the country so far including 2,07,871 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. Total number of labs approved for Covid testing has increased to 1000, including 730 run by the government and 270 in the private sector,” a tweet by Union health minister Harshvardhan claimed on Thursday.‘India will win, Corona will lose,” he summed up his tweet on an upbeat note.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHis tweet followed several other tweets from his ministry that underscored the efforts made to augment India’s capacity to fight the disease stressing that it was done in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for a self-reliant India or Atmanirbhar Bharat“In Jan 2020, the entire requirement of Covid 19 swabs was imported. Today, more than 2 lakh swabs (are) produced everyday by domestic manufacturers,” a health ministry tweet said.The ministry said that the country, as of Thursday, had at least 15 indigenous manufacturers of coronavirus testing kits. This was a big leap from a situation of dependence on imports which the country battled in the initial stages of outbreak.“#Atmanirbhar Bharat Reinforced. From dependence on imported testing kits to creation of indigenous manufacturing capacity of testing kits. 15 indigenous manufacturers at present,” the ministry tweeted.Over 75 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted till June 24, says ICMRAmong other notable developments and building of capacity previously not available in the country, the manufacturing of medical ventilators has begun in the country. The PM CARES Fund Trust has allocated Rs 2000 crore for supply of 50,000 ‘Made-in-India’ ventilators to government run Covid hospitals in all States and Union Territories. Out of the 50,000 ventilators, 30,000 ventilators are being manufactured by M/s Bharat Electronics Limited. So far 2,923 ventilators have been manufactured, out of which 1,340 ventilators have already been delivered to the States and UTs. The prominent recipients include Maharashtra (275), Delhi (275), Gujarat (175), Bihar (100), Karnataka (90), Rajasthan (75). By the end of June 2020, additional 14,000 ventilators will be delivered, said a government release. In another important landmark, the government announced a few days ago, that India has become the world’s second largest manufacturer of personal protective equipment (PPE) body coveralls within a short time span of two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-2-lakh-daily-covid-test-mark-riding-on-atmanirbhar-bharat-push-govt/story-9XYATQWutfTSjvlkhVfdBK.html
25-06-2020||India||Congress’ Milind Deora tweets another surprise. It is on Emergency||“The Emergency reminds us that democracies, when tested, fight back resiliently,” former union minister Milind Deora said on Thursday, in a rare instance when a Congress leader spoke about the emergency.On this day 45 years ago, former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi declared emergency across India.The emergency was issued by President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed under Article 352(1) of the Constitution and lasted 21 long months.beginning June 25, 1975 and ended on March 21, 1977.ALSO READ | ‘I salute those who defended democracy during Emergency’: PM“The #Emergency reminds us that democracies, when tested, fight back resiliently. This also applies to political parties. Democratic organizations adapt better and overcome challenges. Democracy is a constant work in progress, requiring commitment, sacrifice and honest introspection,” Deora tweeted.Deora has in the recent past taken a different line from the Congress, triggering speculation that he might soon jump the ship.In April this year, he publicly disagreed with former party president Rahul Gandhi on the demand for passing on the benefits of the unprecedented fall in prices of international crude oil to consumers.While Gandhi and other leaders had asked the government to pass on the gains of the record plunge in international crude oil prices to the consumers by reducing the petrol and diesel prices, Deora questioned the demand, asking who will benefit when no vehicles were on the roads.ALSO READ | Amit Shah’s jibe at Congress: ‘Why does the Emergency mindset remain?’“Prices of crude oil have fallen to unexpected levels in the world, yet why is petrol in our country sold at Rs 69, diesel at Rs 62. It is good that prices have fallen in this disaster. When will this government listen?” Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi.But Deora differed. “India imports Brent crude - not WTI - currently priced at $21 per barrel. We will import less oil due to weakened demand. Falling rupees may also offset gains from low oil prices. Lastly, when car truck buses train and planes are sitting idle, consumers can’t gain from petrol and diesel price cuts,” he tweeted.Prior to that, Deora, a former Mumbai Congress chief, had praised Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal for his government having doubled Delhi’s revenue over the past five years.“Brother, you want to leave @INCIndia-Please do-Then propagate half baked facts!” senior party leader Ajay Maken said and compared the revenue generated from 1998 onwards when the Congress was in power to that under the Kejriwal government. “However, let me share even lesser known facts-1997-98-BE (Revenue) 4,073cr, 2013-14-BE (Revenue) 37,459cr…During Congress Govt Grew at 14.87% CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate). 2015-16 BE 41,129, and 2019-20 BE 60,000… AAP Gov 9.90% CAGR,” he tweeted.Deora retorted on Monday. “Brother, I would never undermine Sheila Dikshit’s stellar performance as Delhi CM. That’s your specialty. But it’s never too late to change! Instead of advocating an alliance with AAP, if only you had highlighted Sheila ji’s achievements, @INCIndia would’ve been in power today,” he tweeted.Deora’s praise prompted angry reactions from Congress leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-reminds-us-that-democracies-when-tested-fight-back-resiliently-milind-deora/story-IKPCUaz5Levx4HDh6uHoEL.html
25-06-2020||India||No leave for Gujarat cops as personnel required for Unlock-1, says state govt||The Gujarat Home Department has asked the state Director General of Police (DGP) and other senior officers not to grant any leave to the police personnel, saying that their presence was necessary for the effective implementation of Unlock-1.A notification issued on Thursday by the home department said that the presence of all the available police force was necessary for the implementation of the Centre’s guidelines for the phased re-opening of coronavirus-induced lockdown or Unlock-1 that came into effect from June 1.“For the effective implementation of Unlock-1, it is necessary that police personnel remain active in the field.Therefore, all the police officers as well as lower rung police personnel are hereby advised not to demand leave unless it is for medical or any other unavoidable reasons,” the notification said.The department also asked all the senior officers, including the state DGP, Range Inspector Generals and all the district Superintendents of Police, not to grant any leave to their subordinate staff, except for medical reasons or any other emergencies.Following the Central government’s guidelines, the Gujarat government had announced relaxations in lockdown starting from June 1.As many as 29,001 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Gujarat so far. While 1,736 have died due to the infection, as many as 21,096 have been discharged.Around 400 fresh cases of coronavirus are emerging in in the state on a daily basis since last one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-leave-for-gujarat-cops-as-personnel-required-for-unlock-1-says-state-govt/story-8um9FyNLqtI6zwowPTYgXO.html
25-06-2020||India||UN chief follows up on US’ harsh report on Pak-backed terror with a polite reminder||United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expects all member states to “live up” to their obligations under the relevant Security Council resolutions, his spokesperson said after a US State Department report classified Pakistan as a “safe haven” for terrorists.The US report had also underscored that Jaish-e-Mohammad founder Masood Azhar and 2008 Mumbai terror attacks mastermind Sajid Mir were “widely believed” to be living “under the protection of the state” in Pakistan. The report mirrors concerns expressed by New Delhi on numerous occasions about Pakistan’s complicity in sponsoring, promoting or supporting terrorists operating from its territory The UN chief’s spokesperson Stéphane Dujarric told reporters that the UN Secretary General’s office wouldn’t comment on the US report. But he went ahead to deliver his message nonetheless.“Obviously, as a matter of principle, we do expect all member states to live up to their obligations as laid out in any relevant Security Council resolution or Security Council decision,” Stéphane Dujarric told a media briefing in Washington, according to news agency Press Trust of India.At last count, Pakistan is home to 130 entities in the United Nations Security Council’s 1267 Sanctions List.But several UNSC Sanctions monitoring teams have noted that Islamabad hasn’t acted against most of them. Like when Islamabad told a visiting UNSC team in March this year that they had not been able to even identify or locate most of the 130 designated terrorists.According to counter-terror officials in Delhi, Pakistan acknowledges the presence of only 19 terrorists sanctioned by the UNSC on its territory including Jaish founder Masood Azhar who was designated global terrorist only in May last year, 10 years after India first pushed to have him blacklisted. The US had designated Azhar as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist in 2010. The latest state department report noted that Pakistan had made “no effort to use domestic authorities to prosecute” terrorist figures such as Azhar and Lashkar operative Sajjid Mir.Sajjid Mir had ordered Ajmal Kasab’s team of terrorists to kill the Israeli couple in Chabad House during the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.The United States has pushed Pakistan for long through threats and appeals to arrest and prosecute terrorists sheltered there. In the state department’s 2019 country reports on terrorism released Wednesday, it had welcomed the prosecution of Hafiz Saeed, the founder of Lashkar-e-Toiba, in 2019, along with 12 associates but underlined there were many others who had been left out.Hafiz Saeed’s arrest and prosecution, for the ninth time, in 2019, had come under intense global pressure as Pakistan faced the possibility of being blacklisted at the initiative of the US by a global watchdog on terror financing and money-laundering, the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force.Pakistan narrowly escaped then, but has remained in the dock, as the US terror report reminded. “The FATF expressed serious concern at its October 2019 plenary about Pakistan’s continued deficiencies but noted it had made some progress and extended the deadline for full Action Plan implementation to February 2020.” A final call is expected later in the year, in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-chief-follows-up-on-us-harsh-report-on-pak-backed-terror-with-a-polite-reminder/story-vYYscfE4VxvYfMkdOzuadP.html
25-06-2020||India||Private players can build and launch space missions, says ISRO chief||The opening up of the space sector to private players would boost the country’s industrial base and improve access to space-based services, said K Sivan, chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), in a video address on Thursday morning.Earlier, the Union Cabinet had announced the setting up a new arm of the space organisation -- Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) – that will independently evaluate and approve space-related activities in the country.The chairman said IN-SPACe would be an independent body.“The government has approved the establishment of an autonomous nodal agency IN-SPACe under the Department of Space (DoS) for taking independent decisions on permitting and regulating the activities of private companies in the space sector. The decision of IN-SPACe will be binding on all stakeholders, including ISRO,” said Sivan.IN-SPACe may take up to six months to become operational and until then, private entities can apply through the Bengaluru-based DoS.“We will process their requirements. Private companies have approached us for using ISRO facilities. We are processing their requests on a fast-track mode,” said Sivan.IN-SPACe will have its own directorates for technical, legal, safety and security, and promotion.The board of IN-SPACe will also have representations from the industry, academia, and the Central government.ISRO will share the technical expertise and facilities for promoting the private sector in space.Private companies via IN-SPACe would be allowed to build facilities within the DoS premises as per the need and feasibility, the chairman said.India has one rocket launch centre at Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh, which is also likely to be used by the private sector. The private sector will be allowed to provide end-to-end space services, including building and launching of rockets and satellites, and providing these services commercially.Now, all launch vehicles and satellites are designed by ISRO scientists and private players manufacture their components.Last year, the government had set up an industry consortium to expedite the production of Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), an expendable medium-lift launch vehicle designed and operated by ISRO.The ISRO chairman pointed out the need to introduce new policies and the revamp of outdated ones in a bid to make the system more efficient.Sivan said that the role of the New Space India Limited – the commercial arm of ISRO that was set up last year – would be modified to acquire existing launch vehicles and satellite technologies and make them commercially viable through industry consortiums. It would also undertake the transfer of technology (ToT) activities, he added.“ISRO will continue to carry out advanced research and development, interplanetary missions, human spaceflight and capacity-building activities,” the chairman said.Experts have been demanding that the private sector be involved in the country’s routine space activities such as the launch of existing communication and earth observation satellites, which will free up resources for critical scientific explorations.India’s scientific space endeavours have been gathering momentum such as another lander-rover mission to the moon, solar mission Aditya L1, human spaceflight programme, and a mission to Venus in the next few years.ISRO has had only one mission in January this year, when communication satellite GSAT-30 was launched by the France-based commercial launcher Arianespace from Kourou, French Guiana, on January 17, and since March, the country, along with the rest of the world, is busy grappling with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-players-can-build-and-launch-space-missions-says-isro-chief/story-YEwSemiGHr8uWtkAn9wnaI.html
25-06-2020||India||BJP, Congress trade barbs on 45th anniversary of emergency||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress traded accusations about lack of democracy in their respective political parties on the 45th anniversary of the Emergency on Thursday.Union home minister Amit Shah attacked the Congress and said the opposition party should ask why the “Emergency mindset” continues. He made a pointed reference to Tuesday’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, where former union minister RPN Singh had called for refraining from direct attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Singh, who is in-charge of the party’s affairs in Jharkhand, insisted Congress leaders should criticise the government’s policies and raise people-centric issues.However, he was countered by all senior and young leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who praised former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for taking on Modi.For his part, Rahul Gandhi has said he will continue to attack the prime minister, adding “it is Modi alone who formulates policies and takes all decisions” in the government.“I cannot attack Rajnath Singh or Nirmala Sitharaman or anyone else. All decisions are taken by Modi. He is the defence minister, the finance minister, the education minister…everything, and I am not scared of him. If the CWC doesn’t want me to attack him, I will stop it,” Rahul Gandhi was quoted as saying at the meeting by a Congress functionary.Singh then clarified that all he wanted was a calibrated attack on the government on its policies and decisions.In a series of tweets to mark the 45th anniversary of the Emergency, Shah took a dig at the Congress leadership and the Gandhi family without naming it. “During the recent CWC meet, senior members and younger members raised a few issues. But, they were shouted down. A party Spokesperson was unceremoniously sacked. The sad truth is – leaders are feeling suffocated in Congress,” he tweeted and attached a link to a news report about the proceedings at the CWC.Shah’s comment was in reference to the removal of Sanjay Jha as the party’s spokesperson, after he criticised and questioned the Congress leadership in an opinion piece.In a separate tweet, Shah said, “As one of India’s opposition parties, Congress needs to ask itself: why does the emergency mindset remain? Why are the leaders who don’t belong to one dynasty unable to speak up? Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress? Else, the disconnect with the people will keep widening.”Shah said it was due to the efforts of lakhs of people that the Emergency was lifted, but democracy is still missing in the Congress. “Democracy was restored in India but it remained absent in the Congress. The interests of one family prevailed over party interests and national interests. This sorry state of affairs thrives in today’s Congress too!” he tweeted.The Congress vehemently denied these allegations, but Shah pinned the blame for the Emergency on the Gandhi family, without naming names. He said, “On this day 45 years ago, one family’s greed for power led to the imposition of the Emergency and turned the nation in to a prison. The press, the courts, free speech…all were trampled over. Atrocities were committed on the poor and the downtrodden.”Shah’s comments drew a sharp response from Congress leaders.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “And so spoke those, who occupied present positions by forcibly retiring & humiliating every patriarch & colleague who built them. And the list is long....Sh. L.K. Advani, Sh. M.M.Joshi, Sh. Keshubhai Patel, Sh. Kalraj Mishra, Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Sh. Haren Pandya, Sh. Sanjay Joshi.” Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh questioned Shah’s statement and said the Congress party considers the Gandhi family a binding force. “Who in Congress is opposed to Rahul ji or Priyanka ji? Name one senior leader? Whole Congress unitedly stands with Nehru Gandhi Family. They are the binding force. What is more important is the ideological clarity among Congress leaders junior or senior which is harming the Party,” he tweeted.In a separate tweet, Singh said, “Rather it’s lack of Ideological Clarity that leads to ambiguous stand. Why do some shy away from fighting RSS? It’s divisive Ideology of Polarisation & Anti Poor, Anti Farmer, Anti Labour policies are destroying the Unity & Integrity of India, destroying its Socio Economic fabric.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-trade-barbs-on-45th-anniversary-of-emergency/story-Qs2yGi9xSay5DaYnLUA34N.html
25-06-2020||India||No accommodation for Chinese nationals, says Delhi hotel body||The Delhi Hotel and Restaurants Owners Association (DHROA) said on Thursday that Chinese nationals won’t be provided accommodation in hotels and guest houses owned by its members in the national capital. DHROA, a group of budget hotels in Delhi, said its members include around 3,000 budget hotels and guest houses across the city. The umbrella body said these facilities collectively have 75,000 rooms. The association’s decision followed a call by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) to boycott Chinese goods after the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers.However, all hotels and guest houses in Delhi are yet to open for business since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March. Mahendra Gupta, general secretary of the association, said all hotels in Delhi registered with DHROA are expected to abide by its call to deny accommodation to Chinese nationals.“The way China is behaving with India, there is a lot of anger among hotel businessmen in Delhi. At a time when CAIT has campaigned for a boycott of Chinese goods across the country, the hotel and guest house owners of Delhi will actively take part in this. In view of that, we have decided not to give accommodation to any Chinese national in any budget hotel or guest house across the city, ”Gupta said.The association has also decided not to use any Chinese products at its hotels, he said. Praveen Khandelwal, national secretary General of CAIT, welcomed the move and said it is now clear people from different sectors are backing the call to boycott Chinese goods initiated.“CAIT will now contact national organisations of transporters, farmers, hawkers, small-scale industries, consumers and entrepreneurs and connect them with this campaign,” Khandelwal said.The death of the 20 soldiers marked the first Indian casualties in a skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975, when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-nationals-won-t-be-provided-accommodation-in-hotels-and-guest-houses-delhi-hotel-association/story-iz3NRdWiUMhBvP90RVDGzI.html
25-06-2020||India||Maharashtra: More relaxations of Covid-related restrictions expected after 30 June||With the first phase of the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again set to end on June 30, the relaxation of more Covid-19-related restrictions can be expected in the state from next month.The government formed a transport task force on Tuesday to look into resolving issues affecting public transport, which has seen minimal easing in the first phase of the mission to gradually open up the state after months of being in lockdown. The 13-member task force will meet for the first time on Friday. “There will be deliberations this week, following which the government will announce the measures,” a senior official from the state government said on condition of anonymity.However, experts have warned of a second wave of coronavirus infections in July and called for a gradual relaxation of restrictions. “If we start everything from July 1, we might have a second wave around July 15, and we need to be very mindful of this. Relaxations in a controlled manner can enable us to tackle the virus in a comfortable manner,” Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force said on Wednesday. The state-appointed task force includes specialist doctors from government and private hospitals who suggest measures to minimise the death rate and for the clinical management of the Covid-19 patients who are critically ill. Peehu Pardeshi of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences said, “There have been new spurts [of infections] with relaxations. Phase-wise relaxation should be accompanied by stricter monitoring and ensuring social distancing.”On May 31, the government extended the lockdown till June 30, and announced phased easing of restrictions. All markets, commercial areas and shops were opened on an odd-even basis from June 5.After that, private offices were allowed to operate with up to 10% of their staff according to needs, with the remaining staff working from home. Intra-district bus services were allowed from June 8. Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state, with more than 140,000 Covid-19 cases reported till Wednesday evening. The state reported 208 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the toll to 6,739.Mumbai recorded 1,118 new infections and 82 fatalities on Wednesday, inching closer to the 70,000-mark for infections, which were at 69,528.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which consists of an urban agglomeration around the city, has seen a spurt in cases, causing concern for the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-more-relaxations-of-covid-19-related-restrictions-expected-after-30-june/story-GvCInqoFvXjETRSMsWjTfK.html
25-06-2020||India||Maoists torch vehicles, machines at road construction site in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district||A group of Maoists set on fire six vehicles and machines engaged in road construction work in the insurgency-hit Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday night at Dhanikorta village under Kukanar police station limits where a road is being constructed, Sukma Superintendent of Police Shalabh Sinha said.As per preliminary information, a group of ultras reached the village, located around 450 km from the capital Raipur, and set ablaze three trucks, two JCBs and a poclain machine parked there, he said.All the vehicles and machines belonged to a contractor, he said.Despite being advised to park the vehicles and machines at a police camp near the construction site after completing work for the day, the contractor left them at the village, the official said.Soon after being alerted about the incident, security personnel rushed to the spot on Thursday morning and launched a search operation in the area, he added.Maoists have frequently tried to disrupt road construction works in the state’s Bastar division, comprising seven districts including Sukma, by launching attacks on security forces and damaging vehicles and machines used in those projects.They feel the developmental works in the region and construction of roads will uproot them from the area, a police official earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-torch-vehicles-machines-at-road-construction-site-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-district/story-YYOIIcMuG8Dg44EJBc3IVO.html
25-06-2020||India||UP woman allegedly faces acid attack after complaining against husband||A 24-year-old woman received burn injuries on her face and neck when three bike-borne men allegedly threw acid on her, police said on Thursday. The woman, a resident of Sarvoday Nagar, was returning home on an e-rickshaw on Wednesday after giving her statement to the CO city in connection with an ongoing dispute with her husband when the three bike-borne men attacked her with acid, SHO of city kotwali Dinesh Singh said.Based on a complaint lodged by the woman’s father, an FIR was registered against her husband Santram Tiwari, brother-in-law Jageshwar Shukla and an unidentified person, he said. The woman has received burn injuries on her face and neck, Dr Vineet Sachan at the district hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-allegedly-faces-acid-attack-after-complaining-against-husband/story-KEZ4Jc5EX8iJLApPnjkDfP.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Anyone found selling Ramdev’s Covid-19 medicine will face action’: Rajasthan minister||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma has said that Baba Ramdev did not take permission from the state government for conducting the clinical trials for a drug launched by his company that claims to cure the coronavirus disease.Sharma said that the state government had not received any proposal for clinical trials for the drug, nor had the they have given any permission to anyone in this regard.“Human trials cannot be carried out without permission of the state government. Those conducting clinical trials without government permission are misleading the people and strict action will be taken against them,” he warned.Regarding Ramdev’s claim, Sharma said that Ayurvedic medicines could act as immunity boosters but claiming a cure without permission of the Ayush ministry was not acceptable.Baba Ramdev had on Tuesday claimed that his team of researchers at Patanjali Ayurved had found a medicine to cure Covid-19. Ramdev said clinical trials had been conducted along with the National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) University in Jaipur.NIMS director Dr Anurag Tomar said that all the necessary approvals for the clinical trials had been taken and permission from CTRI was taken before the trials were conducted.The Ayush ministry has asked Baba Ramdev to provide details about the medicine and to stop advertising the products.Sharma warned that if anyone was found selling the Baba Ramdev’s claimed medicine for curing Covid-19, strict action will be taken against that seller.The minister further said that a gazette notification issued on June 21, 2020 by the Centre under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and 1945, says that no one can sell any Ayurvedic drug for Covid-19 without permission from the Ayush ministry.“If anyone is found selling any drug for curing Covid-19, strict action will be taken against the seller as per the law,” Sharma said in a statement.He said that Rajasthan government is complying with the guidelines of the Union health ministry, the Ayush ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in treatment of Covid-19 patients.Sharma said if anyone wants to conduct clinical trials, these have to approved by the scientific advisory bodies and institutional ethics committee. He added that after the proposal to conduct clinical trial is registered with Clinical Trials Registry India (CTRI), the sample size should be adequate and the trials have to be as per guidelines of Ayush ministry and ICMR and has to be done as per the biomedical and health research guidelines.“The human participation has to be as per ICMR’s national ethical guidelines, and participation by registered Ayush doctors has to be ensured,” said Sharma.Regarding NIMS, the Rajasthan minister said that suspected Covid-19 patients had been kept there in institutional quarantine for a few days. “How could clinical trials be conducted on them when it was not clear whether they were infected with the coronavirus?”On Baba Ramdev’s claims that patients on whom clinical trials were conducted had recovered in seven days, Sharma said in normal course too, patients are recovering in seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-found-selling-ramdev-s-covid-19-medicine-will-face-action-rajasthan-minister/story-G55JrqKtJq3Di3RT8M7FkJ.html
25-06-2020||India||India joins ‘Alliance for Poverty Eradication’ at UN as founding member||India has become a founding member of an Alliance for Poverty Eradication at the UN, launched by the President of the General Assembly, aimed at focussing on efforts to boost global economy in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic.President of the 74th Session of the UN General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande will formally launch the ‘Alliance for Poverty Eradication’ on June 30, which he said will serve as a forum for Member States to raise awareness about the danger that poverty poses to world peace, human rights and sustainable development.He will also galvanise Member States, the international community and other stakeholders to support actions geared towards poverty eradication. India has joined the alliance as a founding member and stressed that ending poverty is not just about monetary compensation but guaranteeing access of the poor to quality education, healthcare, clean water, sanitation, decent housing and social security.“There are people in the world so hungry that God cannot appear to them except in the form of bread. Global inequality is deeply entrenched. It’s shocking to note that just a little over 2000 billionaires have more wealth than 60 per cent of the planet’s wealth,” India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Nagaraj Naidu said.Speaking at the informal meeting of the President of the General Assembly and members of the Alliance on Tuesday, Naidu said Covid-19 has added a new dimension to poverty, stressing that “poverty is like punishment for a crime that one did not commit.” He stressed that the Alliance for Poverty Eradication should contribute to the policy discourse that seeks to analyse poverty from the perspective of multiple deprivations. “For instance, people experience poverty differently even within the same household. While data is limited, there is evidence that women and children are disproportionately affected by poverty. Hence, gender mainstreaming is vital for policy design and implementation,” he said.A concept note on the formation of the alliance with the UN said that it aims to provide a forum at which participants would deliberate on measures that need to be instituted so as to get the world economy working in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, canvass support for efforts that have proved effective in alleviating and ultimately eradicating poverty within and across the world’s regions.The concept note said that before Covid-19 practically shut down socio-economic activities across the globe, the number of people classified as poor was approximately 2.1 billion. Of this number, 767 million were found to be living in extreme poverty. “While the extent of the damage wrought by Covid-19 to world economy is yet to be determined, the pandemic threatens not only to erase past gains but also to force an additional half a billion of the world population into poverty,” the note said.Naidu also emphasised that the alliance should call for inclusion and empowerment of those left behind as a priority, targeting those furthest behind. It should also brainstorm about sectors where jobs could be generated in the age of digitisation and automatisation and distribute successful case studies from member states that have successfully integrated economic, social and environmental policies that have helped in poverty alleviation. “The alliance should also use the United Nations development system to enable it to bring together its special expertise and policy portfolios to focus on integrated system-wide action for poverty eradication,” Naidu said.He pointed out that India is implementing a comprehensive development strategy based on a digital foundation to end poverty in all its forms, through accelerated economic growth and broader social safety nets. According to United Nations Development Programme, between 2006-2016 over 271 million people in India moved out of poverty, recording the fastest reductions in the multidimensional poverty index values during the period. “Let’s join hands to make this alliance a leading voice for poverty eradication. Let’s work to bring dignity to life,” Naidu said. The concept note said the alliance will ideally start with a nucleus of like-minded countries and move steadily to bring others on board and when fully operational, the alliance will be the leading voice for poverty eradication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-alliance-for-poverty-eradication-at-un-as-founding-member/story-MmOJ7AShzdX1hiNU5ersbK.html
25-06-2020||India||India’s Hetero prices generic remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment at Rs5,400 per vial||India’s Hetero Labs Ltd has priced its generic version of remdesivir, Gilead’s experimental Covid-19 drug, at 5,400 rupees ($71) per 100-milligram vial, the drugmaker said on Wednesday, as it prepares to ship them to hospitals in the country.The privately held company said it would supply 20,000 vials of the drug. Fellow Indian drug firm Cipla Ltd had said on Tuesday that its own version of the antiviral drug remdesivir would be priced below 5,000 rupees.Cipla and Hetero are among a bevy of drugmakers which have licensing agreements with U.S.-based Gilead Sciences Inc, the original manufacturer of remdesivir, to make and sell the drug in 127 low- and middle-income countries.India has approved the generic versions made by Cipla and Hetero for restricted emergency use in severe Covid-19 cases.The treatment was the first to show improvement in trials on Covid-19 patients and has won approval for emergency use in severely ill patients in the United States and South Korea, and received full approval in Japan. It is yet to be priced in the United States.India, the fourth worst hit nation by the coronavirus, reported a total of 456,183 infections and 14,476 deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-hetero-prices-generic-remdesivir-for-covid-19-treatment-at-rs5-400-per-vial/story-kvqLE7vfjarEaj8Y1ad5lJ.html
25-06-2020||India||‘I salute those who defended democracy during Emergency’: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to people who opposed the Emergency imposed by the Congress led government at the Centre, saying the country will never forget their sacrifice.“The Emergency was imposed in the country exactly 45 years ago. The people who struggled to defend the democracy at that time, I salute them. The country will never forget their sacrifice,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. आज से ठीक 45 वर्ष पहले देश पर आपातकाल थोपा गया था। उस समय भारत के लोकतंत्र की रक्षा के लिए जिन लोगों ने संघर्ष किया, यातनाएं झेलीं, उन सबको मेरा शत-शत नमन! उनका त्याग और बलिदान देश कभी नहीं भूल पाएगा। pic.twitter.com/jlQVJQVrsXThe Emergency was imposed on June 25, 1975.PM Modi attached a clip of his Mann ki Baat radio address last year in which he had spoken about the Emergency era. The Congress government at the Centre was headed by Indira Gandhi at that time.PM Modi’s tweet comes hours after home minister Amit Shah posed a few questions before the Congress and gave some advice to the Opposition party.“As one of India’s opposition parties, Congress needs to ask itself: Why does the Emergency mindset remain? Why are leaders who don’t belong to 1 dynasty unable to speak up? Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress? Else, their disconnect with people will keep widening,” he tweeted on Thursday.He indirectly targeted the Gandhi family by talking about the dynasty and claimed that leaders in the Congress are getting frustrated.The war of words has been going on between the BJP and the Congress since the June 15 skirmish in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of giving away Indian territory to China.PM Modi had asserted at the all-party meeting that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”. This was in reference to the situation in the Galwan Valley after Indian Army’s brave action to thwart Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).BJP chief JP Nadda had attacked the Congress party for questioning the government’s stand on June 15 face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh. He said that “a rejected and ejected dynasty is not equal to the entire Opposition”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-salute-those-who-defended-democracy-during-emergency-pm-modi/story-8GUEelNDkHSntG1zNpKtkN.html
25-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ISRO chief welcomes govt’s decision to open space sector for private players and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Govt nod to private players will transcend India into new space era’: ISRO chiefIndian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Sivan has welcomed the government’s decision to open up the space sector for private players. Read moreSurge in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, CM warns of another lockdownKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday expressed concern over the rise in coronavirus cases in capital city Bengaluru, stating that some areas have been sealed in the city. Read moreAfter Operation ‘patal’, police eye arms manufacturing gangsAfter the recovery of large number of illegal firearms and ammunition during 48 hours of operation ‘patal’, the Prayagraj police are now planning to target illegal arms manufacturing units and weapon smugglers. Read moreVietnam’s PM says nation is in no rush to open its doorsVietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc says the country will not rush to open its borders to foreigners as it strives to prevent a second wave of the novel coronavirus outbreak that has hit other countries, according to a post on the government’s website. Read more37 years ago, on this day, Kapil Dev’s India created history by beating West Indies to win maiden World Cup in 1983 at Lord’sThe 1983 World Cup final was like a battle between David and Goliath. On one end, there were the mighty two-time Champions - West Indies - packed with great batters such as Gordon Greenidge, Desmond Haynes, Vivian Richards, Clive Lloyd, and a lethal pace bowling unit consisting of Malcolm Marshall, Sir Andy Roberts, Joel Garner, and Michael Holding. Read moreSony WF-SP800N earbuds review: This ain’t going out of tuneIf you are familiar with Sony audio products, you probably know about the flagship 1000XM3 headphones and earphones. Both of these have been hitting home-runs in their own ways ever since they reached the shelves. Read moreMr Bean is here to spread word on how to protect yourself from Covid-19, people love the videoTaking to YouTube, World Health Organisation (WHO) recently shared a video to spread awareness on how to protect oneself form Covid-19. It’s, however, the character that features in the video which has now captured people’s attention. It’s the animated character Mr Bean. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: The coarsening of political discourseIt is almost a truism that political discourse in India has hit a new low. You don’t need much to persuade you. Just switch on the TV, go to any “news” channel and watch party spokesmen scream, shout and abuse each other. Read moreWatch: Oxford vaccine in final stage of clinical trials, academic calendar set to be reworked||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-isro-chief-welcomes-govt-s-decision-to-open-space-sector-for-private-players-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4K3a7WZEyvIoBo2GuJAAPJ.html
25-06-2020||India||Health ministry and Indian Red Cross launch app to order blood in Delhi-NCR||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched ebloodservices app, in partnership with the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), for easy access to blood needed for transfusion.“This is like placing request for blood right at your doorstep. I received several complaints over the past few months from people on lack of access to safe blood, especially from those people who need regular blood donation owing to their chronic blood disorders. It will be beneficially in these corona times when commutation has become a problem and those needing blood may not be able to go from one blood bank to another,” said Vardhan.“This app shall bring transparency in the blood donation programme and minimise the worries of those in dire need of blood. Our voluntary blood donors should come forward in large numbers as their contribution is required more than ever now,” he added.To begin with, the app will cater to entire Delhi-NCR, and has the facility of placing an order for up to four units in one go.“Through this app, the availability of blood will be visible right in your phone. Once an order has been placed then the blood bank will keep the request active for 12 hours. The order will be diverted to the next patient only after the original recipient fails to collect it within 12 hours,” said RK Jain, secretary general, Indian Red Cross Society.The app’s scope will be expanded in future, with plans of linking more blood banks to it and also in other cities.“This is a useful app and there are plans of expanding its reach gradually,” said Harsh Vardhan.Jain said that initial few weeks could be challenging for the proper functioning of the app. “We are expecting to face glitches initially for at least 15 days to about a month as we do not know the exact demand of blood in the region as of now. It will take some time before we know how much blood is needed and act accordingly,” said Jain.To meet the demand for blood in the city, the Red Cross blood bank had started conducting blood donation camps by sending mobile blood collection units to various localities in and around Delhi. The Red Cross blood bank was also offering pick and drop facility to voluntary blood donors. “We have ensured there is no shortage of blood and whatever demand comes our way we are able to manage it,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-and-indian-red-cross-launch-mobile-app-to-order-blood-in-delhi-ncr/story-wenGCpMgIRuA59MV0NJgAN.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Take strict action’: Delhi HC’s directive against erring hospitals amid Covid-19 pandemic||Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Central and Delhi government to take strict action against hospitals that are not providing real-time updates on the availability of beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court said that any communication gap between the government and hospitals should be reduced. The court has also asked the Kejriwal government to appoint “dedicated officers” for the same. Earlier this month, Delhi HC had directed the Centre and the Delhi government to update data in real-time on the availability of beds and other healthcare facilities provided to the Covid-19 patients.  Delhi High Court asks Delhi Govt to appoint "dedicated officers" so that there should be no communication gap between the government and hospitals. https://t.co/smKuneWmgbThe court’s directions came after hearing a plea it had initiated itself. It was contested that the “Delhi Corona Mobile Application”, developed by Delhi government, is not being updated regularly and that there exists a mismatch of the facts and data released by the government and private hospitals in Delhi, especially concerning the availability of beds and ventilators.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan had also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to carry out testing as far as far as possible, subject to availability of testing kits with priority being given to the persons approaching for test on the recommendation of a doctor.Meanwhile, State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) will hold a meeting today evening to discuss home isolation rules for Covid-19 patients in Delhi. The Kejriwal government has categorically opposed the current format of home isolation rules for coronavirus patients and a decision on it is likely to be taken during in the meeting today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-strict-action-delhi-hc-s-directive-against-erring-hospitals-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-epnl836ES9FIQrxv1xX4XL.html
25-06-2020||India||Panel calls for bringing Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha TV under single body||An expert committee set up to explore the possibility of merging the state-run Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV channels has recommended they be brought under a “Sansad TV” platform while continuing to work separately to showcase work done in both houses of Parliament.According to a person familiar with developments, the committee headed by former Prasar Bharati chief A Surya Prakash felt there could be an integrated platform with two variants to increase efficiency and ensure better use of resources.“Lok Sabha TV may continue to telecast live proceedings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV of the upper House. During the inter-session period and beyond the working hours of Parliament, both can telecast common content to a large extent. Lok Sabha TV will do so in Hindi and Rajya Sabha TV in English,” an official said, citing the panel’s recommendation.The panel was set up last November by Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to consider the functional integration of both channels.The panel suggested the new formats could help the two channels overcome shortcomings of the current bilingual format.Sansad TV and its two variants should have a robust editorial policy to emerge as the choice of a large number of people who want to know about the functioning of parliamentary institutions, the committee has said.The committee recommended effective use of available resources, such as relocating Rajya Sabha TV from the Talkatora Stadium annexe and shifting it to space available with Lok Sabha TV at Mahadev Road. This will lead to savings in terms of the huge rent paid as of now.According to the official cited above, the committee also discussed the issue with members of Parliament, who suggested the proposed Sansad TV should capture developmental activities undertaken by MPs. “The proposal is under consideration. Three subcommittees are examining it in detail,” said the official.Lok Sabha TV was launched in 2006 while Rajya Sabha TV came into existence in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-calls-for-bringing-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-tv-under-single-body/story-GFfRNV6KiO9aNdg9AOE46J.html
25-06-2020||India||Surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, CM warns of another lockdown||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday expressed concern over the rise in coronavirus cases in capital city Bengaluru and urged people to maintain social distancing and sanitisation to avoid another lockdown.“I urge people to maintain social distancing and sanitisation if Bengalurians don’t want one more seal down,” the chief minister said.Bengaluru has reported total 1,685 cases of coronavirus so far of which 418 people have recovered and 75 have succumbed to death. There are over 500 Covid-19 containment zones across the city currently. In the last 24 hours, Bengaluru reported over 170 fresh Covid-19 infections. Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 10,000-mark. As of today, the state has 164 fatalities while 6,151 patients have recovered from the disease in the state. Also read: ‘Take strict action’: Delhi HC’s directive against erring hospitalsBut we are also thinking about the number of cases which is increasing in Bengaluru. I urge people to maintain social distancing and sanitisation if Bengalurians don't want one more seal down: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa https://t.co/K5TXkA9UIGKarnataka has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases. According to state data, within a month the state has reported nearly 7,000 more coronavirus cases. On May 31, under lockdown 4, Karnataka reported 3,200 Covid-19 cases, of which Bengaluru accounted for over 350 cases. Under ‘Unlock 1’, on June 24, Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 10,000-mark while Bengaluru reported over 1,600 cases in total, data published by Bangalore’s civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike shows. On Monday Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that clusters of Covid-19 areas in Bengaluru with 3 to 4 or more cases will be sealed and maximum testing will be conducted.CM Yediyurappa had called an emergency meeting on Monday to discuss measures to control the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru.Officials were directed by the CM to strictly implement lockdown measures in the clusters which have reported more number of infections.A strict lockdown has been implemented in the clusters across Bengaluru that have reported a large number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-bengaluru-cm-warns-of-another-lockown/story-gWpF7MfEhv50jNLmW9lYlL.html
25-06-2020||India||Heavy rains, bridge collapse could affect efforts to control Assam gas well fire||Flooding caused by incessant rains since Wednesday and the collapse of a bridge are hampering efforts underway to control the raging fire at a natural gas well in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district.The bridge, located on the Doomdooma-Baghjan road, nearly eight kilometres (km) from the Oil India Limited (OIL) gas well in Baghjan oilfield collapsed on Wednesday because of heavy rains that led to the flooding in the area.“The bridge is on the route of Baghjan oilfield, where the gas well that caught fire is located. It was being used to transport machinery and equipment needed to douse the fire,” said Nandita Roy Gohain, circle officer, Doomdooma.“We have provided an alternate route to ferry the equipment, but transportation work is getting affected. Flooding caused by incessant rains is a major deterrent,” she added.The gas well at Baghjan had a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas and oil --- on May 27 during a workover operation, or major maintenance work.It caught fire on June 9, when two firefighters died and around 10,000 local residents were displaced because of the raging inferno.“The vital bridge on the main route to the well that was being used to carry heavy vehicles collapsed on Wednesday due to flooding. There are two-three alternate routes, but this was the best possible one for carrying heavy equipment,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, OIL.“We have requested the Army to help us. They will try to erect a Bailey bridge, but that could take a week’s time. There could be some delay in the interim for the movement of heavy-loaded vehicles,” he added.On June 22, battling heavy rains and temperatures over 75 degrees Celsius, nearly 150 army personnel had constructed a Bailey bridge over a water body close to the well.Over 230 metric tonnes of material were transported over 400 km to construct the bridge, which will be used to deliver water needed to control the fire and plug the blowout.Plugging a blowout and fire in a gas or oil well require a lot of heavy equipment.On Wednesday, OIL had stated in a release that many important materials -- needed to control the fire and plug the blowout -- are still in transit from other parts of the country.“Around 80% of the vehicles, carrying heavy equipment, have reached the site. The remaining 20% are also very critical to the operation. We are facing a tremendous challenge,” said Hazarika.“There has been incessant rainfall since Wednesday night and areas near the well, which are low-lying, are inundated. Rains and flooding are creating problems and the collapse of the bridge was a major blow,” he added.Earlier, OIL authorities had stated that it would take about four weeks to plug the blowout at the gas well. Heavy rains that led to flooding, and the bridge collapse could further delay their work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-bridge-collapse-could-affect-efforts-to-control-assam-gas-well-fire/story-wkAhi9Wqbhc0HMecu5BzpM.html
25-06-2020||India||VVIP chopper scam: ED raids on Shravan Gupta part of hunt for ‘real beneficiaries’||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are trying to tighten the noose around “real beneficiaries” of the 70 million euro bribe paid in AgustaWestland scam, officials familiar with the development said.Wednesday’s raids on the premises of realty firm MGF MD Shravan Gupta by the ED were focused at money trail, which moved through several companies over a period of time, they said.Subsequently, CBI is set to soon file a chargesheet against five senior government officials and British middleman Christian Michel, for which it has already sought prosecution sanction from the government. Officials in both the agencies said there will be major developments in the case in next couple of months.Officials cited above said Gupta, who was the director of erstwhile Emaar MGF, is under the scanner for appointment of another European middleman Guido Haschke as independent director in the company in 2009. Haschke is wanted by agencies and is said to be living in Italy. Gupta was earlier questioned by the ED in 2016.Also read: ED attaches Dubai villa, 5 Swiss bank accounts of AgustaWestland scam accused Rajiv SaxenaAccording to ED, which has already filed half a dozen chargesheets in the case, total 12 per cent kickbacks – around Euro 70 millions, was by the Anglo-Italian firm - AgustaWestland through two sets of middlemen - Christian Michel James and Guido Ralph Haschke - for further payments in India to influence the Rs 3,727 crore 12 helicopter VVIP chopper deal. The money, ED has said, was quid pro quo to make the company eligible for the contract of AW-101 helicopters in 2010.The CBI, in its chargesheet filed in September 2017, claimed Michel had signed two agreements with AgustaWestland – one for Euro 42 million (which he later reduced to 30 million), and second agreement for Euro 28 million, with the “family” to be “honoured in full”.The CBI had also claimed that AgustaWestland’s competitor for the contract, M/s Sikorsky, had quoted the price of over 50.64 crore US dollars (around Rs 2,228 crore) for 12 VVIP/non-VVIP helicopters, while AgustaWestland quoted Euro 592 million (Rs 3,966 crore), which was approximately 80 per cent more than the rate quoted by M/s Sikorsky. This was approved by cabinet committee on security in 2010 with final cost negotiated at Rs 3,727 crore.Also read: Alleged middleman Michel bail plea over Covid-19 denied; you are in a separate cell, says judge“We have got some new leads in the case after which it was decided to raid seven places on Wednesday linked to Gupta and few other people. We are further investigating the real beneficiaries - politicians and bureaucrats - who got benefitted through certain businessmen and private companies,” said an ED officer requesting anonymity.Gupta, this officer said, is likely to be called for questioning soon.Gupta or his spokesperson could not be located for comments by HT. An email sent to MGF remained unanswered.Emaar India, meanwhile, issued a statement on Wednesday saying Gupta has no role in the company. “Emaar and MGF had parted ways few years back and Mr Shravan Gupta has no role in Emaar India and is also no longer on the Board of the Company. Emaar India is directly under the control of its parent Emaar Properties PJSC, Dubai, and is fully in compliance with rules and regulations of the law of the land. As a responsible corporate, Emaar India will cooperate with any government agency.”Earlier, in a separate case pertaining to forex exchange violation, ED had seized Gupta’s assets worth Rs 10.28 crore in 2018 for allegedly holding undisclosed deposits in a Swiss bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vvip-chopper-scam-ed-raids-on-shravan-gupta-part-of-hunt-for-real-beneficiaries/story-upXLCPgp1EzTWphoRM635J.html
25-06-2020||India||Over 75 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted till June 24, says ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday informed that over 75 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted by various laboratories across the country till June 24.Moreover, 2,07,871 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.“75,60,782 samples tested till June 24. 2,07,871 samples tested in the last 24 hours,” the ICMR said.In an effort to ramp up testing capacity, the ICMR has approved a total of 1,000 Covid-19 testing labs in both public (730) and private sector (270). This includes RT-PCR labs (557); TrueNat Labs (363) and CBNAAT Labs (80).The latest advisory of ICMR on Covid-19 strategies advises all concerned state governments, public and private institutions to take required steps to scale-up testing for Covid-19.The ICMR had also recommended all laboratories and hospitals initiating testing through the rapid antigen test need to ensure that all symptomatic negative patients should be essentially referred to a real-time RT-PCR test for Covid-19. The data of individuals tested by RT-PCR will need to be entered through the lab performing the RTPCR test.With the highest single-day spike of 16,922 cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count reached 4,73,105 on Thursday.The country also saw 418 deaths in the last 24 hours, which pushed its death toll to 14,894, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-75-lakh-covid-19-tests-conducted-till-june-24-says-icmr/story-AWrOjXSTqVsKl0F2ugz8VN.html
25-06-2020||India||Telangana, Karnataka witness cases jump beyond 10,000-mark: Covid-19 state tally||Telangana and Karnataka are the new addition to the list of states where Covid-19 cases have gone beyond the 10,000-mark. Maharashtra continues to struggle with the highest incident of coronavirus cases with over 1 lakh cases while the national capital trails at the second spot. India witnessed another sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours with nearly 17,000 new infections, taking the national Covid-19 tally to 473,105. While 271,696 people have recovered from the deadly contagion across India, the death toll has jumped to 14,894.Also read: 16,922 new Covid-19 cases, 418 deaths in last 24 hours in IndiaHere’s a look at the worst affected states in the countryMaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 142,900 on Thursday. Over 73,792 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 6,739 have died.   DelhiThe national capital is the second worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 70,390 on Thursday. As many as 41,437 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,365 have succumbed to death. Tamil Nadu The state stands third on the tally with 67,468 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has witnessed eight-hundred and sixty-six coronavirus fatalities while 37,763 have recovered. GujaratPM Modi’s home state has seen Covid-19 cases rise to 28,943 on Thursday. The state has seen 21,088 people recover from coronavirus while 1,735 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally here has jumped to 19,557 while the number of recoveries has touched 12,586. The state’s death toll stands at 596.RajasthanThe state has reported 16,009 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 375 while 12,611 have recovered. West BengalAs many as 15,173 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 9,702 recover from coronavirus while 591 people have been killed. Madhya PradeshOver 12,400 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. While the state death toll stands at 534, over 9,000 people have been cured or discharged from the hospitals.  Haryana Nearly 12,100 have been reported to have been infected by coronavirus in Haryana while 188 have died. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state stands at 6,925.Andhra PradeshThe southern Indian state has 10,331 Covid-19 cases till date with 124 succumbing to death due to coronavirus. Over 4,700 people recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far.Telangana and Karnataka recently witnessed their Covid-19 tallies jump beyond 10,000. While 10,444 people are affected by coronavirus in Telangana, Karnataka’s tally count stands at 10,118.  Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-karnataka-witness-cases-jump-beyond-10-000-mark-covid-19-state-tally/story-4ynSGlFLAaa1SGw93Z6gNL.html
25-06-2020||India||Armed with BJP MP’s remarks, Congress asks PM to come clean on Chinese intrusions in Arunachal||The Congress has used the claims of a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader about Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh to attack the government on the border standoff with China, asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean on the remarks of his party colleague.The opposition party played a video of BJP leader Tapir Gao’s speech in Lok Sabha in November 2019, when he said Chinese forces had intruded into Indian territory in his home state of Arunachal Pradesh.“But the government remained silent on the issue,” Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari told a virtual news briefing.He said Gao had claimed in a recent TV interview that China has occupied areas on both banks of Subansiri river in Arunachal Pradesh’s Upper Subansiri district and on the Indian side of the McMahon Line.“Will the prime minister and his government come clean on the claims made by the BJP MP?” Tewari asked.BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said: “Instead of resorting to a daily questionnaire for seeking media attention and for political relevance, perhaps the Congress party may wish to see how other political parties prefer reposing faith in the capabilities of the armed forces, which have been valiantly trying to protect the borders.”Following a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party has stepped up its attack on Modi and his party despite senior leader RPN Singh calling for a refrain on direct attacks on the premier. Singh was countered by other Congress leaders, who insisted that the attack should be calibrated and not by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi alone.Asked about the differences on the issue in the CWC, Tewari retorted: “Unfortunately, when speculative stories start being taken as gospel, we run the gauntlet of actually arriving at wrong conclusions. The CWC is not divided on the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic, as to how that mishandling has crippled the Indian economy and on the question of China’s intrusion, aggression abd occupation of Indian territory. CWC is a democratic deliberative body where everybody has a right to articulate their views but there has been no dissent.”He said the same pattern was seen during the UPA government but is missing during the NDA rule.Tewari said ever since reports about Chinese incursions into Indian territory emerged, the government has been “walking the extra mile to downplay these reports and was trying to obfuscate the facts” on the ground.Flanked by party colleague and Lok Sabha member Gaurav Gogoi, he sought to know from the government if what Gao, a former Arunachal Pradesh BJP chief, was saying was right or not.“What is the truth behind what Tapir Gao is saying? There should be an immediate clarification from the government,” Tewari said.The Congress also said the government should give a “strong reply” to China as regular dialogues would not work, and use other means to take it on.Gogoi said India cannot afford to have another Doklam-like situation in Ladakh and needs to look at other forms of leverage such as trade to have successful negotiations with China.Indian and Chinese forces were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam near Sikkim in 2017 after the Indian side stopped the building of a road in the disputed area by the Chinese army.“The government should not look at what’s happening in Arunachal Pradesh or Ladakh as isolated incidents. These are grand designs and need to be responded strongly,” Gogoi said.“China needs a strong response from India, as regular dialogues won’t work. Despite all meetings, the Chinese launched a strong, premeditated attack. China has learnt one thing from the Doklam episode, that the Modi government is willing to settle for a military disengagement,” he added.Gogoi said the pattern of the Chinese army shows that they are gradually encroaching on Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the responsibility of protecting Indian territory lies solely with the government of India.Tewari said Gao has also claimed that the army has set up another base called new Majha, deeper in Indian territory after Chinese aggressions.“We do know something with regard to Galwan Valley, Pangong lake, and Hot Springs area in the western sector, and with regard to Chinese intrusion in Naku La in the central sector. But facts continue to remain opaque on the eastern sector which is perhaps most disputed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-with-bjp-mp-s-remarks-congress-asks-pm-to-come-clean-on-chinese-intrusions-in-arunachal/story-Kn5WhjGG21Z4Gn4myF9XfI.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Govt nod to private players will transcend India into new space era’: ISRO chief||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Sivan has welcomed the government’s decision to open up the space sector for private players.“We are very excited with these reforms and confident that our innovative youth come forward to avail all the opportunities arising from these reforms. Several start-ups have already come forward and we are assured that India will emerge as a major hub for global space economy,” Sivan said at a digital press conference on Thursday.“I invite whole-heartedly the private players to come forward and carry out the space activities and make India a global technology powerhouse,” he added.Also Read: Government opens up space sector and assets to private sector to ‘enhance’ capacityThe ISRO chief said that these reforms will transcend India into a new space era.“If space sector is opened, potential of entire country can be utilised to scale up benefits from space technology. It’ll not only result in accelerated growth of sector but also enable Indian industry to be important player in global space economy,” said Sivan.Clearing these reforms, the Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday also approved the formation of a new organisation, the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe), seeking to open up the space infrastructure to the private sector.The government said that IN-SPACe will provide a level playing field for private sector companies to use Indian space infrastructure.Also Read: First trial flight of Gaganyaan may face some delay due to lockdown: ISRO“IN-SPACe will have representatives from the industry, academia and government of India,” Sivan said today adding that ISRO will share technological expertise with the new organisation.He said that IN-SPACe will take 3-6 months to become operational.Sivan also said that these new reforms will not reduce the role of ISRO. “ISRO will continue to carry our space activities, including advance research and development, inter-planetary missions, human space flights and capacity building activities,” said Sivan.The ISRO chief also said that the space body will help IN-SPACe in all its endeavours.Several other important decisions were taken in the meeting on Wednesday including bringing hundreds of cooperative banks under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-nod-to-private-players-will-transcend-india-into-new-space-era-isro-chief/story-6lc2NVX2qX7vhybzGex1YJ.html
25-06-2020||India||Maharashtra: Activist moves HC, seeks postponement of elections in Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad constituencies||Mumbai: A Pune-based political activist has moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking postponement of elections to Maharashtra legislative council for Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad constituencies, citing poor registration of graduate and teacher voters.The petitioner, Laxman Chavan, the president of Prajasattak Bharat Paksha, has also sought a direction to the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to hold elections till at least of 50% of graduates from these constituencies are registered as voters.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed through advocateAsim Sarode, cited that on September 5, 2016, ECI had issued instructions to all chief electoral officers to make special efforts to ensure that each and every eligible voter is duly enrolled.They were ordered to facilitate the online filing of the application forms, give wide publicity to the process of revision of electoral rolls, and set up special counters for the collection of applications.They were instructed to use voter registration centres for assembly elections and also get voters enrolled for legislative councils.Chavan complained that these instructions were not followed in Maharashtra because of which the ratio of registered voters to the population of the constituencies has remained abysmally low.The petitioner gave examples in his plea to bolster his argument.Though the population of Pune graduates constituency, comprising all five districts of western Maharashtra, is 2.34 crores, including 1.94 educated people, the corresponding figure for registered voters is 3.08 lakhs, or 1.58% of the constituency’s total population, the plea stated.Similarly, in Nagpur constituency barely 1.22 lakh graduates, or 1.23% of the total population of 1.17 crores, are registered as voters.While in Aurangabad constituency the percentage of voters to the population is 2.48℅.In Aurangabad, 3.55 lakh graduates are registered as voters, even though the total population of the constituency is 1.87 crores, including 1.43 crore educated people.The PIL stated that in 2014, when elections were held in these three constituencies, 60.14% of the registered voters of Nagpur had exercised their franchise. Both Pune and Aurangabad had reported a poor turnout of 25.78℅ and 34.03℅, respectively.Chavan blamed the authorities concerned for their lack of initiative to ensure registration of graduate and teacher constituencies, despite the fact that the revision of voters’ list is always a work in progress.He cited the inordinate delay in the publication of the new electoral list, even though the terms of the members elected from the three graduate constituencies would end in July.In Maharashtra, out of the 78 members of the legislative council, 31 are elected by members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), 21 by elected representatives from local authorities, 12 are nominated by the Governor and seven each are elected by graduates and teachers from Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Konkan, Aurangabad, Nagpur, and Amravati constituencies.The PIL will come for the next hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-activist-moves-hc-seeks-postponement-of-elections-in-pune-nagpur-and-aurangabad-constituencies/story-y92uGPMCcizgEkT1tG8RlM.html
25-06-2020||India||ASHA workers in Maharashtra may get pay hike for working during Covid-19 crisis||As many as 65,000 ASHA workers in Maharashtra are likely to get a monthly pay hike of Rs 2,000 as an incentive for their hard work during the time of the Covid-19 crisis, a government official said.The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA workers) have so far been earning about Rs 10,000 per month, he said.“State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has finalised a proposal for their salary hike which would be discussed in the Cabinet meeting. If the proposal is cleared, the ASHA workers would get a monthly hike of Rs 2,000,” the official from the health and family welfare department told PTI on Wednesday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the ASHA workers have been assigned the task of surveillance in urban and rural areas and the state government now plans to give them an incentive for their work.As of now, their salary structure includes a basic payment of Rs 2,000 each contributed by the state and the Centre along with additional payment as per their efficiency and the number of people they cover (as part of various government welfare schemes), the official said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Now, the state wants to increase its contribution by Rs 2,000,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asha-workers-in-maharashtra-may-get-pay-hike-for-working-during-covid-19-crisis/story-qoRnT9WsxqYqVp3GdnqpSK.html
25-06-2020||India||‘China reasserts claim to Galwan, extraordinary demand!’ Chidambaram’s jibe at Centre over India-China border row||It is undeniable that the status quo was changed by Chinese troops in April-June 2020, former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Thursday. “People are watching if the Modi government will succeed in restoring the status quo ante,” Chidambaram tweeted.  Foreign Ministry and PLA of China once again assert their claim to the entire Galwan Valley and demand that India should vacate the Valley. Extraordinary demand!Chidambaram said that China has once again asserted their claim to the Galwan Valley in Ladakh and described it as an “extraordinary demand”. He asked if the government will now take a firm stand on restoring “status quo ante”. “Will BJP-led NDA government once again reassert India’s claim and demand that “status quo ante” must be restored?” he added. Meanwhile, the Chinese side is believed to have ramped up — its military activity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. Satellite imagery of the area on June 22 show concentration of soldiers, military vehicles, earth-moving machinery, structures near the same point where Indian and Chinese troops clashed on June 15 in a violent face-off that led to the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-reasserts-claim-to-galwan-extraordinary-demand-chidambaram-s-jibe-at-centre-over-india-china-border-row/story-GPkvIZtvSYYcdk5JBPWxLJ.html
25-06-2020||India||FIR against Digvijaya Singh, 150 Congress workers for cycle march against fuel price hike||An FIR has been registered against Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and 150 other party workers with regard to his cycle march against the hike in fuel prices.The FIR is registered under sections 341,188,143, 269, and 270 of the IPC.Singh, along with his party leaders on Wednesday, took out a cycle march to protest against the continuous surge in fuel prices and alleged that the hike is an “opportunity in a disaster” for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Congress leaders had started their march from Roshanpura intersection to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s residence.Speaking to media, Singh had said: “Today, when people are getting infected with Covid-19. Inflation is increasing and people are dying of hunger. The Central government has increased excise duty on petrol and diesel for the eighteenth consecutive day.” “As Modi ji says, opportunity in disaster, for them (Centre) corona disaster is an opportunity to earn the money,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-digvijaya-singh-150-congress-workers-for-cycle-march-against-fuel-price-hike/story-AxuUmHqkpj9VdCHWrb3xyI.html
25-06-2020||India||China’s dragon act on LAC to be decoded by General Naravane in high-level meet today||Returning after a two-day trip to east Ladakh theatre, Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane today is expected to brief the political leadership about the situation on ground with belligerent People’s Liberation Army (PLA) doing the elaborate dragon act along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).In the past two days, Army Chief General Naravane had on the spot assessment about the four stand-off points with the PLA in east Ladakh apart from directing the troops to tighten patrolling of all the 65 points on the LAC with support of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). In the past one week, more battalions of specialized forces trained for the Tibet theatre along with ITBP battalions have been inducted to ensure that any attempt by the bellicose PLA is foiled.Also Read: Satellite images capture China’s PLA build-up in LadakhIt is understood that Gen Naravane will also brief the political leadership about the PLA deployment and its posture along the LAC. His assessment about the PLA posture on LAC will be critical for the political leadership if the matters go south. The Army Chief will also hold discussions with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Air Force and Navy chiefs on the Indian posture to be adopted in the air as well in the sea. Besides, any force requirements on the ground will be handled by Gen Rawat and the Defence Ministry. Also Watch | Army chief meets soldiers at Ladakh hospital amid China tensionWith the Chinese propaganda machine firing on all cylinders and the Indian public flooded with satellite images of the theatre duly analysed by arm chair strategists, Gen Naravane will also have to answer questions on so-called new Chinese fortifications on Galwan sector.Also Read: Army chief awards commendations to troops who fought in Galwan ValleyWhile the situation on ground remains tense in Ladakh, there have been no flare-ups on the LAC since June 22 senior military commanders meeting and a stalemate prevails in the area. Both sides are heavily deployed with the Chinese playing the “carrot and stick” move in military and diplomatic meetings.Although the Chinese diplomat in the border talks with Ministry of External Affairs blamed the Indian side for June 15 Galwan clash, fact is that this misunderstanding would have been prevented if PLA had agreed to a hotline between Indian Director General Military Operations and PLA Headquarters in Beijing. Instead of allowing a direct line to heart of Communist regime, the PLA wanted the Indian DGMO to talk to the Western Theatre Command that controls Tibet and Xinjiang province.Also Read: China finally admits casualties in Galwan clash, claims ‘numbers not very high’With significant force deployment on the front and in depth areas, it is evident that PLA wants to drive Indian Army to the wall and precipitate a crisis by continuously blaming India for Galwan flare-up. The same tactic was used by another paramount leader in the run-up to 1962 war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-dragon-act-on-lac-to-be-decoded-by-general-naravane-in-high-level-meet-today/story-gzZzRpXKfKQyqNKiic0zbM.html
25-06-2020||India||Amit Shah’s jibe at Congress: ‘Why does the Emergency mindset remain?’||Union home minister Amit Shah asked a few questions to Congress and gave some advice to the Opposition party which has been attacking the government over various issues like India-China face-off and fuel price hike.“As one of India’s opposition parties, Congress needs to ask itself: Why does the Emergency mindset remain? Why are leaders who don’t belong to 1 dynasty unable to speak up? Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress? Else, their disconnect with people will keep widening,” he tweeted on Thursday. As one of India’s opposition parties, Congress needs to ask itself:Why does the Emergency mindset remain?Why are leaders who don’t belong to 1 dynasty unable to speak up?Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress?Else, their disconnect with people will keep widening.He indirectly targeted the Gandhi family by talking about the dynasty and claimed that leaders in the Congress are getting frustrated.Shah’s tweet comes a day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda’s blistering attack in the Congress and the Gandhi family for questioning the government’s stand on June 15 face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh. He said that “a rejected and ejected dynasty is not equal to the entire Opposition”.“One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the Opposition asking questions to the Government,” Nadda said on Twitter on Wednesday.He called it the Opposition’s right to ask questions and added healthy deliberations took place at the all-party meeting over the face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Nadda added several opposition leaders gave their valuable inputs at the meeting. “They also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead. One family was an exception. Any guesses who?” Nadda said in another tweet.He added “a time rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal” to the entire Opposition.The Congress hit back and reminded Nadda of the BJP’s “conduct” as an opposition party until 2014. “BJP should not hide behind the army. The BJP should look back at its conduct when it attacked the government on delicate foreign policy issues during the UPA rule,” Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said on Wednesday.The war of words has been going on between the BJP and the Congress over the June 15 skirmish in the Ladakh region in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of giving away Indian territory to China.PM Modi had asserted at the all-party meeting that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”. This was in reference to the situation in the Galwan Valley after Indian Army’s brave action to thwart Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-s-jibe-at-congress-why-does-the-emergency-mindset-remain/story-OXQCbLjIcXChSuUTYndYaP.html
25-06-2020||India||MP-Rajasthan border sealed in Morena as Dholpur reports spike in Covid cases||Bhopal: The Morena district administration has sealed the Madhya Pradesh (MP)-Rajasthan border in the Chambal region after over 50 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases were reported in the past 72 hours.The Morena district authorities have intensified screening at Allabeli checkpoint on the inter-state border and also barred people from entering the state from the neighbouring Rajasthan’s Dholpur district, which has been reporting a spike in Covid-19 positive cases.Morena district collector (DC) Priyanka Das said: “Every person entering MP from Rajasthan will be screened along with a verification of the Aadhaar card. Vegetable vendors and other hawkers often enter Morena from Dholpur district. They will undergo a medical examination and their swab samples will be collected.” On the inter-state border, a team of doctors has been deployed to examine members of wedding processions from Rajasthan and those from the neighbouring desert state visiting their relatives in Morena district. Dholpur residents would be either barred from entry or quarantined, if they show any Covid-19 symptoms, the Morena district authorities said.The doctors’ team has been empowered to give access to people entering the district from Rajasthan and their clearance would act as a pass. DC Das held a meeting with public representatives on Wednesday evening. “Dholpur has become a hotspot after 400 Covid-19 positive cases were reported. Dholpur district authorities have ordered the collection of swab samples of grocers and other shopkeepers. A lockdown has been clamped in the district’s marketplaces as well. Many vendors are trying to enter Morena because of the lockdown restrictions in Dholpur, which is leading to a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in our district,” the DC said.So far, Morena district has reported 214 Covid-19 positive cases, including 53 over the past three days, and a patient has also died.MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan also instructed Morena district authorities on Wednesday evening to keep a strict vigil amid a spike in Covid-19 positive cases and a looming threat from the Dholpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-rajasthan-border-sealed-in-morena-as-dholpur-reports-spike-in-covid-cases/story-UMzvDPlqGxfEABzpiRorON.html
25-06-2020||India||Two fire incidents reported in Mumbai, no casualties||Two fire incidents were reported in Mumbai’ Andheri and Nariman Point on Thursday, however, no injuries were reported. A fireman of the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) fainted during the operations and was rushed to Nanavati Hospital.In the first incident, a level-two fire was reported at Nand-Dham Industrial estate in Marol area of Andheri. The incident was reported at around 12.50 am and no injuries were reported. A fireman was rushed to the hospital after fainting during the operation.According to the MFB, the fire was confined to the ground floor godown. The godown was equipped with electric wiring, electric installation and contained wooden furniture, office window AC, office records, office files, hydraulic compressor machine, hydraulic cylinder. The fire was brought under control at around 4 am.In the second incident, a level-two fire was reported at around 5.21 am on Thursday inside a bank at Jolly Maker Chamber located at Nariman Point, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB). However, no injuries were reported in the incident.Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer, MFB said, “The fire is confined to electric wiring, electric installation, office furniture, computers, office records, important documents and false ceiling in an area about 4000 square feet of Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait along with server room on the ground floor of the commercial complex”.Rahangdale added, “No one is trapped inside as learnt from public and nobody is reported injured. The fire was brought under control at 7 am, however, cooling operations are ongoing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-fire-incidents-reported-in-mumbai-no-casualties/story-6jdfFHjTSXxyJyqf5SvfMO.html
25-06-2020||India||AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case: ED raids premises linked to businessman Shravan Gupta||The premises of businessman Shravan Gupta and six other places were raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday in connection with the VVIP chopper scam, officials said. Gupta is former managing director of real estate company Emaar MGF.The officials said that Gupta’s premises were searched to look for evidence of money laundering in the Rs 3,727 crore scam. The action is being taken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they added.Gupta or his spokesperson could not be located for comments by the ED during raids. He was earlier questioned by the ED in 2016.Gupta is currently the promoter of realty firm MGF.Emaar, meanwhile, issued a statement saying Gupta has no role in the company. “Emaar and MGF had parted ways few years back and Mr Shravan Gupta has no role in Emaar India and is also no longer on the Board of the Company. Emaar India is directly under the control of its parent Emaar Properties PJSC, Dubai, and is fully in compliance with rules and regulations of the law of the land. As a responsible corporate, Emaar India will cooperate with any government agency.”Officials believe Gupta had links with European middleman Guido Haschke, who played a key role in bringing the bribe money to India. Haschke was reportedly a director on the board of Emaar-MGF in 2009.The officials said that the fresh action against the businessman has come about after certain revelations made by an accused in the case and some fresh evidence obtained by the agency.The ED slapped money laundering charges in this case following allegations of irregularities in purchase of 12 VVIP choppers from Italy-based Finmeccanica’s British subsidiary AgustaWestland. The deal was scrapped by India in 2014.The agency had seized Gupta’s assets worth Rs 10.28 crore in 2018 on charges of allegedly holding undisclosed deposits in a Swiss bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agustawestland-vvip-chopper-case-ed-raids-on-businessman-shravan-gupta/story-gsQ9W5sXBmK9HQm13Nm5PK.html
25-06-2020||India||Nearly 17,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours push India’s tally to over 4.7 lakh||India on Thursday recorded 16,922 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours - highest so far- pushing the nationwide tally to 4,73,105.According to Union health ministry’s update at 8 am, the number of active cases in the country are 1,86,514. The country also saw 418 deaths in the last 24 hours, which pushed its death toll to 14,894.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country had recorded the highest single-day jump of nearly 16,000 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.Delhi, which already is the second worst hit state in terms of coronavirus caseload and fatalities, overtook Mumbai after the number of cases soared by 3,788 to touch 70,390. Mumbai has so far recorded 69,625 cases, according to official figures.As part of the Delhi government’s revised Covid-19 response plan, a house to house screening will be completed by June 30 in containment zones and for the rest of the city by July 6 in what is billed as a mammoth exercise.In all, 12 states now account for more than 10,000 coronavirus cases as they continued to report record daily spikes that were mainly attributed to augmented testing.News agency PTI reported health ministry officials as saying on Wednesday that of the over 4.4 lakh Covid-19 cases reported in the country, only 15.34 per cent required ICU care. It also said that only 4.16 per cent of patients were put on ventilators.The doubling time of coronavirus infection cases has improved from 17.4 days on June 12 to 19.7 days in the last three days, a health ministry official was quoted by PTI.The ministry also said that daily testing of samples of blood and throat and nose swabs crossed two lakh for the first time since the outbreak began. The recovery rate has improved for 56.71 per cent, it further said.Meanwhile, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex health research body in the country, validated 1,000th testing laboratory on Wednesday, ramping up the capacity for detection of Covid-19 in the country. The country has recorded 2,65,648 infections from June 1 till June 24 with Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh remaining the top five contributors to the rising tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steepest-hike-nearly-17-000-new-covid-19-cases-push-india-s-tally-to-over-4-7-lakh/story-WJXAYUtGMQ354nvfPOliFP.html
25-06-2020||India||Assam gas well blowout threat to tea industry: TAI||The Tea Association of India on Wednesday urged the Assam government to take cognizance of the “threat” to the tea industry due to the gas blowout and subsequent fire at the Baghjan well of Oil India Ltd.“Tea and oil have traditionally being the main economic backbones of Assam and have co-existed since the early 19th century, but the recent mishap has brought to fore the apprehension in tea estates where there are oil wells within its precincts,” TAI secretary general P K Bhattacharjee said in a release.The tea gardens and the oil fields, particularly in Upper Assam, have grown parallely and a significant portion of garden lands have been acquired by the state government to facilitate exploration and digging of oil fields, he said.“This (the Baghjan incident) has had a serious environmental repercussions on the soil and environment in and around the tea estates, but the most important aspect is that the workforce continues to remain perpetually apprehensive of their livelihood, should there be a recurrence of such at any point of time in the future,” Bhattacharjee said.TAI, therefore, urges the state government to adopt a long-term mechanism to lessen the impact of such eventualities in the near future, he said.“We urged the Assam government to take cognizance of such threat as has arisen out of Baghjan incident and put in place a protocol that could address such eventualities with least degree of collateral damage,” Bhattacharjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-well-blowout-threat-to-tea-industry-tai/story-QtKJeuqxDj6ziCBLVg1buJ.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Confusion continues’: Shatrughan Sinha’s question to PM Modi on Chinese apps||Actor-politician and Congress leader Shatrughan Sinha tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter, asking him to clarify the status of Chinese mobile applications in India.“Hon’ble PM @narendramodi Sir, confusion continues.... first a viral social media report that there has been a ban on certain Chinese apps in India. It also claims that #NIC under Ministry of Electronics & IT @Gol_MeitY had also issued restrictions for the functioning of some Chinese apps,” Sinha said in his first post in a series of tweets on the issue. Hon'ble PM @narendramodi Sir, confusion continues.... first a viral social media report that there has been a ban on certain Chinese apps in India. It also claims that #NIC under Ministry of Electronics & IT @Gol_MeitY had also issued restrictions for the functioning of some“However, #PIB, Fact Checker @PIBFactCheck the Govt’s official Fact Checker, rejected it as a Fake claiming no such instructions were ever given. All these reports coming during the tense situation between #IndoChina. Why Sir, these confusions & contradictions? They are extremely misleading & uncalled for at the least,” Sinha said in his second tweet.He also asked the prime minister to take “necessary actions soon”. are extremely misleading & uncalled for at the least. Hope, wish & pray you will take necessary actions soon, sooner the better & put matters to rest at once. Jai Hind! Read all details here:--https://t.co/1QQUNYvIJg@PMOIndia@PIBFactCheck@Gol_MeitY@INCIndia@YashwantSinhaThe PIB tweet in reference was posted on June 19 where it had said that no such order was issued. Claim: A viral message of an order allegedly from NIC claims that @GoI_Meity has prohibited some apps from being made available on App Stores. #PIBFactCheck: The Order is #Fake. No such instruction has been given by @GoI_MeitY or NIC. pic.twitter.com/Dt7rMR7nIzSinha had exited the BJP to shift to the Congress ahead of last year’s national elections. He was the BJP’s in-house critics for years before joining the Congress.On Tuesday, he tweeted on the Ladakh face-off, questioning PM Modi about “contradictions among our people on the situation on #IndoChina”. “It seems that the nation is confused & doesn’t know what to believe,” he said in his tweet.“...we seek answers from you on the brutal attack & the unfortunate death of 20 of our bravehearts. Hope, wish & pray you will tackle this manner swiftly, without any further delay. The nation stands united with you in these difficult times.Jai Hind!” Sinha said.The former Patna Sahib lawmaker finally exited the BJP last year before the national elections when the BJP decided to field law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad from the seat.Sinha was defeated by Ravi Shankar Prasad who secured 62 per cent of the votes cast as against Sinha’s 33 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-continues-shatrughan-sinha-s-question-to-pm-modi-on-chinese-apps/story-qvVEoprEwhojvh7VR7tuMJ.html
25-06-2020||India||Chip-enabled e-passports will strengthen security of travel documents: S Jaishankar||The introduction of chip-enabled e-passports will greatly strengthen the security of Indian travel documents, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday, emphasising the need to expedite their roll out. In his address via video conference on the occasion of the Passport Seva Divas, Jaishankar also said the government intends to open a Post Office Passport Seva Kendra in every Lok Sabha constituency. “We have so far been able to provide for 488 Lok Sabha constituencies,” he said. That process has stopped on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, but it will move forward as the lockdown eases up, he said. Jaishankar said his ministry is working with Indian Security Press, Nashik, and National Informatics Centre for chip-enabled e-passports with advanced security features. “I am very confident that the introduction of e-passports will greatly strengthen the security of our travel documents. I understand that the procurement process for its production is currently underway and I would emphasise the need to hasten that as much as possible,” he said. “I emphasise that it is necessary to roll out the manufacture of e-passports on a priority basis,” Jaishankar said. He said the focus must be on how to simplify the rules and processes without compromising legitimate security concerns which are at the heart of the reforms being undertaken by the government. “We have seen a complete transformation in the passport delivery service especially over the last six years,” he said. More than 1.22 crore passports were issued during 2019 by the Passport Issuing Authorities (PIA) in India and abroad, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. The total number of Passport Kendras functioning in the country is 517, comprising 93 Passport Seva Kendras (PSK) and 424 Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSK), it said. Jaishankar said the focus of MEA would be to further strengthen the outreach efforts to take passport services closer to the people by opening more POPSKs in the country. As a part of the global outreach exercise, MEA has integrated the passport issuance systems in 70 Missions and Posts abroad issuing more than 95 per cent of the passports abroad. Initiatives such as mPassport police and mPassport seva apps had led to improvements in systems and customer satisfaction, Jaishankar said. In his message on the occasion, Jaishankar also said MEA has incorporated greater use of IT and digital systems into its functioning including delivering public services. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, in his remarks, highlighted the efforts of all the Passport Issuing Authorities in India and abroad who are working to ensure transparent and efficient passport delivery systems for the benefit of citizens. Passport Seva Puraskars were announced for the best performing Passport Offices and the personnel of the service provider. The Passport Seva Divas is observed to commemorate the enactment of the Passports Act on June 24, 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chip-enabled-e-passports-will-strengthen-security-of-travel-documents-s-jaishankar/story-NZjTnJ62cPZgMW0zsbFRAO.html
25-06-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in north Kashmir’s Sopore||An encounter between security forces and terrorists started in Hardshiva village of north Kashmir’s Sopore early on Thursday morning.The army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel launched a cordon and search operation after receiving inputs from Jammu and Kashmir Police about the presence of terrorists in the area.The gunfight ensued soon after and the exchange of fire is still continuing.On Tuesday, two terrorists were killed in an encounter between terrorists and security forces in Pulwama’s Bundzoo area, while one CRPF personnel succumbed to his injuries. The CRPF personnel was injured when the terrorists fired at the cordon party and later succumbed to his injuries.Two AK-47 were also recovered from the spot.On Monday, a group of terrorists managed to escape during search operations in the forests of Verinag in Anantnag district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-terrorists-in-north-kashmir-s-sopore/story-MMl7RpfdUKDTHX2Z2Nov3L.html
25-06-2020||India||Only 4.16% of Covid-19 patients in India require ventilator support: Official||At least 7,423 people (4.16%) required ventilator support across the country as of Tuesday evening, out of the total confirmed coronavirus cases reported in India so far, said a government official.While 27,317 Covid-19 patients (nearly 15.34%) require an ICU setting and 28,301 patients (15.89 %) were on oxygen support to date.According to the Union health ministry, the total number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 4,56,183 and the death toll rose to 14,476 on Wednesday. The country reported 465 fatalities and a record single-day spike of new cases 15,968 in the last 24 hours.“Cumulative number of cases till June 23, 6 pm -- ICU: 27,317 (15.34%); ventilator: 7,423 (4.16%) and oxygen: 28,301 (15.89%),” said the official.“In total active cases as on June 23, 2.57 per cent were in ICU as against 2.53 per cent as on June 22. While 0.54 per cent were on ventilators and 2.99 per cent on oxygen as against with 2.82 per cent as on June 22,” added the official.As per the Union health ministry, the number of Covid-19 patients recovering every day is growing too. During the last 24 hours, a total of 10,495 Covid-19 patients have been cured. A total of 2,58,684 patients have been cured.The recovery rate is 56.71% amongst Covid-19 patients.“India has one of the lowest deaths per lakh population in the world. The World Health Organisation (WHO) situation report 154 on June 22 noted that India has one of the lowest deaths per lakh population. India’s cases of death per lakh population are 1.00 while the global average is more than six times at 6.04,” stated the ministry.As per the ICMR, since rigorous testing, tracking and treatment is the only way to prevent the spread of infection and save lives, the apex medical research body -- ICMR has advised all concerned state governments, public and private institutions to take required steps to scale-up testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-4-16-of-covid-19-patients-in-india-require-ventilator-support-official/story-isRJJrcO3mGdK8iHtd4w3H.html
25-06-2020||India||Kin of over 50 recovered Covid-19 patients in Hyderabad refuse to take them back home||Family members of many Covid-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital, who have been discharged by authorities, are refusing to take them back home.Dr Prabhakar Rao, Nodal Officer, Gandhi Hospital, said there are “over 50 patients including men and women who tested positive for COVID-19” and underwent treatment at the hospital over last 10- 15 days.“All of them are healthy and have no symptoms. We have discharged them and declared them fit for home quarantine. But their family members are refusing to take them to their residences,” he said.He said many from among these 50 patients have waited outside the hospital for hours. “When no one from their families came to take them, we re-admitted them back to the hospital and provide them beds to stay. There are two age groups in these patients,” Dr Rao added.He said they have kept the group in the higher age bracket in Gandhi Hospital and the other group of people aged around 50 years has been shifted to Nature Cure Hospital. “Their families are also asking us to do testing to make sure that they are negative. In this critical situation doing tests repeatedly is not possible,” he said.Dr Rao cited the case of a 93-year-old Covid-19 positive woman, who was admitted to Gandhi Hospital 15 days ago and is now fine and fit to get discharged from the hospital.He said her family members are not coming forward to take her to their residence and she is in hospital.In another case, an 85-year-old-person, who tested positive and got admitted to Gandhi Hospital 16 days ago, is now having no symptoms and is fit for home quarantine.“But his family members are refusing to take him to their residence and are demanding a re-test, Dr Rao said.Gandhi Hospital is the designated nodal centre in Telangana to treat Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-over-50-recovered-covid-19-patients-in-hyderabad-refuse-to-take-them-back-home/story-i2sWoMFblxnt5Yssa9makJ.html
25-06-2020||India||4.5 magnitude quake jolts Mizoram, 5th in less than 10 days||An earthquake of magnitude 4.5 struck south of Champhai in Mizoram on Thursday, said the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The quake occurred at 1:14 am and struck 21 kilometres south of Champhai.Earlier on Tuesday, an earthquake measuring 4.1 on the Richter Scale, occurred 31 kilometres South South-West (SSW) of Champhai.On June 22, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga said that two earthquakes rocked the state within a span of 12 hours. While an earthquake of magnitude 5.5, occurred 27 kilometres SSW of Champhai at 4:10 am on June 22, another quake measuring 5.1 on the Richter Scale, struck 25 kilometres East North-East of Aizawl at 4.16 pm on June 21, according to the institute.The state had also recorded an earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter scale on June 18 evening, 98 kilometres South-East of Champhai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-5-magnitude-quake-jolts-mizoram-5th-in-less-than-10-days/story-Sg9OaUgB5RZ5afsPyISSgK.html
25-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: A woman and her balconies||The coronavirus pandemic has forced many of us to self-exile within our house. This makes one finally appreciate what one always took for granted—ambling along the streets, shoving and pushing in the Metro, pressing floor buttons without a fright in the office lift, or kissing the cheeks of random friends and acquaintances in evening cocktails. But staying inside for long stretches has also made people feel the preciousness of something that they can still safely cherish—the humble window or balcony in the house.To many, the window/balcony has grown to be a most risk-proof link to the world immediately outside the home. Instagram these days is filled up with window-side selfies. Some weeks ago, dance instructor Asavari Joshi, a Gurugram dweller, snapped a stunning picture of a barn owl perched outside her apartment window on the 21st floor. This week photographer Ram Rahman shared a portrait of Mr Budmash Khan, his cat, perched by a window at their apartment in Delhi’s Civil Lines.And, dear home-bound reader, you must also consider the outdoorsy aspects in the life of Savita, a housekeeper who lives in a Gurugram condo with a family of five. This spacious dwelling feels totally distanced from ground realities—it is on the 30th floor. The apartment has three bedrooms, but only two windows (!), and one of them doesn’t count for it’s in the so-called “store room” and opens to a boring view of the service staircase, aka the fire exit. The other window is in the “guest room” that remains screened off with a blind for safety reasons “because that is where chhoti sleeps,” Savita says, affectionately referring to the only child in the house whom she also calls Sam/Samairaa/ Shona.The apartment compensates for the windows with three balconies. Two of them are moderately expansive and the third in the kitchen is very small. Savita calls it the utility balcony. “We use this one for drying the laundry and to keep our mops and buckets,” says one of the household members with whom Savita lives. Both ladies are chatting with this reporter on WhatsApp video, the pictures are taken through the mobile screen. During the early minutes of the conversation, Savita is overcome with intense shyness; every response of hers is laced with blushes and smiles. She however quickly recovers her bearings and goes on to give a survey of the kitchen balcony—it faces residential towers exactly similar to the one from where she speaks. This balcony keeps the kitchen flooded with daylight, and lights aren’t needed until the sundown, Savita informs.Since the lockdown began in late March, the regular gardener (the appropriately named Phool Chand) is no longer coming to the house to look after the balcony foliage. Savita has taken up his role instead. She crosses a room to the other balcony—currently occupied by a clothes drying stand—and shows the potted plants bearing pudina, ajwain, kari patta and tulsi respectively.Keeping her arms on the balustrade, Savita silently stares into the air in front of her, and the earth below. “So green, so many trees,” she mutters. It’s dizzy to look at the great drop even through the phone screen but Savita says she isn’t afraid of heights.In the winter, if it’s nicely sunny, she often likes to have her lunch in the balcony, she says.Responding to a query, Savita reveals that she hasn’t stepped out of the apartment since the pandemic hijacked the daily headlines. Which means her feet haven’t touched the ground for more than two months. This makes Savita like a modern-day Rapunzel stranded at the top of a tower. Especially because just like that fairy tale heroine, her hair are very long— cascading down “almost” to her knees. Covering her face with her hand to shield a suddenly emerging smile, Savita admits she doesn’t miss stepping out of the apartment as she would often do in the BC (Before Corona) era. Indeed, her calm demeanour suggests a satisfactory compromise with this new quarantined style of living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-woman-and-her-balconies/story-TyomCLiY4XsbEhbh2nh14H.html
25-06-2020||India||Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal’s plea cites jail violence||There was “large-scale violence” inside jail number six meant for women prisoners in Tihar prison complex and officials, who allegedly beat up some foreign inmates on June 16, were also intimidating Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal lodged there, her lawyer, Adit S Pujari, told the Delhi high court on Wednesday.Pujari said a “lockdown” has been imposed in the jail since the alleged violence. None of the inmates were being allowed to make phone calls, he said. Pujari said Narwal, who was arrested in March for her alleged role in the Delhi riots and has been charged under the UAPA, informed him about the violence via video conferencing. The court has sought a status report by Friday in response to Narwal’s plea seeking video conferencing facilities to consult her lawyer. Meanwhile, the high court has denied bail to Shahrukh Pathan, accused of pointing a pistol at a police head constable during the violence, saying his intention was to become a hero and he would have to face the law. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait allowed Pathan’s counsel, advocate Asghar Khan, to withdraw the bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinjra-tod-activist-natasha-narwal-s-plea-cites-jail-violence/story-7SYfgxS3VkgcaJ8eKgZ8KK.html
25-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Lack of clarity on firm may hurt monitoring||Monitoring home isolation of Covid cases requires specialised teams experienced in remote and residential patient care services, government officials and experts said on Wednesday as uncertainty persisted over whether a private company that has been carrying out this task in the national capital will be allowed to continue.The company, Portea Medical, was caught in a tussle between the Delhi government and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who – as head of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority – scrapped the contract citing lack of due process. The reasoning has been strongly rejected by the Aam Aadmi Party government that said the arrangement was made following central guidelines that allow for expediting of such processes in emergency situations like a pandemic.“The Disaster Management Act specifically allows the Centre and state governments battling disasters and epidemics to procure goods and services without following the time-consuming tendering process, using a nomination route,” a Delhi government spokesperson said on Wednesday, adding that timeliness of decisions was “most crucial to ensure lives are saved”. “Even to procure services though nomination route, there is a due process which was followed in this case,” the spokesperson added. According to data from government officials and comments made by grassroots medical staff, the task of following up with home isolation cases requires phone calls to all active patients recuperating at their residence – a role that needs dedicated teams. “Given the scale of the pandemic and keeping in mind our existing health infrastructure, it is not possible for the health workers to call every home isolation patient every day and advice them on best practices,” a government official said, asking not to be named. Portea’s contract was cancelled on June 19 but the company was allowed to carry on follow-ups with 10,490 active home isolation cases it had been handling at the time. Since then, this number has grown by at least 4,000 and these new cases now need to be followed up by staff under the district surveillance officer (DSO) for whom the task is in addition to the containment and contact tracing responsibilities. Two DSOs said their work load has increased manifolds since June 20, when the old guidelines were changed. “First we are supposed to get the list of those testing positive in our district from the respective medical offices. Once we have the list we start visiting the homes of asymptomatic and mild patients for their clinical assessment and also to check their home for elibility, if needed. Now our teams have been asked to also make follow up calls to all home quarantine patients. We are managing with whatever little staff we have and sometimes calling one patient twice a day is not possible,” one of these officers said, asking not to be named.The other officer added that they are also now fielding an increasing number of calls since cases are going up.According to the Delhi health bulletin, there were 14,844 – or 56% of the city’s active cases – in home isolation on Wednesday.“Suddenly, there is excessive burden on district surveillance officers and that can have a negative impact on Covid management efforts. Surveillance and management of home isolation cases require very specific training in the fields of data collection, data management and creating a quick response mechanism. Not all surveillance officers are experts on all fields. So, having an additional support system for this job is recommended,” said Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital.In a statement, Portea detailed the scope of the work involved with home isolation, saying a comprehensive tracking system “involving government doctors and experts from Portea” monitored patients for the entire mandated isolation period of 17 days.“Portea also submits regular reports on their condition flagging off any health complications. If required, the company arranges for a teleconsultation with Delhi government doctors using its technology platform. For cases where hospitalisation may be needed, Portea notifies the appropriate government agency for action on the ground,” it said, adding that it also handled identification of patients who can leave home isolation.According to government data, of the 16,301 patients enrolled by the company, about 3% required hospitalisation – and 0.1% among them succumbed.“To blame the process or an agency is clearly an afterthought by the LG and central government to justify a poorly taken decision that was quickly reversed after widespread criticism by the media, citizens, RWAs,” the government official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lack-of-clarity-on-firm-may-hurt-monitoring/story-fVVLN63AzMWa5Rf5d4IMXL.html
25-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Six months into the year, there’s a lot we have learnt about Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 (the coronavirus disease), and there’s a lot we have learnt about the disease itself.We know that it is highly infective, we know how it spreads, and we know who is most at risk. By “we”, I mean most people who have bothered to learn more about the only thing the world has been bothered with for six months (caveat: top tennis players may or may not be part of the “we”). ON THE RISEThe pandemic is showing no signs of slowing. It is finding new hot spots in countries hitherto unaffected by it and even within countries already ravaged by it. No one knows how long it will last; no one knows when it will peak; and no one knows the final toll.Companies and researchers around the world are racing towards developing a vaccine in record time — there are many candidates in the works, and there’s a general consensus that one will be ready by next year, perhaps the shortest time in which a vaccine for a major disease has been developed.Also Read: Oxford vaccine against Covid-19 in final stage of clinical trialsThere have been around 9.2 million cases of Covid-19 in the world until now; and almost half a million (477,000+) people have died from the viral disease. The pandemic is showing no signs of slowing. It is finding new hot spots in countries hitherto unaffected by it, and, even within countries already ravaged by it, in parts previously untouched.No one knows how long it will last; no one knows when it will peak; and no one knows the final toll. To paraphrase a sentiment that has been expressed by enough scientists and administrators: there is no point in talking of a second wave because we are still in the midst of the first. Indeed, there’s been no ebb and flow of cases at the global level — just one continuous rise.6 MONTHS ON Even as health care systems around the world have been overwhelmed by the rush of cases in the six months since the outbreak began, it is remarkable that doctors have figured out a way to treat an entirely new virus using treatments and medicines that are old, tested, and, more importantly, with which they are comfortable.India ended June 23 with 455,928 cases and 14,482 deaths (a case fatality rate of 3.17%), but it has also seen 258,544 recoveries (which translates into a recovery rate of 57%). Going by the current case fatality rate, many of the active cases can be expected to recover.And, in India, and around the world, that’s the biggest hope as we near the end of June. The virus has proved strangely resilient — not weakening as others before it have, resulting in infections tapering off, almost on their own — and summer has had no effect on it, but even as health care systems and professionals around the world have been overwhelmed by the rush of cases, they have figured out how to treat Covid-19.AVAILABLE TREATMENTSMany of the prophylactics and treatments for Covid-19 are surprisingly low-tech. Quarantines, masks and hand washing are not hi-tech. Nor is the malaria medicine. Similarly, oxygen has been used in the field of medicine since the 18th century, and dexamethasone since the 20th century. New-age medicines too are being used or clinically tested.Many of the prophylactics and cures are surprisingly low-tech. Quarantines, masks and hand washing are not hi-tech. Nor is the malaria medicine which India’s apex medical body thinks is a good prophylactic. Oxygen, which has emerged a vital part of the therapy for Covid has been used in the field of medicine since the late 18th century, with the first cylinders making their appearance in the middle of the 19th (and home oxygen concentrators, which many people are buying, in the 1970s). Also Read: WHO’s Tedros expects world to hit 10 million coronavirus cases next weekDexamethasone, the steroid which has shown remarkable results in seriously ill patients on ventilators and oxygen support, has been around since the middle of the 20th century, as have the first modern ventilators themselves, although the use of mechanical support for breathing dates much further back. And convalescent plasma therapy, considered by many to be a fail-safe treatment for the critically ill, was first used in the late 19th century.Experimental and new-age medicines — remdesivir, which seems to work very well on moderately ill patients if given early in the course of the infection, is one — are also being used or, at the least, clinically tested. But it is remarkable that doctors have figured out a way to treat an entirely new virus using treatments and medicines that are old, tested, and, more importantly, with which they are comfortable.Six months into the pandemic, there’s something to be thankful for, and there’s something to be hopeful about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-TDtmJnEfXhw4E4TK36iYEN.html
25-06-2020||India||Centre extends deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN||The central government on Wednesday extended the deadline for filing revised income-tax returns (ITR) for 2018-19 fiscal till July 31, 2020.The date for linking Aadhaar with PAN has also been extended to March 31, 2021.“The time for filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 (AY 2019-20) has been extended to July 31, 2020. Due date for income tax return for the FY 2019-20 (AY 2020-21) has been extended to November 30, 2020. Hence, the returns of income which are required to be filed by July 31, 2020 and October 31, 2020 can be filed upto November 30, 2020. Consequently, the date for furnishing tax audit report has also been extended to October 31, 2020,” a Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) release said.“The date for linking of Aadhaar with PAN would also be extended to March 31, 2021,” it said.In a relief to small and middle-class taxpayers, the date for payment of self-assessment tax in the case of a taxpayer whose self-assessment tax liability is up to Rs 1 lakh has also been extended to November 30, 2020.“However, it is clarified that there will be no extension of date for the payment of self-assessment tax for the taxpayers having self-assessment tax liability exceeding Rs. 1 lakh. In this case, the whole of the self-assessment tax shall be payable by the due dates specified in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (IT Act) and delayed payment would attract interest under section 234A of the IT Act,” read the release.The deadline for making various investment/ payment for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of the IT Act which includes section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC etc.), 80D (Mediclaim), 80G (Donations) etc. has also been further extended to July 31, 2020.The investment/ payment can be made up to July 31, 2020 for claiming the deduction under these sections for FY 2019-20, the CBDT said.The government has also extended deadline for making investment/ construction/ purchase for claiming rollover benefit/ deduction in respect of capital gains under sections 54 to 54GB of the IT Act to September 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-deadline-for-linking-aadhaar-with-pan/story-BkMPFEnNpXdhZDBGepcpyM.html
25-06-2020||India||Telangana Police Academy chief seeks premature retirement||Senior Indian Police Service officer and director of Telangana State Police Academy Vinoy Kumar Singh on Wednesday announced his resignation saying he does not want to be “burden on the government”.In his letter to Union home secretary, a copy of which was marked to Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar, the 1987-batch IPS officer said he was seeking premature retirement from the service with effect from October 2, coinciding with the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.He said he had joined the police department as a regular recruit in the Telangana cadre with great hopes to change the police system but he thought he had failed in his ambitions.“The Telangana government has also not been much impressed with my services. My advice to better the services in the government also did not cut much ice. Perhaps, my opinion was not considered worth it. I have my considered opinion that I should not be a burden on the government and the government, too, should not be burdened with worthless people,” Singh said.The IPS officer said after retirement, he would like to work for reforms among the people and service to Telangana. “So, I decided to opt for pre-mature retirement,” he said.Stating that he had nothing against any government, Singh thanked the Telangana government “for the best treatment” it had given to him.Sources close to Singh said he was upset at being denied promotion to the rank of Director General of Police. On May 21, too, he had written a letter to the chief secretary requesting that he be promoted to the DGP rank in accordance with the seniority and eligibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-police-academy-chief-seeks-premature-retirement/story-Kk5bVr1Z5fDaCTUycRMX9K.html
25-06-2020||India||Understanding coronavirus and learning to live through the pandemic||It has now been six months since Sars-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), first emerged. Within this short span of time, our knowledge about the virus, how it infects people, and what we must do to prevent it, has evolved dramatically. Here’s a ready reckoner on the disease.SOURCES AND PROTECTIONDoes it transmit over surfaces?Contaminated surfaces such as doorknobs, grab rails, table tops or cash were once considered as potential sites of contamination. It now appears that fomite transmission – as this is called – is actually rare and not the primary mode of transmission, as per the United States’ Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. This largely has to do with how the outer, spiked covering of the virus that it uses to infect human cells, which can easily get destroyed. But a large load of virus deposited on a surface, say after an infected person has sneezed, makes it risky to touch.Do masks and face shields help?Yes. The primary source of infection is through infected droplets when people speak, cough or sneeze. Wearing a mask – even a non-medical face covering -- reduces the possibility of inhaling the infected droplets quite significantly. Masks with an exhalation valve – something anti-pollution masks usually have – aren’t that effective.The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends that vulnerable people should wear a medical-grade mask and doctors should wear face shields since they are prone to being exposed to the virus, which can also be absorbed by the body through the membrane in the eyes. How does washing hands help?Hand-washing six to 10 times a day lowers the risk by 36% compared to those who wash them less than five times a day, a University College London study found. When water is not available, clean hands with alcohol-based hand rubs (with over 70% alcohol content).However, even when properly done and combined with sanitising, this doesn’t offer complete protection, according to a review of 172 studies from 16 countries published in The Lancet on June 2.Where should we be most careful?Recently, the Lancet Infectious Diseases journal found that the virus spreads readily among household contacts even when someone is yet to develop symptoms. Other risky settings include generally closed, indoor spaces – gyms, offices and restaurants, for instance – with hospitals and care homes being the most dangerous, since they are likely to be visited by infected people. But some factors could help: being at distance in a large space that is well-ventilated cuts the risk.Does this mean that it is less risky outdoors?Possibly, but several ambient factors determine how far an infected droplet can go. Breeze, wind and air streams play a factor, and can theoretically transport them to longer distances. A good comparison is exhaled cigarette smoke, which a person is less likely to smell outdoors than in a closed room since diffusion happens more readily in the open. The sun’s ultraviolet rays too can inactivate the virus. But being close to an infected person in any setting – indoor or outdoor – is not ideal, thereby making social distancing crucial.When does an infected person become infectious?The incubation period, which is the time between exposure to Sars-CoV-2 and becoming infected with it, is on average five to six days, but has also been found to be as long as 14 days. Infected people start becoming infectious before symptoms manifest. Studies show that they are most contagious one to two days before they begin to feel ill. There is no documented evidence on when asymptomatic people start infecting others.Can those without symptoms infect you?It appears to be so. A study of pairs of people in which one person definitely got infected from the other showed that about 44% of Covid-19 cases spread from person to person before symptoms appeared. This mirrors another study in which researchers isolated infectious virus from patients and found that it was produced before symptoms began to manifest. This nature of this virus makes it particularly difficult to stop – asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic cases make the tracing and isolation of people even harder.If there is a cluster near your house, are you more at risk?If there are multiple cases in a neighbourhood, the odds of pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic people spreading infection when they meet others increases.However, staying quarantined and using precautions like social distancing and wearing masks reduces risk.DETECTING AN ILLNESSWhen should you get tested?Symptomatic people test positive more readily. Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact with an infected person. Tests have to be done during a specific period to ensure there are no false negative results.But no specific timeline has been identified since many can still throw up false negatives while having symptoms.What are the tests used for diagnosis?Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has approved what is known as the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR test to detect genetic material (nucleic acid) of Sars-CoV-2 using swabs from the nose and throat of a person. It diagnoses an existing infection, so a negative result does not indicate you won’t get infected later. This is the gold standard test.However, false negative results may occur, as was the case with Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, if the sample is collected very early in the infection.Last week, ICMR approved rapid antigen tests to detect current infection. Antigen tests, which take less than 30 minutes for results, check for protein signatures related to a Sars-Cov-2 infection. A third type of test, antibody tests, see if someone has virus-fighting antibodies, the ones used so far have not been reliable. How long after an infection do you test negative?Most people with mild disease are no longer contagious 10 days after symptoms, and three additional days without symptoms, according to the WHO criteria for all Covid-19 cases, regardless of isolation location or disease severity. Patients who are asymptomatic can end isolation 10 days after testing positive for Sars-CoV-2.But there are outliers, such as a patient with mild Covid-19 in China who remained PCR-positive for 63 days after symptoms. It is unclear whether this posed a transmission risk.NATURE OF ILLNESSWho is most at risk?Data from across the world shows severe disease and death rates are higher in people over the age of 65, living in nursing homes or long-term care facilities and with underlying medical conditions, such as chronic lung disease, asthma, heart conditions, obesity, diabetes, kidney disease, and liver disease. Risk is also high for people with compromised immunity because of cancer treatment, smoking, transplantation, immune deficiencies, prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications. Fatality rates seen across the world show men are more vulnerable than women.But infection can happen in anyone, including healthy people and children who can go on to develop fatal complications. Are children and babies relatively safer?Relatively few cases of babies with Covid-19 have been reported, and those who are infected have experienced mild illness, according to WHO. Children are 56% less likely than adults to get infected when in contact with an infected person, but how easily they pass on the infection to others is unclear. In the US and China, children under 18 years account for around 2% of diagnosed cases. But there have been widespread reports of children and adolescents developing a multisystem inflammatory condition similar to the Kawasaki disease and toxic shock syndrome. Such cases would need intensive care.When are you likely to show symptoms?Symptoms usually appear 2-14 days after exposure to the virus, and may range from mild to severe, depending on the extent of exposure and the health of the person. Most common symptoms are fever, cough, shortness of breath and difficulty in breathing, which may be accompanied by fatigue, muscle or body aches, headache, loss of taste or smell, nausea or diarrhoea.What happens if you have mild or no symptoms?Around four in five people have mild illness and can recover at home without medical care. They need to stay isolated at home for two weeks to prevent spreading the infection to others around them.When should you seek medical attention?Emergency warning signs for Covid-19: trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, and bluish lips or face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-coronavirus-and-learning-to-live-through-the-pandemic/story-BelRF1gB1cbm6fGZfqW2xM.html
25-06-2020||India||Door-to-door survey in Delhi to map coronavirus spread||Authorities began gearing up on Wednesday to launch a mammoth screening campaign covering all households in the national capital to check people for signs of Covid-19, drafting in staff from the civic bodies and setting up new control rooms to coordinate measures. The action plan was detailed in the minutes of a meeting – seen by HT – held by one of the district task forces on Tuesday, and will now likely be the template for the other districts, according to officials who asked not to be named. “There are district-level meetings tomorrow to decide on a strategy,” this person added.A government official separately said that the chief secretary had written to all district magistrates to begin forming teams. “Survey of entire Delhi will begin on June 26 and the aim is to complete it by July 6,” this official said, quoting from the communication.Also Read: Only small fraction of patients reaching Covid centres in Delhi for screeningAmong the key decisions taken at the Tuesday meeting were to deploy staff from the municipal corporations for the household screening, an exercise that could require at least 3,000 workers for each of the city’s 11 districts. “Since ASHA workers and ANMs [auxiliary nurse midwife] are overburdened with the work of contact tracing, shifting of positive patients to Covid Care Centre, monitoring of home isolation, it will be difficult for them to continue with the house-to-house screening... After detailed discussions, it was decided to use the existing manpower setup for the screening on a daily basis,” the minutes said. Similar screening, which involves checking people for signs of a fever and asking them about how they have felt in recent days, has been underway in containment zones. The first such exercise took place in late March when 450 houses were surveyed in Janakpuri that recorded Delhi’s first cluster of cases. The index patient was a 38-year-old woman who had returned from Saudi Arabia and passed on the infection to several of her family members and two mohalla clinic doctors. The civic bodies – which includes the New Delhi municipal council, the North Delhi municipal corporation, the South Delhi municipal corporation, and the East Delhi municipal corporation – employ an army of workers that includes health department staff (such as mosquito breeding checkers), sanitation workers and school teachers.“Dengue breeding checker (DBC) and anti-malaria unit staff are likely to be roped in for the wider screening process by being equipped with thermometers, etc,” a civic agency official told HT, asking not to be named.Also Read: Three get bail in a Delhi riots case, court says police can’t tell how accused were identifiedCumulatively, the three civic agencies – North, South and East – have around 5,000-6,000 DBC and malaria unit workers. Estimates for NDMC were not immediately available.According to Tuesday’s discussions, the civic bodies will have to appoint a nodal officer at ward level to monitor the door-to-door screening. The nodal officer has to divide the jurisdiction into sectors and appoint a survey officer in each sector, who will be screening the people for Covid-19 like symptoms.All wards will be attached to a nearby dispensary for necessary guidance and information collected at the end of the exercise will be compiled by the chief district medical officer, the minutes indicated.The household canvassing is one of the main interventions planned by authorities in the national capital to improve surveillance of the outbreak, which has grown rapidly in the last week. Delhi added 3,788 new cases on Wednesday, taking its tally of cumulative infections to over 70,000. Of these, 26,588 cases are currently active.The other steps include a fresh round of screening of all households in containment zones and a serological survey for antibodies of 20,000 people from across the Capital. The measures are part of a ‘Revised Delhi Covid Response Plan’ that was drawn up by the Delhi government following a meeting last week with the Union home ministry.The fresh round of screenings in containment will need to be completed by June 30. According to officials, the government has provided civil defence volunteers to help the over-stretched district teams to conduct these surveys. The volunteers and health teams will visit all the houses that have been screened earlier and use an app called the “SS Corona” app where the volunteers have to fill in multiple-choice questions in each household.“This has automated the task. The app is very simple to use and the volunteers just have to ask the questions and click on the applicable answers. An excel sheet is prepared automatically each evening and the report is sent to the state integrated disease surveillance programme,” said a second district official, asking not to be named. The data can then be used to map out areas that are reporting more fever cases and help in further surveillance activities, the official said.When teams visit the houses, they also encourage people to come to testing centres and get the rapid antigen test, which can give results within 30 minutes, the official quoted above added. Delhi had rolled out the rapid testing kits last Thursday and this Tuesday the Indian Council of Medical Research approved the use of the kits in containment zones, hospitals, and private labs across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/door-to-door-survey-in-city-to-map-virus-spread/story-Igbqcolg13znPIbNpkTgCM.html
25-06-2020||India||China’s mixed signals after deal to disengage||India and China on Wednesday said the speedy implementation of disengagement and de-escalation measures agreed on by their senior military commanders will help calm tensions triggered by an ongoing border standoff.However, the strains and pressure simmering beneath the surface were evident in Beijing’s reiteration of accusations that New Delhi had violated bilateral agreements and provoked the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties.During a more than three-hour meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the Indian side conveyed its concerns on developments in eastern Ladakh, including the violent face-off on June 15, and emphasised both sides should “strictly respect and observe” the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The stance adopted by both sides indicated the ongoing military and diplomatic engagements to end the standoff, especially in Galwan Valley, which has been the focus of tensions, will be a long-drawn affair with no early resolution in sight.The meeting of WMCC, held via video conference, focused on developments along the disputed border, especially the situation in eastern Ladakh, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Chinese readout of the meeting described the talks as “candid” and “in-depth”.The two sides referred to the June 17 phone conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and the meeting of the corps commanders on June 22 and “reaffirmed that both sides should sincerely implement the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation that was reached by the Senior [military] Commanders on 6th June”, the Indian statement said.“The two delegations agreed that implementation of this understanding expeditiously, in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols, would help ensure peace and tranquillity in border areas and the development of broader relationship between the two countries,” the statement added.The Chinese readout said the two sides will “actively accommodate with the two military forces to implement the outcome reached during the two rounds of commander-level meetings on June 6 and 22... strengthen communication and coordination through military and diplomatic channels, and peacefully resolve relevant issues in the border areas through bilateral dialogue and consultation”. It also spoke of strengthening military confidence-building measures.This was the second meeting of the WMCC since June 5, and the Indian side was led by joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava of the external affairs ministry, while the Chinese side was headed by director general Hong Liang of the department of boundary affairs of the foreign ministry.People familiar with developments on condition of anonymity said the meeting also discussed possible contours of future diplomatic engagements and parameters for taking forward the measures agreed on by military commanders to ease tensions. “This is going to be a protracted process and we have to be ready for the long haul,” said one of the people cited above. The two sides will maintain communications at the diplomatic and military levels, including through WMCC, to resolve the situation peacefully. But even as the meeting was underway, China’s defence and foreign ministry kept up a shrill barrage of accusations against India, blaming the Indian side for the Galwan Valley clash and alleging the external affairs ministry was behind “false reports”.The allegations came two days after the corps commanders of the two sides reached “mutual consensus to disengage” in all “friction areas” along the LAC. People familiar with the military talks too said the process is expected to be arduous and completed in phases.China’s defence and foreign ministry separately castigated India for allegedly violating bilateral agreements and provoking the clash. There was also a reiteration of a claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley. India has already dismissed these allegations and said the contested valley has always been under its control.Asked why China’s foreign ministry was repeating these contentious points amid renewed talks of peace and tranquillity on the border, spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a news briefing: “What I have just said…is meant to clarify the whole situation, tell the truth to everyone. We made the statement because the [external affairs ministry] and Indian media have made some false reports.”In a statement read out after the briefing was over, Zhao repeated accusations that Indian troops had trespassed into Chinese territory and provoked an incident on May 6. He claimed the Indian side had agreed to withdraw from Galwan Valley and had “dismantled its facilities as requested by the Chinese side”.Referring to the corps commanders meeting of June 6, Zhao contended the Indian side had committed it would not “trespass” into Galwan Valley for “patrol and for building”. The two sides agreed to set up observation posts on both sides of the Galwan river estuary, but “the Indian side went against these agreements and asked China to dismantle China’s posts and also it crossed the [LAC] to provoke which led to the clash”, he added.Zhao also reiterated China’s accusation that the June 15 clash occurred because Indian troops went against the agreement reached on June 6 and “crossed the LAC and sabotaged the tents Chinese side set up”. He also alleged the Indian side attacked Chinese personnel – such accusations have been dismissed by India, which has maintained the “premeditated and planned” actions of the Chinese side led to the violence and casualties.Separately, China’s defence ministry spokesperson Wu Qian made similar accusations during an online interaction with selected media.Analysts questioned the divergent positions taken by the Chinese side during bilateral discussions and while making public remarks on the border stand-off.Leading strategic analyst Brahma Chellaney tweeted: “In keeping with China’s standard playbook for camouflaging offence as defence, its foreign ministry almost daily has been branding India as the aggressor. But today, its foreign and defence ministries launched twin attacks on India. Is the ‘disengagement’ deal already unravelling?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-mixed-signals-after-deal-to-disengage/story-lSmLKBpGcIdCQsMMdqLT7N.html
25-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over Covid, rising fuel prices||A day after the Congress announced that it will organise a nationwide campaign against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over increasing fuel prices, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday drew a parallel between rising cases of the coronavirus disease and prices of petrol and diesel.On Wednesday, fuel retailers raised diesel price for the 18th day in a row by 48 paise per litre, making it costlier than petrol for the first time. Retailers, however, hit the pause button on petrol prices after hiking them for 17 days on the trot.“The Modi government has ‘unlocked’ the corona pandemic and prices of petrol-diesel,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and also tagged a graph captioned, “coronavirus is not the only rising curve”. The graph showed a steady rise in the daily Covid-19 cases and prices of petrol and diesel after the lockdown was relaxed on June 1 with the start of Unlock One. Pump prices of petroleum have risen by Rs.8.5 per litre since June 7. Diesel prices have increased by Rs 10.49 per litre in 18 days.The Congress has been attacking the government over the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. In Delhi, diesel is being sold at Rs 79.88 per litre while petrol is priced at Rs 79.76 a litre. Retail prices of the two fuels differ from city to city because of variations in local levies.Executives at state-run oil marketing companies said the main reason for a spike in petrol and diesel prices were high central and state levies that had been imposed when global oil prices were very low.The central government raised excise duties on petrol and diesel twice – first by Rs 3 per litre each, and later by Rs 10 a litre on petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. A Re-1 per litre hike in excuse duty means an additional revenue of Rs 14,500 crore to the exchequer in a year.States have also raised value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel since mid-March. The Delhi government raised VAT on petrol and diesel to 30% last month; consequently, retail prices of petrol in the state jumped by Rs 1.67 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.10 a litre.Earlier, state levies on petrol and diesel were 27% and 16.75%, respectively. Diesel in Delhi also attracts an additional Rs 250 per kilolitre air ambience charge.The ministries of petroleum and finance, and state-run oil marketing companies Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) did not respond to queries on the matter.Domestic consumers have suffered a sustained spike in petrol and diesel rates as global oil prices started moving north after the producers’ cartel, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, particularly Russia (together OPEC+), on June 6 decided to extend record output cuts by one more month till the end of July.Also on Wednesday, the country witnessed the highest single-day jump of 15,968 Covid-19 cases and 465 fatalities, taking the case tally to 456,183 and the death toll to 14,476, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-slams-centre-over-covid-rising-fuel-prices/story-Ux3COTPnyiPnqzWDR3OPfI.html
25-06-2020||India||West Bengal extends lockdown till July 31||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday extended the lockdown in West Bengal -- now effectively limited to coronavirus containment zones -- until July 31 because of the continuing increase in Covid-19 cases. Banerjee also said many lives could have been saved had private hospitals provided better treatment to coronavirus disease patients with comorbid conditions.“We could have saved a few more lives if they were given some better treatment. Private hospitals focused on Covid-19 treatments and neglected the comorbid condition like cardiac problems and kidney problems in Covid patients. As a result some people died. I am sorry to say. The government is sending instruction to the hospitals in this regard,” Banerjee said after an all-party meeting held at the state secretariat on Wednesday.At least 591 people have died in the state out of which 437 or nearly 74% had comorbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac disease and kidney ailments, among others. “When a critical cardiac patient with Covid-19 is coming you should first attend to his cardiac problems. Later you can attend to his Covid problems,” Banerjee added. She also told reporters that the lockdown will continue until July 31, noting that Covid-19 cases were still rising and adding that most political parties favoured an extension. West Bengal this month relaxed lockdown curbs along with other parts of the country. The restrictions are now enforced primarily in containment zones with relaxations given to shops, offices, religious institutions and public transport in other places. She said the state would request the NITI Aayog to formulate a master plan for the protection and development of the Sunderbans, home to more than four million people and around 100 tigers. The region was hit by cyclone Amphan on May 20. “All parties have raised the issue of Sunderbans which is repeatedly being devastated by cyclones. We will request NITI Aayog to send down a team and formulate a master plan and a permanent solution. The help of the World Bank can also be taken,” she added.An all-party committee, with state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee as its head, has been formed, to look into the relief and restoration work in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan that affected around 100 million people in the state.“We had given some suggestions in the meeting. Let the government take actions on those suggestions. It is too early to say whether we are happy with the outcome of the meeting,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit. There have been allegations of corruption in cyclone relief work against the ruling Trinamool Congress in several villages. Angry villagers recently staged protests in many cyclone-hit areas and ransacked government offices. “I have instructed the chief secretary and the district administrations that no genuine cyclone victim should be deprived of the relief. Some of our panchayat leaders and members have been ousted. We won’t tolerate any corruption,” Banerjee added.Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra said: “There are certain gaps which need to be plugged, particularly in the health care sector. We have given our suggestions to the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-extends-lockdown-till-july-31/story-cCjKVw7EPQQmHi21oAWhEO.html
25-06-2020||India||Patanjali’s ‘breakthrough’ needs vetting, say experts||India’s traditional systems of medicine, including ayurveda, have several proven preventive and curative drugs and therapies, but Patanjali Ayurved Ltd’s claim of a breakthrough cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) needs vetting, experts said, despite the company claiming to have conducted a randomised placebo-controlled clinical trial.The principal investigator running the clinical trial at a Jaipur medical college confirmed the findings but said they were preliminary and the study, ongoing. He also clarified that the study was conducted on patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms, between the ages of 35 and 45, and that no people with co-morbidities (considered the most vulnerable to the disease) were part of the trial.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Interestingly, a spokesperson for Patanjali, SK Tijarawala said that the company never “claimed that it (the medicines) were a cure for coronavirus disease; all we said was that the medicines in our kit that Patanjali has been selling individually to boost immunity and provide relief to patients of respiratory illness has been effective in improving symptoms of Covid-19 patients”. Patanjali submitted (preliminary) results of the clinical trial to the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) only after the latter demanded ”facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study”. That came after the company, promoted by yoga guru Baba Ramdev, went public with its discovery. He was later interviewed by several TV channels where he talked up the discovery. The scientific title of its clinical trial, according to documents submitted by the company is : Impact of Indian traditional Ayurvedic treatment regime for nCov-2 (Covid-19)Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On Tuesday, the ministry also directed the company to stop advertising the product till the claim was verified.The Ayush ministry is currently in the process of examining the documents.“It’s a good thing that Baba Ramdev has given a new medicine to the country, but as per rules, it has to come to the Ayush ministry first. They even said that they have sent a report; we will look into it and permission will be given after seeing the report,” Ayush minister Shripad Naik told news agency ANI on Wednesday.It wasn’t immediately clear how the company launched its product without a clearance from the ministry. A senior official in the ministry of Ayush added on condition of anonymity that the claims made by Patanjali were being verified by experts in the ministry.“We weren’t aware of it (the drug) until yesterday (Tuesday), and now that they have submitted the documents, our experts will be examining it before anything is said conclusively. There is a protocol for conducting clinical trials for any medicine under the Ayush system that we have notified, so we will examine what kind of approvals they have, and what type of trial was conducted with the primary and secondary objective. All technical parameters will be examined,” the official said.According to the trial data submitted by the company, in a double blind single centre randomised study at a hospital in Jaipur, the National Institute of Medical Sciences, the drug was tested on 120 patients. The primary outcome was the virological clearance in a RT-PCR test at “baseline”, after three days, and after seven days.The secondary outcome was reduction in Serum C reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 levels. High CRP and IL-6 levels are an indicator of inflammation. According to the findings of the trail, there was a  69% recovery on Day 3 in the treatment group, and 100% recovery at Day 7, which was 35% better recovery than the placebo group. The documents said that “Serum CRP levels are lesser in treatment group” and that there was a “remarkable decrease in IL-6 levels”. According to Dr Ganpat Devpura, a professor of medicine at NIMS and the principal investigator of the trial, by design, excluded people with co-morbidities and the age of patients studied was 35-45 years . He also added that the patients were either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic because those were the kind of patients available for the trial at the hospital.Clinical trials usually have wider samples -- for instance, before being approved, allopathic medicines go through trials that sometimes involve tens of thousands of people. Several voices have raised concerns about the trial design since Tuesday when Patanjali made the results public. “The #PatanjaliAyurved trial enrolled 120 COVID+mildly ill patients & looked at viral clearance and decrease in IL-6 levels as endpoints. IL-6—the indicator of severe inflammation & cytokine storm—is unlikely to be elevated early in these patients. How would the drug impact it?” tweeted SP Kalantri, who identifies himself as a physician, teacher and researcher among other things.Indeed, some of the findings may not be a measure of the efficacy of the drugs being tested, another expert said: Explaining the implications, Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care, Medanta Hospital, said: “In early stages of the disease it’s highly unlikely that a patient will develop cytokine storm indicated by high levels of c-reactive protein and IL-6. Almost 80-90% cases are mild who would recover on their own anyway so if the resolution being talked about is reduction in IL-6 or CRP levels then for mild cases it doesn’t seem to be suitable.”“These are just initial findings and not yet peer reviewed. We will submit final results to Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences for review but it should take about a month or two. The trial is still on-going. As to why the company has already begun manufacturing the drug you must ask the manufacturer. I cannot comment on that,” said Dr Devpura.Pantanjali spokesperson Tijarawala reiterated that no rules were flouted. “Everything is in order; nothing has been violated. medicines have been in use for years, and we only lent scientific validity to its results.” While the drug trial is registered with the central trials registry of India (CTRI) , which is run by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the data has not been yet uploaded on the site. “The results will be uploaded on CTRI website soon,” said Patanjali in its documents submitted to the Ayush ministry.Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said everything depends on the data and the design: “Interim results can be useful in some cases, but it all depends on the study design. If the results aren’t out in public domain that it becomes difficult to say.”ICMR, however, said registering with CTRI is just a small part of the clinical trials process, and that the crucial part is declaring and getting the results vetted. The findings of the study are also yet to be peer-reviewed. “The data has to be made public and reviewed by experts, which in this case is the ministry of Ayush. There are several approvals such as institutional ethics committee’s approval, and factors such as number of trial participants and the quality of data generated and where it is published that are to be considered. CTRI can only enrol but efficacy and non-efficacy is different process altogether that we cannot comment on but is for the Ayush ministry to verify,” said Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, spokesperson ICMR. Meanwhile Uttarakhand’s licensing department for Ayurveda told news agency ANI, “As per Patanjali’s application, we issued them a license. They didn’t mention coronavirus, we only approved license for immunity booster, cough and fever. We will issue them notice asking how they got permission to make the kit.” Patanjali’s Tijarawala added that the “state Ayush department has been in the loop all throughout and adequate permissions were sought from it for the use of these medicines in combination”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-s-breakthrough-needs-vetting-say-experts/story-6aCmCsigKnLhzPl6FeSzaK.html
25-06-2020||India||Ministries see rural sector driving economic recovery||In a silver lining, the country’s economic recovery is going to be rural sector-led, inputs for an interministerial draft review being prepared for the prime minister’s office states, with countryside demand for goods and services rallying ahead of that in cities and towns, according to officials aware of the matter. About Rs 73,500 crore in liquid cash, or money in hand, from prices the government has paid for crops to 4.2 million farmers till June 17, re-employment in rural sectors and a surplus monsoon so far are some of the indicators cited in the draft. Cement sales, an indicator of construction activity, the largest workforce employer after agriculture, is higher in rural areas, it says. The country’s planting of Kharif or summer crops is higher by nearly 20% than last year’s levels for this time of the year, the inputs say, adding this has helped raise sales of fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, fuel and hiring of labour. The government also plans to directly coordinate with local authorities in 116 districts estimated to have witnessed the largest reverse migration of workers from cities for job creation in rural industries, the draft says. “Demand from rural India will naturally feed into the manufacturing sector. This will help in meeting the challenges. The government will have to sustain rural momentum. This is the nature of feedback,” an official said, requesting anonymity.The finance ministry’s economic advisors are hopeful of a so-called “V-shaped” recovery by next fiscal, the official cited above said, adding that policies would be constantly “calibrated as warranted”. Economists commonly express economic downturns and recovery in charts that show shapes, such as U, V, and W. The shape V, which shows a fall followed by a sharp rise, represents a quicker recovery. To be sure, analysts continue to make grimmer projections of overall growth. Eight of the most industrialised states, accounting for half of the India’s gross domestic product (GDP), will see the largest declines in people’s incomes this fiscal, chief economic advisor of the State Bank of India Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in a note on Wednesday. Fitch Ratings forecasts growth in GDP, the widest measure of incomes, to shrink 5% in the current year through March 2021. The government is counting heavily on rural spending, including its own expenditure, the draft suggests. “The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has finished record procurement (government’s buying of farm produce) of wheat, rice and pulses. It was the highest ever,” a second official said. “The direct in-account payments of Rs 73,500 core completed by the FCI till June 17 is also highest ever and this money is available to spend.” The procurement operations were delayed due to the first phase of the Covid-19 lockdown and started a fortnight late on April 15. The government was able to buy wheat harvests of 38.2 million tonnes by June 16, a record, the review states. The draft cites data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, which showed the continuing fall in the rural unemployment rate to 7.26% in the week that ended on June 21. This job loss rate has now dropped to the lowest level in three months.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May announced Rs 40,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. This took up the total allocation, along with Rs 61,000 crore announced in the Budget, to the scheme to Rs 1.01 lakh crore, the highest ever.The inputs, in the form of a presentation, are part of the government’s routine monitoring of economic activity, the official cited in the first instance said. K Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, said the rural economy alone cannot do the “heavy lifting” of the economy. The GDP per worker in agriculture is just a third of the overall GDP per worker, which means expansion of higher productivity sectors such as manufacturing remains critical, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-see-rural-sector-driving-economic-recovery/story-Yv126Uv8IZHSbEUCp42I9N.html
25-06-2020||India||BJP’s JP Nadda, Congress spar over LAC standoff||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Wednesday hit out at the Congress and the Gandhi family for questioning the government’s stand on June 15 face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh, saying “a rejected and ejected dynasty is not equal to the entire opposition”.Nadda called it the opposition’s right to ask questions and added healthy deliberations took place at the all-party meeting over the face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. He added several opposition leaders gave their valuable inputs at the meeting. “They also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead. One family was an exception. Any guesses who?” Nadda said in another tweet.“One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the opposition asking questions to the government.”He added “a time rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal” to the entire opposition. “One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait,” added Nadda.The reference to relaunch came amid speculation over Rahul Gandhi’s return as the Congress chief a year after he stepped down following his party dismal performance in the 2019 national polls. “Due to the misadventures of one dynasty: We lost thousands of square kilometers of our land. The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. No wonder India has rejected them,” Nadda tweeted.The Congress hit back and reminded Nadda of the BJP’s “conduct” as an opposition party until 2014. “BJP should not hide behind the army. The BJP should look back at its conduct when it attacked the government on delicate foreign policy issues during the [Congress-led ] UPA [United Progressive Alliance] rule,” Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said.He also referred to BJP member Tapir Gao in the Lok Sabha in November 2019 when he claimed that Chinese forces had intruded into Indian territory in his home state of Arunachal Pradesh, and said that the PM should clear up the remarks made by his party colleague. “But the government remained silent on the issue,” Tewari said.He asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi will offer an apology for the BJP’s conduct from 2004 to 2014 as the opposition party and for bringing a no-confidence motion over the India-US civil nuclear deal. Tewari said the BJP also sent a delegation to India-China border when it was in opposition in 2010 following Chinese incursions.The BJP is taking comfort from the outcome of the June 19 all-party meeting even as the Congress attacked the government over its handling of the border standoff with China.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar spoke about the strategic importance of the Galwan Valley at the meeting. He underlined the need to evacuate the Chinese forces from there. Other leaders like Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president MK Stalin backed the government’s position on the issue.Mayawati continues to support the government, while other opposition leaders have not spoken about the standoff since the meeting.The Congress questioned Modi’s stand and sought to know if there was an intelligence failure over the Chinese build-up along the border. Sonia Gandhi, the Congress president, sought an assurance from the government that status quo ante would be restored and China will return to its original positions along the contested border.The party has rejected as “completely wrong” suggestion that the Congress was isolated at the all-party meeting.“All parties including the Congress expressed their solidarity with the government and armed forces and said we will stand by the armed forces, the government in the defence of India and the territorial integrity. So, there is no contradiction between Congress and other opposition parties,” Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Saturday. He said the Congress raised questions because its representative was the first speaker at the meeting. “We have raised a series of questions through the Congress president. Now, succeeding speakers did not raise the same questions... that does not mean that they disagree with those questions or distance themselves from those questions.” He added they also want answers to the same questions. “Do not try to create a division between Congress and other opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-cong-spar-over-lac-standoff/story-ojxJQz3ktLDuMOG6iQdt3J.html
25-06-2020||India||Monsoon reaches Delhi-NCR early||The south-west monsoon arrived in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) on Wednesday, marking only the sixth early onset of the season in 20 years, heralding an intense spell of rain in the next couple of days and, in the medium term, holding out the promise of a bountiful summer harvest. Weather scientists held off on a declaration of the monsoon in the capital until Thursday because there had been no rain until 8:30 am on Wednesday, the threshold time for measurement of the precipitation. It will be declared after the rainfall between 8.30 am Wednesday and 8:30 am Thursday is measured.On Wednesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung Observatory had received 14.6 mm of rain, which is in the moderate category.“Monsoon has reached Delhi-NCR. It has already covered several parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night. We will officially declare monsoon over Delhi on Thursday based on rainfall data collected from 8.30 am on Wednesday to 8.30 am on Thursday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector on which at least 700 million people in India are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people. In the past 20 years, the monsoon has arrived earlier in the capital than its expected date five times. In 2001, it arrived on June 24; in 2008 on June 15 ; in 2011 on June 26 ; in 2013 on June 16 and in 2015 on June 25 .The normal arrival date of the monsoon over Delhi is June 27. It was June 29 until last year but was revised by the IMD this year based on monsoon data from 1961 to 2019. Till last year, historical rainfall data from 1901-1940 from 149 weather stations was considered for calculating the monsoon arrival and withdrawal dates. New monsoon onset and withdrawal dates were announced by IMD in April as the old dates did not represent the actual monsoon trends.“We are expecting very good rains over north-west India this monsoon. Monsoon is setting in in Delhi, but it can be declared on Thursday after collating the 24-hour rainfall data,” said Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD.IMD, in its long-range monsoon forecast, has predicted good rains in north-west India this monsoon at 107% of the long-period average (LPA) of 61.5 cm.LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1961 and 2010.“In recent decades our data has shown that monsoon arrives earlier than normal in many parts of northwest India. Monsoon is also covering the entire country by July 8 compared to July 15 considered to be normal earlier. But monsoon arrival is slightly delayed in some parts of central India in recent years. Based on all these trends we have released new onset and withdrawal dates this year,” said D S Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune. “This year, however, monsoon progression is near normal in almost all parts of the country,” he added.A trough of low pressure is running from northwest Rajasthan to south Bihar at lower tropospheric levels. It is very likely to be close to the Himalayan foothills from Thursday onwards.“Hence, conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Rajasthan, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, entire Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Haryana and Punjab during next 24 hours,” IMD said in its bulletin on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-reaches-delhi-ncr-early/story-KUHGZBN0Oshh0oVtD1mjDP.html
25-06-2020||India||India-China standoff: Vigil along LAC in Depsang crucial, say experts||As Indian and Chinese forces prepare to act on an understanding to disengage from all friction areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it is crucial that the army keeps a strict vigil along the contested border with a special focus on eastern Ladakh’s Depsang plains, officials and China watchers tracking the dispute said on Wednesday.The heightened concerns about Depsang come from an earlier intrusion in this sector in 2013 when the PLA set up positions 19 km into the Indian side of the LAC and triggered a face-off that took three weeks to resolve.The Depsang plains lie south of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in a strategic area that the military calls Sub-Sector North (SSN). DBO is the country’s northernmost outpost where India operates an advanced landing ground to support forward military deployments.Keeping strict vigil along the disputed border, especially in sensitive areas in SSN, during the disengagement process is vital, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), who was the director general of military operations during the Depsang face-off.The 2013 Chinese intrusion into Indian territory blocked the access of Indian soldiers to several patrolling routes including the ones leading Patrol Points to 10, 10-A, 11, 12 and 13. Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all friction areas during a 11-hour meeting at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Monday. The talks were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border which has been tense since a brutal brawl on June 15 left 20 Indian army personnel and an unconfirmed number of Chinese troops dead in Galwan Valley.“The SSN, including Depsang area, is of huge strategic significance and there’s no question of the army lowering its guard there. The Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DS-DBO) runs through this area that is near the Karakoram pass,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).India is building a second road from Sasoma to Saser La in eastern Ladakh and it could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 9. The Sasoma-Saser La road axis is south-west of DBO.“India will have to progress cautiously during the disengagement process as the possibility of the PLA opening a new front cannot be ruled out,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. The disengagement process, to be carried out in different sectors, in phases is yet to kick off, he said. It is expected to gather momentum after commanders on the ground hold more meetings in the coming days.China has deployed up to 10,000 troops in its “depth areas” across the LAC in eastern Ladakh and the military buildup includes including fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence radars. India has matched China’s military moves.Neither India nor China is likely to immediately thin its deployment in the rear areas, given how volatile the disputed border has been, especially after the brutal clash at Galwan Valley, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The clash derailed a previous disengagement plan worked out by senior Indian and Chinese commanders after their first meeting on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vigil-along-lac-in-depsang-crucial-experts/story-7pqA5ZnpTpkVoIpT6dwPRK.html
25-06-2020||India||Made-in-China labels soon on products sold by e-tailers?||The government is considering making it mandatory for all retailers and e-commerce platforms to display the country of origin on every product they sell so that consumers have a choice between local and imported goods, people aware of the development said.This would also help consumers avoid the purchase of products originating from countries such as China if they wish to boycott them, the people said, requesting anonymity. After the recent violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, which left 20 Indians dead, there have been calls for a boycott of Chinese goods.Bloomberg reported that Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc.’s Flipkart agreed to compel merchants to start prominently displaying “country of origin“ for all goods sold online in India, bowing to regulatory demands as tensions with China escalate. The report said that the internet giants joined about a dozen other online retailers including Facebook Inc.-backed Jio Platforms in agreeing to the move.The ministry of commerce and industry on Wednesday held a stakeholders’ meeting on ways to enforce explicit labelling of goods with their respective countries of origin after it was made mandatory for products sold on the state-run trading platform Government e-Marketplace (GeM) from Tuesday, the people cited above said. Government representatives told online retailers to work out a system that would provide “visibility” to customers about the place whee products sold on their platforms are manufactured, said two people present in the meeting through video conference.No final decision could be taken on Wednesday;another meeting will be held in a week or two after wider consultations with stakeholders because of complexities in supply chains and globalisation of manufacturing activities, they said.The meeting was attended by representatives of the retail industry, including Amazon, Flipkart, Reliance Retail, Reliance Jio and GeM. The companies and the ministry of commerce and industry declined to comment.A government official said, “It was an official-level meeting and it was part of the consultation process. A final decision would be taken by the competent authority after reflecting on all issues raised by the stakeholders.”Another official said there were demands from both retailers and consumers to make the country of origin explicit on products so that consumers who would like to boycott Chinese products could do so.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a body of about 70 million traders, is spearheading a nationwide movement for boycott of Chinese products. Its secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said traders have asked commerce minister Piyush Goyal to make it mandatory for all e-commerce platforms to mention country of origin as mandated for GeM.“In the current manufacturing scenario, when supply chain or various components for one product is spread across several countries, it is not always easy to identify the place of manufacturing. For example, many mobiles, assembled in India, have close to 90% components coming from places like China, Korea or Taiwan. How to identify its country of origin?,” one person who attended the meeting asked.Manasvi Srivastava, partner-trade & customs at consulting firm KPMG India, said: “From the point of view of providing a customer informed choice, prescribing country of origin labelling on products sold in India would be a good move. Similar requirements exist in other countries like US and South Korea. There would be need for regulatory and administrative clarity on the matter before implementing such a change.” According to Srivastava, the move will also help in framing trade policies. “There would be a shift in the pattern of trade flows between India and countries exporting to India, as customers begin to exercise informed preferences. This would make it possible for the government of India to exercise and enforce policy options on external and internal trade better,” he said.“However, if new requirements are implemented without creating definition clarity and harmonizing different regulations, there could be avoidable disruption of trade and supply chains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naming-country-of-origin-for-retail-products-being-considered-by-govt/story-U3MNLt3vDejYcUvblVRQHN.html
25-06-2020||India||Government’s position must be status quo ante, says Cong leader AK Antony||Congress leader AK Antony, who served as India’s defence ministry from 2006 to 2014, when India was governed by a United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, spoke to Hindustan Times in the backdrop of the latest conflict with China. Edited excerpts:They are referring to 1962, which was a betrayal by China. The whole country never expected that China will betray us. India was arguing for China’s inclusion at the UN Security Council at that time. The euphoria at the time was China saying “Hindi Chini, Bhai Bhai”. After that, the country was more careful, and successive governments started strengthening our borders, building more infrastructure, getting more equipment, weapons for the army, airforce and navy -- more aircraft, more tanks. All governments were doing that, but during the UPA time, we spent the maximum. It was an economic boom time, and we spent to strengthen the armed forces. I can tell you that after 2006, we spent more than double the amount for the defence budget. They are now well-equipped and their morale is high. In mountain warfare, the Indian Army is one of the best in the world. In a war-like situation, however, they will have to be supported more.It is totally wrong, totally false. What is wrong with the agreement between the Congress party and the Chinese Communist Party? The BJP is also sending delegations to Chinese Communist Party meetings, at the invitation of the Chinese. It is party to party, and not only the Congress. Narendra Modi is the only chief minister who visited China, I think, four times or more. He was invited so many times. At embassy-level meetings, so many people go; many MPs go. Those are different things, but when the question of national interest comes, then it is a different matter. The Congress party always stands for national unity. Also Read: How India can keep China in check | OpinionI can tell you my experience during Manmohan Singh’s time. I attended the all-party meeting, I was defence minister for more than seven years. All parties used to raise many doubts and queries. It is the job of the opposition parties. Sonia Gandhi categorically said we are with the government, we are with the armed forces. She raised some doubts, which is natural. She had some doubts -- why did this happen? In Ladakh, both armies identified over the years more than a dozen disputed sites — Galwan was not a disputed point; it was always Indian territory. So why have the Chinese suddenly attacked Indian territory when the whole country was still under the euphoria of the Mahalbalipuram meeting? And the Galwan Valley aggression was not an accident; it was premeditated and pre-planned, even though the incursion came to light in April, it was prepared for much before that. That is why they were able to mobilise tanks, equipment, tents. When I was defence minister, in 2010 we started the construction of the road to the Galwan Valley. Also Read: China finally admits casualties in Galwan clash, claims ‘numbers not very high’At that time, there was no objection from the Chinese army. Why suddenly this dispute; why suddenly has China decided to cheat India? Just like in 1962, when the whole country was under the euphoria of Bandung conference, we have now seen similar cheating — a betrayal. So, naturally, you have to ask the questions. The Chinese army is now up to the Finger 4 area; they are still there, they are still fortifying their positions, so it is natural as an opposition party to ask questions about that. During our time, we took the major decision of raising a strike corps, so she asked what happened, what is the status of these. But she also said that we are with the government, we are with the armed forces.Depsang, 2013, and Chumar, 2014 -- the Chinese came, but not like this. In Galwan Valley, they came with thousands of forces. In 2013, after 21 days of standoff, through army and diplomatic talks, the Chinese army withdrew to the original position. There was some scuffle face-to-face at that time too, but no injuries. This time, still they are there since mid- April. Every day, they seem to be fortifying. Our army is well trained, well-equipped; in mountain warfare they are the best. To resolve the issue, we need army-level talks, diplomatic-level talks, and if needed, political-level talks. At the same time, the government’s position should be status quo ante, which means Chinese army must go back to the position before this process started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-government-s-position-must-be-status-quo-ante-ak-antony/story-Pb81SClJhmO79SzQcy1I6L.html
25-06-2020||India||Satellite images capture China’s PLA build-up in Ladakh||China has not halted — and instead has ramped up — its military activity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, with a concentration of soldiers, military vehicles, earth-moving machinery, and erection of structures, including near the same point where Indian and Chinese troops clashed on the night of June 15, according to two senior officials and satellite imagery of the area on June 22. The Indian army has observed a new structure, suspected to be an observation post, come up near Patrol Point (PP) 14, the site of the clash which left 20 personnel of the Indian army and an unconfirmed number of Chinese troops dead, said one of the officials cited above.There was no official word from the army on either of the developments. India and China agreed to pull back from friction areas on Monday.New satellite imagery, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, supports the claim that not only is the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area. One of the Maxar images too possibly points out a new and bigger observation post near PP-14. An Indian squad, led by the slain Colonel Santosh Babu of the 16 Bihar Regiment, had flattened some structures in this area including an observation post, on June 15. The satellite images are from June 22 — the day senior Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all friction areas during an 11-hour meeting at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.Officials and China watchers, who reviewed the images for Hindustan Times, said the visuals clearly indicated a Chinese buildup and also a new outpost for carrying out surveillance on Indian areas. But they also added that it was important to give the armies time to disengage and pointed to the complexities of satellite imagery. “A large number of tented camps, military vehicles, heavy trucks and bulldozers are clearly visible on the riverbed. Road construction is also taking place. The Chinese positions are bang on the LAC,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), one of the experts who reviewed the satellite imagery for HT. Hooda said the observation post appeared to have come up again near PP-14.The Chinese buildup in other areas along the LAC including Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, hasn’t thinned either. The PLA’s armoured vehicles and artillery units remain deployed in Chinese areas facing Depsang and Gogra Post-Hot Springs sectors.The army is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and is fully prepared to respond to any provocation or adventurism by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), said the second officer cited above. Given the observed build-up, the army is also prepared to keep its guards up till disengagement takes place on the ground on a verifiable basis. But experts also said that it was important to be cautious. The process of disengagement is likely to be arduous and challenging, and will require moving ahead cautiously in phases, as reported by HT on Wednesday.“Disengagement can’t happen overnight. While the images are a cause for concern and somewhat reveal China’s intentions to hold ground near LAC in Galwan Valley, the result of the talks between senior commanders will not reflect on the ground in just two days,” Hooda said. The interpretation of satellite imagery is also tricky and can result in reaching incorrect conclusions, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. “It’s about how you superimpose the LAC on satellite images. It allows you to reach your conclusions. However, some of the interpretation may be correct,” said Bhatia who heads the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies, a defence ministry think tank.China has deployed more than 10,000 troops in its ‘depth areas’ across the LAC in eastern Ladakh and the military buildup consists of fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence radars. India has matched the neighbour’s military moves.While disengagement in some friction areas is believed to be a “low-hanging fruit” and can be achieved in a reasonable time-frame, the “real test” would lie in the restoration of status quo ante in the Finger Area in Pangong-Tso, where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, officials said. China watchers believe that the disengagement process is likely to be less complicated in the Gogra Post-Hot Springs and the Galwan Valley sectors, where there are no real issues about the alignment of the LAC, if Beijing abides by the understanding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-images-capture-pla-build-up-in-ladakh/story-bLvwm1lvP4OKRgKudm3eyH.html
25-06-2020||India||Cabinet nod for private sector in space||The Union cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday approved the formation of a new organization, the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe), seeking to open up space infrastructure to the private sector.At a press briefing held shortly after the cabinet meeting, Union minister of state Jitendra Singh termed the decision “historic.”IN-SPACe will provide a level playing field for private sector companies to use Indian space infrastructure, he said. “It will also hand-hold, promote and guide the private industries in space activities,” he said.The far-reaching reforms in the space sector are aimed at boosting the private sector’s participation in the entire range of space activities. “This will unlock India’s potential in the space sector”, Singh said.He said the new organisation will play a supplementary role to the Indian Space Research Organisation, formed in 1969, to “harness space technology for national development while pursuing space science research and planetary exploration”. The public sector New Space India Limited (NSIL) will endeavour to reorient space activities from a supply-driven to a demand-driven model, thereby ensuring optimum use of space assets.“The proposed reforms will enhance the socio-economic use of space assets and activities, including through improved access to space assets, data and facilities,” an official statement said.These reforms will allow ISRO to focus more on research and development activities, new technologies, exploration missions and human spaceflight programme. Some of the planetary exploration missions will also be opened up to the private sector through an “announcement of opportunity” mechanism, the statement said.“IN-SPACe will ensure a level playing field for private companies, and a friendly, fair, rigorous, and speedy regulatory environment, spur investment, and innovation. NSIL, will drive demand for space products and services, to ensure optimum utilization of space assets,” said K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India, in a series of tweets.“These reforms are in line with global best practices, and designed to ensure India sees new companies making new investments and providing new services in this sector very soon,” he tweeted.Several other important decisions were taken in the meeting on Wednesday including bringing hundreds of banks (what banks are these. commercial banks are already under RBI) under the supervision of the Reserve Bank of India.The cabinet approved the establishment of an Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund and additional investment by ONGC Videsh, the overseas arm of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, in Myanmar.It also approved the declaration of Kushinagar Airport in Uttar Pradesh as an international airport and extended the term of the commission constituted to examine the issue of sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) by six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-for-private-sector-in-space/story-YDddWo9FZuoXFDmPOMqw8I.html
25-06-2020||India||Hackers dump trove of IndiaBulls data as first ransom deadline ends||Ransom-seeking cyber criminals dumped a trove of sensitive data stolen from IndiaBulls Group, releasing close to 5 gigabytes (GB) of files containing customer identity documents, financial transaction statements and employee details in an ostensible attempt to make the company pay up, a private cybersecurity agency tracking the development said on Wednesday.The data dump came at the end of a 24-hour deadline and was followed by a threat to leak another tranche of sensitive information, Singapore-based Cyble said, identifying the alleged hackers as a group deploying what is known as the CL0P ransomware.The leak included scans of customers’ KYC (know your customer) documents such Aadhaar cards, voter ID, PAN cards and passports, employees’ official ID details and phone numbers, and private keys and certificates that can enable access to the IndiaBulls Group banks’ digital services, a Cyble representative told HT over email.An IndiaBull representative acknowledged a breach on Tuesday, saying the group was informed of an attack on its “peripheral” systems on Monday and that information being leaked was not sensitive. On Wednesday, when asked about the trove released by hackers, the person said the company did not have anything more to add for now.“Their statement is inaccurate as the breach occurred several weeks ago, not on Monday. As you would imagine, it takes time from the initial breach to data exfiltration and extortion. It appears that the management underestimated, or was misguided about the impact and responded inaccurately,” the Cyble spokesperson said.A ransomware attack – which involves making a target’s files inaccessible by encrypting them -- is carried out almost always by cyber criminals with a money motive as compared to nation-state hackers who often target privileged access or disruption of an adversary’s systems.In this instance, the hackers encrypted the files using the CL0P ransomware.“CL0P ransomware demands generally range from $50,000 to over $1 million – it depends on the target and negotiations,” said the Cyble spokesperson, adding that the agency was not aware of the exact ransom amount in this case.Gurugram-headquartered IndiaBulls Group has several subsidiaries that offer financial services, including housing finance and consumer loans. On its website, the group says it “has a net worth of more than ₹ 28,580 Cr. (as on 31st March, 2019)”.It was not immediately clear how the company’s systems were breached, but Cyble, in its initial report on Tuesday, noted that the company was found to have vulnerabilities in its virtual private network (VPN) system. The exact method of the hack which would have allowed the ransomware to be installed was yet to be determined.(With inputs from Rajeev Jayaswal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiabulls-hit-with-ransomware-attack/story-m2nJBlQTtkeFPbStz8QkKO.html
25-06-2020||India||Traces of coronavirus found in sewage in Gujarat||Traces of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), have been found in sewage samples in Gujarat, prompting a central agency to consider strengthening surveillance and study whether contaminated sewage can cause infection.“The next step obviously is to determine whether there is risk of infection through this channel or not. However it will still take some time before we start on that as currently there are several surveillance initiatives that need immediate attention,” said an official in the Union ministry of health, requesting not to be identified. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Only Gujarat has so far reported the presence of the virus in sewage, “and we need to see if other states also report it,” the official added. “We will continue sewage sample testing for some time.”Taking the help of its robust polio surveillance system that regularly tests sewage samples for presence of polio viruses, India’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) started sewage sample testing to detect the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in an attempt to strengthen Covid-19 surveillance.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySuch surveillance has been a key component of India’s successful fight against he poliomyelitis virus that enters through the mouth and multiplies in the intestine. Although India has been polio-free since 2011, surveillance is still underway because the disease is still endemic in three countries--Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nigeria. “We have World Health Organisation (WHO) reference lab for polio surveillance which conducts tests on regular basis on sewage samples to check for the presence of polio viruses. The same lab and its surveillance system, including manpower, is being used to monitor the presence of Sars-Cov-2 in sewage samples,” said the official quoted above. NCDC, which spearheads all disease surveillance projects in the country, along with its partners, began sewage sample testing around April. The focus states were Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi that had a high Covid-19 disease burden.“Though there is enough evidence to prove that the disease does not follow the faecal–oral route of transmission, there is no harm in expanding the scope of disease surveillance to be able to know the spread of the disease better, especially since we have a monitoring system and an advanced lab already in place for the purpose,” said an official in NCDC, who did not wish to be identified. Faecal shedding is a common phenomenon in any viral diseases, and there is enough evidence to show that those individuals who are Covid-positive shed the virus through stool.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Studies show that the virus does travel to the gut in a Covid person with a high viral load. It is not unexpected to find the presence of this virus in sewage. What the surveillance system will be monitoring, however, is that if the contamination in the sewage system is happening to the extent that it will lead to transmission of the disease,” said the official.At the local level, scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology in Gandhinagar, who collaborated with the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board to study samples of wastewater collected on May 8 and May 27 from one of waste water treatment plants in Ahmedabad, also found traces of Sars-CoV-2.Also read: Herd immunity can be achieved at 43%, new study on Covid-19 findsIn an early release study published online in Emerging Infectious Disease Journal, researchers had isolated Sars-CoV-2 from faeces of a patient in China with Covid-19 who died. “Confirmation of infectious virus in faeces affirms the potential for faecal–oral or faecal–respiratory transmission and warrants further study,” the paper said.“The virus is believed to be spread by direct contact, fomites (particles deposited on surfaces), respiratory droplets, and possibly aerosols. Viral RNA has been detected in faeces and urine of some patients. Infectious virus was also isolated from urine of a patient with severe COVID-19. However, it is unclear whether the virus in faeces is infectious and might be an additional source for transmission,” the paper added. Sewage sample testing can be a good surveillance tool along with sero (blood) surveys, say experts.“SARS may have spread through sewage in Hong Kong and now new data on infectious SARS CoV-2 in stool. Was this an unusual patient or will this route of transmission be a major player? At the very least, we should think about more sewage sampling,” tweeted Gagandeep Kang, physician-scientist and faculty, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traces-of-virus-found-in-sewage-in-gujarat/story-dK4peiboaaYzGT7bt6EmTK.html
25-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Herd immunity can be achieved at 43%, new study finds||A region can achieve herd immunity against Covid-19 with fewer people than previously estimated, a new study said on Wednesday, but experts cautioned that the humanitarian and medical costs of taking the route continue to remain high, especially in India. The study, published in the journal Science and conducted by mathematicians from the University of Nottingham and University of Stockholm, categorized people into separate groups reflecting their age and social activity levels. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Their model found that the threshold percentage of population who need to be infected for the chain of transmission to be broken – known as herd immunity – was 43% and not 60%, as thought earlier. “It is a positive result that herd immunity appears earlier, but also that immunity prior to herd immunity has a bigger effect on reducing disease spread,” said Tom Britton of Stockholm University and the lead author of the paper.But the scientists warned that the 43% figure should not be interpreted literally as an exact value and instead should be seen as a study of how population differences affect herd immunity. Also read: Oxford vaccine against Covid-19 in final stage of clinical trials“Our findings have potential consequences for the current Covid-19 pandemic and the release of lockdown and suggests that individual variation (for example in activity level) is an important feature to include in models that guide policy,” said Professor Frank Ball from the University of Nottingham, one of the authors of the paper. The study devised six age categories and three activity categories: high, medium and low; and assumed that within each age bracket, 50% have normal activity, and 25% each have low and high activity level. The basic reproduction number, or the number of people infected by one patient, was assumed at 2.5The scientists flagged two important things. One, that activity level mattered more than age differences and that more socially active individuals were found more likely to get infected and spread the virus. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe second was that herd immunity can be achieved in two ways: by vaccinating enough number of people or if enough people are infected and develop immunity against the disease. “The herd immunity level is lower when immunity is caused by disease spreading than when immunity comes from vaccination,” Bell said. The study also said the previous figure of 60% assumed that each individual in the population was equally likely to be vaccinated, and hence immune. However, that was not the case if immunity arises as a result of disease spreading in a population consisting of people with many different behaviours. This is why the herd immunity threshold was lower in a heterogeneous model. The debate around herd immunity, which happens when so many people in a community become immune to an infectious disease that it stops the disease from spreading, is at least six months old. Countries such as the United Kingdom backed off from the herd immunity strategy after studies predicted millions of deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage While publishing the study, Science editor-in-chief Holden Thorp noted that even if the model’s prediction was correct, none of the seroprevalence studies suggested that any country was close to achieving herd immunity. “Continuing non-pharmaceutical interventions around the world is still of great importance,” he said. Other experts pointed to a recent study that showed levels of an antibody found in recovered Covid-19 patients fell sharply in 2-3 months after infection for both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients – which means immunity to the virus may not last. “So, even if herd immunity was achieved, there is no guarantee that antibody levels will stay the same,” said V Ramana Dhara, professor at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad. “The immunity depends on whether protective antibodies are produced. Both the CDC and WHO are stating there is yet no evidence of this so it should not be assumed that Covid antibodies are protective. The authors’ model has assumed immunity for an extended period but if that’s not the case, other models are needed. If the herd immunity does turn out to be protective, then the 43% makes it more feasible, but that’s a big if right now,” he added.Snehal Shekatkar, a professor at the Centre for Modelling and Simulation, Savitribai Phule Pune University, said the study’s prediction should be taken with a large pinch of salt since the study uses compartmental models of epidemiology instead of more accurate contact-network based models. “Adding heterogeneity in the population in the form of age-structure based contact rates certainly improves compartmental models but they nevertheless lack many important structural features present in the real-world contact networks. Also it is important to note that a particular value for R0 has been used in the study (R0=2.5), and for different R0 values, the threshold would be different,” he added.Shekatkar said achieving herd immunity was not feasible unless a region was very sparsely populated. “Even .1% of the population is a very high number of people to get infected or die,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/herd-immunity-can-be-achieved-at-43-new-study-finds/story-1khQxEgczeOARsoIGVD6LP.html
25-06-2020||India||Oxford vaccine against Covid-19 in final stage of clinical trials||The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc.’s experimental vaccine is the first to enter the final stages of clinical trials to assess how well it works in protecting people from becoming infected by the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has infected 9.4 million and killed 480,000 globally since late December.The ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, which has been licenced to AstraZeneca, will be given to 10,260 adults and children in the next stage in the UK. The vaccine is also being trialled in South Africa and Brazil, with Serum Institute of India (SII) investing $100 million to mass-produce one billion doses for India and other low-and-middle-income countries.The vaccine is made from the ChAdOx1 virus, which is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees; it has been genetically changed so it can’t cause infection in humans.Watch | Oxford vaccine in final stage of clinical trials, academic calendar set to be reworkedAlso Read: In 100 days of Covid, many lessons for Lok Nayak hospital“The clinical studies are progressing very well and we are now initiating studies to evaluate how well the vaccine induces immune responses in older adults, and to test whether it can provide protection in the wider population,” said Professor Andrew Pollard, head of the Oxford Vaccine Group, in a statement on Wednesday.If the trial is successful, the Oxford Vaccine Group expects to launch the Covid-19 vaccine by the end of this year, which will make it the fastest vaccine to progress from lab to getting regulatory approval for use.The Oxford Vaccine Group is not the only group to move to a vaccine at warp speed. The pace of vaccine development is accelerating with each passing week with companies from around the word racing to be the first to develop an effective vaccine to stop or at least slow the spread of Covid-19.There were 13 experimental vaccines in clinical trials and another 129 in the preclinical evaluation stage on June 22, according to the World Health Organisation’s draft landscape of Covid-19 vaccines. On June 12, there were 10 in advanced clinical trials and 115 in preclinical evaluation stages.Vaccine development, on average, takes 10.71 years from the preclinical phase, and has a success rate of 6%, according to a study in the science journal, PLOS One. Some remain elusive for decades despite massive investments, like for vaccines against HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayVaccines from US-based Moderna Inc. and China’s Sinovac Biotech a will enter the final stage of trials next month, and Beijing-based China National Biotec Group Co. is the latest to receive regulatory approval to conduct phase 3 trials of its Covid-19 vaccines in the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday.Four vaccine candidates Indian companies are partnering to develop are in the preclinical trial stages to test their pharmacological effect and toxicity, with five companies in the fray. Delhi-based Panacea Biotec is partnering with Refana Inc. in the US to develop an inactivated whole virus vaccine, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is working on three vaccine candidates using two different platforms in the works, including one that uses an existing nasal flu vaccine, and SII has three partnerships with Oxford-AstraZeneca, US-biotech firm Codagenix, and Austria’s Themis Bioscience. Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and India Immunologicals in Hyderabad have also formed partnerships to develop Covid-19 vaccines.While a fast-tracked vaccine development process could have a vaccine for emergency use ready by early 2021, safety must not be compromised in the rush to reach the finish line, experts cautioned.“The dengue vaccine (Dengvaxia) controversy in the Philippines should be a grim reminder of the dangers of rushing ahead without safety checks in place. Philippines suspended its school-based dengue vaccination programme using Sanofi Pasteur’s Dengvaxia vaccine following reports of vaccination-related deaths. The company then cautioned that the vaccine carried higher risk for people without prior dengue infection,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Vaccination of healthy people carries a risk of subsequent Sars-CoV2 infection becoming more severe, as has happened before with vaccines including a coronavirus-unrelated respiratory virus in children, according to a paper published in Science on May 29.Vaccine development includes at least three human trials to test their safety, dosage and the strength and duration of the protection they offer, followed by production, licensing, deployment and plans for post-marketing surveillance. Many of these trials have been collapsed and merged in the case of Covid-19 to have a vaccine ready for use by early 2021.“With promising preliminary preclinical and phase 1 data available, meticulously planned trials are needed to separate the contenders from pretenders. Post-marketing data on adverse reactions is vital to measure the benefits in a large population, 60% of whom may develop some amount of herd or community immunity over the next two years that would help reduce transmission,” said Dr Ganguly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-vaccine-in-final-stage-of-clinical-trials/story-sVJz9DRIR4Lm9DRA7261pM.html
25-06-2020||India||‘Engaging diplomatically, but aggressive on ground’: Ram Madhav on China||India’s priority is to actively and proactively engage with China, diplomatically and militarily, and assert its right to the last inch of its territory, said Bharatiya Janata Party’s general secretary, Ram Madhav on Wednesday in reference to the current stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The BJP functionary said perceptions that the 1962 war was fought by China to teach USSR, of which India was an ally, a lesson and that in 2020 Beijing is trying to send a message to the US are valid but New Delhi’s priority will remain defending its territory.After 2014, Madhav said, the government is insisting on ownership of the LAC as India perceives it.“There will be no defeatist explanation of the past that there is an overlap (of the LAC),” he said, hitting out at the previous governments, whom he blamed for allowing China to grab Indian territory.The BJP leader said India will engage and push back.India and China have been locked in a stand-off along the LAC since early May and on June 15 a violent face-off between the two armies led to 20 India soldiers being killed in the line of duty.While the Congress has blamed the union government for the current strain in ties with Beijing, Madhav said, the Narendra Modi government has changed India’s China policy and unlike in the past when the neighbour was allowed to “nibble away” Indian territory, the county is now “fighting and pushing them back”.Speaking at an interactive session on the India-China Border Issue, organised by RSS publications Organiser and Panchajanya, Madhav said even as governments under Rajiv Gandhi, Narasimha Rao and HD Deve Gowda signed agreements with China, Beijing refused to acknowledge the LAC and was continually violating border.“What China has continued to do is gradually nibble away our territory like Aksai Chin, post 1980s the tactic has been to encroach little by little. What have we been doing in response? We are experts in bilateral agreements, we enter into a new agreement every five years,” he said, lashing out at the previous governments.“The Chinese side has always exploited this notional weakness of ours that the LAC is not a demarcated boundary so there is possibility of confusion. In 2013, Dr Manmohan Singh told Parliament, the LAC is a disputed imaginary line. There is an overlap of claims and confusion. The assertion that we will push them back, our benefit of doubt allowed them to nibble away our territory,” Madhav said.Pointing out that India is not a warmonger, the BJP leader said, the country will not settle for the peace of the graveyard.“We engage diplomatically, but on the ground we will be aggressive. We are asserting our right and not letting them get away with their semi constructions. PM Modi took up the issue of Chushul with Xi Jinping, we are not hiding, but confronting,” he said.The Congress accused the government of giving China a clean chit, rather than pushing them back.“Confusion rather than clarity dominates BJP foreign policy, where the PM, EAM, DM & BJP Gen Secy speak in different tones. Rather than giving theoretical explanations on the China stand-off, Mr Madhav should explain when will the status quo ante be restored? Have the Chinese made new structures in the Galwan Valley? Why are Chinese asserting again & again that Galwan is their territory and India has not given a firm reply?” said Jaiveer Shergill.Madhav said despite the Chinese aggression, India is determined to improve its border infrastructure. “We have close to 60 roads and bridges under construction. India’s claim line is not just the LAC, we have categorically stated that PoK and Aksai Chin, Gilgit-Baltistan are part of India too,” he said.Taking a swipe at the Congress, Madhav said, the party allowed “reverse Bhoodan (land donation)” by letting territory incursions happen on the Pakistan and China side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engaging-diplomatically-but-aggressive-on-ground-ram-madhav-on-china/story-BcsbwXfOreVMy6B6BkyIyL.html
25-06-2020||India||China finally admits casualties in Galwan clash, claims ‘numbers not very high’||China did not suffer heavy casualties in the deadly brawl with Indian troops in eastern Ladakh on June 15 and has not revealed the number because a comparison could stir up hostility, a top Chinese official told foreign diplomats on Wednesday.Speaking to a select group of diplomats at the Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday afternoon, He Xiangqi, deputy director general of boundary and ocean affairs, said the “…casualties on the Chinese side were not very heavy”.She added the reason for not revealing the casualty numbers is because Beijing does not want to stir up sentiments. Also Watch | Army chief meets soldiers at Ladakh hospital amid China tension“Exact casualties were not publicised as China did not want the media to play it up. Now was the time for both sides to find ways to de-escalate the situation and restore stability. Comparisons may trigger antagonism on both sides, which is not helpful,” He said at the briefing, diplomatic sources told Hindustan Times.This is the first time that a Chinese government official has acknowledged that the PLA suffered casualties and explained the reasons for not revealing the number of the injured or dead.While the Indian army lost 20 soldiers during the June 15 violent clash, Beijing has not revealed the casualty figures, though its state-controlled media has acknowledged that both sides sustained losses.The PLA’s casualty figures have been a focus of speculation.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Tuesday that reports claiming more than 40 PLA troops died was “fake news”.Among the countries called for Wednesday’s briefing at the ministry included most south Asian countries, excluding Pakistan, The Association of Southeast Asian (ASEAN) countries, Japan and South Korea.The US, European countries and Australia were among the countries not invited to the briefing, which lasted for about 20 minutes.Within that brief span of time, He repeatedly blamed New Delhi for the clash.He told the foreign diplomats that India had violated bilateral agreements reached on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), including Article 1 of the 1993 agreement and Article 2 of the 1996 agreement.The 1993 agreement, the Chinese official referred to is the “Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas”The crux of Article 1 in that agreement, the official said, is this: “The two sides are of the view that the India-China boundary question shall be resolved through peaceful and friendly consultations. Neither side shall use or threaten to use force against the other by any means.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-official-admits-for-1st-time-ladakh-casualties-not-very-heavy/story-VmEzyJTihiOyqtLCBVXSXL.html
25-06-2020||India||Flights to begin in limited capacity at airports post-lockdown: AAI||Once restrictions on passenger flights are lifted airports will facilitate limited domestic and international scheduled flights in phases and may be at 30% capacity to facilitate social distancing, the Airport Authority of India has stated in a set of guidelines for resumption of service post-lockdown. Flight operations to its original level are likely to be scaled up in a gradual manner, according to the government’s plan. Airline operations are likely to begin in tier-I cities first, it added. “Initially it is presumed that airline operations will be limited to Tier-I cities i.e. Metros and some of the state capitals and major Tier-II cities. The flights schedule may be cleared on City Pair basis, so the origin and Destination Airports are open fully from lockdown situation,” according to the standard operating procedure for recommencement of operations at AAI Airports post lockdown.Also Watch: NRIs gather at Amritsar airport to board flight to UK At airports with more than one terminal, initially only one terminal shall be used and the larger terminal can be scaled down to reduce cleaning area considering limited availability of material resources, the SOP stated. “Immediately after the lockdown is lifted, or as per government directives in this direction, the scheduled flight operations will commence. Hence, all airports are required to be in preparedness to handle flight operations,” it added. Strict social distancing norms will be introduced inside the planes to ensure space between two passengers, Hindustan Times had reported on April 9. According to the SOP, passenger seating arrangement shall be done in such a manner so as to maintain social distancing (1- 1.5 m) among passengers using the chairs. “Sufficient staff shall be deployed near washrooms, X-Ray machines, conveyor belts etc. to guide passengers to maintain sufficient distance,” it said. Alternate check-in counters may also be introduced to avoid congestion. “Queue at counters shall be managed by airlines staff to manage sufficient distance among passengers. Also, Check-In counters may be opened well in advance to stagger the crowd,” it said. Social distancing (1-1.5 meter) markings and stickers will be provided at airports. Based on social distancing norms, airports will work out terminal building capacity and forward it to AAI so that the slot allocation for the planned scheduled flights post Covid- 19 lockdown by airline operators can be done accordingly. Food and Beverage Services and retail outlets will be limited to passengers till operations of airlines gradually increase. “Initially, they should serve tea/coffee etc. with take away snacks in boxes. As part of this limited restaurant facilities to be permitted inside security hold area,” it said. India has suspended international flights since March 22 while domestic flights were prohibited from March 25. The current lockdown period is scheduled till May 3 for now.There will be a need for coordination with the respective state governments and local administration to ensure availability of proper public transport and private taxies for passengers and airline staff to reach airports. “Also, coordinate with the respective local administration to ensure that petrol and diesel is adequately available for sustaining operations at airports,” it noted. Initially, watch hours will also continue to be limited. “However, the watch hours will be restored to original pre-Covid-19 timings gradually once normalcy is restored,” the SOP stated. “Airlines are required to file their schedule with the DGCA and simultaneously apply for slots at CHQ for approval well in advance to operate within the limited watch hours to be made available at airports, as initially the Summer 2020 schedule cannot be fully implemented. The slots will be provided for ensuring staggered operation based on capacity restriction of terminal buildings to facilitate required social distancing,” the SOP said. Recommencement of international flights should be also done in a similar coordinated manner, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-to-begin-in-limited-capacity-at-airports-post-lockdown-aai/story-nb9R44Yl6JMgThveQufYtL.html
25-06-2020||Editorials||Assess China’s actions, not words||The news on the India-China front remains grim. Officials familiar with ground developments and satellite imagery have indicated that China has engaged in a rapid, and rather drastic, build-up of troops and material at various points across the Line of Actual Control. In the Galwan Valley, where brave Indian soldiers destroyed a tent built by the People’s Liberation Army on June 15, the Chinese appear to have re-erected the structure. In Pangong-Tso, the Chinese presence between Finger 4 and Finger 8 is now well-established. While India has matched it up with its own troop deployment, the military moves from China signal escalation. The paradox is that this is happening despite military-level talks where both sides have agreed to disengage; it is also happening at a time when in diplomatic talks, while maintaining their respective positions, the two sides have indicated progress.India must carefully note this dual signalling from China — where it is involved in talks and makes commitments to step back, but continues to remain aggressive on the ground. India must continue to respond not by believing words, but assessing actions. China has had a long history in deception. In the 1950s, when India raised the issue of Chinese official maps indicating parts of Indian territory under its own sovereign jurisdiction, Chinese leaders reassured Delhi that this was a legacy of the past and did not reflect current positions. But soon after, in 1962, it engaged in an offensive operation and expanded its claims, exacerbated no doubt by India’s weak strategy. A more recent example is the Chinese mismatch between its commitment at military talks on June 6 to disengage and its actions on June 15 where, in what appears to be a “pre-mediated” act, it attacked and killed 20 personnel of the Indian Army.The lesson is simple — wait for action on the ground before giving an inch in any diplomatic talks. In this case, the Chinese military aggression is complicated by its historically untenable and false claim over the Galwan Valley. India had no choice but to continue to build its military posture on the ground, and prepare for all scenarios, even as diplomacy is given a chance to pressure China into translating its words into action on disengagement and limiting its claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/assess-china-s-actions-not-words/story-MoR4gfuosP1C0g4N6rZH3K.html
25-06-2020||Editorials||The Moscow reset||India invests in its relationship with Russia, but increasingly in return for neutrality rather than support. Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited Moscow to help mark World War II Victory Day just after external affairs minister S Jaishankar attended a virtual Russia-India-China summit hosted by Moscow. The defence minister asked Russia to speed up its delivery of the first battery of the S-400 air defence system. He did not ask Moscow to reconsider its steadfast neutrality during the altercation along the Sino-Indian border. This should not come as a surprise. Russia is not the Soviet Union. Its economy is half the size of India and its enormous economic relationship with China is essential to its prosperity. The two have a crude geopolitical convergence in their common antagonism towards the United States. Moscow supplies arms and hydrocarbons to both India and China. Russia is powerful enough to maintain relationships with both, but not strong enough to choose between them. And Russia sees its interests in maintaining this position. Among other things it is profitable: China was its first customer for the S-400.New Delhi has already begun seeking to reset its relationship, especially as the defence element is starting to fade. Energy and strategic minerals are now rising in importance between the two countries and this is evident in the bilateral investment figures. Moscow still wields a veto in the United Nations and will remain a diplomatic partner in many areas. More differences will crop up, as is evident already over Afghanistan, as the knob on bilateral ties is turned down from special to normal. All this flows naturally from a changing global order and New Delhi should adjust its policies without sentiment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-moscow-reset/story-IePz7UTUX4YbLj4KVNJ8tI.html
