29-06-2020||News||How green buffers can stop, if not eliminate, zoonotic pandemics||Much has been spoken and published over the years by national governments and organisations on the importance and the need to save nature. Looking back, precious little seems to have happened to safeguard ecosystems. Going by the wildlife parlance, we dwell in our habitats --- rather micro-habitats --- which are subsets of a larger entity – the landscape. This is not a benign entity, but is subjected to environmental processes and man-made impacts. These define a landscape’s dynamics and influence its subsets such as forests, rural, and urban settings. Hence, looking beyond becomes crucial for our well-being.In the Anthropocene era, humans have left no stone unturned for materialistic gains. The Covid-19 pandemic is a case in point and a wakeup call. But then, where does the green space fit in all this? Globally, landscapes are transforming as a result of economic geography. Such transformations have altered the natural state, leading to distortions in the ecological food-web of forested and non-forested environments. Humans must remember that biodiversity does not end in a forest or a protected area, but exists even in the ecosystems such as agriculture and plants in a city. Lakes, gardens, shelter belts are ecologically as relevant as forests. Many zoonotic pandemics like Covid-19 can best be stopped, if not eliminated, through green buffers. The phenological cycle of plant growth in forest, rural, or urban settings harbour a plethora of life forms with intricate vector cycles, many of which we do not know. This assumes more importance in forests owing to their sylvatic cycles and ecological successions. Our compelling needs have arrested or altered such cycles at various stages, while crippling the ability of such ecosystems to perform their function (which also includes reducing the recurrence of zoonotic disease pandemics). Though much has been stated about ecosystem functions, a lot more is required on landscape epidemiology and the role of green spaces in influencing the pandemic spread. The task requires a dispassionate commitment to ensure the centrality and sanctity of green spaces and issues related to them in forested, rural and urban settings. In Design with Nature, Ian Mcharg articulated on many thematic areas, and also highlighted the prevalence of disease in a non-sylvan urban locale. With the advent of GIS, cartography has become much easier, where indices of suitability and predictions can be modelled. In a country like India, a three-pronged strategy, focusing on forested, urban, and rural settings at a macro-landscape level needs to address both the prevailing altered states as well as a roadmap for future. India’s landscapes are no exception to the global phenomenon of transformation. Broadly, anthropogenic, and environmental stochastic process have resulted in three altered states of landscapes: Severe (urban), Moderate (rural-forest interface with a possibility of moderate rehabilitation, and near normal (protected areas and some forests). The forest environ broadly falls in one or more categories, viz. protected area, community reserve, conservation reserve, reserved forests, protected forests or undemarcated protected forests. The parcels of land contained therein are looked after by a plan of operation emanating from a management plan (protected area or a working plan). Such areas and their linkages within a landscape are “no go” areas in true sense, where no tradeoff is possible. They provide the ecosystem service to the society, including maintenance of the prey, predator, pathogen, and vector cycles. No compensatory efforts worth its name would bring back the character and dynamics of floral and faunal associations inherent in such areas. The rural locations have their dynamics of their own. The predominant land for agriculture and cash crops has eaten into the habitat of wild animals, leading to man-animal conflicts. This requires redressal at the grassroots level through village level micro-planning, and prescribing a gainful portfolio for community stewardship to safeguard nature. The remuneration or gains to rural society needs to be supported as part of “payment for ecosystem services” (PES). Urban destinations have undergone alteration to a point of no return. Here, dreaming of a resurrection would remain a dream. Hence, the urban master plan needs to explore options for compensatory measures through retrofitting, to prevent the urban flora and fauna from gaining a pest value.We need action portfolio through a master plan for addressing all the above altered states, which may involve restorative redevelopment, compensatory amelioration, and in-situ conservation. Such a master plan should be the baseline for any intervention. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has an innovative format for master planning in the ecologically sensitive zone. Perhaps, an approach on similar lines at a landscape scale would harness all stakeholders through gainful portfolios. This is much needed in the present context, and as a collective responsibility becomes important in fostering green spaces at a landscape level while aiming towards sustainable development. Rajesh Gopal is secretary general, Global Tiger Forum; and Mohnish Kapoor is head, programme and partnerships, Global Tiger ForumThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-green-buffers-can-stop-if-not-eliminate-zoonotic-pandemics/story-b9srszFlC78mg3hBOwV0vL.html
29-06-2020||News||National Statistics Day: Remembering PC Mahalanobis||During the communal riots in Delhi in 1947, many people from a minority community took refuge in Red Fort. The government had no count of the number of refugees, and contractors responsible to feed them charged high amounts. A team from the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) solved the problem. They felt that the contractors would have inflated the amount of rice and pulses, but had no reason to do so with salt as it was cheap. So, they divided the quantities of rice, pulses and salt used per day to feed all the refugees (according to the contractors) by the respective per capita requirements of these commodities, and got three estimates of the number of refugees. The estimate obtained by salt was the smallest and estimate from the rice was the largest – rice being the most expensive one, its quantity was probably exaggerated. They proposed the quantity obtained from salt as an estimate of the number of refugees. The method was verified as feasible in the case of the refugees at the site of Humayun’s Tomb.The ‘salt experiment’ is attributed to JM Sengupta – an associate of Professor Prashanta Chandra Mahalanobis. Did Mahalanobis have any role in developing the idea? I asked many people, but couldn’t get a conclusive answer. However, it’s hard to believe that it was possible to conduct such a non-standard experiment in that era without discussing it with Mahalanobis. However, it illustrates that statistics is beyond data or methodology.Through decades of tireless effort and leadership, Mahalanobis built a strong statistical culture in India. He did world-class research on statistical theories and methodologies, carried out surveys, spotted and nurtured young scientists, established the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) – “a mighty monument of his handicraft”, founded and nurtured Sankhyā – the Indian Journal of Statistics, organised various statistical conferences, initiated teaching and training in statistics in the country, guided applications of statistics in various policy-decisions, let young talents, including future Nobel and Abel laureates blossom, and hosted world-class foreign scientists for academic interactions. An incredible achievement in one lifetime. Today is National Statistics Day today, the birthday of Professor Mahalanobis.As the president of the 1950 Science Congress in Pune, Mahalanobis delivered a lecture entitled “Why Statistics?” Statistics was “a new technology for increasing the efficiency of human effort in the wildest sense” to him, and he turned statistics as a key technology for the development of the nation. When the Hirakud dam on the Mahanadi was completed in 1957, Nityananda Kanungo, then chief minister of Orissa, wrote to Mahalanobis paying him a glowing tribute. The reason was that in 1926 when Mahananobis analysed 60 years’ of data related to floods in Orissa, which was the basis of the hydroelectric project on the Mahanadi. In his famous jute survey of Bengal in the 1940s, he exhibited “accuracy and economy” of sample surveys at a tenth of cost and fiftieth of the workforce. Mahalanobis’ large-scale sample survey in famine-hit Bengal during 1944-45 to study the causes and extent of the famine was also remarkable.It is little surprise that statistics under Mahalanobis would play a leading role in independent India as well – through establishing various national, state, and district offices for smoother coordination of official statistics. He was also the architect of India’s Second Five Year Plan. On his death, the UN Statistical Commission in its resolution in 1972 said: “Remembering his pioneering efforts on behalf of social statistics, remembering him as a champion of statistical needs of the developing countries, remembering the outstanding stimulus he gave to statistical development throughout the entire world...” In the last two decades, statistics has undergone a change in its style of functioning. As a result of the Internet,there is a flood of data, mostly junk, and much more than statistical technology can leverage. Consequently, a different set of experts – data scientists – has emerged, who primarily run routine software and algorithms for data analyses. However, the theory is still insufficient, and outcomes are often questionable. Someone like Mahalanobis, who had an uncanny knack for perfection and who understood the “dance steps of numbers in the arena of time and space” better than anybody else in this business, would have been the best person to handle such a situation – to guide analyses, or even to discard it was found to be meaningless.Styles of major statistical activities such as censuses and surveys are also changing dramatically. India’s 2021 Census will be a digital exercise. Countries like Germany, Switzerland, Norway, Estonia, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States are now conducting or planning to conduct decennial censuses by combining registers of jobs, fiscal administration, social security, pension, school admission, hospital records and tax. The objective is to improve accuracy and simultaneously save time and money. The dynamics of other surveys will also change in the world of the coronavirus pandemic. The leadership of an expert like Mahalanobis is needed at this defining moment of changing statistical perspectives.Atanu Biswas is professor, Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, KolkataThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/national-statistics-day-remembering-pc-mahalanobis/story-YuxqIJuoJu5tubCrZ2FEWI.html
29-06-2020||News||It is time for India to invest in ties with Taiwan||The India-China border stand-off in the Galwan Valley, following China’s incursion into Indian territory, is a reminder of India’s perennial problems with China. The recent violent clashes are an indication of Beijing’s hardline approach towards India. The statements issued by Chinese officials and the ministry of foreign affairs have made it clear that the Chinese are in no mood for a rapprochement. What these clashes have confirmed is that this is not just about differing perceptions of the boundary, but China’s blatant attempts to change the status quo. This is in clear violation of the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China border areas signed in 1993. A full-fledged conflict is not in the interest of either country. In this context, India has no option but to engage China in a dialogue to defuse tensions. But dialogue and confidence-building measures alone will not lead India towards a resolution of the problem. History shows that China goes for boundary dispute resolutions only when it finds that the gains are tangible. For now, it is in its interest to keep the dispute alive. China’s aggressive posture towards India and the boundary dispute set the right context for why there could not be a better time for India to engage Taiwan meaningfully.While ties with Taiwan should not be solely viewed through China’s lens, this has given a chance to both India and Taiwan to introspect on their policies and reach out to each other. On May 20, two Bharatiya Janata Party parliamentarians, Meenakshi Lekhi and Rahul Kaswan, virtually attended the swearing-in ceremony of Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen. While this was appreciated, it is not a strong enough signal to China. It is high time India engages Taiwan bilaterally and also positions India-Taiwan ties in the regional context. Taiwan is already a part of the United States’ Indo-Pacific vision. It is an important geographical entity in the Indo-Pacific region. India’s vision of the Indo-Pacific is inclusive and it must encourage the participation of Taiwan and other like-minded countries. India is already a major focus country in Tsai Ing-wen’s New Southbound Policy, launched in 2016. Under this, Taiwan aims to increase its international profile by expanding political, economic, and people-to-people linkages. Unlike previous governments’ Go South policies, the New Southbound Policy is not about reducing dependence on China, but reaching out to countries of importance. For the first time, Taiwan has officially started looking towards the six South Asian countries — Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. India is a steering wheel for Taiwan’s deepening engagement in the South Asian region. India does not have formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan yet as it adheres to the One-China policy. However, during the then Chinese premier Wen Jiaboa’s visit to India in December 2010, India took a bold step by not mentioning support for China’s One-China policy in the joint communique released on December 16. In 2014, when Narendra Modi came to power, he adopted an out-of-the-box approach by inviting ambassador Chung-Kwang Tien, Taiwan’s representative to India, along with Lobsang Sangay, president of the Central Tibetan Administration to his 2014 swearing-in ceremony. However, such policy moves could not sustain India’s consistent approach vis-à-vis China. This is despite China’s disregard for India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty, in both letter and spirit. India’s China policy and its focus on stabilising relations with Beijing have led to the marginalisation of Taiwan. When China protested the visit of an all-women parliamentarians delegation from Taiwan to India in 2018, the momentum in India-Taiwan ties further slowed down.Taiwan has had remarkable success in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. This is interesting given how more developed and powerful states have faltered in handling the crisis. Yet, Taiwan was not even offered an international platform where it could share its best practices. Denying Taiwan a place at the World Health Assembly is a case in point. India too has not tried to engage Taiwan in dealing with the pandemic. Through its response to Covid-19, the island nation has shown that it is beneficial to engage with it. Similarly, Taiwan’s possible role in the emerging Indo-Pacific order has been under-appreciated. India’s foreign policy priorities, particularly with regard to the Indo-Pacific, should accommodate Taiwan. Along with military preparedness and aligning interests with key countries, Taiwan needs to be included prominently in its long-term strategy towards China. India can no longer just rely on the transactional and need-based policies of major powers. It has to explore more options. This makes sense when Taiwan is willing to strengthen ties with India and even domestic debate is tilting in favour of this. It is time India reviews its policy towards Taiwan and engages with it more comprehensively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-for-india-to-invest-in-ties-with-taiwan/story-HCNTqDMTDEk4WazS3aqKmJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Medical exams in Punjab to be held as scheduled: BFUHS V-C||A day after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced postponement of examinations for the final-semester students in all universities of the state till July 15, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Monday started theory examination for MD, MS, and postgraduate diploma courses. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said the exams for the medical courses in state have not been postponed and the university will conduct the same as per the announced schedule. “There is confusion among the students but the CM has announced to postpone exams in the varsities accredited or affiliated to the University Grants Commission (UGC), while we are regulated by Medical Council of India (MCI), Dental Council of India (DCI) and Indian Nursing Council (INC). The UGC gives us grants only for research work,” he said.“We are conducting examination for medical, dental, super-specialty, specialty, nursing and physiotherapy courses as per the guidelines of the MCI, DCI and INC. The BFUHS have made all the appropriate arrangements to maintain social distancing. Keeping in view the safety of students, we have allowed them to opt for any of the designated exam centre near their hometown. Only the dental students who are not capable of clearing the exam are asking for postponement and seeking to upgrade them to the next semester, while none of the medical students have made such a demand,” he added.State medical education minister OP Soni said he is receiving a lot of calls from the students regarding the postponement of examinations. “I am looking into the matter. 400 students appear for exam at 5 centresOn Monday, more than 400 students of MD and MS courses appeared for examination at five centres. While the MBBS (first and second year) exams will begin on June 30, the third and final year exams of over 3,200 BDS and MDS students are scheduled to start from July 7.Amid the Covid-19 scare, the BDS and MDS students in 12 dental colleges of Punjab are demanding postponement of exams. Concerned over safety, they said they would have to face difficulty in reaching Punjab as many students belong to other states and there will be greater risk of getting infected while staying in hostels.After the CM’s announcement, the dental courses students took to social media to protest against the medical varsity to conduct semester examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/medical-exams-in-punjab-to-be-held-as-scheduled-bfuhs-v-c/story-9eEzo10FPTucMJaqz91FcJ.html
29-06-2020||City||Eight deaths, 617 fresh Covid-19 cases in Pune||The city reported eight deaths and 617 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Monday taking the death toll to 621 and the progressive positive count to 16,742. Currently, there are 6,195 active cases in the city out of which 333 are critical. Also, 482 patients were discharged after being declared as cured taking the count to 9,929. Out of the 333 critical patients, 61 are on ventilator and 272 are in serious condition and need oxygen therapy or had comorbidities. Three deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital including a 69-year old male and 37-year old male both due to type one respiratory failure and both of them were residents of Yerawada. A 60-year old female from Shivajinagar also died on Monday. Two deaths were reported from Kashibai Navale hospital including that of a 76-year old female from Dhankawadi who suffered from Parkinson’s disease and another 55-year old female from Nanded phata.One death was also reported from Symbiosis hospital of a 47-year old male from Parvati who suffered from adrenoleukodystrophy. One death was reported from Poona hospital of a 68-year old female from Shanivar peth and a 60-year old male was declared dead at the Noble hospital who was a resident of Hadapsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-deaths-617-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-pune/story-A8q0iNIfZKqNYU9DoTPXFL.html
29-06-2020||City||BJP MLA from Pimpri-Chinchwad tests positive for Covid-19||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Pimpri- Chinchwad confirmed on Monday that he has tested positive for the Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.Mahesh Landge, an MLA from Bhosari, said, “Yes, I tested positive for Covid and am undergoing treatment at Birla hospital. During the past few days, I was attending several meetings about various development works and Covid cases. We have to now learn to live with the virus,” said Landge, a former wrestler, in a social media post. A senior official from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), on the condition of anonymity, said the MLA and his wife have both tested positive for Covid and are in hospital.“His Covid-19 test was positive on June 29, he showed some symptoms on June 27 after which a test was conducted. Now, he is undergoing treatment at Aditya Birla Hospital in Chinchwad. The tests are also being conducted on his family members and other people who came in contact with Landge,” said a PCMC civic body member on the condition of anonymity. Landge was present at Council Hall on Friday for a meeting called for by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar.MPs and MLAs from Pune district were invited for this meeting. State deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope were also present at the meeting.Last week, Devendra Fadnavis visited Pimpri- Chinchwad, where Landge welcomed him.Another BJP leader, on condition of anonymity, said that Landge attended various meetings in the last three days and met many people as he did not have any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-mla-from-pimpri-chinchwad-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-GlBqyW6Q42tLlUA79YNcdJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||FUEL PRICE HIKE: SAD to hold statewide protests on July 7||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday announced that the party will hold statewide protests on July 7 against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. The protests would also oppose deletion of lakhs of blue ration cards by the Congress government in state by keeping political considerations in mind.In a statement, SAD senior vice president and spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said that during protests, the party leaders and workers will urge the Centre and the Punjab government to withdraw the hike imposed in prices of petrol and diesel. Cheema said due to taxes of the Centre and the state government, the price of petrol and diesel becomes double when it reaches consumers. Citing example, Cheema said that Indian Oil Corporation delivers diesel to petrol pumps at 39.21 per litre which do not includes VAT and excise duty. He said that when this diesel reaches consumers, its price comes to Rs 80 per litre. He said that Punjab government has imposed 35.12% VAT on petrol whereas in Haryana this is 20.25 and in Himachal Pradesh it is 24.43% and in Chandigarh it is 19.76% only. He said that due to 16% increase in VAT in Punjab it is costly in the state. Similarly, he said, on Diesel Punjab government has imposed 13.74% VAT while in Delhi it is 30%, in Haryana it is 17.22% and in Himachal Pradesh it is 14.38% only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fuel-price-hike-sad-to-hold-statewide-protests-on-july-7/story-ToIUDjtYNby9L90kxqEm0H.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Home guard stabbed to death in Jind||A 30-year-old home guard volunteer was stabbed to death at a salon in Jind’s Singhana village on Sunday, police said.The victim was identified as Jitender Mehra of the same village. He is survived by parents, wife and a four-year-old son. The incident took place when Mehra went to the shop where two men of his village stabbed him to death. In his complaint to the police, victim’s father Mamu Ram said Jitender was sitting at the salon when Sandeep, who is out on bail, along with Ajit Kumar came there and committed the crime. The police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC against Sandeep and Ajit Kumar, who are at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/home-guard-stabbed-to-death-in-jind/story-4McC5Wvr34S5a9gbVQfzTP.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||62% of 381 new cases from Faridabad, Ggm||Faridabad and Gurugram districts on Monday reported about 62% of total 381 new Covid-19 cases registered in Haryana.As per the health bulletin, nine patients — six in Gurugram, two in Faridabad and one in Mahendergarh — succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, 585 patients recovered with the maximum (274) in Faridabad, 135 in Gurugram and 51 in Sonepat. Till now, 9,502 people have been cured of Covid in the state, which has 4,476 active cases. On Monday, the death toll rose to 232 (171 men, 61 women), while the case count reached 14,210. As per the bulletin, Faridabad reported 134 fresh cases, followed by Gurugram (102), Rewari (31), Panipat and Karnal (18 each), Sonepat (13), Fatehabad (12), Jhajjar and Kaithal (9 each), Sirsa (7), Ambala and Nuh (5 each), Rohtak and Hisar (4 each), Palwal and Kurukshetra (2 each), and Mahendergarh and Jind (3 each). Among the Hisar patients are a 45-year-old scribe and 59-year-old mother of an electronic media journalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/62-of-381-new-cases-from-faridabad-ggm/story-Y0ISJID4JO4bMaScvvpReK.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Despite relaxations, buses run with 50% passengers in Ludhiana||Buses at the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) operated with 50% passenger load on Monday, two days after Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, announced lifting of restrictions on passenger capacity.With a notification awaited from the state department, operators have not been allowed to run at full capacity even though a few private services parking their vehicles outside the bus stand were seen taking a full load.ISBT, however, is reporting low footfall as people are staying away due to increasing Covid-19 cases in the state. Earlier, before lockdowns, buses would fill up in five minutes, “now we have to wait for 25 to 30 minutes,” says PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) bus conductor Gurjeet Singh.Crowds had thinned out because of closure of schools and colleges, he added, and getting 50% passengers too was difficult, he said, adding “the transport sector has been hit badly due to the ongoing pandemic.” Earlier, about 2,500 buses departed from the station, now only 225 were operating, he added.Private bus operator Gurminder Singh said people like him were running a few buses because of low footfall. Interstate travel restrictions had taken a toll on the business, he added. “The state transport department has not issued the notification as yet for allowing bus operators to run the buses at full capacity. Also footfall is low at the bus stand with operators struggling to run at 50% capacity. Only inter district buses are being run and the operators have been directed to screen the passengers before they board the bus,” said station supervisor Kuljit Singh Sodhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-relaxations-buses-run-with-50-passengers-in-ludhiana/story-jeVjfCQ0bXarRs1nBRnMAO.html
29-06-2020||Ranchi||JMM to contest Bihar assembly polls under ‘Mahagathbandan’ banner||The ruling JMM in Jharkhand on Monday said it will join hands with the RJD-led Grand Alliance and contest the assembly elections in Bihar later this year. The party also said that it has identified 12 out of 243 seats in Bihar, where it intends to field candidates.Referring to the Jharkhand polls last year, JMM General Secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) was allotted seven out of 81 assembly seats in the state, and one MLA, upon his victory, was also inducted in the cabinet.“We formally announce that the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) will contest Bihar polls under (the banner of) ‘Mahagathbandhan’, which is headed by the RJD and has the Congress, Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, Hindustani Awam Morcha and the Vikassheel Inshan Party as allies,” Bhattacharya said.On the Election Commission freezing its symbol in Bihar during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he said the JMM has requested the poll panel to allow the party to contest this time with its ‘bow-arrow’ emblem.The poll body had derecognised the JMM’s symbol in Bihar last year, as it had similarities with JD(U)’s symbol.“We have identified 12 Bihar constituencies where we would want to nominate our candidates,” Bhattacharya added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jmm-to-contest-bihar-assembly-polls-under-mahagathbandan-banner/story-iPV3jk6O0ar49xZSbYvDwN.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leaders ride horse, bullock carts to protest fuel price hike||The Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and J&K units of the Congress on Monday held protest against the fuel price hike by the BJP-led Centre, with party leaders saying it is bound to have a cascading effect and burden the common people, including the farmers, who are already facing hardships due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar led the protests at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and slammed the Centre for raising the fuel prices repeatedly every few days despite the international crude oil prices remaining low. Jakhar along with MLA Angad Saini, Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Dhillon and other local leaders pulled a tractor with ropes.“When the Congress was in power in 2014, the price of crude oil was 104 dollars per barrel and the price of diesel was Rs 63 per litre. Now, crude oil is hardly 40 dollars per barrel but still the price of diesel has reached Rs 80,” he said, demanding an explanation from the Modi government. The 17-rupee difference between the rates during the Congress’ and Modi-government’s terms has put an additional burden of ₹7,000 on the farmers. The Modi government was fooling the farmers when it said that farmers’ income will be doubled.Similar protests were held in Amritsar, Sangrur, Patiala, Faridkot and Bathinda.The Haryana unit of the Congress too held statewide protests against the hike in fuel prices. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja led the protest in Karnal, which is chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home constituency. Several party workers rode bullock carts to protest against the hike in fuel prices.In Sonepat, Rohtak and Jhajjar, the protests were led by Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda. The Jammu and Kashmir Congress leader and former minister Raman Bhalla said, “The BJP government is fleecing people by imposing heavy taxes. A 20% hike on diesel and 258% on petrol is shocking,” he said. The Congress also protested against the rising prices of petrol and diesel in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh.Led by Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary Ajay Mahajan, the party leaders submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind alleging that as the common masses are reeling due to Covid-19 outbreak, the BJP government was turning disaster into opportunity to make quick bucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leaders-ride-horse-bullock-carts-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/story-JthUouXcBqdaFxkAcBWuRI.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 positivity rate in Haryana jumps from 2% to 5.6% in a month||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate in Haryana has risen from 2.01% as seen on June 1 to 5.56% on Monday, when 381 fresh cases were registered in the state and nine patients succumbed to the disease, health department’s data revealed. The national average is around 6.5%.Health experts say the rate of Covid-19 positivity is a significant factor that gives an insight into whether the tests in enough numbers are being conducted to detect the contagion. On June 1, the total number of samples Haryana health department had sent for examination till then was 1,21,779, while on June 29, the number stood at 2,60,341. Hence, Haryana in 29 days tested about 1,38,562 people. On an average, at least 5,000 fresh samples are sent everyday for testing in the state. On Monday, 7,985 samples were collected across Haryana. Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director health services, Haryana, said the Covid-19 positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases to the number of tests conducted. “Undoubtedly, the Covid-19 positivity rate in Haryana is rising, but the fact is we have also increased the testing due to which more cases are being detected,” Dr Kamboj said.“There is no need to worry. The situation is better and well under control even as there is a surge in cases,” he added. Another positive factor in the battle against Covid-19, Dr Kamboj said, is that more than 50% cases in the state are either asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms. “In the beginning, we were sending samples to Pune, but now we have five government medical colleges and three district hospitals besides two labs in Hisar and Faridabad where samples are being tested,” he added.As per the data, on June 21, the state’s Covid-19 positivity rate was 5% and since then, it swiftly rose to 5.59% – the highest so far – on June 28 and dipped mildly to 5.56% on Monday. The recovery rate in the state, meanwhile, on June 1 was 44.78%, which by June 29 had risen to 66.87%. Also, the Covid-19 doubling rate has shown improvement as on Monday, it went up to 15 days after falling to an all-time low of six days on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-haryana-jumps-from-2-to-5-6-in-a-month/story-M6spTj75GNU8XHx7EGbWCK.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer held for rape of 9-year-old girl in Ludhiana||A 32-year-old man was arrested by the Ladhowal police for allegedly raping the nine-year-old daughter of his neighbour.The girl was at home with two of her younger siblings and her parents were at work when the accused, Joginder, a labourer, raped her. He is married and his family lives in Uttar Pradesh.The girl was crying when her mother returned home in the evening from work and when questioned told her that Joginder had come over and given Rs 20 to her siblings to buy snacks. He had then raped her and issued threats to compel her to keep quiet, said sub inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer (SHO) at the police station.When the girl’s mother confronted Joginder he begged her not to lodge a complaint against him, but she informed the police, the SHO said.An FIR under sections 376 (Rape) of IPC and sections 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against Joginder and he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-held-for-rape-of-9-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana/story-JDeRCa3ctWeCRWLZSbHCLJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar calls upon teachers to inspire students||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has called upon teachers to make valuable contributions in moulding the students as nation builders. Highlighting the importance of the role of teachers in self-reliant India, Khattar on Monday said the education should not remain confined to only basic school curriculum (reading, writing, and arithmetic). Instead, he said, the teachers should focus on the overall development of their students. “I am sure that in the discussion held today, we will get many ideas that help the students to become more cultured and self-reliant,” Khattar said while speaking at a webinar organised by the Haryana higher education council.He said the role of the teacher was “very important” in recognising the hidden skills and talents of the students and grooming them to become the nation builders. “The teachers should inspire the students. The role of any government is to build universities, colleges, and schools. It can make policies to bring reforms in the education sector, but the role of teachers in nation-building, shaping the future of their students and enlightening society is of paramount importance,” he said, pointing out that under the ‘Atam Nirbhar Bharat’ vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, education remains one of the focal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-calls-upon-teachers-to-inspire-students/story-2tLNfYFFF3w3kZAgItMhdO.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Now a Covid facility, Hindu Rao Hospital employees still grapple with basic issues||Non-functional air conditioning in wards, an inadequate doffing area and the non-availability of N-95 masks for health care workers are some problems the medical staff at the North Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital, which started operating as a Covid-19-dedicated facility on Saturday, are facing.Doctors and nurses said the emergency block that has been converted to a Covid-19 facility does not have functional ACs. They said wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls during 12-hour shifts, even with breaks, is suffocating and makes them dizzy.“We had met the hospital authorities on Saturday and they said they would resolve the issues by the first week of July. At present, three or four doctors have been put on rotating duty and are somehow managing, but this cannot be sustained when the number of Covid-19 patients in the ward increases,” Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, a senior resident and the president of the hospital’s resident doctors association (RDA), said.On Monday, the hospital had six Covid-19 patients, of which one is admitted to the ICU. The hospital, one of the biggest under the North Corporation, started operations with 50 beds for Covid-19 patients on Saturday, instead of the 200 announced on June 14 when the hospital was declared a Covid-dedicated facility. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, along with other officials, inspected the facility on Monday. “At present, we have logistics in place for 50 beds, so we started the process of admitting Covid-19 patients. Beds will be added in phases of 50 each and the number will go up to 200. We have decided to provide at least 50 beds with ventilator support. Right now, the hospital has 17 ventilators. We have roped in agencies under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiativeto provide us with ventilators to take the total number up to at least 50,” he said.The mayor said they were aware of the problems the staff was facing and had ordered 48 new air-conditioners while the old ones were being repaired. “We will install the new ACs by the first week of July,” he said.The staff on duty said that besides the doffing area for PPE kits not being adequate, health care workers in green and orange zones of the hospital such as corridors, nursing stations and the resting area have not been provided with N-95 masks, which is a must. This has caused a fear of infection among the staff.“The doffing area must be close to the Covid-19 ward so that the staff exiting the red zone can dump their kits without having to cross over to other areas. At present, we have to walk through the corridor to dump the kits. This could increase the chances of infection spreading to the orange and green zones,” a senior resident, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said.On Sunday, a 53-year-old housekeeping staff member of the hospital, Raju Singh Sonwal, died of Covid-19—the first Covid-19 death at the hospital after it was declared a Covid-19-only facility. So far, the hospital has reported two Covid-19 deaths. On June 19, a 56-year-old lab technician posted at the pathology lab here had succumbed to the virus. At least 76 staffers, including doctors, nurses, safai karmcharis and paramedics, have tested positive for Covid-19 at the hospital between April 25 and June 28.“There are issues with the dumping of PPE kits. Even when there were suspected patients in the isolation wards, there were similar issues and several staffers ended up testing positive. There is fear and anxiety of contracting the infection among the workers in such circumstances,” a nursing officer, who did not wish to be named, said. Reacting to this, Prakash said they have tied up with an NGO for providing their staff with around 1,000 N-95 masks. “The masks will reach the staff in a day or two,” he said, adding, “Also, we will be helping the family of Raju, who died fighting Covid-19, by appointing one of his children to the job so that the family is taken care of.”A senior North Corporation official, explaining the challenges in setting up of beds and doffing areas, said, “When we talk of a bed, it implies that other services such as specialist doctors, staff nurses, monitors, oxygen supply points, etc. too need to be made available for each of the Covid-only beds. Structural requirements such as separate donning-doffing areas, entry-exit points, dedicated operation theatres, etc. need to be created. To separate the Covid-19 area from the other buildings, we have started operations with 45 beds, five ICU beds and 84 isolation beds. We plan to add more as and when logistics and financial requirements are met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/now-a-covid-facility-hindu-rao-hospital-employees-still-grapple-with-basic-issues/story-WBFFt4uuJuHEdglnS1cwPP.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress protests against fuel hike||Up in arms against the recent fuel hike, Chandigarh Congress staged a protest against the central government in Sector 17 on Monday.Former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal and local party chief Pardeep Chhabra lashed out at the Narendra Modi government, saying it has “betrayed the trust of people” of India.Bansal said despite a sharp decrease in crude oil prices, petrol and diesel prices in the country have skyrocketed. “BJP leaders who used to create ruckus during the UPA regime, are now strangely silent and nowhere to be seen because they have no explanation for the rising fuel prices,” he said.Chhabra said crude oil prices during the UPA rule were almost 60% higher than they are today, but the Modi government is levying so many taxes that the public has to pay exorbitant prices as no benefit is being passed on to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-protests-against-fuel-hike/story-GNtMFKIKTnmXP0UGoRJQaJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress holds statewide protest against fuel price hike||The Haryana unit of the Congress on Monday held statewide protests against the hike in fuel prices, with party leaders saying it will put a burden the common people who are already facing hardships due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja led the protest in Karnal, which is chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home constituency.Several party workers rode bullock carts to protest against the hike in fuel prices. They reached the mini-secretariat to submit a memorandum to the Karnal deputy commissioner demanding an immediate rollback in the fuel prices.Selja targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the NDA government at the Centre for increasing fuel prices despite a fall in the prices of crude oil.“Despite international crude oil prices being at their lowest, the Centre, instead of passing on the benefits to the common people by lowering the prices, is constantly hiking fuel prices,” Selja said.Accusing the government of charging hefty taxes on fuel she said, “We don’t want to talk about the ₹20 lakh crore economic package here but the government should tell us what have they done with ₹18 lakh crore revenue earned by imposing excise duty on fuel in the past six years.”In Sonepat, Rohtak and Jhajjar, the protests were led by Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda. “While the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the central and state governments are increasing fuel prices. The hike in fuel prices at the time of cultivation has increased farmers’ expenditure,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.He also submitted memorandums addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the deputy commissioners of Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar.In Ambala, Mullana MLA Varun Mullana said that he has been waiting for the BJP leaders to come out shirtless and join their protests, clearly hitting out at health minister Anil Vij whose shirtless pictures are currently doing the rounds on social media. Vij, an MLA from Ambala Cantonment had once led a nationwide protest against the UPA government due to inflation and rising fuel prices.SOCIAL DISTANCING GOES FOR A TOSSDefying social distancing and wearing of masks, Congress leaders Kumari Selja, Virender Rathore, Shamsher Gogi and others were seen glued to the bullock cart during the protest march. Since the gathering was also a violation of the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines, hundreds of party workers took out a protest rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-holds-statewide-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/story-297vcp09yHq858lxj7HVNL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fall armyworm attack looms over maize crop||Punjab Agricultural University scientists have cautioned the farmers against fall armyworm attack on maize crop over 4 lakh acres in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Ropar, Pathankot, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. The invasive insect-pest was first spotted in Africa in 2016 and first time in India in 2018. Experts say the pest can destroy the crop completely if not controlled in time. Maize is already sown over at least 4 lakh acres in six districts of state and an addition of 2.5 lakh acres more is expected. “The pest attacks 10 to 40-day-old plant,” said PK Chhuneja, head department of entomology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). “It was spotted for the first time in Africa in 2016 and soon spread to 40 countries in the continent within a year. In India, the pest was first sighted in May 2018 in Karnataka, and within a year, it infested almost all the states. In Punjab, it was first spotted in August 2019 and damaged late sown fodder maize in various districts,” said Chhuneja.In an advisory, the PAU has urged farmers to complete sowing of maize by June 30 as rains help in reducing the pest load on the crop at its most susceptible stage. “Fodder maize sowing should be done by August 15. Fodder crop sown late, as experienced last year, has higher pest incidence,” said Chhuneja.“It caused huge damage to maize crop in Bihar last season. Its attack on maize crop is visible this time, but we are ready to deal with it,” said Punjab agriculture secretary KS Pannu. He advised farmers to be vigilant as the crop is currently at the most susceptible stage for the pest attack. He said the pest attacks only maize and there is no danger to any other crop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fall-armyworm-attack-looms-over-maize-crop/story-Cleg0R2Jd3Jis1JzLVFUSM.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong workers protest in Ambala against fuel price rise||Workers of the Congress party on Monday protested in Ambala against the rising prices of petrol and diesel. The protest led by Mullana MLA Varun Mullana and Haryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain was held near the Court Complex. Party workers rode a bullock cart and pulled a car with rope, symbolising how vehicles could not be used because of the rising fuel prices. Addressing the workers, Mullana said that he had been waiting for BJP leaders to come out shirtless and join their protests. He was clearly hinting at pictures of Haryana health minister Anil Vij in his younger days posing without a shirt that are currently doing the rounds on social media. Vij, an MLA from Ambala Cantonment, had once led a protest against inflation and rising fuel prices during the UPA government rule. Mullana and Jain also took a jibe at the popular slogan “Modi hai to mumkin hai (Everything’s possible if it’s Modi)” and compared the current prices with that of the UPA-2 government despite a sharp decline in international crude oil prices.Later, the workers handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner for the President of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-workers-protest-in-ambala-against-fuel-price-rise/story-xRj18vRO77cxMEH6NA7LbI.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fiscal deficit: Chandigarh MC won’t undertake any new development works this year||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress continued to trade barbs during the general house meeting on Monday, Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) commissioner KK Yadav declared that no new development work would be undertaken this fiscal year as the civic body is facing a deficit budget, and it would struggle to pay even its employees’ salaries.In the meeting held through video conference, Yadav said that against the total committed liabilities of ₹597 crore, the MC has only ₹581 crore, a shortfall of ₹16 crore. Even the routine maintenance works are going to suffer, he said.“There is also no chance of getting additional funds this fiscal as the Covid-19 outbreak has hit the revenues of both the UT administration and the central government,” said the MC chief.Though, he added, that certain works such as road carpeting, augmentation of water storage, street lighting and village development will be carried out as funds for these have already been separately allocated by the UT administration.MC HAS ONLY ₹581CR TO SPENDThe UT had approved a budget of ₹1,472 crore for the Chandigarh MC this year, of which, ₹1.072 crore was requested as grant-in-aid on the lines of the fourth Delhi finance commission. But the UT administration allocated grant-in-aid of ₹425 crore while the MC’s own revenue receipts were stated to be around ₹402 crore, taking the total funds available to ₹827 crore.However, in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the MC revised its revenue estimates and brought it down to ₹321 crore. “Of this, around ₹20 crore has been set aside for the Covid fund, for which the Centre’s approval is required, and it is uncertain how it will be used. The MC gets ₹63 crore income from two petrol pumps, but, it fuel expense is ₹60 crore, so only ₹3 crore will be left. Consequently, the MC receipts stand at ₹241 crore, said Yadav.Earlier this month, the UT had also cut 20% from the ₹425 crore grant-in-aid in June and revised it to ₹340 crore. The 20% cut in expenditure was mandated by the central government in the wake of revenue loss on account of the Covid-19 lockdown.So, effectively, the Chandigarh MC is left with only ₹581 crore to spend.The MC has to pay ₹402 crore to its employees as salary, and ₹50 crore as employee pensions. In addition to it, around ₹120 crore is reserved for the MC’s electricity bill, and ₹25 crore as payments for petrol. Consequently, the civic body is left with a shortfall of ₹16 crore.BJP-CONGRESS BLAME GAMECongress councillor Devinder Singh Babla attacked the BJP from the onset of the meeting, stating that the BJP is solely responsible the MC’s financial mess. “The only solution to MC’s financial crunch is to remove BJP and bring Congress in control of the MC,” said Babla.In the midst of the heated exchange between councillors of both parties over Babla’s statement, BJP councillor and BJP’s city unit chief Arun Sood responded by listing some of the works done by the BJP, “29 MGD water has come, funds have been allocated for roads carpeting, dark spots, stray cattle management, and many other works. The financial mess is the legacy of the Congress’ mismanagement during its long rule in the MC. We are slowly rectifying it.”AGENDAS TAKEN UPIronically, even as the MC general house debated the financial crunch, the councillors rejected one revenue generation agenda in Monday’s meeting. The councillors said no to the MC proposal for renting the Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38. The MC was to rent out the first floor of the Bhawan for ₹2.5 lakh per month rent. The House, however, approved the agenda regarding display of advertisements on 55 public toilet blocks. Changes in current norms for allotment of some norms, such as giving allotment for five years rather than one year, was allowed. The agenda regarding waiving off license fee of kiosks till full lifting of lockdown at Night Food Street, Sector 14, was also approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fiscal-deficit-chandigarh-mc-won-t-undertake-any-new-development-works-this-year/story-AG7GQXxqJsqTmisVyOlG3I.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||2017 graft case: Chandigarh SSP asked to look into threat allegations against 3 SHOs||ChandigarhChandigarh senior superintendent of police Nilambari Jagadale was been asked by the CBI court to look into allegations by 2017 graft case complainant and witness Prem Singh Bisht that he was being threatened by three station house officers (SHOs) and others.In a plea to the special CBI court, Bisht had alleged that he was being forced to turn hostile in court against inspector Jaswinder Kaur, SHO, police station, Manimajra. He said he was receiving threats from inspector Rajdeep Singh, SHO, and constable Ashok Kumar, both from police station, Sector 31, and inspector Baldev Singh, SHO, police station, Sector 34, to submit an affidavit in favour of Kaur.Bisht also placed a pen drive before the court containing what he claimed were recorded conversations with Rajdeep Singh, Ashok Kumar with Samdarsh Kumar alias Joseph who is Bisht’s acquaintance and a witness in the case. Bisht alleged that some Chandigarh police officials wanted to indict him in a false case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Claiming that he feared a physical attack, Bisht also requested the court to provide him with security and order a CBI investigation into the matter.Bisht was the complainant in 2017 graft case against sub-inspector Mohan Singh who allegedly demanded Rs 9 lakh from him to drop the names of three of his employees from an FIR registered for an attempt to murder case on the directions of Jaswinder Kaur. She was then SHO of the Sector 31 police station.In 2017 CBI officials had caught Mohan Singh accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh from Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2017-graft-case-chandigarh-ssp-asked-to-investigate-threats-to-complainant-by-3-shos/story-tH3Xxm06N6zmGs8ckOKllL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||PM FME scheme to generate ₹35,000 cr investment: Harsimrat||Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday said the PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME) scheme will generate an investment of ₹35,000 crore and provide employment to 9 lakh skilled and semi-skilled workers. Launching the scheme during a virtual conference as part of the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Union minister for food processing industries said it will cover 2 lakh enterprises in five years and an outlay of ₹10,000 crore has been fixed for the same. It will cover 6,700 units in Punjab and expenditure under the scheme would to be shared in 60:40 ratio between the Centre and the state government, she said. The scheme involved adopting one district one product approach to reap benefits of scale in terms of procurement of inputs, availing common services and marketing of products, Harsimrat added. “The one district one product could be a perishable produce based or cereal based or a food item widely produced in an area. The existing individual micro food processing units seeking upgrade could avail of credit-linked capital subsidy of 35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling of ₹10 lakh per unit. Seed capital and credit-linked grant for capital investment as well as common infrastructure will also be provided to the units,” she said. She also announced extension of operation greens from tomato-onion-potato (TOP) crops to all perishable fruits and vegetables. She said the objective of intervention was to protect the growers of fruits and vegetables from making distress sale due to the lockdown and reduce post-harvest losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-fme-scheme-to-generate-35-000-cr-investment-harsimrat/story-NwvYnQxsf0pfnQlGK1JuvL.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt calls contempt plea over mismanagement of bodies ‘preposterous’||The Delhi government on Monday told the Delhi High Court that the city was facing a manpower shortage after four doctors succumbed to Covid-19 and thousands of healthcare professionals were infected. The government said that it was “preposterous” to move a contempt petition against it over the managing of bodies at such a time.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAppearing for the Delhi government, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, told a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that at a time when four doctors have succumbed to Covid-19 and thousands of healthcare workers have been infected, it was “unfortunate” and “preposterous” that a contempt plea had been moved even when the government is doing its best.The court was hearing a contempt plea moved by advocate Avadh Kaushik seeking action against the Delhi government and the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital for allegedly not adhering to the undertaking given to the High Court with regard to handling bodies of Covid-19 victims. In his plea, Kaushik has alleged that bodies were lying in the same wards and corridors of the Lok Nayak Hospital where Covid-19 patients were admitted and kept.Additionally, the court was also hearing a plea which it had initiated itself on the piling of bodies at the hospital mortuaries and crematoriums. The court was hearing another matter by an NGO Mokshda Paryavaran Evam Van Suraksha Samiti through advocate Gaurav Bansal, offering its services of green cremations to the city.Advocate Akhil Mittal, the standing counsel of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, had, however, opposed the services and said that there would be confusion if this NGO was allowed to operate as there is already another NGO involved in the work.In a status report, the civic body also said that there is no piling or backlog of bodies and the work is going on smoothly.On Monday, ASG Jain told the court that the issue of body management is also pending before the Supreme Court, which had taken suo moto cognizance of the matter based on news reports. He said that the matter would be heard on July 20.Following this, the court posted the matter for July 29 for further hearing and said it would wait for the orders of the apex court in the matter before passing any direction or order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-calls-contempt-plea-over-mismanagement-of-bodies-preposterous/story-qBGI5GE1MMvuWKfml3CyvL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 115 contacts of Gidderbaha patient who kept health dept on toes test negative||As many as 115 direct contacts of Gidderbaha town’s first Covid-19 patient, who kept the health authorities on tenterhooks as he was unwilling to share details of his travel history, have been tested negative in the last three days. Dr Paramjit Sandhu, district Covid nodal officer said about 170 samples were taken since Saturday in the Subhash Nagar locality where the 45-year-old man lives. The reports of 55 people are awaited, he added. The patient, a cosmetics shop owner and a used car dealer, was tested positive for the disease on June 21 and has infected at least 10 persons, including six members of his family. Sub-divisional magistrate Om Prakash said the patient is still not parting with his travel details. “Initial information gathered from his mobile phone details collected from “dumps” or data from signal towers stated that he was in Dabwali town in Haryana a few days ago. Notice will be served to him as per the legal provisions of Epidemic Act and other provisions for not following quarantine norms after interstate movement,” he said. Muktsar senior superintended of police (SSP) Raj Bachan Sandhu said an input that the patient visited Delhi recently is still under investigation. “He will be counselled to share his travel history to enable the health authorities to zero down on the source of his infection and identify if more persons may have contracted the virus from him. Due legal action will be taken after mobile phone details are analysed in the next couple of days,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-115-contacts-of-gidderbaha-patient-who-kept-health-dept-on-toes-test-negative/story-FYvNNRc7UOpP8paWI2f2GJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Drone research centre comes up in Panchkula||The Haryana government has set up a state-of-the-art drone application and research centre (DARC) at Panchkula.Additional director general of police (ADGP), criminal investigation department (CID), Anil Kumar Rao, who inaugurated the centre, said the DARC has been conceptualised for research and training in the field of drone technology. The centre is also equipped with a drone simulator machine.Rao said that drones could be used for precise aerial photography ahead of big events or congregations, law enforcement, supervising border movements and any unmanned area requiring surveillance.He added that the training facility will help CID personnel master the technique of drone maneuvering, anti-drone tactics and research in the field.Saurabh Singh, inspector general of police (IGP), security, said the next generation of drones will have in-built safeguards and artificial intelligence which will allow them to map areas, track objects and provide analytical feedback.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drone-research-centre-comes-up-in-panchkula/story-SHzuLAdjV4A0xoZBtIsxEL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||HC sets aside bail security of ₹100 crore imposed by Faridabad court||The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside a bail bond condition of ₹100 crore imposed by a Faridabad court on a developer in a cheating case. The high court bench of justice Arun Monga termed the condition “unjust and unfair” and observed that the condition of bail should not be such which defeats the very meaning of bail. “Else, might as well decline the bail instead of giving an illusory one,” the bench observed.The court was hearing a bail plea of the promoter of SRS Group, Anil Jindal booked under Haryana Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, 2013 in March 2018 by Faridabad police in a cheating case of ₹2 lakh. Jindal was granted bail on March 27, but imposed with a condition of submitting security of ₹100 crore.He had told the court that he was behind bars since April 2018—more than 26 months. Were he to be held guilty post-trial, he already has undergone pre-trial custody equivalent to more than half (about 2/3rd) of the minimum sentence (36 months) against the offences he is suspected of. And in the appeal, he would have secured bail, but here he is in preventive custody. It was stated FIR is a result of the overall recession in the real estate sector.However, the state had argued that the amount of ₹100 crore security was justified as he had cheated a large number of people by collecting funds for about 300 companies. Further, there are 67 FIRs against him and his partners in 916 complaints and conditions have been imposed in view of these FIRs.The bench of justice Arun Monga observed that condition ought to have been determined to take into consideration the facts of this FIR with allegations though initially were of ₹2 lakh cheating now amount estimated at ₹2.75 crore due to more complaints.“Law permits curtailing the liberty of an individual suspect, but the purpose of using that power under the law is to prevent further harm to people at large in a civilised society, including the complainant(s). Liberty cannot thus be curtailed on grounds not envisaged in law or taking a rather tyrannical view on equity to impose undue conditions on liberty, as are incapable of compliance, as in the present case,” the bench observed.It added that when the accused had not pleaded for bail in all the FIRs, the court could not have taken into account other FIRs as those cases were not before it.The court, however, made it clear that this order pertains to one FIR only and he will have to apply for bail in other FIRs separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-sets-aside-bail-security-of-100-crore-imposed-by-faridabad-court/story-CjJuu2rfwuWVibVIzqFZVM.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Successive govts mortgaged Punjab, says Sidhu in his diaspora address||Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu blamed the successive governments in Punjab, particularly those at the helm in the last 25 years, for an overall degradation of the state, claiming they mortgaged the interests of its people. Speaking on the topic ‘Resurrection of Punjab’ as part of the live #SpeakUpIndia NRI series being facilitated by the Indian Overseas Congress (IOC), the cricketer-turned-politician said, “I cannot be a silent spectator to the present condition of Punjab. For the last 25 years, the system has failed us.”Though he did not name anyone, the Congress has assumed power in the state twice (2002 and 2017) under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh in the last 25 years.“Hukamranan ne Punjab nu girvi dhar ditta. Punjab de haq maar k apne pet bhare gae, jis karke ye dubda chala gaya” (The rulers have mortgaged Punjab. Compromising with the rights of Punjab, they filled their own pockets and this is the reason it went on sinking).“Revenue from the state exchequer is going to private pockets. The power of people must return to people. Only 1% people are beneficiaries of this set-up while the rest continue to suffer,” he said in a 40-minute speech which was followed by a question-answer session.IOC president Mohinder Singh Gilzian, vice president Ravi Chopra and others gave the credit of the Kartarpur corridor opening to Sidhu. Satish Sharma, chairman of the IOC’s US chapter, told Sidhu, “We are happy to see you here. I would like to convey the message of Punjabis living in the US that everyone wants to see you as Punjab CM.”Sidhu also advocated setting up of NRI centres for encouraging those settled abroad to make investments in the country. He also called for establishing a tribunal to protect their interests and deal with the disputes related to their businesses and land.Among those who attended the session were IOC office-bearers from countries like the US, Canada, Australia besides Europe and the Gulf. Also, one-minute silence was observed in the memory of 20 Indian soldiers recently killed in the India-China faceoff at Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/successive-govts-mortgaged-punjab-says-sidhu-in-his-diaspora-address/story-XVpzOiaM1iTAqfDapZ2TuN.html
29-06-2020||City||Covid-19: Three cases each surface in Chandigarh, Mohali||Three more cases of Covid-19 were reported from three different sectors on Monday, taking Chandigarh’s tally to 434. Three people also tested positive in Mohali, taking the district’s total to 259, while no new case surfaced in Panchkula, where 111 people have been infected so far.A 60-year-old woman tested positive in Sector 29, Chandigarh. A son, who stays with her, has been tested too. Her other contacts are a son who lives in Sector 33 and a daughter who lives in Panjab University. A 15-year-old boy from Sector 41 who is the family member of a previous positive case from the same sector has also contracted the infection. The third case was reported from Sector 23, where a 39-year-old man has been found infected. He has three family members, who have been sampled.Meanwhile, 13 patients have been discharged, which takes the number of recovered patients to 349 and active cases to 79.In Mohali, a 28-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan, who had flu-like symptoms, and a 30-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman of Baheda village, who were contacts of a patient, tested positive.Meanwhile, two patients from Kurali, including a seven-year-old girl, were discharged. The district has 60 active cases, as 196 people have been cured and three have died so far.DSW OFFICE SHUT IN PANJAB UNIVERSITYThe office of dean students’ welfare (DSW) remained closed at Panjab University on Monday after an employee tested positive for Covid-19 and 14 others were quarantined on Sunday. “The office is being sanitised,” said DSW SK Tomar. Meanwhile, the administration block and Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, which were closed for sanitisation after the first Covid-19 case surfaced at PU on June 24, reopened on Monday.Meanwhile, UT administrator VPS Badnore on Monday directed health officials to focus on vulnerable categories, such as pregnant women, senior citizens and children. He said residents should immediately report any symptom so that treatment could be started early.UNLOCK 2: NIGHT CURFEW SET TO BE CURTAILEDAfter the central government on Monday issued guidelines for the Phase 2 of Unlock, the UT administration is all set to change the timings of night curfew to between 10pm and 5pm. Currently, it is from 9pm to 5am. Chandigarh, being a Union Territory, will be following the central guidelines in toto, confirmed a senior official. Final decisions regarding Unlock 2 relaxations will be taken in the UT administrator’s war room meeting. The administration is also actively considering allowing restaurants and hotels to serve liquor from July 1.Recently, the Hotels and Restaurants Association, Chandigarh, gave a memorandum to the administration to allow them to serve liquor on the pattern of Punjab and extend the dine-in timings till 11pm.The administration had decided not to allow serving of liquor till June 30, and had stated a decision in this regard will be taken at the end of Unlock 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-three-cases-each-surface-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-eNZbgukXPY6VzC4fQ3fbAL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 138 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||AMRITSAR/SANGRUR/PATIALA/LUDHIANA Punjab on Monday reported four deaths and 138 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state’s tally to 5,423‬‬. The state has so far reported 138 deaths, according to field reports received till 10pm.TWO PEOPLE DIE OF VIRUS IN AMRITSARTwo Amritsar residents died of Covid-19 at government hospitals, health officials said. “Those dead include a 55-year-old man of Chowk Passian and a 71-year-old man of Shariffpura locality,” said civil surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh.The district also reported 22 fresh cases on Monday, of which 18 are fresh community transmission cases and 4 are close contacts of the Covid-19 patients. Tarn Taran reported six cases and all are community transmissions.MALERKOTLA MAN DIES AT PATIALA HOSPITALA 55-year-old man died of Covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, a health department spokesperson said on Monday. Meanwhile, 35 more people tested positive for the virus in Sangrur district. Of these 12 are from Sangrur town, 11 from Moonak, 7 from Malerkotla, 2 from Longowal, one each from Fatehgarh Panjgrian, Sherpur and Amargarh.Meanwhile, a former civil surgeon of Pathankot, 59, and a laboratory technician at the civil hospital in Hoshiarpur have tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, three more people from Pathankot district tested positive. Ten health workers at the maternity ward of the Ferozepur civil hospital contracted infection after a 28-year-old woman tested positive five days after delivery.ONE DEAD, 14 +VE IN PATIALAA 55-year-old patient died, while 14 persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Patiala district. Civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a resident of Sadaranpur village in Patran sub-division was admitted at government hospital in sector-32 at Chandigarh where he succumbed to disease on Monday. He added that among others tested positive include nine contacts of earlier tested positive, three of influenza like illness symptoms and three other persons including 29-year-old pregnant woman.18 FRESH CASES IN LUDHIANA Eighteen more people contracted the virus in Ludhiana. Of these, 10 patients belong to Ludhiana, while the others belong to Sangrur, Barnala , Moga, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Jammu. The positive patients detected on Monday include a staff member of Ludhiana central jail, a doctor from DMC hospital and three staff members of SPS hospital. Meanwhile, two fresh cases were reported from in Rupnagar, nine in Barnala, seven in Kapurthala, three in Faridkot and eight in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-deaths-138-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab/story-fkVDuXhGRG6LCq0ILb1M5M.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Baba Ramdev case: Record complainant statement by July 23, says Chandigarh dist court||The Chandigarh district court on Monday asked for recording of statements of complainants and witnesses by July 23 in a criminal complaint filed against Baba Ramdev and Patanjali Ayurveda Limited, an Uttrakhand firm, on June 26.The complaint was filed by Bikramjit Singh, general secretary of the National Consumer Welfare Council at Chandigarh, seeking registration of a criminal case against Baba Ramdev and his firm for the alleged sale of adulterated drugs and attempt to murder under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Drugs and Magic Remedies Act.Bikramjit Singh in his complaint invoked sections 275 (sale of adulterated drugs), 276 (sale of drug as a different drug or preparation), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, and section 4 of Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act, 1954.Medical prescriptions for diseases and consumption cannot be advertised without approvals from competent authorities, Bikramjit Singh contended. Such approvals are rare and granted after the medical council and authorities inspect their quality and genuineness.The complaint was registered days after a press conference by Patanjali Ayurveda Limited on June 23, claiming its products Coronil tablet, Swasari vati and Anu Taila had shown “100% favourable results” during clinical trials on Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baba-ramdev-case-record-complainant-statement-by-july-23-says-chandigarh-dist-court/story-D27oPT6rO8ArXPHkwzFzAJ.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||11 remaining liquor vends in Chandigarh sold out for ₹34.22 crore||In the second round of e-tendering held on Monday, the UT excise and taxation department received 23 bids for 11 liquor vends, the allotment of which was pending. After opening of e-financial bids, 11 liquor vends were allotted against which the department received a revenue of ₹34.22 crore against ₹27.83 crore reserve price with an increase of 23%.The department collected ₹299.53 crore from 89 liquor vends in the shape of license fees against a reserve price of ₹244.16 crore, registering an increase of approximately 22.68% over the reserve price. It also earned ₹6.30 crore in shape of participation fee.Last year, the department had fetched ₹ 343.63 crore from the auction of 81 vends, 34% increase over the reserve price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-remaining-liquor-vends-in-chandigarh-sold-out-for-34-22-crore/story-kABjoYyTAhbNLuDFNbyc2M.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Door-to-door drive to collect samples starts in Amritsar||The health department and the administration on Monday started door-to-door collection of samples for Covid-19 testing in the Amritsar district with a view to putting in place more effective prevention measures. To start with, a mobile van of the municipal corporation (MC) started collecting samples in the city’s two containment and as many micro- containment zones. Thereafter, more such vans may be pressed into service in other areas, health officials said. “The residents of containment zones were reluctant to visit the nearby sample collection centres thinking that they might get infected if they came in contact with others. Due to this, the health department was unable to achieve the target of random sample collection in the city’s two containment zones. Two teams of doctors will be sent in the van at one time,” said assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh.Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “This is the first initiative in Punjab to launch a door-to-door sample collection facility. The van has been designed specially to avoid direct contact of health officials with the public. The van has adequate space for storing the samples. If the plan remains successful, the health department will use more such vans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-door-to-door-drive-to-collect-samples-starts-in-amritsar/story-vTOZGK44YMFNgC8AFxAxXN.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Continuity, competence guiding factors in chief secy’s appointment: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said continuity and competence were the guiding factors in the appointment of the new chief secretary.Addressing a press conference, Amarinder said the government did not “pass over” (supersede) anyone and looked at continuity while naming Vini Mahajan, a 1997-batch IAS officer, as the chief secretary. “I wanted continuity. I do not go by religion or caste,” he said before going into details.Mahajan was appointed as the first woman chief secretary of Punjab on Friday. Her husband Dinkar Gupta, also a 1987-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, is the state police chief. The CM said all other senior officers would retire before the 2022 (the term of the present govt ends in March 2022). “KBS Sidhu is the seniorost in the state, but will retire in June 2021. Arun Goel and C Roul are on central deputation. Kalpana Mittal Barua and Satish Chandra are also retiring in a few months,” he said.The CM said he had no one other than Mahajan who would have carried on till 2022. If someone is trying to make noise about why not a Sikh officer, I want to make it clear that we do not look at it that way,” he said, volunteering information on the chief secretary’s appointment in response to a query relating to Dinkar Gupta.The CM was asked whether Gupta is planning to go on central deputation after his empanelment for the post of director general or DG equivalent at the centre and he responded in the negative. “I won’t let him go. He is a good officer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/continuity-competence-guiding-factors-in-chief-secy-s-appointment-punjab-cm/story-XqClRjY1zps2P9shnF25BI.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||324 stranded Indians fly into Chandigarh from New Zealand, Kuwait||Continuing with the Vande Bharat Mission to bring home Indians stranded in various countries, evacuation flights from New Zealand and Kuwait with 324 passengers arrived at Chandigarh International Airport on Monday.An Air India flight with 140 passengers from Auckland (New Zealand) arrived at Chandigarh via Delhi at 7:30 am, an hour after its scheduled arrival at 6.30am. The GoAir G8-7185 flight from Kuwait had 184 passengers, most of them jobless because of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.This was the second evacuation flight from Auckland (New Zealand), the first arriving on June 17, and the first flight from Kuwait. Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the passengers arriving from the two flights had been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their destinationsThe administration had taken possession of their passports.So far, eight flights under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission phase 2 have arrived at Chandigarh from the US, Ukraine, New Zealand, Kuwait and Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/324-stranded-indians-fly-into-chandigarh-from-new-zealand-kuwait/story-P668Dk2qEwHEyvSfX7MDHK.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Three siblings arrested for assaulting constable at police post in Ludhiana||Three siblings were arrested for allegedly assaulting a constable and tearing his uniform at Basant Park police post on Monday. The accused have been identified as Rahul Kumar, and his brothers Rohit and Ajay, all residents of Harkrishan Nagar in New Shimlapuri. Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer at Shimlapuri police station said the accused are already facing trial in an assault case registered against them one and a half months ago and are out on bail.The complainant, Gurjinder Singh, said he was on sentry duty outside Basant Park police post when the accused and their aides came there and asked to meet post in-charge ASI Jagtar Singh.As the ASI was busy, the accused were asked to wait.“They tried to barge into the in-charge’s office and when I tried to stop them, they assaulted me. On hearing the commotion, the in-charge and others came forward to my rescue,” the constable said.Brar said a case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-siblings-arrested-for-assaulting-constable-at-police-post-in-ludhiana/story-X4ppjdR9kU6WMNQqxB9raN.html
29-06-2020||City||Women’s panel got 20,000 lockdown-related calls||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday said that it received 34,454 distress calls between March 22 and June 28 on its 181 helpline, almost double the number of calls it received during the same time last year. The difference was that this time, around 20,000 calls were related to lockdown queries, including distribution of food and ration and interstate movement. The commission said the number of crimes being reported against women on the helpline reduced for a while but picked up again after the lockdown was lifted. “Majority of the callers asked about lockdown rules, distribution of food and interstate movement. The commission received more than 20,000 such calls and provided assistance to the complainants,” said a statement issued by the commission on Monday. It added that fewer crimes against women were reported this year compared to the corresponding period last year. “For instance, domestic violence complaints for the period March to June in 2019 were 8188. Last year, during the same duration, 6909 cases were reported,” it said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “The reporting of cases had decreased during the initial days of the lockdown. It has also been observed that the reporting of crimes also decreased during the lockdown when compared to the similar period last year. The commission has taken several measures to create awareness for better reporting of crimes against women. Such calls have started increasing now with the gradual reopening of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-s-panel-got-20-000-lockdown-related-calls/story-WjcURFnUTyiakiqTGpn3GJ.html
29-06-2020||City||Tablighi Jamaat: HC asks Centre, Delhi govt to respond to foreigners’ plea on alternative accommodation||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre, the Delhi government and the city police on a plea by several foreign nationals of the Tablighi Jamaat, who participated in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event during the Covid-19 lockdown, seeking permission to add three more alternative accommodations for them.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government and police and posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday.The application had sought modification of the court’s May 28 order, seeking to include three more alternative accommodation for the foreign nationals connected to Tablighi Jamaat in light of ongoing criminal proceedings.On May 28, the high court had directed that 955 foreign nationals, who had participated in the Markaz, be shifted from institutional quarantine centres, where they were kept since March 30 despite testing negative for Covid-19, to nine alternative accommodations.The plea, filed through advocates Mandakini Singh and Ashima Mandla, said that during the course of the month, 65 foreign nationals housed at Meeraj International School have faced discomfort with the arrangements there. It said the community is praying for permission to immediately shift the 65 foreign nationals from Meeraj International School to Texan Public School in Maujpur, a new accommodation suggested by them.The high court had on May 28 disposed of two petitions filed by different foreign nationals seeking to be shifted to alternative accommodation and stating that the financial burden will be borne by the community, Tablighi Jamaat. It warned that they should not shift to any other location without Delhi Police’s permission.The Delhi police had in March registered a case against th top management of Tabhighi Jamaat for allegedly defying government orders to contain the spread of Covid-19. Police had said that despite the government placing restriction on gatherings, members of the religious group, including many foreigners had gathered for a congregation inside their headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tablighi-jamaat-hc-asks-centre-delhi-govt-to-respond-to-foreigners-plea-on-alternative-accommodation/story-S50eJmI8EotczBqU4jAl5L.html
29-06-2020||City||Why were blacklisted Tablighi Jamaat members not deported? SC tells Centre to explain||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to explain by Thursday if the visas issued to nearly 2,500 foreigners who had attended a congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in Nizamuddin were revoked, why they were not deported yet. The court observed that the ministry of home affairs had blacklisted these 2500 foreigners yet they were allowed to “linger on in India”, stressing that it wants to see the official order against the Jamaat attendees. The Delhi Police have submitted charge sheets against 900 Tablighi Jamaat members, which also includes foreigners, accused them of allegedly attending the religious congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, in violation of their visa conditions and the Indian government’s guidelines on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.A three-judge vacation bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna wished to know if the action against these individuals were based on a press release of April 2 and June 4 or whether specific orders were issued to the affected individuals. Senior advocates Chandra Uday Singh and Salman Khurshid informed the Court that the blacklisted foreign nationals want to return home but were unable to do so as FIRs have been registered consequent to which their passports were impounded by the local police.With solicitor general Tushar Mehta in attendance through videoconferencing, the bench observed, “We want to know if their visas have been cancelled, why they have not been extradited. Why are they still here? On this ground alone we can throw out these petitions.”Mehta sought a week’s time but the court directed the matter to be listed on Thursday. The bench told the petitioners that the court cannot proceed on basis of a press release and wished to see the specific orders cancelling the visas.The petitioners before the Court hail from Indonesia, China, Malaysia, Thailand, Fiji, Jordan, Sudan, Tanzania, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Kenya, Mali, Morocco and Tunisia. Many among them were released from quarantine in May but were later housed in facilities with restricted movement.Advocate Fuzail Ahmed Ayyubi who drafted the petitions for these foreigners said that the Constitutional right under Article 21 is available even to non-citizens and such right cannot be withdrawn unilaterally by the government without hearing them. The petitions stated that visa guidelines do not restrict visiting religious places or attending religious events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-were-blacklisted-tablighi-jamaat-members-not-deported-sc-tells-centre-to-explain/story-tO83hMKZWvFEHFC0viR7bP.html
29-06-2020||City||HC stays Delhi govt’s move to reserve 50% seats at National Law University||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed the move by the Delhi government to introduce 50% reservation at National Law University, Delhi for students who have passed their qualifying exams in college or institutions located in the city while stating that it was not justified of the University to bypass the governing council and proceed to reserve seats on the strength of the decision of the vice-chancellor of the university.The Court said that it appeared that NLU, Delhi succumbed to the pressure by the Delhi government without waiting for the recommendations of the committee constituted by the governing council. It said that once the governing council had decided to constitute a committee to look into the procedure that may be followed on the issue of providing reservation for candidates clearing the qualifying examination from institutes situated in Delhi, there was no occasion to side step the committee and the vice-chancellor could not have decided the issue without approaching the governing council for appropriate sanctions.The governing council is the plenary authority in the University which formulates and reviews from time to time, the broad policies and programmes of University. The council is the supreme authority of the university comprising of the chancellor (the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court), the vice-chancellor, who is appointed under the NLU Act. It also comprises of several other members including two sitting Judges of Delhi High Court, chief secretary of Delhi government and chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi.In an interim order, a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said that the decision for providing horizontal reservation has been taken by the NLU, Delhi in haste without acting in accordance with the NLU Act.It directed the NLU, Delhi to issue fresh admission notification before 2nd July and is also directed to publish it on its website. The main matter would be heard on August 18.The court’s interim judgment comes while hearing a plea by the students of the varsity challenging the decision of the NLU of reserving 50% seats for the students who have passed their qualifying exams in college or institutions in the city.“We are of the opinion that if the impugned notification is not stayed, grave prejudice would be caused to the students who would be applying for admission in the NLU, Delhi for the academic year 2020-21. In fact, staying the operation of the impugned notification insofar as horizontal reservation of seats for students belonging to Delhi has been provided for the academic year 2020-21, would result in inviting a larger section of students,” the bench said.The court also said that the Governing Council had constituted a Committee under the Chairmanship of Justice NV Ramana, Judge, Supreme Court, which included Chief Secretary, Delhi government and Secretary, Higher Education, Government of Delhi and the Registrar, NLU, Delhi. It said that this Committee was to examine the entire issue and forward its recommendations to the Governing Council.The bench said, that however nothing is placed on record to demonstrate that any recommendation was placed before the Governing Council, which is the only body is constituted to take decisions on all important matters relating to the University and its functioning.“Status quo ante as of the previous academic year shall be maintained for making admissions to the BA LL.B (Five Year Programme) and LL.M (One Year Programme) in NLU, Delhi, for the academic year 2020-21. NLU is directed to issue a public notice on or before July 2, informing the public at large about the decision taken above and granting a further period of one week from the date of issuance of public notice to enable interested candidates to submit their applications for admission.“The redrawn schedule will not interfere with the entrance examinations that are to take place in August 2020 The order passed shall also be uploaded on the website of the NLU, Delhi forthwith,” the bench said in a 23-page judgment.Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul and advocate Nipun Saxena, told the court that varsity’s move was unconstitutional since providing 22% reservation to OBC and 10% reservation to EWS category without increasing the total number is against the mandate of guidelines issued by Ministry of Human Resource and Development (MHRD).Ramesh Singh, Delhi government standing counsel, had contended that the decision to introduce reservation contended that NLU Delhi is not a Central institute of excellence and it is only a state university that came into existence on the basis of the Act enacted by the Delhi legislature. It was also contended that no student who intends to apply for admission in NLU, Delhi has challenged the notification or the admission prospectus and the reservation which is being extended to regional students will not prejudice the interests of the petitioners and, therefore, the said petition should be dismissed on the ground of maintainability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-stays-delhi-govt-s-move-to-reserve-50-seats-at-national-law-university/story-bVQ7iXG8Nv9SETNZk4JbDP.html
29-06-2020||City||BJP alleges discoms sending inflated bills||New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday alleged that the discoms had sent huge power bills to both residential and commercial units for the lockdown period and demanded the Aam Aadmi Party government waive off fixed charges for commercial connections.Dellhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta there are complaints from RWAs and commercial units regarding provisional bills being sent by the discoms. The BJP said that instead of provisional bills, the government should direct discoms to send actual bills to people.Gupta said while the AAP government had made a budgetary provision of Rs 2,820 crore for subsidy, it was not reaching people. “The discoms were unable to conduct meter reading during the lockdown, but consumers received electricity bills for almost 94 days. In these bills, consumption is shown per month, but in the month where the consumption is less than 200 and 400 units, subsidy was not provided to the consumers,” Gupta said.Commercial establishments, especially small and big industries, were closed during lockdown but they have been charged huge bills along with fixed charges, the BJP said.“Almost two lakh small and big industries and seven lakh shops and offices were closed in lockdown. But still they were sent huge electricity bills and are being asked to pay fixed charges. We want the benefit of subsidy to be given to consumers and the fixed charge in electricity bills of commercial places should be removed with immediate effect,” said Gupta.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “There has been no increase in our policy or the subsidy we provide. If there are any specific cases, we will absolutely look into it and make sure the discoms fix any discrepancy that may have caused it. The BJP is always free to send details to the government about such discrepancies, and we will immediately act on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-alleges-discoms-sending-inflated-bills/story-IUQoddU5lCH0GyS6H8qebO.html
29-06-2020||City||Dead ITBP constable’s Covid-19 test is positive||New Delhi: Three days after an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) constable allegedly shot himself dead using his service rifle at a police station in central Delhi, his Covid-19 test done after the death has come positive, Delhi Police said on Monday. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the test on the ITBP constable’s body was done at Lady Hardinge Hospital. “His report confirmed he was positive for the virus,” he said.Senior police officers said the constable may not have known he was infected with the virus as the test was not done when he was alive. “The exact reason behind his step is not known as no suicide note was found,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dead-itbp-constable-s-covid-19-test-is-positive/story-Gre7uTsaPBkpsWwurNnCbP.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Indian Oil Corporation to set up R&D centre in Faridabad||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday digitally laid the foundation stone of Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOC) state-of-the-art research and development (R&D) centre to come up in Faridabad. The centre, the second of its kind and spread across 60 acres, will be built at a cost of around ₹2,282 crore, an official spokesperson said. Pradhan said the R&D centre will emerge as a laboratory for an alternative, clean, and indigenous energy solution. He called it a big step towards realising the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in making India self-reliant in all sectors, especially the energy. He urged the IOC to provide further impetus to waste-to-energy programmes in Haryana and work towards making the state a global model in alternative energy solutions. The oil firm will also set up an ethanol plant in Panipat’s Bohali. Khattar said Haryana has become a preferred investment destination for entrepreneurs as setting up a new industry had become easier in the state. Presently, Haryana is on third position in the country in terms of ‘ease of doing business’ and first among all northern states, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indian-oil-corporation-to-set-up-r-d-centre-in-faridabad/story-axYDZewRLlJNI04V21iKBM.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Kharar MLA opposes high toll rates of Khanpur toll plaza||Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu on Monday visited the new toll plaza near Khanpur, constructed by NHAI, on Kharar-Ludhiana Highway. He said that since a large number of people from Kharar and nearby villages visit Morinda or Chandigarh University, Gharuan, on a daily basis, the people staying within 5-km radius of the toll barrier should be exempt from paying the fee.“The fee is hefty (₹65 per visit – one way), and those travelling to Ludhiana and back on the road are paying as much as ₹260 per trip,” Sandhu said.The MLA added that he has taken up the matter with Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan who said he would take it up with NHAI authorities. He added he will raise the issue in the forthcoming Vidhan Sabha session.MLA Sandhu pitches for war memorial in KhararSandhu demanded that a war memorial-cum-public park be constructed on the vacant 15-acre defence land opposite the church on Kharar-Mohali road.Speaking to the media, the MLA said he has written to Lt General RP Singh, general officer commanding in chief, Western Army Command, and district authorities in this regard.The letter says that flag hoisting on Army Day and other days of national importance can be observed at the proposed war memorial. “Names of all soldiers from Kharar who were killed in action can be inscribed on a plaque at the proposed war memorial,” Sandhu said. He suggested that the entire plot should be fenced, or a boundary wall be constructed around it, and besides the war memorial, a public park should come up on it. “The maintenance of the plot could be entrusted to the Kharar civic body under the supervision of the nearest Army sub-area. This will ensure proper utilisation of the land and benefit the people of Kharar,” the MLA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kharar-mla-opposes-high-toll-rates-of-khanpur-toll-plaza/story-VrH5oEwV57ONIFpzLrbLbP.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister inaugurates mother child hospital in Ludhiana’s Khanna||Ludhiana Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated a 30-bed mother child hospital in Khanna on Monday. He said 25 government hospitals have been started in the state in 2020, and 12 more will be established by the end of the year.Sidhu said that to check the shortage of staff in the department, an agenda to recruit 4,000 personnel will be put up in a cabinet meeting shortly. Besides this, services of contractual staff will also be regularised soon, the minister said.He assured that the Khanna civil hospital building will be repaired soon and there will be no shortage of ambulances. He said he will also raise the issue of opening a medical college in the area with the chief minister.He added that Punjab’s performance in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic has been commendable and saving lives is the government’s priority.Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh said the mother child hospital will prove beneficial for residents of the area. He appreciated the efforts of health department in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-inaugurates-mother-child-hospital-in-ludhiana-s-khanna/story-7EUy68PFKDAmQTmmrHcnNP.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Strong winds cause power disruptions in Ludhiana||Strong winds on Sunday night caused power disruption in several areas of Ludhiana, resulting in a sleepless night for residents. Duration of power cuts ranged from six to 12 hours as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) struggled to repair damaged infrastructure. Even attempts to submit complaints at the helpline number - 1912 were in vain as the number remained unreachable or busy.Power disruptions were witnessed in Model Town extension, BRS Nagar, Haibowal, New Model town, Tagore Nagar, Bhamiyan road, civil lines and Dugri among other areas. Gurdeep Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said,”Power supply was disrupted in my area after strong winds hit the city on Sunday night at around 11.30pm. It resumed at around 6am and residents were left a harried lot. The PSPCL should work on improving its infrastructure otherwise residents will continue to suffer.”Residents also rued that shortage of staff is taking a toll on PSPCL’s system. Nalin Kaushik, a resident of Jagjit Nagar in Threeke village, said,”When residents contacted PSPCL, officials said they are facing shortage of manpower. The supply resumed at around 2pm on Monday. This also affected water supply in the area.” Varinderpal Singh Saini, PSPCL’s Ludhiana central chief engineer, said, “The staff worked throughout the night to repair damaged infrastructure and power supply resumes in most areas by Monday morning.” Over 300 poles, 100 transformers damaged in KhannaMajor damage was reported from Khanna as over 300 poles and 100 transformers were damaged. “Damage has been reported from Bhari and Wadali Ala Singh sub divisions. The staff is working to repair the damage but it will take some more time to repair the entire system,” Saini said.Four cars damaged in Tagore NagarA full grown tree fell in Tagore Nagar, badly damaging four cars. No casualty was reported.The city also witnessed 3.6 mm rainfall on Sunday, which resulted in pleasant weather for a few hours in the morning. Scorching heat was witnessed again in the afternoon. As per experts at school of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the weather is expected to remain partly cloudy on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/strong-winds-cause-power-disruptions-in-ludhiana/story-bkkikGSqAadkC9Bd60LJWL.html
29-06-2020||City||Ulhasnagar residents oppose demolition during lockdown||The residents of Ulhasnagar have opposed razing of dangerous buildings during the lockdown. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) had initiated demolition of two vacant extremely dangerous building in its vicinity. The UMC has listed 30 buildings as extremely dangerous and 118 building as dangerous this year. Notices are sent to the residents of these buildings to vacate them.The civic body has initiated the demolition of two buildings, Ambika Sagar apartment at Camp-3 and Shanti Palace apartment at Camp-2. 25 families of Ambika Sagar went homeless after the incident.Moti Jagwani, 59, who lived in the Ambika Sagar apartment and now living at his relatives place said, “In May the civic body posted a notice on the building asking to demolish the structure in seven days or they will demolish it. We are homeless since after the incident and how can we arrange for the demolition of the building during the lockdown. The civic body never spoke about our rehabilitation and now they are razing the structure.” A three-year-boy had died and his grandmother was injured after a ceiling of this apartment had collapsed on July 27,2019.Another building Roop sagar, located in Ulhasnagar 3 in which six families reside and also three shops operate recently got a notice from the civic body asking to either repair or vacate the building.“At this point of time how can the civic body ask the residents to vacate or carry out the repair works of the building? The families in the building are clueless and are living in fear,” said Indar Varliyani, a resident of Roop Sagar apartment.“We have now found the contractor and hence initiated the work. Meanwhile other buildings which are in the list have been served with notice asking the residents and owners to vacate and demolish it voluntarily, “said Shimpi.Social activist from Ulhasnagar Sashikant Dayma said, “Serving notices to the residents and asking them to demolish the structure and vacate during the lockdown period is it not acceptable. Where will people go if their building is demolished? The civic body should have first rehabilitate them.”“Due to the lockdown the residents’ didn’t get the opportunity to either vacate the buildings or demolish the structure. The civic body should think of all these factors,” he added.Assistant commissioner of UMC Ganesh Shimpi said, “We are not evicting the residents, but only demolishing those building which are vacant. Several residents living in the surrounding had approached the civic body asking to demolish such structures. We could not do the demolition work due to lack of contractor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ulhasnagar-residents-oppose-demolition-during-lockdown/story-a7VVCNcG3PpkA8ndgppZZP.html
29-06-2020||City||LOCKDOWN STRESS: 24-year-old leaves video message before hanging self||A 24-year-old man ended his life by hanging himself in his house in Bazigar Basti in Gazipur, Zirakpur, on Monday. Before taking the extreme step, the youth recorded a video in which he stated that he was under stress due to the lockdown and no one should be held responsible for his death. His father told the police that the 24-year-old, who worked at a shop, was to get married but it was postponed due to the lockdown. Police have initiated inquest proceedings and kept the body in the mortuary of Dera Bassi civil hospital.DADUMAJRA MAN HANGS SELF AFTER FIGHT WITH WIFE, MOTHERA 32-year-old man was found hanging in his house in Dadumajra village on Monday morning. As per the police, the man was an auto driver and was out of work due to the lockdown. He had been drinking heavily for the past few days and on Sunday night, he had an argument with his wife and mother. The next morning, one of his tenants found his body hanging from a fan. Police have initiated inquest proceedings uand shifted the body to the mortuary of Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-stress-24-year-old-leaves-video-message-before-hanging-self/story-oKZZoDnXNvLm10zWE7rZXL.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi University admissions: Fewer applications under sports quota; officials cite difficulties in getting certificates issued||Delhi University till Monday — five days before its registration process for admissions to various undergraduate course closes — had received only a handful of applications under the sports quota.While some officials cited difficulties in procuring merit or participation certificates amid the Covid-19 pandemic as a reason behind the drop in applications, others added that a change in criteria for admission under the sports quota has also discouraged aspirants.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi University this year has decided to skip the trials that are held for admissions under the sports quota. The candidates will be given admissions based on their merit and participation certificates only. In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) categories collectively in each course. This year, the university has decided to scrap admissions under ECA categories, excluding NSS and NCC, owing to the prevailing situation.According to data shared by the university’s admission branch, the number of applications received this year from aspirants opting for popular sports, such as athletics, football, basketball and cricket, is not even 30% of what it was last year, as of Sunday. For instance, the overall number of applications received under the sports quota from aspirants choosing football was 1,578 last year. However, only 317 applicants have applied under the discipline this year till Sunday evening. Similarly, the number of applications in athletics, basketball, cricket and volleyball stood low at 360, 344, 248 and 227 respectively, till now. Last year, the number of applications in these disciplines were 1,297, 1,223, 1,001 and 940, respectively.Pankaj Sinha, a member of the DU’s sports council, said that candidates are facing difficulties in getting their participation and merit certificates issued. These certificates are to be uploaded along with the applications. “The offices of schools, universities, federations and sports academies are closed for more than two months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to this students have not been able to get their merit and participation certificates issued. This is a major reason as to why many could not apply to DU as of now. It’s mandatory for the candidates to upload certificates with their applications. We do not allow letter heads or any slips. We are sure that the number of applications will increase in the next few days,” he said.Sinha said that around 700 students seeking admissions in postgraduate courses under the sports quota have also applied for the issuance of their certificates from the University’s council itself. “We have received many applications from the candidates requesting to extend the dates of registration so that they can get some more time to get their sports certificates issued,” he said.Several sports teachers in colleges across the University said that the changes in the criteria this year can also be a reason behind low applications. Mukesh Agrawal, assistant professor in physical education in Maharaja Agrasen College, said, “Every year we get so many students who either did not get opportunities to play above the zonal level or avoided participation in competition in order to focus on their studies after class 10. Many students last year did not have winning certificates but they performed well in the trials. This year, these students will get affected. Many students might not apply in the category thinking they won’t get admission.”For applying under the sports quota, candidates have to submit merit or participation certificates of the preceding three years. This year the certificates dated May 1, 2017, to April 30, 2020, will be applicable. Himanshu Panwar, 18, a resident of Haryana’s Hisar district, said that the latest certificate he has was for the year 2018. “My parents did not allow me to participate in competitions after class 10 and that’s why my last win was at the state-level in Judo in the year 2018. I was banking on the trials since they carried 60 marks till last year. There are no trials now. I am still thinking about what to do,” he said.Benu Gupta, associate professor in Physical Education at Kirori Mal College, said, “It’s possible that the students are unable to procure original certificates of the tournaments that had happened immediately before the lockdown was announced. In such cases, the administration should consider the letters issued by the concerned authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-admissions-fewer-applications-under-sports-quota-officials-cite-difficulties-in-getting-certificates-issued/story-epjdctxV4yCsVZTUR5ZU4I.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown, OPD closure led to 50% decrease in Ayushman Bharat patients in Chandigarh||The UT health department has cited lockdown, OPD closure and fear of infection spread among patients for the dip in the number of cases registered under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana in Chandigarh in the last three months.Under the scheme, cashless hospitalisation care is offered for over 1,300 surgical or medical services through an annual cover of Rs 5 lakh per family for around 10 crore poor and vulnerable households. Patients seek free treatment from empanelled public and private hospitals, which file claims for reimbursement by the government.A National Health Authority (NHA) report, released recently, revealed that cases registered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme fell by 50% during the lockdown period in the Chandigarh. The drop was higher than what was seen in the states of Punjab and Haryana as well.Director, health services, Dr G Dewan said that about 60% of the patients in Chandigarh hospitals come from the neighbouring states. “But due to the lockdown and restriction in movement, this load has decreased considerably,” he said, adding that due to the closure of outpatient departments also, the number of prospective cases has seen a dip. As per health authorities, most people are also avoiding visiting hospitals due to the fear of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-opd-closure-led-to-50-decrease-in-ayushman-bharat-patients-in-chandigarh/story-8GgMg0Zajr1G1BAfqzTAMI.html
29-06-2020||City||22-yr-old found dead in car in Pinjore, overdose suspected||A youth was found dead in a car parked on the link road near Charnia village on Pinjore-Nalagarh highway on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Keshav, 22, hailing from Baddi. Police suspect he died of drug overdose as a syringe and two vials were found in the car. There were also signs of bleeding from the nose.A relative, Anmol Singh, told the police that Keshav had borrowed his car on Sunday, stating that he was going to get some medicines and would return in 10 minutes. However, he did not return till late evening, following which the family approached the police. The cops told them to contact his friends and see if he had gone to visit them. They told the family that if Keshav does not return till Monday, they will register a case.“We called Keshav’s friends but did not get any information. On Monday morning, we received a call from Pinjore police station informing us that Keshav was found dead in the car,” said Anmol, who added that he was not aware if Keshav was addicted to drugs.The body has been sent to the mortuary in Kalka civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-yr-old-found-dead-in-car-in-pinjore-overdose-suspected/story-wa5YnwWGPoYQn7dsklfoHN.html
29-06-2020||Patna||Raghuvansh sulking, RJD puts Rama Singh’s entry on hold||PATNAInduction of former LJP MP Rama Kishore Singh into the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has been put on hold in the wake of former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh tendering his resignation from the post of vice-president of the party, though it is yet to be accepted by chief Lalu Yadav.Rama Singh was scheduled to join the RJD on Monday.“I was scheduled to join the RJD on Monday, but the programme has been cancelled due to some reason. Whenever the RJD asks me to join, I will,” said the former LJP leader, who was elected to the Bihar Assembly five times before being elected MP from Vaishali in 2014, where he trounced RJD veteran and five-term MP Raghuvansh.Earlier this month, Rama Singh, who had quit LJP in 2019 after being denied a ticket for the Lok Sabha election, had met RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav and before that Lalu Prasad in Ranchi. A few days ago, he even announced his imminent induction into the RJD, following which Raghuvansh Prasad shot off his resignation letter. Both Rama Singh and Raghuvansh Prasad are Rajputs with sizeable influence in the community.While Tejashwi was not available for comment, RJD spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said Rama Singh’s induction was put on hold for the time being. ‘Raghuvansh Babu is our guardian and our entire focus is on his recovery. Today, we have got news that he has tested negative. After five days, there will be another test. Any decision regarding Rama Singh will be taken by the party high command,” he said.Rahuvansh Prasad, who was down with Covid-19, has recovered, though he will remain in hospital for another few days. He was admitted to AIIMS-Patna after testing positive on June 17.Last week, five RJD MLCs had left the party and joined the JD-U the same day Raghuvansh Praasad Singh resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghuvansh-sulking-rjd-puts-rama-singh-s-entry-on-hold/story-vCGMHMA6XUVb9qQB9l5nuL.html
29-06-2020||City||Missing ‘saroops’: Ex-employee files police complaint against SGPC officials||AMRITSAR A former employee of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Kanwaljit Singh has lodged a complaint with Amritsar police commissioner against the officials of the gurdwara body with regard to missing of 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib from its publishing house.Kanwaljit, who retired from service on May 31, in the complaint refuted SGPC’s claim that only 14 ‘saroops’ were damaged in the 2016 fire. He said the number of ‘saroops’ damaged in the blaze and due to water in fire control operation was 80 and the SGPC officials hid this truth. “The record of remaining 187 saroops was taken away from me by the SGPC officials. They did so to hide the 2016 incident,” he said.“Apart from forcibly getting an affidavit from me, the SGPC officials continue to harass me to make me keep my mouth shut. I want a case registered against the SGPC officials and a free and fair inquiry. I have evidence and will produce them before the inquiry officer,” said the complainant.On the other hand, the SGPC has termed the accusations as “misleading” and “condemnable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-ex-employee-files-police-complaint-against-sgpc-officials/story-q5kt5vPwszymHq6MSELaYN.html
29-06-2020||Bangalore||Stricter measures likely after July 7 to control Covid-19 spread in Karnataka||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Monday indicated that more stringent rules are likely to be put in place after July 7 to control the spread of Covid-19 in the city and other parts of the state, amid spike in cases.According to reports, the government was waiting for SSLC (class 10) exams to end on July 4 to take some stringent measures to control the infections. “For everything, I think you will have to wait till July 7 in the interest of the children.After July 7 Chief Minister will take decision to bring in several changes,” Ashoka said in response to a question about imposing restrictions like on inter-state travel, among others, amid increase in cases. The minister, who is also in-charge for Covid management in Bengaluru, said according to reports from experts in July and August cases will increase the world over, in India and similarly in the state and Bengaluru also, and in this regard, precautionary measures will be taken.Following the recent spike in cases, there was speculation last week that the government may reimpose lockdown and few ministers had even indicated about this, but the government subsequently ruled out any such measure stating that improving state’s economy and carrying out developmental activities were equally important.Karnataka on Sunday recorded a biggest single-day spike of over 1,200 new Covid-19 cases and 16 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections in the state to 13,190 and the death toll to 207.Out of 1,267 fresh cases reported in the state yesterday, 783 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone.The city also tops the list of districts with positive cases in the state, with 3,314 infections.Ashoka said he has visited dedicated Covid hospitals in the city, including Victoria Hospital, and has requested the Doctors and medical staff there to be mentally prepared to continue to work in the same way they are doing now for about six more months.He said the challenge before the government is making beds available for an increasing number of patients and providing them treatment. “All necessary measures are being taken in this regard.”In response to a question, he said both spread of virus and increase in testing has led to surge in number of cases getting reported.Noting that till now private testing centres used to directly inform the patients in case one tests positive, Ashoka said directions have been given asking them to first upload the information on BBMP (city civic body) and ICMR portals and the authorities will inform the patients along with instructions about what they should be doing next.“This is to ensure that patients don’t panic and don’t directly come to hospitals...health officers at ward level on getting the information will go to the patient, check whether they are symptomatic or not. If symptomatic, they will be sent to a designated hospital and those asymptomatic will be sent to Covid Care Centres,” he said.This will also ensure that there is no delay or hassle for patients during the process, he added. Noting that there are complaints about doctors at dedicated hospitals not visiting patients regularly and it is difficult to track with all staff there wearing PPE kits, Ashoka said “We have given instructions for doctors and staff to wear stickers and to maintain duty register.” He also said, beds are being numbered at Covid wards and will be linked to patient number, so it can be identified easily whenever they are vacant and new patients can be assigned to it easily.Pointing out that staff working at hospitals like lift operators, ambulance drivers, cleaning staff are working with apprehensions and some are even applying for leave, Ashoka said he has spoken to the Chief Minister and Chief Secretary to incentivize them in some way by increasing payment and encourage them to continue with the work. “It has also come to my notice about the quality of food being provided to patients at some hospitals,” he said, adding, measures will be taken to provide quality food.About 85 assistant doctors will be appointed on contract basis in BBMP limits in about three days and all are AYUSH and dental doctors and will work under the supervision of senior doctors, the minister said.A meeting of BBMP corporators belonging to all political parties will be called soon, Ashoka said. Keeping social distancing in mind, the meeting will be called in three batches, regarding managing the sealed areas in their wards.In every ward, NGOs will be identified and they will be tasked with assisting in sealing activities, shifting of patients to hospitals and creating awareness, among other things, he said.The minister said out of Rs 742 crore SDRF (State disaster response fund) with the department, Rs 380 crore has been released for Covid management, which includes- Rs 232 crore released to Deputy Commissioners of districts, Rs 70 crore for health department, Rs 50 crore for BBMP, Rs 12 crore for Home Department. A sum of Rs 362 crore is still available with the department, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/stricter-measures-likely-after-july-7-to-control-covid-19-spread-in-karnataka/story-15oqMkZXHV9bRakcwE3trO.html
29-06-2020||City||77% kids below 5 yrs in J&K couldn’t access basic healthcare services during lockdown: CRY||The lockdown enforced to thwart the spread of Covid-19 has disrupted immunisation services in Jammu and Kashmir has impacted approximately 77% of children in the age group of 1-5.In simple terms, seven in every 10 children were denied access to immunisation on time – reveals an online rapid survey conducted by NGO Child Rights and You (CRY). The study, named ‘Rapid Online Perception Study about the effects of Covid-19 on children’, was conducted during the first and second phases of lockdown based on responses of parents/primary caregivers from all across the country, including Jammu and Kashmir.A total of 387 respondents from Jammu and Kashmir participated in the survey.Explaining the relevance and imperativeness of the study, Soha Moitra, regional director, CRY (North) said, “As immunisation programmes witnessed a major setback during the lockdown across the country, the results of the survey across 23 states and Union territories found nearly 50% of parents with children below five years of age unable to access immunisation services. The figure was considerably high in Jammu and Kashmir with 77.14% children below five years unable to get immunisation services.”According to the rapid online perception study, in J&K, nearly 35% of the respondents reported that their children had not received medical help during the lockdown, resulting in difficulties to cope with their children’s illnesses and health hazards.The study also talks about more systemic arrangements and logistical preparedness to ensure that children with no or compromised digital reach are not deprived of the right to education.With online classes introduced as a substitute for schools during the lockdown, access to education for children remained a major issue of concern, as many of them, especially the ones from marginalised and financially poor backgrounds found it difficult without smartphones and internet access.The survey findings revealed that in only 27.62% households in the UT, school-going children could access online classes on a regular basis, the national figures are equally worrying with children of barely 41% household could access online classes – thus raising a serious question about the justification of virtual classrooms as an alternative of school education on a long term basis, until every household is equipped with internet access and smartphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/77-kids-below-5-yrs-in-j-k-couldn-t-access-basic-healthcare-services-during-lockdown-cry/story-xl1jr2Kc0t1LMiHoNzhFFL.html
29-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 6 more Covid-19 deaths, toll rises to 90||Six more coronavirus patients succumbed in Gurugram on Monday, taking the total death toll to 90 in the Haryana district.Besides, health officials also detected 102 more coronavirus cases on Monday. A total of 135 patients were discharged on Monday.Only 2 deaths were reportd on Saturday and Sunday. According to a district official, 86 of the total deaths in Gurugram were reported in the last 29 days.Gurugram has so far reported 5,260 coronavirus cases, of which 3,882 have recuparated. As many 828 persons are in home quarantine and the remaining patients in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-6-more-covid-19-deaths-toll-rises-to-90/story-fcrm72IE1WmfzmmSFpW4EJ.html
29-06-2020||City||Don’t think there is need for another lockdown: Amarinder||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said in view of the current Covid-19 situation in the state, there is no need for further lockdown and appealed to the people to strictly adhere to the safety protocols.Interacting with mediapersons, the CM said the daily Covid testing capacity, which is 10,000 now, will be enhanced to 20,000 by July end.Amarinder said the state has adequate essential equipment and other resources to manage any further spread of the pandemic. The CM said he was upset with reports of people violating safety norms and cautioned the public to abide by the guidelines. He advised the people not to be callous and don’t misconstrue the symptoms of coronavirus as those of common flu.Referring to another question, the CM said 4,248 beds were available in government hospitals for Covid patients and 2,014 more are being added. Private hospitals have allocated 950 beds for Covid patients. “The total number of isolation centres identified to accommodate patients in case the crisis aggravates stands at 52 government and 195 private,” he added.He said 554 ventilators were available, the health department has 5.18 lakh N95 masks, 75.47 lakh triple-layer masks, 2.52 lakh PPE kits and 2,223 oxygen cylinders in stock.He said majority of industrial units in the state have resumed operations and migrant workers returning. “Our state suffered a colossal loss ₹33,000 crore due to the corona crisis. The Centre didn’t give a single penny out of ₹20 lakh crore package to us except ₹2,200 crore as state’s share in GST, a legitimate right,” the CM said.He said the situation in Punjab was under control as compared to some other states and people’s proactive participation played a big role in tackling the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-think-there-is-need-for-another-lockdown-amarinder/story-YcGvbBg3VAyJ8GCiWvHM2I.html
29-06-2020||City||Abduction case against ex-DGP: Court likely to decide on transfer of case on July 2||Mohali On a plea seeking transfer of the case against former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini to another court, the district and sessions judge reserved the order for July 2.The application for transfer of the case from the court of additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal was filed by Palwinder Singh in a 1991 case pertaining to the disappearance of his brother Balwant Singh Multani in which the former DGP is the main accused.On Monday, the court of district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai heard the arguments before adjourning the case to July 2.Palwinder had filed the application after the additional district and sessions judge allowed interim bail to Saini in anticipation of the SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to an earlier FIR.Making a case for transfer, special public prosecutor Sartaj Singh Narula and district attorney Sanjeev Batra submitted, “The court granted anticipatory in a blanket manner for offence 302 if already added. Even when 302 was not added so far thus providing blanket coverage to the accused DGP.”They submitted that the court while granting bail had totally ignored that the case was 29-year old and it will be impossible to make headway in investigations without custodial interrogation. The prosecution also submitted that the court while granting anticipatory bail ignored the statement of eyewitness advocate Gursharan Kaur Mann, pertaining to illegal detention and torture of Balwant at Saini’s order.”A fresh FIR was registered against Saini at Mataur police station on May 6, accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani on the complaint of Palwinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abduction-case-against-ex-dgp-court-likely-to-decide-on-transfer-of-case-on-july-2/story-CHJTNwI1WLI6up7VQEUsMO.html
29-06-2020||City||Domicile to outsiders in J&K unconstitutional: Panthers party||Professor Bhim Singh, chief patron of J&K National Panthers Party and senior Supreme Court advocate on Monday submitted a “strong” petition to President Ramnath Kovind for his urgent intervention to save the history, integrity and the fundamental rights of permanent residents of Jammu and Kashmir “whose existence and identity has been threatened by the introduction of domicile law without consultation of the legislative assembly of the Union territory”. “This is a great tragedy that the ruling BJP in India has forgotten the history, the background and the circumstances that led to the accession of the princely state of J&K in 1947. It was Maharaja Hari Singh, the then Ruler of J&K, who enacted a law on state subject in Jammu and Kashmir by a royal decree in 1927,” he stated in his petition.The purpose to introduce this law was to ensure the lands of poor farmers in Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, does not fall in the hands of big landlords and moneyed people from outside. It was this law which continued with the full backing of the people of Jammu and Kashmir from all regions and all classes and religious groups.Prof Singh expressed deep shock and anger on behalf of all permanent residents of Jammu and Kashmir on this dictatorial order that a tehsildar/employee from anywhere in the country can issue the domicile certificate to the outsiders.He warned that this recent declaration of the Centre shall not be accepted by the people of Jammu and Kashmir under any circumstances. He announced that the Panthers Party shall hold an urgent meeting of the representatives of all the political parties in Jammu and Kashmir to decide in this matter how to save this permanent residents’ status.He also had called an urgent meeting of the senior lawyers to decide an immediate legal action to stop J&K administration from issuing domicile certificates.Navin Kumar Choudhary, a senior J&K cadre IAS officer from Bihar, was among 25,000 people who have been granted a domicile certificate the other day.However, former bureaucrat Amit Kushari, who served in the Union territory for 37 years, was quick to take a jibe at Choudhary by saying “even if the certificate was given to me on a silver plate, I would never have taken it”.Replaced by PRC, the new domicile certificate guarantees the right to education, employment and buying land in Jammu and Kashmir.Sources said that over 36,000 applications have been received by the government out of which nearly 26000 have been issued domicile certificates so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domicile-to-outsiders-in-j-k-unconstitutional-panthers-party/story-djNzY7iFSxhyiQatYmnAIK.html
29-06-2020||City||ASI among 3 booked for honey trapping, extorting money from Ludhiana realtor||Three persons, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted at Daba police station, have been arrested for allegedly laying a honeytrap for a 45-year-old realtor and trying to extort Rs 50 lakh from him. The accused, identified as ASI Dharminder Singh, Manjit Kaur, 30, of City Enclave of Dhandhra road, and Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha, a cable operator of Dhillon Nagar of Lohara, had videotaped the realtor in a compromising position and were blackmailing him with it.Police have recovered Rs 7 lakh cash that the accused extorted from the complainant, besides a car and mobile phone used in the crime.WOMAN HAD COME IN TOUCH WITH HIM FOR BUYING A PLOTThe complainant told the police that he had come in touch with Manjit Kaur, who had introduced herself as Gurpreet Kaur of Jawaddi Kalan, a few months ago. She told him that she had separated from her husband and was interested in buying a 100 square yard plot. Though she did not buy any property, she remained in touch with the complainant over phone and even borrowed money from him, citing financial constraints. USED SPY CAMERA FITTED IN HANDBAG TO TAPE COMPLAINANTOn June 24, he, along with the woman, went to his friend’s office where she videotaped him in a compromising position through a spy camera fitted in her handbag.The next day, the realtor received a call from ASI Dharminder Singh, who asked him to meet him near a liquor vend. “When I reached there, the ASI, along with Sukhwinder Singh alias Sukha, who introduced himself as a scribe, demanded Rs. 50 lakh and told me that if I don’t pay them, they would circulate my video on social networking sites and also lodge a rape case against me,” he said.The realtor then paid them Rs 7 lakh in cash but later filed a complaint with the Daba police. Following the recovery of the cash from their possession, police registered a case under Sections 384 (extortion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 166A (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 506 (criminal intimidation ) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67, 67-A of the Information and Technology Act.ASI HAD BEEN RECENTLY PROMOTEDThe ASI, who has now been suspended, was additionally booked under Sections 13 (2), 13 (8) 67, 67 A of the Prevention of Corruption Act. He had been recently promoted from the rank of a head constable and was earlier deputed as the driver of the Daba station house officer. A departmental inquiry has been marked. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said they are probing whether the three accused had indulged in similar acts in the past too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-among-3-booked-for-honey-trapping-extorting-money-from-ludhiana-realtor/story-mVf7lHJyTwBqBIbL1aQ6xM.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fuel price hike: Congress activists hold agitation across Punjab||The Congress organised a nationwide stir against the rising prices of petrol and diesel on Monday, demonstrations were also held in Sangrur, Patiala, Amritsar, Faridkot, Bathinda and SBS Nagar. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar led the protests at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. To lodge their protest against rising fuel prices, Jakhar accompanied by local MLA’s Angad Singh, Darshan Lal Mangupur and Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon pulled a tractor with ropes from Industrial Training Institute (ITI) to the deputy commissioner’s office. Jakhar said, “The tractor, an instrument of change that brought about the green revolution, has become a cart for farmers as they cannot afford the high prices of diesel.” “The Centre should applaud the work done by the farmers amid the Covid-crisis as Punjab has produced a bumper wheat crop of 1.27 lakh tones. Instead, the BJP has passed anti-farmer ordinances,” the Congress leader said. “The prices of fuel have been steadily rising over the last three weeks as the central government has been imposing excise duty on fuel. Thus, for the first time the prices of diesel have exceeded that of petrol,” he said. “When the Congress was in power in 2014, the price of crude oil was 104 dollars per barrel and the price of diesel was Rs 63 per litre. Now, crude oil is hardly 40 dollars per barrel but still the price of diesel has reached Rs 80,” he said, demanding an explanation from the Modi government. The 17-rupee difference between the rates during the Congress’ and Modi-government’s terms has put an additional burden of ₹7,000 on the farmers. The Modi government was fooling the farmers when it said that farmers’ income will be doubled. Referring to the farm ordinances and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement asserting the system of offering minimum support price (MSP) will remain, Jakhar said, “The real question is whether the government will buy the crop or not. The MSP fixed by the Centre for maize is Rs 1,850 in Punjab but farmers were seen selling their produce for Rs 400-Rs 600 per quintal.” Jakhar and other leaders submitted a memorandum addressed to the President to SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Shena Aggarwal. YOUTH LEADERS RAISE THE BANNER IN SANGRUR Members of the Punjab Youth Congress and National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest at the district administration complex in Sangrur. The protesters pulled a tractor with a rope to demonstrate the impact of the hike on farmers. Congress leader Daman Thind Bajwa said businesses had been badly affected due to Covid-19 over the past three months but the government of India had hiked petrol and diesel prices instead of helping the citizens.“The hike in diesel prices will directly affect farmers, who are already under debt, during the paddy season,” Bajwa said. ‘PRICES INCREASED 20 TIMES IN THREE MONTHS’ Protests were also held in the south Malwa region. Led by senior leaders, Congress workers submitted memorandums addressed to the President demanding withdrawal of the price hike.In Faridkot, Congress MP Mohammad Sadique said, “In a display of insensitivity, the BJP-led Centre has increased fuel prices around 20 times in three months.” Congress (urban) Arun Jeet Mal president said people were already suffering due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the fuel price hike was adding to their woes: “It is for the first time that the rates of diesel are higher than petrol. Around 70% diesel is used by the farming and transportation sector. The unprecedented rise in diesel prices will lead to a significant increase in prices of different goods and the common man will bear the brunt,” he said.NDA FAILED TO CONTROL INFLATION: PATIALA LEADERSCongress leaders and workers in Patiala handed a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding reduction of fuel prices t Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit.Patiala district Congress committee president KK Malhotra said, “The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has completely failed to control inflation at a time when people are facing an acute financial crisis due to Covid-19.” “The union government should immediately reduce fuel prices and give some respite to the common man. The government should lower taxes to control fuel prices,” Malhotra said. Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said the crude oil prices were under control but the Centre was hell-bent on increasing fuel prices without taking people’s financial condition into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fuel-price-hike-congress-activists-hold-agitation-across-punjab/story-s2e7rowuU5Q0yqscmgXo5I.html
29-06-2020||City||Congress protests against hike in petrol, diesel prices in J&K, Himachal||The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday protested against the unprecedented hike in prices of petrol, diesel and other essential commodities across the Union territory, including Jammu city. Former minister Raman Bhalla said, “The BJP government is fleecing people by imposing heavy taxes. When they assumed power in 2014, the excise duty was ₹9.20 per litre on petrol and ₹3.46 per litre on diesel. In six years, it has increased to ₹23.78 per litre on petrol and ₹28.37 per litre on diesel. A 820% hike on diesel and 258% on petrol is shocking,” he said. Later, the leaders submitted a memorandum to the President of India via the Jammu district magistrate.The Congress also protested against the rising prices of petrol and diesel in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. Led by Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) general secretary Ajay Mahajan, the party leaders submitted a memorandum to President Ram Nath Kovind alleging that as the common masses are reeling due to Covid-19 outbreak, the BJP government was turning disaster into opportunity to make quick bucks. They said the government has burdened the people by increasing the excise duty on petrol and diesel.They said that the increase in fuel prices will result in rise in prices of essential commodities adversely affecting the lives of people. The party asked the Centre to cut fuel prices and extend benefits of low oil prices in international market to public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-protests-against-hike-in-petrol-diesel-prices-in-j-k-himachal/story-ZAmdndPEFcpbLwRstySoCI.html
29-06-2020||City||Step up vigil along China border in Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti districts: HP guv urges Centre||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Monday urged the Centre to tighten security along the international border in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts of Himachal Pradesh.In a letter to the Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Dattatreya said that the border areas in Himachal Pradesh need more attention in the wake of the rising tensions between India and China.Dattatreya wrote that Himachal shares over 260km boundary with Tibet and China and “therefore, we need to be suitably prepared for any eventuality”.He said that the modes of communication and road transport in remote frontier areas needed to be strengthened.“Currently, only one independent brigade of the Indian Army is stationed at Pooh in Kinnaur and the deployment needed to be increased,” he said.He added that adequate arrangements must be made to tackle drones surveillance by China.Dattatraya said that there was an urgent need for an airstrip in the Spiti area of Lahaul and Spiti district for a prompt deployment of forces in the border areas in case of urgency.He added that Himachal Pradesh Police was trying its best and district superintendent of police of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti have visited villages in the border areas and interacted with the people to build their confidence and ensure their safety.“However, similar continuous efforts need to be undertaken by the Central Intelligence Agencies, Indian Army and ITBP to instill a sense of security and confidence among the people living in the border areas,” he added.The governor said that Atal Tunnel under Rohtang pass, connecting Manali in Kullu District with Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was likely to be completed in few months.The commissioning of the tunnel would allow year-round traffic on the Manali-Leh axis, thereby significantly increasing road traffic, he said.He hoped that these suggestions once implemented would strengthen India’s position on the Indo-Tibet/China border and would also generate confidence amongst local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/step-up-vigil-along-china-border-in-kinnaur-lahaul-and-spiti-districts-hp-guv-urges-centre/story-7258epHXVAs8qxQ6I9VgaM.html
29-06-2020||City||Former Congress MLA among four booked for abetment to suicide in Mandi||Himachal Pradesh police on Monday booked former Congress MLA from Bilaspur Bamber Thakur and three others on charges of abetment to suicide in a case related to the death of a 34-year-old man who died after consuming poison.Anshul, a resident of Bilaspur town, had committed suicide by consuming poison in Padhar area of Mandi district on June 24.The victim, before committing suicide, had shot a video accusing Thakur, Anshul Panwar, Gaurav and Deepak Sharma of mentally harassing him and hatching a conspiracy to kill his family.Mandi superintendent of police Gurdev Chand Sharma said a case under section 306 (Abetment to Suicide) and 120B (Criminal Conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused on the basis of the video.Bamber Thakur represented Bilaspur constituency from 2012-2017. He could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-congress-mla-among-four-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-mandi/story-duWufquIo0d2UVjvTHDu7H.html
29-06-2020||City||2022 on mind, SP back with‘Kaam Bolta hai’ campaign||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has re-launched ‘Kaam Bolta Hai’ (Work speaks for itself)’ campaign ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly polls.The party had launched the catch-line on the eve of 2017 assembly election while it was in power.However, close to the polls, it had dropped the slogan after entering into an alliance with the Congress. In 2019 Lok Sabha elections too, it had to drop the slogan after entering into an alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Singed with both the alliance experiences, Akhilesh has been reiterating that his party will go it alone in 2022 to hit the target of winning 351 seats in the 403 seats UP Assembly. On Thursday, the day after the union cabinet approved international status for the Kushinagar airport, Akhilesh tweeted: “SP’s work for people” and added “Congratulate those who initiated the Kushinagar airport work during the SP’s rule. Also approve the SP government’s time’s pending airport projects in Meerut, Moradabad, Chitrakoot, and Azamgarh.”On Tuesday (June 23), Akhilesh hash-tagged a video of Ghaziabad-Delhi elevated road as ‘Kaam Bolta Hai’; the day before--on June 22-- a picture of Jai Prakash Narain International Centre (JPNIC) and a video of Deoband-Saharnpur four land highway; on June 21, a video of Noida Shilp Hut and Bunkar Bhawan (the craft and weavers facility); on June 19, a picture of a fighter jet landing on Agra-Lucknow Expressway; On June 18-the Noida cycle track; and on June 14--the free laptop distribution scheme.“Akhiliesh ji’s government was synonymous with the big-ticket development works for the public--Metro, laptop scheme, expressway. And this government has done nothing except tall claims and lies. Now, people know the difference. We will seek votes on our works,” said Samajwadi Party state spokesperson and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary.The SP has resumed political activities from June 3 with Akhilesh launching a daily video conferencing with the party leaders and outfit in a couple of districts each day. He has covered over 20 districts so far; appointed new office-bearers in twelve districts. The party also resumed street protests and held a massive demonstration at Lucknow’s Hazratgang over Lucknow University’s fee, examination, hostel issues.Akhilesh is asking the party outfit to fan out up to booth level and tell people about “SP’s works and the present government’s tall claims and lies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2022-on-mind-sp-back-with-kaam-bolta-hai-campaign/story-g9YYDYTDa1ec2ENFCyVASO.html
29-06-2020||City||Need to strike balance between development and conservation to protect environment: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday stressed on the need for striking a balance between development and conservation to protect the environment.He was presiding over the 9th meeting of Himachal Pradesh State Board for Wildlife here.The CM said forests play a major role in maintenance of ecological balance and the state government has been giving a thrust to afforestation.“The state government has set a target to plant 1.20 crore saplings during the current financial year. Forests of Himachal are rich in biodiversity and provide fodder, timber and medicinal plants to the local community besides being home to a large variety of fauna,” he said.The CM said 15% of the geographical area of the state falls under protected area network. “There are five national parks, 25 wildlife sanctuaries and three nature conservation reserves in the state, he added.He said the state government is strictly enforcing the Wildlife Conservation Act to protect endangered species and expressed delight over the success of captive breeding of the Western Tragopan.Thakur said the government will put efforts to make Pong Dam reservoir as a major tourist attraction keeping in view that large number of migratory birds visit the wetland every year.“The government will ensure that various developmental activities in wildlife areas cause minimum damages to the ecosystem and wildlife,” he added.Thakur also appreciated the activities undertaken by the forest department during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said various issues regarding diversion of 2.80 hectares forest land in Shikari Devi Wildlife Sanctuary for upgradation of existing Thunag Panjut-Lambasafar Chilamgrd–Shikari Mata road will be taken with appropriate authority.The CM also asked the department to take up the matter for diversion of 1.55 hectare forest land in Khokhan wildlife sanctuary for extension of existing Dohranala-Shilirajgiri (Chesta) road upto Lot Rohlagi village in Kullu district.State forest minister Govind Singh Thakur said the protected area network has a great potential of ecotourism. He said the Great Himalayan National Park is a world heritage site whereas Pong Dam, Renukaji and Chandetal Ramsar sites also attract domestic and foreign tourists in large numbers.Additional chief secretary (forests) Sanjay Gupta said matters approved by the state wildlife board will be sent to the National Wildlife Board at the earliest for seeking final approval.‘State govt committed for safety, empowerment of women’The state government is committed for safety and empowerment of women, the chief minister said while presiding over a meeting of Saksham Gudiya Board here.He said the main objective and mandate of the Board was to review the implementation of various schemes, policies and programmes for protection, safety and empowerment of women and to make recommendation such as acts, rules, and schemes related to womenfolk.He said all departments, boards and corporations should be requested to provide information regarding schemes launched by them for the betterment of womenfolk so that they could be publicised and women could be motivated to derive benefits of the schemes.“Access to information regarding Gudia Helpline-1515 should also be shared with the Saksham Gudiya Board by the police department,” he added.CM lays foundation stone of development projects worth ₹ 70 crore in PangiThe CM also laid foundation stones of development projects worth ₹ 70 crore in the tribal Pangi area of Chamba district via video conferencing. The development works include upgradation of 17.300 km Dhawars-Sural-Bhatori Road under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, Sach Khas to Towan road; and link road from Saichu to village Chasak.Thakur also laid foundation stone of additional accommodation at Government Senior Secondary School, Killar, revenue department building at Killar; new building of Civil Hospital Killar and doctors residents.He said these developmental projects will prove a boon to people of Pangi area.He said adequate funds will be made available for time bound completion of the projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/need-to-strike-balance-between-development-and-conservation-to-protect-environment-jai-ram/story-5cC8jmdPgnUw2xB0tJEqCP.html
29-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru’s Covid-19 cases double in 5 days, tally at 3,419||Coronavirus cases doubled in the Karnataka capital in just five days, from 1,556 on Tuesday to 3,419 by Sunday evening, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, here on Monday.Bengaluru now accounts for 26 per cent of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. It has 2,692 active cases and has reported 88 deaths, the highest in both cases.However, Karnataka’s mortality rate was low at 1.56 per cent against 3 per cent at the national level, he said. The state’s recovery rate stood at 57 per cent with 7,507 discharges, he added.After testing 5.95 lakh people, the state’s positivity rate stands at 2.21 per cent. Till Sunday evening, of the 13,190 Covid-19 cases in the state, 5,472 were active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-s-covid-19-cases-double-in-5-days-tally-at-3-419/story-pDQIpzt89Iu3PpSlELCQ1K.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Malerkotla man dies of Covid-19 at Patiala hospital; ex-civil surgeon of Pathankot tests positive||Sangrur: A 55-year-old man died of Covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, a health department spokesperson said on Monday.Rajinder Singh of Malerkotla was admitted to a Sangrur hospital on June 22 but was referred to the hospital in Patiala on June 24 where he was put on ventilator support but he succumbed to coronavirus on Sunday night.Meanwhile, a former civil surgeon of Pathankot, Vinod Sareen, 59, and a laboratory technician at the civil hospital in Hoshiarpur have tested positive for coronavirus. Dr Sareen has been referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. Dr Sareen was removed from the post of civil surgeon a few days ago and appointed deputy director. He stays in Hoshiarpur.Senior medical officer Jaswinder Singh said that the former civil surgeon was brought to the civil hospital with complaint of uneasiness and flu symptoms.“His sample was tested by the newly installed TrueNat machine in the hospital and his report came out positive,” Dr Jaswinder Singh said.A 34-year-old laboratory technician in the civil hospital also tested positive for the virus.More than 10 health workers at the maternity ward of the Ferozepur civil hospital were tested for Covid-19 on Monday after a 28-year-old woman tested positive five days after delivery.Last week, the pregnant woman from Ferozepur city was admitted in the maternity ward of the civil hospital and she was discharged two days after giving birth on June 24.Her Covid-19 report was received on Monday and she was found positive.While the samples of all staff members who attended to the woman were collected, the test report of the newborn is yet to arrive.Ferozepur sub divisional magistrate Amit Gupta said efforts were on to trace the contacts of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malerkotla-man-dies-of-covid-19-at-patiala-hospital-ex-civil-surgeon-of-pathankot-tests-positive/story-RomwwMAmFAqPXcTAydNUJK.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP stages protests against Modi, Sukhbir across Punjab to oppose farm ordinances||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers staged a protest against prime minister Narendra Modi and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal across 117 state assembly constituencies on Monday to oppose three farm ordinances passed by the Centre. Leader of opposition (LOP)Harpal Singh Cheema said, “AAP will oppose the anti-farmer ordinances and fight for the people the state.”AAP vice-president (Sangrur) Narinder Kaur Bharaj said Sukhbir wanted to protect his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal at the Centre and therefore had lent support to the controversial ordinances but AAP will organise people against such policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-stages-protests-against-modi-sukhbir-across-punjab-to-oppose-farm-ordinances/story-aTNncJdQqfGj1Ta29bqSdJ.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Policeman sustains minor injuries after vehicle in Sharad Pawar’s convoy overturns||A police inspector in the pilot vehicle of the convoy of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar suffered minor injuries after the vehicle turned turtle on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway while on its way to Mumbai on Monday. The incident happened at 10:30am when a police-issued Toyota vehicle was approaching the area near Amrutanjan bridge, according to the police. It was the first vehicle of the convoy and had two occupants. The 190-year-old bridge near Lonavla was demolished in April through multiple controlled blasts.Police inspector Babar of the special protection unit of the Pune police was in the vehicle and sustained minor injuries on both his wrists. However, he was put in another vehicle after medical aid.“There is a turn and a slight slope around 100 feet before the Amrutanjan bridge begins. A vehicle was trying to enter the alignment of the police convoy along the turn. There are rumblers installed on the turn and as the private vehicle tried to enter the convoy alignment, the police vehicle tried to avoid it and ended up overturning,” said Police sub inspector Kailas Kamble of Highway traffic police.The tyres on the left side of the vehicle and the windshield of the vehicle were damaged in the incident. The car was removed from the expressway and taken to a group near Borghat. The convoy left for Mumbai immediately after the incident.The incident is being recorded at the Lonavla city police station under Pune rural police jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/policeman-sustains-minor-injuries-after-vehicle-in-sharad-pawar-s-convoy-overturns/story-fCwHpVfxSwsatFGmfqZnLO.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress stages protest against fuel price hike in Haryana||The Congress party staged a protest against hike in fuel prices in Sonepat, Rohtak and Jhajjar on Monday. The protests were led by Rajya Sabha member of parliament Deepender Hooda. The grand-old party had held nationwide protests against the incessant rise in petrol and diesel prices.Interacting with the media in Rohtak, Deepender lashed out at the Modi government for increasing fuel prices when the prices of crude oil had plummeted in the international market.“While the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the central and state governments are increasing fuel prices. The government should reduce fuel prices and provide relief to people. The hike in fuel prices at the time of cultivation has increased farmers’ expenditure,” the Rajya Sabha MP said.He also submitted memorandums addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the deputy commissioners of Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar.Hooda said Covid-19 cases are on the rise but the state government had opened its border with Delhi.“The state government is only focusing on selling liquor that too without the consent of Haryana residents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-stages-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-in-haryana/story-wMyi2pK02mitZlZXRFKA2I.html
29-06-2020||Lucknow||Increase Covid-19 testing facilities in UP: CM Yogi Adityanath to officers||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officers to increase Covid-19 testing facilities in the state and operate available TrueNat machines at full capacity. Use of TrueNat machines should be promoted in private hospitals, he said addressing an unlock review meeting with senior officers and ministers. “The testing capacity for Covid-19 should be increased. Available TrueNat and rapid antigen machines should be operated at full capacity for doing maximum tests in the state,” an official release said quoting the chief minister. As part of its efforts to ramp up the testing capacity, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had approved the use of TrueNat, a diagnostic machine for tuberculosis, for conducting coronavirus tests.The chief minister said there was a need to maintain vigil in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts to check spread of coronavirus. At the meeting, the chief minister was informed that record 22,378 samples were tested on Sunday and now 25 government and 17 private laboratories were doing such tests. The chief minister said there should be an emphasis on cleanliness in the monsoon season to prevent the spread of vector borne diseases.At the meeting, officers were asked to review preparations for vector borne disease control campaign from July 1 to July 31. He also asked officers to take measures for flood control and set up flood relief camps in advance. Adityanath also emphasised on taking measures for controlling locusts besides making adequate arrangements at cow shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/increase-covid-19-testing-facilities-in-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-officers/story-56VQyZ9QQ76qjlFn8pFpVP.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Pune civic body approves e-bike rental project||In a bid to conserve the environment and reduce pollution levels in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) city improvement committee has approved the launch of a rental scheme for electric two-wheelers in the city.Under this project 500 electric bikes will run on city roads and 500 charging stations will be established in various parts of the city.The project will be undertaken under the ‘Green Pune’ initiative and V-Tro Motors will run the project. PMC will not provide financial support for this project.Once the project gets approved by the PMC’s standing committee and general body the actual work of the project will start.“We should think about implementing eco-friendly projects in the city. E-bike project will be beneficial for residents and reduce traffic on the roads,” said Amol Balwadkar, Baner corporator, who had proposed the project.“Once we get the approvals from both standing committee and general body the e-bikes and charging stations work will begin,” said Balwadkar.“PMC will not have to provide any financial assistance in the project, the private company will run the project,” said Balwadkar.Charges for e-bike rentalsThe charges for e-bike rentals will be Rs 4 per kilometre. There are also various packages. A one-day package is Rs 450 with a maximum of 150 kilometres; Weekly Rs 1,900 with a 1,000 km maximum Monthly Rs 3,800 with a 4,000 km maximumTweet Satej Patil, state transport minister, welcomed the e-bike rental project in a tweet, on Sunday said, “Its a timely and environment friendly decision by Pune Municipal Corporation. On 26 June City development committee of PMC approved proposal of e-bike rental project. Being a state transport Minister, I welcome this Green initiative. This project will reduce pollution, traffic jams and citizens will get all benefits of it. Commuters of Pune Metrorail will also enjoy this facility in coming years. This project will prove a pilot project, a model for country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-approves-e-bike-rental-project/story-eYkXHi4S5NYPBYigfqUoxL.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Pune one of four knowledge devp clusters sanctioned in country||Pune city has been identified an one of four science and technology knowledge cluster development cities in the country. The official announcement is yet to be made, according to officials involved with the project, who, however, confirmed the sanction.The approval, which came from Niti Ayog, also includes Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Delhi.“Knowledge clusters would be a connection between industries and research institutes. The objective would be to provide visibility and understand the strength of the academic institutes and work together in product development,” said Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), which is at the heart of the cluster in many ways.The proposal was initially undertaken by the Principal Secretary Advisor (PSA) of Government of India and the sanctions came during the lockdown period.Karmalkar said, “In Pune, all the academic institutes and industries were striving for the last one year and it has finally been sanctioned”“The concept of knowledge cluster city is the seat of excellence for academics and research and also there is industry. So coming together of both these sectors will provide visibility. Industries will understand the strength of academic institutes,” said Karmalkar.“There would be hand-holding and knowledge transfers which is the basic concept,” he added.“It is about the understanding of the requirements of society and industry. Accordingly, students can orient their knowledge or undertake research as per industry requirements. That, to an extent, will help the students with employment,” said Karmalkar.“It is a seamless integration of industry and all disciplines in the university campus and that is the working model. So during the lockdown period, we thought that we can help the local administration to curb the spread of this disease. And hence we are now concentrating on covid related projects,” he added.The Pune city knowledge cluster project is chaired by Somak Raychaudhary, director, Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA). Along with several research institutes in Pune, 30 industries have also been part of this cluster. The main aim of this project is to link academia and research institutes, governing bodies and industries. They will create a knowledge research base that can convert technology into products for society. Also, it will look for solutions to local, state-level and national.SPPU degrees will allow multi-stream subjects from other institutesAccording to Prof Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) students can pursue one degree from one university and study a subject from another university. Karmalkar said, “It will be possible under this knowledge cluster project and the students will also get credit marks in his/her mark sheet for the subjects.”“Many things can be done under this project, like the involvement of multiple courses can run with industries partnership. The main aim of this cluster project is the seamless integration of industries and institutes, which we are currently lacking behind,” said Karmalkar.“SPPU is part of this project and there are several other universities, research institutes and top industries are involved in this cluster project,” he added. ..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-one-of-four-knowledge-devp-clusters-sanctioned-in-country/story-uYuAwUH0otAACjAgSS1AKN.html
29-06-2020||City||Undo damage done by fairness creams, give out a clear message that ‘Black is beautiful’||Hindustan Unilever, which perpetuated and reinforced deep seated racial, castist and colour prejudices in the Indian consumers’ psyche for decades through its skin whitening cream Fair and Lovely, thereby belittling and deriding dark skin, has decided to remove not just the word “fair” from the name of the product, but also stop using words like ‘ whitening’ and ‘lightening’. The manufacturer has said the company wants to adopt a holistic approach to beauty and celebrate all skin tones!If one wants to take a charitable view of this sudden change of heart, one can say that the strong global movement against racial and colour prejudices, following the death of George Floyd on May 25 at the hands of Minneapolis police in the United States, influenced this decision. The uncharitable view would be the manufacturer is taking pre-emptive action in view of the government’s proposal to prohibit all advertisements pertaining to products promoting ‘fairness of the skin’ under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act. I do believe that it is the latter because this product has sold and garnered a big slice of the market on the strength of its advertisements, endorsed by film celebrities unabashedly brainwashing the viewers that you need to be fair in order be beautiful, to be successful and to find a spouse.In the last several years, many social activists and women’s groups have taken up cudgels against not just Fair and Lovely, but a host of other skin whitening, lightening products in the market, but without much success. Even criticism of film actors who endorsed such whitening products, did not have the desired effect. Last August, even the Indian Army took objection to these advertisements and said those depicting actors in military fatigues needed prior approval from the Army. One of the triggers was a shameful advertisement of a fairness cream for men, Emami Fair and Handsome, using actors in Army Uniform. It shows a cadet intending to join the army using his sister’s fairness cream and later when he joins the Army, Shahrukh Khan, as an officer, encourages him to use the Fair and Handsome cream, saying-“zindagi me dono zaroori hai. Dam bhi, handsome bhi”. Again -- the message is clear -- you are handsome if you are fair and you are successful if you are handsome.Finally, the government has stepped in and used the obvious route, the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act to put stop to advertisements of fairness creams. The draft Amendment Bill, put out for public comments by the union ministry of health and Family welfare in February this year, basically plugs three main lacunae in the original Act. (1) It changes the definition of advertisement to include all media -- old and new. So unlike the original law, it covers advertisements on the electronic media, internet, websites, so that no media escapes the purview of the law. Equally important, the definition of advertisement also covers endorsement. So celebrity endorses cannot get away. Second, it enhances the punishment for contravention -- in case of first conviction, the penalty may extend to a fine of Rs 10 lakh and imprisonment of two years and in case of a subsequent conviction, fine up to Rs 50 lakh and imprisonment up to five years.But even more important, the law prohibits, among others, advertisements pertaining to products promoting ‘Fairness of the skin’. Thus the Bill, when it becomes a law, puts stop to any advertisement pertaining to products that promise to whiten or lighten your skin.Since Covid-19 has put a big question mark on when the Parliament will meet again, the government should bring in the amendment bill through the ordinance route, thus ending all advertisements of fairness creams at the earliest. Side by side, the government should also start a campaign to undo the damage done by fairness creams all these years and give out a clear message that ‘Black is beautiful’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/undo-damage-done-by-fairness-creams-give-out-a-clear-message-that-black-is-beautiful/story-2PsjboPA2ELoDX0SdObqlK.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges Centre to return donations made by Chinese firms to PM-CARES Fund||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday urged the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre to return the donations received in the PM-CARES Fund from Chinese firms.Capt Amarinder Singh said that he had got information that Chinese companies or companies having funding from China were contributing to the PM-CARES Fund. “There is a confrontation on between India and China. If any money has been received, it should be sent back,” he said at a press conference here, naming four Chinese firms.The Punjab chief minister’s statement came a day after the Congress alleged that Chinese firms were contributing to the fund, asking the Modi government why it was accepting such donations at the time of a standoff between the two countries. The PM-CARES Fund was set up by the central government in March this year to deal with any coronavirus-related emergency.CAPT FOR REOPENING KARTARPUR CORRIDORCapt Amarinder Singh said he was in favour of reopening the Kartarpur Corridor which allows visa-free access to Darbar Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan’s Narowal district.Pakistan had on Saturday announced its readiness to reopen the corridor to Indian pilgrims.The chief minister said the Centre will take a decision on this. “If they ask me, I will tell them that I am in favour of opening the Kartarpur Corridor with strict social distancing guidelines,” he said in response to a query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-urges-centre-to-return-donations-made-by-chinese-firms-to-pm-cares-fund/story-BwmiVTFm2sxzf7VGf8SuDN.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Final decision to reopen Kartarpur Sahib corridor to be taken by Centre: SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief secretary Roop Singh on Monday said the SGPC wants the Kartarpur Sahib corridor to reopen but the final decision will be taken by the central government and the body will abide by it.Pakistan on Saturday had said that it was prepared to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor for all Sikh pilgrims from June 29.“All the Sikh pilgrims want the Kartarpur Sahib corridor to reopen, even the SGPC is of this opinion but the final decision will be taken by the government of India as the issue pertains to the health of Indian citizens. We will abide by the Centre’s decision,” said Singh.Taking to Twitter, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had said he had told India about Pakistan’s readiness to reopen the 4.7-kilometre passage to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur. As places of worship open up across the world, Pakistan prepares to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims, conveying to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh.Kartarpur Sahib corridor is a 4.7 kilometre-long passage that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib in India’s Gurdaspur and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur. It was inaugurated last year.Pakistan’s announcement regarding the corridor comes as the country is gradually lifting the restrictions imposed in the wake of the coronavirus in phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-decision-to-reopen-kartarpur-sahib-corridor-to-be-taken-by-centre-sgpc/story-MyWEBHcQjeyz8LYBsjm0FM.html
29-06-2020||Bangalore||Lockdown norms go for toss in Congress rally against fuel price hike||Social distancing and all the norms to contain coronavirus allegedly went for a toss when a large number of Congress workers staged a demonstration against the fuel price hike here on Monday.Following a nationwide call for the protest against the hike, the Congress leaders, led by Karnataka state president D K Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, took out a bicycle rally up to the Congress office.The rally converged on the party office where a sit-in demonstration was on.There was no social distancing as leaders sat side-by- side. There was no adherence to the rule prohibiting the congregation of more than five people and majority of them did not bother to put on masks.The demonstrators raised slogans against the central government holding placards and posters.Later addressing the gathering, Siddaramaiah said there is a rise in the prices of all commodities.“When Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, fuel prices never went up beyond Rs 75. Today, not just fuel but also there is a steep rise in prices of all the commodities. It is becoming hard for the common man to survive at present times,” Siddaramaiah told the gathering.The administration found itself helpless to control the crowd that threw all the norms to the wind to contain coronavirus.Also read | Maharashtra lockdown won’t be lifted after June 30, says Uddhav ThackerayThe demonstration took place at a time when Bengaluru is witnessing an unprecedented rise in coronavirus cases. On Sunday evening, 1,267 coronavirus cases were confirmed in the state of which 783 were in the city alone whereas on Saturday there were 918 cases in the state of which about 400 were in the city.The city also constitutes for highest mortalities due to this communicable disease in the state.Diesel price has scaled a new high after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre.Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/lockdown-norms-go-for-toss-in-congress-rally-against-fuel-price-hike/story-Zt1GFbpfVlrvzaumh0Sm8N.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Covid: Police seek curfew in Pandharpur ahead of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’||Solapur Police have sent a proposal to their district administration to impose curfew in the Pandharpur temple town from Tuesday ahead of the ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Lakhs of devotees throng the temple of Lord Vitthal in Pandharpur town of Solapur in Maharashtra on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’, which falls on July 1 this year.In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, authorities have decided that ‘wari’ (pilgrimage) will be held this year with the padukas (foot prints) of Saint Dnyaneshwar, Sant Tukaram and others being taken to Pandharpur by air or road, and not on foot as is done traditionally.Solapur Additional Superintendent of Police Atul Zende told PTI on Monday that they have done nakabandi (road blockades) to ensure people from outside do not gather at the temple town. “There are plans to impose curfew in Pandharpur to restrict the movement of locals. Hence, a proposal has been sent to the Solapur collector to impose curfew in and around Pandharpur from June 30 to July 2,” he said.“Barring 10 ‘palkhis’ (palanquins) and a limited number of persons who have been allowed to accompany them, no one else will be allowed to come to the temple,” said Zende.Only those who have been given passes by the temple administration will be allowed to enter the religious premises, he said.All essential and emergency services will remain functional in the town, he added.Traditionally, lakhs of ‘warkaris’, devotees of Lord Vitthal, undertake the pilgrimage on foot from all over Maharashtra and reach Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi.However, in view of the coronavirus outbreak, authorities have decided to keep the celebrations low-key this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-police-seek-curfew-in-pandharpur-ahead-of-ashadhi-ekadashi/story-9iybNTm4TOI1mLdbbAhUlM.html
29-06-2020||Bangalore||Lockdown norms go for toss in Congress rally against price rise||Social distancing and all the norms to contain coronavirus allegedly went for a toss when a large number of Congress workers staged a demonstration against the fuel price hike here on Monday.Following a nationwide call for the protest against the hike, the Congress leaders, led by Karnataka state president D K Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, took out a bicycle rally upto the Congress office.The rally converged on the party office where a sit-in demonstration was on.There was no social distancing as leaders sat side-by- side. There was no adherence to the rule prohibiting the congregation of more than five people and majority of them did not bother to put on masks.The demonstrators raised slogans against the central government holding placards and posters.Later addressing the gathering, Siddaramaiah said there is a rise in the prices of all commodities.“When Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, fuel prices never went up beyond Rs 75. Today, not just fuel but also there is a steep rise in prices of all the commodities. It is becoming hard for the common man to survive at present times,” Siddaramaiah told the gathering.The administration found itself helpless to control the crowd that threw all the norms to the wind to contain coronavirus.The demonstration took place at a time when Bengaluru is witnessing an unprecedented rise in coronavirus cases. On Sunday evening, 1,267 coronavirus cases were confirmed in the state of which 783 were in the city alone whereas on Saturday there were 918 cases in the state of which about 400 were in the city.The city also constitutes for highest mortalities due to this communicable disease in the state.Diesel price has scaled a new high after prices were hiked for the 22nd time in just over three weeks, taking the cumulative increase to Rs 11.14 per litre. Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/lockdown-norms-go-for-toss-in-congress-rally-against-price-rise/story-AgeDvYq4QfCTJtgkKYGK1K.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti district records first Covid-19 case, state count climbs to 942||Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul and Spiti district reported its first Covid-19 case on Monday after a 26-year-old construction worker, employed with the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), tested positive for the virus, ending the district’s corona-free run and taking the state’s tally to 942. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner KK Saroch said, “The worker, a resident of Bihar, had come to the tribal district from Haryana on June 22. He had a valid permit and was involved in building a bridge at Patseo.”The patient’s contacts are being traced. With this, all twelve Himachal districts have been affected by Covid-19. Another case was reported in the district late evening.As many as 26 fresh infections were reported in the state on Monday. Besides two cases in Lahaul-Spiti, ten people tested positive in Baddi industrial area of Solan district. All the patients were in institutional quarantine. With this, Solan’s virus count has reached 108—fourth district in the state to breach 100-mark.Six people, including an 8-year-old child, tested positive in Kangra. The patients have a travel history to Delhi and Haryana. Five cases were reported in Hamirpur, two in Mandi and one in Chamba.366 ACTIVE CASESThe active cases in Himachal stand at 366. Eleven people have migrated to other states and seven have succumbed to the infection.Kangra is the worst-hit district with 268 cases, followed by Hamirpur with 243 cases, Solan with 108 cases, Una with 104 cases, Chamba with 52 cases, Bilaspur with 44 cases, Shimla with 40 cases, Sirmaur with 38 cases, Mandi with 30 cases, Kinnaur with eight cases, Kullu with five cases and Lahaul-Spiti with two case.RECOVERY RATE ABOVE 59%The recovery rate in Himachal Pradesh is 59%. Till date, 556 patients have recovered from the infection.Around 90% of the total cases recorded in Himachal are those who have returned from other states. Most of the patients had either returned from Delhi or Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-lahaul-spiti-district-records-first-covid-19-case-state-count-climbs-to-917/story-6HlCkBYgQa2XGtM8ZUVMcN.html
29-06-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Lockdown in 8 zones in Gurugram for 2 weeks||In view of fast rising Covid-19 cases, the Gurugram administration has identified 8 containment zones in the district and will enforce a complete lockdown for two weeks, an official said.Gurugram District Magistrate Amit Khatri said that these wards are identified as large outbreak zones.“Under the provision of Disaster Management Act, human movement will be completely banned here from two weeks from June 30 to July 14. The violators will be liable to face action under Disaster Management Act 2005 and relevant sections of IPC,” Khatri said.The large outbreak areas are identified as ward number 4 Dundehera, ward number 16 Arjun Nagar, Jyoti Park, Madanpuri, Ward number 17 Ratan garden and Shiv Puri, Ward number 20 Shivaji Nagar and Shanti nagar, Ward number 21 Baldev Nagar, Feroz Gandhi Colony, Ravi Nagar, Ward number 22 Hira Nagar, Gandhi Nagar Shvaji Park, Ward number 23 Hari Nagar Shakti Park and Ward number 35 DLF phase 3 Nathupur.These areas will be completely barricaded from all exit points followed by adequate police deployment to prevent violation. The movement of residents will be allowed only for emergency situations.“Health department will also start door to door screening in these areas through rapid antigen test to identify suspects. It will be mandatory for residents to install Aarogya Setu app and they have to undergo thermal as well as symptomatic screening every time they step out of their houses for buying daily needs domestic items,” Khatri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-lockdown-in-8-zones-in-gurugram-for-2-weeks/story-04LgsDliNxeoMV8YcUlBSM.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Man creates ruckus at Pune hospital after daughter’s birth, arrested: Police||A man allegedly threatened to kill his wife after she gave birth to a baby girl and created ruckus in an inebriated state at a hospital here in Maharashtra, police said on Monday.The accused, Krishna Kale, also hurled abuses at doctors and other staff and hit a hospital employee with a stone when the latter tried to stop him, they said.The incident took place at Dorlewadi primary health centre in Baramati town of Pune following which the accused was arrested, the police said.“Kale came to the hospital on June 25 and started abusing his wife for giving birth to a baby girl. He even threatened to kill her. The man also hurled abuses at doctors and other staff and used intimidating language,” Baramati police station’s senior inspector Audumbar Patil said.He then left the hospital, but came back again on June 26 in an inebriated state and started creating ruckus, the official said.“When Balu Chavan, an employee of the hospital, tried to stop him, he allegedly hit him on the head with a stone and injured him,” Patil said.Kale was arrested on Saturday, he said.A case was registered against him under IPC Sections 353 (assault or use of criminal force against a public servant to deter him from discharging his duty), 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-creates-ruckus-at-pune-hospital-after-daughter-s-birth-arrested-police/story-Hr8BCpo2Az7kPE3KlMREeM.html
29-06-2020||Education||7.97 lakh students fail in Hindi in UP Board exams||Nearly 7.97 lakh students in the Uttar Pradesh - known as the Hindi heartland - have failed in Hindi in the UP Secondary Board examinations for class 10 and 12, the results of which were announced on Saturday.According to the Board officials, around 2.70 lakh students failed to secure passing marks in Hindi in Intermediate, while 5.28 lakh students in High School failed in their Hindi paper.Around 2.39 lakh students of High School and Intermediate of the Board had skipped their Hindi papers.A high school teacher who evaluated Hindi copies for class 12, said on condition of anonymity, “Many of the children did not know simple words like ‘atmavishwas’ and wrote ‘confidence’, albeit with a wrong spelling. Some of them wrote ‘suffer’ for ‘yatra’. This reflects their level of the knowledge of the language,” she said.She further said that majority of the students tend to ignore Hindi because they feel there is no need to study the language which does not offer future prospects.Board officials, meanwhile, said that the number of students failing in Hindi was around 10 lakh last year. Around 56 lakh students had appeared in the Board examinations of the UP Board this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/7-97-lakh-students-fail-in-hindi-in-up-board-exams/story-ejySIS0VkdDiNXEEYSDd5L.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi to get plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients: CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will set up a plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients in the city, announced chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a press conference this afternoon. It is likely to be the first such bank in the country. Use of plasma therapy involves injecting blood-component plasma extracted from a cured coronavirus patient into a positive case. The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood. The plasma bank – which will operate largely like a blood bank – will be set up in the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital in south Delhi and the services can be availed by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals, but it has to be recommended by a doctor, the chief minister said.Watch l ‘Will build plasma bank in Delhi to help Covid patients’: Arvind Kejriwal “There is high demand for plasma therapy among people. Around two months ago, we were one of the first states to start plasma therapy trials. In the first phase, we conducted plasma trials on 29 patients (in Lok Nayak hospital). The results are good. It has been observed that plasma therapy helps stabilise respiratory rate of moderate to severe patients and it can save lives. But it cannot save patients with multi-organ failures, those in extremely severe conditions,” said Kejriwal in a press briefing.He further said, “The Delhi government has decided to set up a plasma bank in ILBS Hospital. This will probably be the first plasma bank of the country. Any Covid-cured individual would be able to donate plasma and active Covid patients admitted in both private and government hospitals would be able to avail it. But only a doctor can recommend plasma therapy and it cannot be randomly sought by any Covid patient. After recommendation, the concerned hospital has to inform ILBS for plasma.”The chief minister said that the government is working out the modalities of the plasma bank and they shall be finalised in another two days. “This will streamline the plasma therapy system in the city. The arrangement is in ILBS hospital because it is not a Covid hospital. The donors are safe and they will not be infected again. The government will also be paying for their conveyance,” said Kejriwal, urging more Covid-19 recovered patients to donate blood plasma in the coming days.He further said that the government will soon set up a helpline in which potential plasma donors can call up and health officials would also start calling recovering Covid-19 patients to donate plasmaJugal Kisore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, welcomed the move but recommended that the government should rather create a set of plasma centres in the coming days to ensure that there is no excessive stress on the infrastructure of one particular hospital.“Availability of plasma is a big issue. So far, both private and government hospitals which got approval for plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients maintained their own plasma banks. A centralised system would streamline the process and enable better monitoring, better data management and grievance redressal. However, having one such bank for the whole city can put excessive stress on the concerned hospital. The government, in the coming days, should create a network of plasma banks by setting up more facilities in accordance with locations of Covid-dedicated hospitals in the city,” Kishore said.Last week, the chief minister had said that plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Hospital has helped reduce death rate by around 50%. Data shared by the government on Sunday showed that the government hospital witnessed 51 deaths in the week between June 20 and 26, as against 100 deaths recorded between June 6 and 12. The Delhi government has also got the Centre’s approval for 200 more plasma therapy trials, following which they also roped in the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-plasma-bank-to-help-covid-19-patients-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-yT9IXryfQLxqr2eB2KjGAO.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal praises LNJP doctor who died fighting Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday paid tribute to a senior doctor of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), who died on Sunday after contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) earlier this month. Dr Aseem Gupta, 52, died at the Max Hospital in Saket, a private dedicated Covid-19 facility, and had treated patients infected with the virus.“Dr Aseem Gupta, a senior doctor of LNJP Hospital succumbed to Covid yday. He was known for going out of his way to serve his patients. We have lost a very valuable fighter. Delhi salutes his spirit and sacrifice...” Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister also said that he spoke to the doctor’s wife and offered his condolences and support. Dr Aseem Gupta, a senior doctor of LNJP Hospital succumbed to Covid yday. He was known for going out of his way to serve his patients. We have lost a very valuable fighter. Delhi salutes his spirit and sacrifice.I just spoke to his wife and offered my condolences and support. pic.twitter.com/0aD9nZmBoRThe LNJP hospital in a statement said that Dr Gupta, a front line anaesthesia specialist, was infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, while on duty.“He tested positive on June 6, when he had mild symptoms and was shifted to a quarantine facility. His symptoms aggravated on June 7 and he was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit of the LNJP Hospital,” the hospital said on Sunday. Dr Gupta was shifted to Max Hospital on June 8 on his request, it said.LNJP hospital recently completed 100 days of being declared as a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. A senior official of the hospital said a condolence meeting will be held at 1pm in the office of LNJP’s medical director to pay respects to Dr Gupta.Delhi recorded nearly 2,900 infections and 65 deaths on Sunday due to Covid-19. The containment zones in the national capital have gone up to 417 with the state government scaling up its testing capacity consistently.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-praises-lnjp-doctor-who-died-fighting-covid-19/story-FqaYmdBPFtcNeB36fKwSxJ.html
29-06-2020||Ranchi||22 more test Covid-19 positive in Jharkhand; tally rises to 2,364||Twenty-two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Sunday, raising the state’s tally to 2,364, a health department bulletin said.According to it, 69 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals during the day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe recovery rate in Jharkhand is at 75.84 per cent, it said, adding that overall 1,793 people have been cured of the disease.At present, the state has 559 active cases.Twelve people have died of Covid-19 in the state since March 31. Ranchi accounted for four fatalities followed by two each in Bokaro and Hazaribag and one each in Giridih, Gumla, Koderma and Simdega.A total of 1,37,438 samples have been tested so far, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/22-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-jharkhand-tally-rises-to-2-364/story-m30jq8HZrhKHlTBp6aNJmL.html
29-06-2020||Education||Magadh Mahila College to introduce Japanese language course from July||Magadh Mahila College (MMC), a constituent college of Patna University (PU), is set to introduce Japanese language courses for its students from July.The language training will be imparted by professional trainers, for which the college signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Patna-based Japanese language and culture centre, Empowering Anirvana, in presence of PU’s vice-chancellor HN Prasad on June 27.Principal of Magadh Mahila College, Shashi Sharma, said, “Introducing Japanese courses will open new career options for students. Admission process will begin in July through the official website of college. Along with language skills, students will also learn about Japanese culture through this course.”She said, “The Japanese course is a new addition to the foreign languages courses offered by our college. We already have German language and English language proficiency programme.”Director of Empowering Anirvana, Anand Vijay, said, “The Japanese learning course is a six-month certificate course, which requires minimum 60 hours class. The classes will integrate audio-visual training. Tutors from Japan will directly train the students.”He said. “The learning programme has been divided into two levels. Students will be awarded certificate after qualifying examination.” A college official said, “There will be 50 seats in the pilot batch and admission will be taken on first-come-first-served basis. Course fee is Rs 7,500. College alumni can also pursue course along with current batch students. Registration would begin in the first week of July. Though college is not open for students, the course will begin with online classs.”MMC is in planning to introduce several more courses, including geography in regular mode, women studies, human rights, pharmacy and on medical plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/magadh-mahila-college-to-introduce-japanese-language-course-from-july/story-ENFtaAUfMmL5WogsilSbzH.html
29-06-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru has 3,419 cases of Covid-19 as on June 28: Sudhakar K||Bengaluru recorded 3,419 cases of Covid-19 as on June 28, which is 25.92 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in Karnataka.The Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru doubled from 1,556 on June 23 to 3,419 cases on June 28, Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar K said.The Minister assured that State government is taking measures to ensure that every Covid-19 patient gets the best treatment.“Bengaluru had 1556 Covid-19 cases as on June 23 which doubled to 3419 cases as on June 28, which is 25.92 percent of total cases in Karnataka. State Govt is taking measures to ensure every Covid patient gets best treatment,” said Dr Sudhakar K in a tweet. Of the new Covid cases from Karnataka recorded on Sunday, 783 were from Bengaluru.India recorded 19,459 new coronavirus cases and 380 deaths in the last 24 hours. According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday, the total coronavirus cases in the country stand at 5,48,318 including 2,10,120 active cases, 3,21,723 cured/discharged/migrated and 16,475 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-has-3-419-cases-of-covid-19-as-on-june-28-sudhakar-k/story-oM6JWWb3FWhNdUpENKNYPJ.html
29-06-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot asks PM to withdraw statement on Galwan valley face-off||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw his statement, made at an all-party meeting on June 19, in which he said that “neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured”.“At Opposition’s meeting, the Prime Minister said that China did not intrude into our land and capture any post. He has done a blunder. He knowingly or unknowingly gave a certificate to China, which it wanted. This was not required. He should withdraw his statement,” Gehlot said in a video conference on Sunday while commenting the violent face-off between troops of India and China. At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clash.“He is the only Prime Minister whose statement is being welcomed by China,” the Chief Minister claimed.In the meeting, the Prime Minister had said: “Neither is anyone inside our territory nor is any of our post captured.”The Chief Minister said that the government should tell the nation about the situation on LAC. It is the right of the countrymen. “Isn’t it a moral responsibility of the Prime Minister to take the people of the country in confidence and clarify the status on the LAC,” he said.Gehlot said that the Prime Minister went to China four times as a Chief Mand five times as a Prime Minister and in general met the Chinese premier 18 times. “In Ahmedabad, they enjoyed swings with Chinese leadership while there was a conflict on the border. The Prime Minister should have understood his intentions,” he said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-asks-pm-to-withdraw-statement-on-galwan-valley-face-off/story-V43zRHDRlp2uUhMmlcGqoL.html
29-06-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP leader suffers bullet injuries , blames TMC for attack||BJP’s East Midnapore district secretary Pabitra Das suffered bullet injuries on Sunday during an alleged attack on villagers in his area.He was later taken to Tamluk Hospital.Das alleged, “At the behest of TMC MLA of Khejuri constituency and TMC Block President some armed goons attacked our village.”BJP National Secretary Rahul Sinha said, “There is nexus between police and TMC goons, I demand investigation and action against accused TMC goons and police officers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-bjp-leader-suffers-bullet-injuries-blames-tmc-for-attack/story-dWILkpqfy3S4Vx7z2ItAtI.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway to add 40 additional services on Mumbai Suburban section from today||The Western Railway (WR) said on Sunday that it will add 40 additional suburban services to the existing 162 services currently plying on the Mumbai Suburban section with effect from June 29.A total of 202 services will now be running on WR’s suburban section.Twenty slow services between Churchgate-Borivali will be operational (10 in the up direction and 10 in the down direction) and two slow services between Borivali-Boisar in the down direction, according to WR.Two fast services from Boisar-Churchgate will be running in the up direction, two slow services will be operational in the up direction between Virar-Borivali.Fourteen fast services will be operational between Churchgate-Virar (eight in the down direction and six in the up direction).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-to-add-40-additional-services-on-mumbai-suburban-section-from-today/story-tk3VQKkNryDDqSFccEUG7J.html
29-06-2020||City||Parents in Mumbai protest VIBGYOR fee hike; school says need it for study material||Parents of several students studying at various branches of the VIBGYOR Group of Schools across the city took to social media to protest against the institute’s decision to hike the fee for the current academic year. Parents also alleged that the school denied giving them school essentials unless they paid the hiked fees. A spokesperson from the school said in a written statement, “While the school is imparting online education to all its students irrespective of payment of fees, the school is not in a financial position to provide the study materials without the corresponding payment as the same has to be simultaneously procured by the school against a substantial cost.The school is not forcing, threatening any parent to pay fees, nor showing any bias towards any parent who has not paid fees, and any allegation in this regard is denied in its entirety.” Schools under the VIBGYOR group had hiked fees by 8-10% for each class in February this year and the hike is effective for the academic year 2020-21. A government resolution released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was however stayed by the Bombay High Court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. Parents said that while the hike was imposed in February, they started facing issues in payment due to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. “Many parents have lost their jobs and businesses while several others are working with huge pay cuts. At such a point we are only hoping that the school considers our plea on humanitarian grounds,” said the parent of the school’s Goregaon branch. Parents alleged that they were being denied school essentials and were asked to first get their fee receipts. “We have not heard from the school despite several emails and letters. On the other hand, the school has now started discriminating against students whose parents have refused to pay hiked fees by threatening to remove them from online learning groups and not giving them study material,” said another parent from Navi Mumbai. At the protest, parents said that they would collectively write to the school and the state education department requesting a hearing on their concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-in-mumbai-protest-vibgyor-fee-hike-school-says-need-it-for-study-material/story-xVKEPnE91aZGW9MIGOrdWK.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||College hiked fees, say students of Mumbai’s Mithibai College||Students of Vile Parle’s Mithibai College have complained that the college has imposed a fee hike amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Despite repeated attempts, college principal Rajpal Hande and Shri Vile Parle Kelavani Mandal’s (SVKM) chief executive officer Asoke Basak did not respond to HT calls and messages. SVKM trust runs the college. On Thursday, the autonomous college began the in-house admission process of students pursuing their second and third-year Arts, Science, Commerce, Banking and Insurance, Management Studies, Mass Media, Finance Management, Accountancy and Finance, Computer Science, Biotechnology and Biochemistry courses. Students are supposed to pay their fee online by Tuesday.However, many students claimed that the fees have been increased substantially, despite the University of Mumbai (MU) as well as the University Grants Commission (UGC) directing institutes against a hike. “For the BSc course, the fee was ₹30,000 last year, which is hiked to ₹40,000 this year,” said a third-year student. Another student from the Arts faculty said that the fee had increased from ₹36,000 to ₹60,000. “The college didn’t even allow the instalment option. All our efforts to reach the administration have not yielded any result,” said the student.In view of the lockdown , UGC – the apex body governing all educational institutes in the country – issued a letter on May 27 to all universities and colleges asking them to be considerate towards students while asking them to pay tuition and other fees. Subsequently, on Monday, MU also instructed all colleges to not hike fees for academic year 2020-21 and allow students to pay fees in instalments. Vinod Patil, officiating registrar of MU, said , “All colleges, including autonomous ones, have to follow the guidelines set by the university as well as the UGC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/college-hiked-fees-say-students-of-mumbai-s-mithibai-college/story-bi8HH5uc2qkHPc2F0WGgVL.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||2 accused arrested in Dharavi murder case test positive for Covid-19||Two of the five accused arrested for the murder of a 40-year-old construction site supervisor in Dharavi on Saturday has been tested positive for Covid-19 a day later. Deputy commissioner of police Niyati Thaker of zone 5 has confirmed the development.“The personnel who came in contact with the accused will be quarantined at homes and undergo a Covid-19 test on developing symtoms. We are still on the lookout for 13 more people, including main accused Furkan Abdul Razzak Qureshi. All the accused are between 19 and 26 years,’ an officer who is a part of the investigation, said. Three accused were arrested hours after the murder and taken for the Covid-19 test. The next day, two of them were found positive for the virus, the officer said.On Saturday around 1am, the victim – Afzal Ibrahim Shaikh – was dragged to Ambedkar Maidan from outside his home by Qureshi and 17 others owing to a personal enmity between the duo. The men assaulted Shaikh with a sword and knives and stabbed him 50 times. They also attacked his 20-year-old son, who suffered injuries on his hand. Sheikh was rushed to a nearby hospital by his family, where he was declared dead before admission. Shaikh and Qureshi have many cases of assault filed against them at Dharavi police station, the police said.On Sunday, the police also arrested two more accused and seized the sword used in the crime.Two of the five accused arrested for the murder of a 40-year-old construction site supervisor in Dharavi on Saturday has been tested positive for Covid-19 a day later. Deputy commissioner of police Niyati Thaker of zone 5 has confirmed the development.“The personnel who came in contact with the accused will be quarantined at homes and undergo a Covid-19 test on developing symtoms. We are still on the lookout for 13 more people, including main accused Furkan Abdul Razzak Qureshi. All the accused are between 19 and 26 years,’ an officer who is a part of the investigation, said. Three accused were arrested hours after the murder and taken for the Covid-19 test. The next day, two of them were found positive for the virus, the officer said.On Saturday around 1am, the victim – Afzal Ibrahim Shaikh – was dragged to Ambedkar Maidan from outside his home by Qureshi and 17 others owing to a personal enmity between the duo. The men assaulted Shaikh with a sword and knives and stabbed him 50 times. They also attacked his 20-year-old son, who suffered injuries on his hand. Sheikh was rushed to a nearby hospital by his family, where he was declared dead before admission. Shaikh and Qureshi have many cases of assault filed against them at Dharavi police station, the police said.On Sunday, the police also arrested two more accused and seized the sword used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-accused-arrested-in-dharavi-murder-case-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-zi6tTyiTo04CYVFASVaUIM.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Mankhurd police station in Mumbai declared a containment zone, but to remain functional||Mankhurd police station, as well as the building where it is located, have been declared a containment zone, after two residents staying there were tested positive on Friday. However, the police station will remain functional as they offer essential services. The police personnel also claimed that all precautionary measures are being taken, and the police station premises is being disinfected multiples times a day.“Both the residents were shifted to a Covid care centre for treatment. As a precautionary measure, the BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] officials declared the building a containment zone and sprayed disinfectants in the building as well as around the locality,” inspector Kishor Kharat from Mankhurd police station said.There are around 250 residents staying in the ground-plus-seven-storey building, located at Lallubhai compound. Thirty rooms in the structure are allotted for the police station on the first, second and third floors.According to the police the stairwell from the third floor is closed and residents are asked not to step out without valid reasons, or else they would face police action. Only one member of each family is permitted to step out to purchase milk, vegetables, medicines or other essential items. The police also assured residents with all help in getting the essential items.Earlier on June 20, four accused who were arrested and kept in the police station’s lockup in a murder case were also tested positive for Covid-19.An officer from Mankhurd police station said, “20-year-old Shera Rahmat Ali Shaikh was assaulted by some people after they suspected him to be a thief in the intervening night of June 7 and 8 at Mohite Patil Nagar area. After he died, the accused dumped his body between two cars at a parking lot near a public toilet in Dr Zakir Hussain Nagar of Mankhurd.”The police first registered an accidental death report but based on the post-mortem report, later filed a murder case, following which nine people were arrested.According to protocol, the accused were sent to a government hospital for Covid-19 test and on June 20, the police found four of the nine accused positive. “The four accused are undergoing treatment at Shivaji Nagar isolation centre and are asymptomatic,” an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mankhurd-police-station-in-mumbai-declared-a-containment-zone-but-to-remain-functional/story-J1MKSckbnyDPGS9BOQlCCK.html
29-06-2020||City||Thane Police increase bandobast at entry points to the city to take strict action against lockdown violators||Thane traffic police have increased bandobast duties at all corners and entry point of the city to take stringent action against those travelling without valid reasons.The traffic police have booked 957 motorists for disobedience of police order and seized 195 vehicles in Thane commissionerate jurisdiction.“The city police had warned citizens to stay at home, but many are roaming around in their two-wheelers and cars stating fake emergencies. Our appeals have not worked and so we will seize vehicles,” traffic police deputy commissioner Amit Kale said.Officers have further said that office-goers should carry their identity cards along with a letter from their respective workplaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-police-increase-bandobast-at-entry-points-to-the-city-to-take-strict-action-against-lockdown-violators/story-1ppPvdFQEydRqMS3IF8k5K.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Citizens can’t go beyond 2-km radius for essentials: Mumbai Police||Even as the state declared several relaxations in lockdown norms under Mission Begin Again, Mumbai Police has appealed to all the citizens to adhere to all the guidelines strictly and to not move beyond the two-kilometre radius of their homes to visit shops, salons or to exercise. However, the police have clarified that the movement beyond the 2-km radius is permitted for office-goers or in the case of medical emergencies. Citizens also have to ensure they follow social distancing norms and wear masks mandatorily while stepping out.The police department has said that if citizens fail to adhere to the guidelines, they will face lawful action. The police have also said that they would impound vehicles if they are found plying away from their local area without a valid reason.Also read| Maharashtra’s ‘alarming’ surge in Covid-19 cases due to relaxations, migration: ExpertsThe police department has hinted that in the coming days the city is likely to witness heavy presence of personnel on the streets to keep lockdown violations in check. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson on Sunday said that though there are relaxations in lockdown norms to make the movement of citizens easier, the threat of Covid-19 still persists in the city.“It is our sincere appeal that all the citizens behave responsibly and avoid unnecessary movement. The onus of defeating Covid-19 lies on all of us and we can achieve it only if we follow personal safety and social distancing guidelines at all times. However, many people in the city have been found violating these norms, thereby endangering their own health as well as that of others in their vicinity,” Ashok said.The police have also said that during the night curfew between 9pm and 5pm, there is a prohibition in the movement, except for essential activities. “Any violation of the night curfew shall be strictly penalised,” the police guidelines reads. Establishments such as shops and markets that have been permitted to remain open amid the lockdown, will be shut if they flout norms.Since the lockdown was implemented in March, the city police have registered 10,371 cases against 19,638 people for lockdown violations such as stepping out without a valid reason, not wearing masks and unnecessarily taking out vehicles. Of these, 11,751 have been arrested until Saturday.6,826 vehicles seized Mumbai Police, along with its traffic divisions, intensified action against lockdown violators and impounded 6,826 vehicles on Sunday alone. Toll in police rises to 38A 55-year-old police naik, posted in Dharavi, died of Covid-19 on Saturday night. He had been undergoing treatment since May 15 at SevenHills Hospital but was later shifted to a private hospital in south Mumbai. The death toll in Mumbai Police due to Covid-19 now stands at 38. Meanwhile, 150 new cases have been reported from across the state in the past 48 hours, taking the total number of active cases to 1,001. The state police force’s toll has now reached 58.3 accused in Mulund assault case tested positiveRecently two groups clashed at Indiranagar, Mulund (West), following which the police arrested the main accused and his two accomplices in the case. A local court remanded them to police custody, before which they had been sent for a medical examination. Their Covid-19 reports came positive, after which they were rushed to Mithagar Covid Care Centre in Mulund (East) for treatment. The officers who had come in contact with the accused have also been quarantined.Also read: Scientists trace genes that aid and stem spread of Sars-CoV-2‘Beware of cybercrimes on porn sites’According to the state cyber police, many citizens have been browsing porn websites during the lockdown, taking advantage of which, cyber criminals have been trying to target the users. Cyber police officers have said that those visiting porn sites have been getting random emails, threatening to make their online activities public to extort money from them. The police have appealed to internet users not to visit porn sites, and to report to the police immediately if they get such mails. The police have also said that users face a threat of ransomware on porn sites, which can take control of the system to hack vital information. The police has also warned against those viewing child porn.Cops, BMC propose lockdown between Goregaon and DahisarLast week, the Mumbai Police, in a joint review meeting with senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, have proposed a complete lockdown in the north region (Goregaon to Dahisar). The two authorities have sealed several connecting internal roads and have given access only to main roads in every locality to avoid the spread of Covid-19. The roads were sealed in Malwani, MHB Colony and several parts of Malad East area. During a nakabandi, the police have taken action against around 1,400 people, including motorists, from the area, who violated the lockdown norms, in the past four days. (With inputs from Suraj Ojha and Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-can-t-go-beyond-2-km-radius-for-essentials-mumbai-police/story-nyj0V9YSC1s87aTZRIEWXL.html
29-06-2020||City||Thane to go under lockdown again?||Additional civic commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh on Sunday asked residents from 22 areas to stock up essentials, raising speculations of a lockdown at these places. Some of these areas include Balkum, Kolshet, Dhokali, Ram Maruti Road, Manpada, some parts of Ghodbunder Road, Lokmanya Nagar, Savarkar Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Kisan Nagar, Wagle Estate, Padwal Nagar, Warli Pada and Indira Nagar. With 341 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city reached 8,168, while the death toll is now at 277, after 14 new deaths.“The increase in crowding in some areas and the sudden spike in the cases have led us to consider implementing a lockdown in these areas. The commissioner will take a final call on Monday, but I request residents to be prepared and cooperate with the civic body. Those in the hot spots [Kalwa, Mumbra, Kausa, Kopri and Naupada] have to be more careful and avoid stepping out of their homes except for essential services,” said Deshmukh.While essential services will continue to remain operational in these areas, the movement of residents will be restricted. “We deployed a strict nakabandi at all points within the Thane Commissionerate. If we find passengers in vehicles beyond the permissible numbers, we shall confiscate the vehicles. No one should be roaming unnecessarily,” said Amit Kale, deputy commissioner of police, Thane traffic division.Meanwhile, some malls and salons have reopened in the city after more than 100 days. “We have given time slots for our customers, and based on prior appointments they visit our salon. We have made all necessary safety arrangements, from providing sanitisers to ensuring everyone wears safety gears such as mask and gloves at the salon. We are also cleaning all equipment at regular intervals,” said Javed Shaikh, owner of Kraft Salon at Patlipada. Meanwhile, popular malls in Thane have made available time slots online for customers. Those who wish to visit malls have one have to take appointments, following which a QR code will be provided to them, through which they can gain access to the mall. This step is taken in a bid to ensure fewer inside the mall, making it easier to maintain social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-to-go-under-lockdown-again/story-b8tH4ENJYnbW61u1LtbohO.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Inflated electricity bills shock film, TV actors||After many citizens complained of receiving ‘inflated bills’ in June, Bollywood and TV personalities also took to social media on Sunday and stated that they were shocked a see a massive surge in their power bills.Actor Taapsee Pannu on Sunday said that she received a bill of ₹36,000 in June – a sharp surge from her May and April bills of ₹3,850 and ₹4,390, respectively. “3 months of lockdown and I wonder what appliance(s) I have newly used or bought in the apartment only last month to have such an insane rise in my electricity bill. @Adani_Elec_Mum what kind of POWER r u charging us for? (sic),” she tweeted. Pannu also claimed that the said apartment is vacant, which she visits only once a week.Actor Dino Morea also took to Twitter to complain about the bill he received. “Literally got a shock, pun intended. There was no surge in electricity, just the bill. @Adani_Elec_Mum,” the actor tweeted.Meanwhile, comedian Vir Das asked citizens in Mumbai if they too have received a bill that is three times more than what they usually pay. In reply to his tweet, actor Ashish Chowdhry tweeted, “Gosh I did. And yes, three times. It’s a massive jump. Went and checked all the geysers in the house if they were on for a month @TataPower.”TV actor Saumya Tandon claimed that she received a bill of ₹28,000, as against other months, during which she gets bills worth an average of ₹8,000.Over the past one week, citizens across the state expressed shock over their recent bills stating a two to three-fold jump when compared to the previous months’ amounts.Distribution companies, however, maintained that there have been no errors.Power officials said that as actual meter-reading was suspended since March-end owing to the lockdown, consumers were sent bills as per the average usage of December, January and February. However, consumption is on the higher side in March, April and May, owing to the summer season, combined with the lockdown during which citizens are confined to their homes and so consumers would have utilised more power.Following Pannu’s complaint on Twitter, an Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) spokesperson said, “Upon receipt of the complaint, we have verified the meter reading and found (it) to be correct.”A spokesperson from AEML said, “This rise in electricity consumption has been witnessed by household consumers of all utilities due to the lockdown, and enhanced power consumption patterns was observed among such consumers. In some segments, power consumption has increased by two-three-fold.”In a statement released this week, Tata Power stated, “Tata Power would like the consumers to look for such lifestyle changes while reflecting over last 3 months of lockdown and compare it with lifestyle pre lockdown or last year same months.”AEML and Tata power supply power in parts of the city.The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL), which received thousands of complaints, also set-up consumer grievance cells in all its offices to address queries.State will seek funds from Centre for MSEDCL State energy minister Nitin Raut on Sunday said that the government will soon write to the Centre seeking funds for MSEDCL. Earlier this week, Raut had stated that the state electricity distribution company suffered losses of more than ₹3,500 crore owing to lack of meter-reading and non-payment of actual usage charges during the lockdown. Apart from this, MSEDCL has also suffered losses owing to Cyclone Nisarga that damaged several cables and electric poles in the state, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inflated-electricity-bills-shock-film-tv-actors/story-B5GzDrjCFO2FfowXxNMeHI.html
29-06-2020||City||Mumbai civic corporation increases Covid-19 tests by 11.4% in a month||To contain the spread of Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ramped up testing by 11.4% over the past one month. The number of tests went up to 1,33,493 between May 27 and June 26, from 1,19,825 tests between April 26 and May 26.Mumbai recorded 1,287 fresh cases and 87 new deaths on Sunday. Of the 87 deaths, 64 were not reported in the past 24 hours, but added to the total after figures were reconciled. The city’s case tally rose to 75,539, while the toll touched 4,371. The number of discharged patients was 43,154, with a recovery rate of 57.12%. Further, active cases stood at 28,006. The fatality rate was 5.78% and doubling rate 41 days. Dharavi, one of the earlier hot spots, has been showing signs of recovery, with only 13 new cases on Sunday, The total cases in the area now stand at 2,245. Currently, BMC claims to have a testing capacity of 8,000 tests a day. On an average, 4,306 people are being tested daily in the city. The city has carried out 3.14 lakh tests so far, according to BMC data. However, experts as well as the Opposition claim Mumbai needs to test more aggressively. BMC has now said with procurement of 1 lakh rapid antigen kits that will deliver results in 30 minutes, the testing capacity will go up by around 2,000-2,500.The city on an average conducted 4,306 tests daily between May 27 and June 26, compared to 3,865 between April 26 and May 26. The positivity rate in the city as of June 26 was 22.96%. The state conducted 2,73,825 tests between April 26 and May 26, compared to 4,81,705 between May 26 and June 26, according to the state health department data.Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital, said, “The scaling in the number of tests has happened, but it is not enough considering the population of a city like Mumbai. However, we also need to consider the challenges to conduct such a large amount of tests. The test is micro. We are focusing on rapid testing kits to bring that pace. We should test around 20,000 samples daily. With BMC procuring rapid antigen kits, there will be a scope to increase the daily testing capacity to 10,000-15,000. This will help curtail the spread. Even western countries had to face many challenges.”BMC last week announced ‘Mission Universal Testing’ to procure 1 lakh rapid antigen kits. A BMC official said, “We will conduct 1 lakh testing using these kits in the city, and it is going to be game-changer to curtail the spread. We have allowed those above 70 years of age get tested without a prescription. Private laboratories are also allowing people to get tested based on e-prescription and high-risk contacts without any prescription. This will ensure testing increases.”Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task-force said, “Mumbai has increased its testing in the past two months, but we need to test more than what we are testing currently. We have been testing as per the protocols laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and the method changes from time to time. One has to consider that we do not have to test the whole population of Mumbai. We are doing a sero-surveillance test, where a larger population is being covered.”Dr Joshi said, “We have to concentrate on areas or wards where the doubling rate is low. Sero-surveillance will help test maximum population.”The surveillance helps diagnose individuals with antibodies for Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. The survey will be conducted in areas namely Tilak Nagar, Chembur, Matunga, Sion, Wadala, Dahisar and parts of Borivli. During sero-surveillance, residents will undergo blood tests that can detect the presence of antibodies. A total of 10,000 blood samples will be collected.Meanwhile, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Friday alleged the government and civic body were deliberately testing less to ensure the city’s daily figures don’t show a spike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-corporation-increases-covid-19-tests-by-11-4-in-a-month/story-v2XcsTbCpr2Pcpt5PDK1VL.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Have no cash for flight home: Byculla man in US seeks consulate’s help||A Byculla resident living in New Jersey, USA, who was laid off in March, has written to the Indian embassy in New York, requesting a waiver on his airfare to Mumbai, so that he can return before his employment authorisation document (work permit) expires.Aliasgar Merchant, a blockchain developer, said he does not have enough money to buy Air India’s “expensive” $1,361 (₹1,02,929) ticket to fly back under the Vande Bharat Mission. Merchant is waiting to hear from the embassy so that he can leave before July 12, when his work permit expires, to avoid staying illegally in the US.In March, Merchant was retrenched due to losses suffered by his company during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and has since been looking for employment opportunities. However, unable to find a job, he has exhausted all his savings. Merchant had gone to the US in 2017 to pursue a master’s degree in information technology and was working there since.“I am currently in no position to pay my rent for July. My work permit expires on July 12 since I have not yet found a job,” said Merchant. “When I initially approached the Indian Consulate in New York, my name was recommended on the flight scheduled to leave for Mumbai on June 29. However, Air India asked me to pay $1,361 for the flight ticket and directed me to contact the Indian embassy/consulate if I wanted the ticket charges to be waived due to my financial crisis,” said MerchantLast week, Merchant tweeted for help to the Indian embassy in New York when he was told that the airline could not waive the ticket charges.“I also emailed the embassy on Friday, asking for help on humanitarian grounds, so that I can return to Mumbai. I am now hoping that the authority can help me return on any of the flights before July 12,” he added.The US Consulate General of India in New York reverted to Merchant on Sunday night and asked him to submit his bank statement and salary slip. The email accessed by HT read, “In order to consider your case, you are requested to forward your bank statement for the last three months.... last three months pay stub before you lost the job. Once the same is received at our end, your case will be considered.” While a handful of flights are scheduled to arrive in Delhi from San Francisco and New York’s John F Kennedy (JFK) International Airport as part of the fourth phase of Vande Bharat Mission, more departing flights have been scheduled to these destinations. However, only three flights are scheduled to arrive from Newark to Mumbai in the fourth phase on July 4, 6, and 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/have-no-cash-for-flight-home-byculla-man-in-us-seeks-consulate-s-help/story-H6TKxWU70JlztrS4oK5gUM.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Covid survivor RPF staff guards others against infection||Anand Kumar Jaiswar, a 38-year-old Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel is a Covid-19 survivor who now educates railway passengers and railway employees to maintain hygiene and wash their hands regularly to fight the coronavirus.Jaiswar, who is posted at Central Railway’s (CR) Wadibunder railway yard in Mazgaon as a head constable, tested positive for the virus in May while working on the operation of passenger and parcel train movements.On May 4, he developed a fever and mild cold. He was directed to the railway’s designated Covid hospital, Jagjivan Ram Hospital in Mumbai Central after his swab test results came back positive.After 10 days at the hospital, he was asked to home quarantine for a week.“I was initially nervous and scared as to how, despite taking all the precautions, I got infected. My senior officers and the doctors motivated and helped me to stay positive and calm,” said Jaiswar.The virus, however, did not affect Jaiswar’s willpower, and he resumed work immediately after getting a fitness certificate from the doctors.“Work of RPF is very crucial in the operation of trains, and particularly during the coronavirus pandemic. I wanted to resume work immediately as I felt fit but waited for the doctor’s approval. I resumed work on June 6 and have been working on the movement of passenger trains,” he said.Jaiswar now asks passengers to regularly wash and sanitise their hands on the railway stations. “I tell passengers about my experience and how I overcame it. I tell them to eat healthily and regularly wash and sanitise their hands. One can fight the virus if one has strong willpower,” said Jaiswar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-survivor-rpf-staff-guards-others-against-infection/story-D0pICaOPUVqmnk07iDsY2L.html
29-06-2020||City||60-year-old unwell man lying on Thane road rescued||The regional disaster management cell (RDMC) of Thane rescued an unwell 60-year-old man from the streets on Sunday evening. The man, later identified as Vishwanath Kamble, was lying on the road near Vasant Vihar Naka. After some locals informed the Chitalsar police about him, they along with an RDMC team reached the spot immediately with a rescue vehicle.“Kamble worked with a cobbler at Lokpuram. He is suffering from fever and breathlessness and was very restless. An ambulance was called and he was taken to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital at Kalwa,” said RDMC Thane chief Santosh Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-year-old-unwell-man-lying-on-thane-road-rescued/story-je60JTQmJF7NpRiUjwjDfK.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Automated screens to check tickets, screen passengers at railway stations||Western Railway (WR) will introduce automated ticket checking and managing access (ATMA) screens at the city’s major railway stations soon. The ATMA screens will help limit physical contact between passengers and railway employees during the Covid-19 pandemic.ATMA digital screens will be placed at the entrance of railway stations and will take thermal screenings of passengers and check their tickets.The screens will be placed at Mumbai Central, Bandra Terminus, and Borivli railway stations and will be used for five years.“The digital screens will help limit direct contact, and monitoring of passengers will also be easy,” said a WR official.ATMA will also be able to check if passengers are wearing masks or not. Post the screenings, passengers will have to sanitise their hands, and only then will they be allowed to board the train. Presently, one digital screen has been introduced at Nagpur railway station, and Central Railway (CR) plans on introducing the screens at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT).The railways also introduced infrared cameras to conduct thermal screenings of passengers at CSMT and LTT, and a robotic system at Pune railway station has been set up for the same purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/automated-screens-to-check-tickets-screen-passengers-at-railway-stations/story-VFLprs4fzq1T2XUiDhK2DO.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s ‘alarming’ surge in Covid-19 cases due to relaxations, migration: Experts||On June 27, Maharashtra reported 6,368 new Covid-19 cases (after reconciliation of 1,050 cases), a record single-day spike not only for the state, but for India as well. This was the fourth consecutive single-day spike record for the western state, India’s worst-affected region that has seen 164,626 cumulative cases. From June 24 to June 28, excluding the record on June 27, Maharashtra recorded 3,890, 4,841, 5,024 and 5,493 new cases.In the past week, until June 27, the state has recorded more than 4,400 new cases a day on average, compared to 3,400 the week before that. The doubling rate of cases – the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double – has dropped from 24 days a week ago to 22 days as of Saturday.The positivity rate, too, has shown no signs of slowing down. Two weeks ago, the state had an average positivity rate of 20.6%. Since then, it has slowly, but steadily been rising despite a big increase in daily tests — on June 27, the positivity rate stood at 22%. This means that the more samples that the state tests, the more the positive cases. Experts say it is an alarming sign.In the two other states with high caseloads – Tamil Nadu and Delhi – as the testing has been ramped up over the past two weeks, the positivity rate has declined. In Delhi, the average positivity rate has dropped from 30.7% two weeks ago to 18.7% on June 27. The corresponding number has dropped from 12.2% to 9.9% in Tamil Nadu.All three states have significantly ramped their testing in these two weeks. The number of average daily tests has increased from 14,000 to 20,000 in Maharashtra; 18,700 to 30,000 in Tamil Nadu; and 5,200 to 18,000 tests in Delhi in the past two weeks. Maharashtra tested 26,628 samples on Sunday, the highest since the first case was detected on March 9.While Maharashtra’s overall cases have shot up, Mumbai’s cases have plateaued, albeit with a caveat – the number of tests has not risen significantly. For the 10 days from June 15 to June 24, Mumbai tested only 40,110 samples, giving an average of 4,011 tests a day.However, even with a similar number of tests in May and June, Mumbai’s share in the state’s overall cases has fallen from 59.49% on May 28 to 45.89% on June 28. Simultaneously, districts like Pune, Dhule, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and Solapur among others have recorded almost 10 times rise in cases, say state-appointed district health officers.Relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and migration of workers are the main reasons behind the surge, they say.“In May, most cases were reported from Mumbai and Pune. We had eight orange and five green districts. Now, we don’t have any green districts due to rising Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, epidemiologist and state surveillance officer. “Districts like Nanded, Osmanabad, Beed and Bhandara have shown a 100% rise in the number of Covid cases in a month.”According to data provided by the Maharashtra health department, between May 28 and June 27, Mumbai has seen a 118% rise in cases, but other hot spots such as Pune, Dhule, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and Solapur have recorded almost 10 times that.For example, on May 28, Dhule had only 129 Covid-19 cases. On June 28, this surged to 962 cases. Jalgaon rose from 526 cases on May 28 to 3002 on June 28. Nashik went from 1,043 cases on May 28 to 3902 cases on June 28. On May 28, Pune Municipal Corporation had 6896 cumulative cases. On June 28, this rose to 20,870 cases. “Hundreds of people who were stuck in different parts of the country have returned, and this has contributed to the rise in numbers,” said Dr Awate.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, has seen a similar alarming rise. Thane Municipal Corporation cases rose from 3226 on May 28 to 9264 on June 28. Palghar rose from 129 to 5,267 in the same period.“A large portion of Mumbai’s population travels to MMR as they are economically dependent on the area. So, we not only need to control the cases in Mumbai but also in MMR,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 Task Force.HT spoke to 10 district health officers (DHOs), and each of them said the cases have surged primarily due to a relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and the human migration from metropolises to smaller cities and villages. Dr Aniruddha Athalye, (DHO), Satara, said, “We have recorded 42 Covid-related deaths, but 40 of them were migrants from Mumbai who died within a few hours of admission in hospitals due to delay in treatment.” According to him, Satara has 1004 Covid-afflicted people, but 80% of them are those who came from Mumbai, Pune and Uttar Pradesh.In Latur, of the 275 total Covid-19 cases, 95% are migrants. “With the relaxation in the lockdown, several migrants returned home. Gradually, asymptomatic infected people started spreading the disease to their family members. We had zero cases in the first week of May,” said Dr G Garaghe, DHO. Latur had 303 cases on June 28.In Dhule, people got infected while trying to provide food and water to the migrants on Mumbai-Agra highway. “Though it was a noble cause, 45 people contracted the infection,” said Dhule DHO Dr Shivendra Shagle. “Those cases were just the beginning. Soon, it started spreading among others.” Dhule has 962 cumulative cases on June 28, up from 129 a month ago.According to Dr Taranglushar Ware, DHO of Yavatmal, around 20 people who had visited the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in April were the first patients from the district. All DHOs HT spoke to said the general public has not been following physical distancing norms ever since the government announced a relaxation in the lockdown on June 3. “The national lockdown relaxation was implemented for economic reasons, but people are behaving irresponsibly. We are therefore unable to break the infection chain. We have asked the state to extend the lockdown,” said Dr AR Gita, DHO of Aurangabad where cases have increased to 4,833 (June 28) from 1,370 (May 28).Apart from a lack of discipline, health activists blamed the state’s rigid testing policy behind the rise in cases. Dr Athalye said asymptomatic migrants didn’t qualify for a swab test for diagnosis. “Later, these carriers infected more people. If we had tested them earlier, we could have controlled the spread,” he said.Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, a pan-Maharashtra health sector NGO, criticised the state government for failing to test all the migrants even when they fell in the vulnerable category.He also claimed that due to an inadequate number of testing, thousands of cases are going unreported. “Though Mumbai has reached its plateau, the positivity rate is 22%. This means the number of infected people is high. Many districts may have reached their pandemic peak; so, if we run more tests then we can identify more cases,” said Dr More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-are-maharashtra-cases-spiking/story-Li2abpW38ypGy5vH35caKP.html
29-06-2020||City||KDMT conductor succumbs; family claims he had to visit several hospitals for treatment||A 52-year-old conductor of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. His family claimed that since Tuesday, they had to visit several hospitals to get him treated.Six deaths due to the infection were reported in Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits on Sunday, taking the death toll to 107. The city also recorded 369 new cases on Sunday, taking the total count to 5,678.Earlier, a KDMT driver succumbed to the infection. This is the second death in the transport department.As per the family, the conductor, a resident of Ambernath, had to visit several hospitals for treatment before he succumbed to the infection at Thane Civic Hospital on Sunday morning.“On Tuesday, I took my father to the state-run Chaya Hospital in Ambernath where his swab sample was collected, and they asked us to visit Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar. When we went there, they asked us to go to Rukminibai Hospital as there was no doctor available. When we went to Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan, they did not admit him, saying he is an outsider as he lives in Ambernath,” said the deceased conductor’s 28-year-old son.“We decided to go home as there was no point in roaming. Later, when his health deteriorated, we took him to Poddar Central Hospital in Badlapur, which is a private hospital, and got him admitted there on June 25. The hospital discharged him after two days, saying he was not behaving well. We again went to Chaya Hospital as he was unwell, and they sent my father to Thane Civic Hospital on Saturday evening, where he died the next day,” he added.A representative from Poddar Central Hospital, said, “The patient, who tested positive for Covid -19, was discharged on request from the family.”Epidemic officer of KDMC, Pratibha Panpatil said, “Rukminibai Hospital is a non-Covid hospital and Covid patients are not admitted there for treatment. If a patient comes to Rukmini Hospital, the staff there guide them to the nearest Covid hospital. We will have to look into what went wrong in this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmt-conductor-succumbs-family-claims-he-had-to-visit-several-hospitals-for-treatment/story-5hk5sX2nXG0CphUoYP56sL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid test reports delayed to extend stay in Punjab hotels, allege foreign returnees||Many foreign returnees lodged in Punjab hotels for quarantine soon after their landing in India have alleged fleecing at the hands of the hotels in collusion with the health department officials, claiming that their Covid-19 test reports are being delayed to extend their stay beyond the stipulated period. The health department, however, said those lodged in hotels can’t be forced to stay beyond one week. “Those coming from abroad are taken straightaway to hotels and we take their samples for the coronavirus testing after five days. The test reports in most cases come in two days. If a person is tested negative, they are allowed to go home immediately,” said state’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. As per the state government’s guidelines, those returning from abroad are required to stay in 14-day quarantine — first week in a hotel designated by the health department and second week at home if they test negative for the virus. Inderpal Singh Parmar, a software engineer who landed in New Delhi after his return from the US 10 days ago and was lodged in a hotel in Kharar last Saturday, said it has been five days since a medical team took his samples but report has not arrived yet.“I got no clarity about the test reports despite my repeated requests to the hotel authorities. I can’t speak to anyone other than the hotel staff. I am not allowed to go out of the room,” he said. Puneet Verma, who came back from the US after attending a training course, said, “We were taken to a hotel in Kharar on June 20. It has been nine days since but there’s no information as to when we would be allowed to go home.”“The hotel has already charged ₹27,500 from me for a week’s stay and is asking us to pay more for the stay of two days,” he added.Of those who travelled in the San Francisco-Delhi flight last week, 10 were from Punjab. Of these, at least six were lodged in a Mohali hotel.Hotels are charging an average ₹4,000 per day from those lodged for quarantine. The total bill for a week comes around ₹28,000 and but most people end up paying more by the time they check out due to delay in test reports, said another occupant under quarantine in a hotel in Mohali.Parmar said the similar issue cropped up in a Mohali hotel where travellers were lodged. “They were given their test reports only after they created a ruckus last night. Their stay was also delayed by at least four days on the pretext of non-receipt of test reports,” he said. Principal secretary (medical education) DK Tiwari said delay in Covid-19 testing is rare. “An average 9,000 tests are conducted daily by the three government medical colleges. We have given instructions that there should be no backlog and all test reports must be prepared the same day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-test-reports-delayed-to-extend-stay-in-punjab-hotels-allege-foreign-returnees/story-ok2pbqcYgD1ydFcR745IZI.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||For the poor, online learning a big obstacle||Vikram Adsul, a teacher from a zilla parishad school in Karjat Ahmednagar, is having busier days since the lockdown led to closure of schools in March. Adsul’s school, nested in a small hamlet called Bandgar Vasti, has students from the Dhangar community, many of whom have no access to mobiles and internet. “While many schools have smoothly transitioned from offline to online, students like ours who already struggle to get access to education are finding it difficult to adapt. Many do not have smartphones, and even the ones who have them have no internet range. We have to call students and talk to them or meet them every few days to keep their morale high in addition to teaching them,” said Adsul. As the uncertainty around physical reopening of schools continues with increasing number of Covid-19 cases, online learning has become the new normal for schools across the country. However, for lakhs of students from underprivileged backgrounds in cities and villages, online learning might be no learning, say experts. To begin with, data from the state education department early this month reveals that over 26% students in Maharashtra do not have access to even a mobile phone; which can act as a big barrier in online learning. “In remote parts of the state and the country, we cannot sustain with the online-only model for a long time. Children need schools not just for actual studies but also to have a conducive learning and growing environment which their homes often fail to provide. Schools are an empowering space, especially for girls,” said Hemangi Joshi, an RTE activist from Mumbai. “Things like midday meals are also big factors in drawing students to schools. Online-only learning would mean that a lot of these students are likely to drop out.” Barriers beyond accessWhile issue regarding access is a key concern, experts say it is just the tip of the iceberg. Even in cases where students have access to phones or internet, their parents who come from low income groups with little or no education are likely to find it difficult to support their learning at home. Padma Sarangapani, chairperson, Centre for Education Innovation and Action Research at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), said a lot of the responsibility for a child’s learning will now depend on parents. “The question is whether parents have the time, bandwidth and orientation to support their children’s learning, and whether the government schooling system can put into place a system of supporting parents to learn and access resources for their children,” she added.Chetna Duggal, project director at the School Initiative of Mental Health Advocacy at TISS, said migration and resultant emotional distress among low income households due to the pandemic has an impact on the child’s overall wellbeing, thereby affecting learning. “Witnessing and experiencing parental distress, financial crisis, undergoing transitions, disruptions of routine, lack of safe spaces and inability to meet peers and supportive people can have deep psychological impact on children. This can interfere with their capacity to pay attention, concentrate and engage with learning new material or developing new skills,” she added. In Mumbai, the migrant exodus has displaced nearly 1.15 lakh or 21% of the total students enrolled in civic and private primary schools, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation reveals. Rajkiran Chavan, a teacher from Solapur, said seeing and interacting with their teachers on a regular basis is key to learning for children from low income families, something that is disrupted during the pandemic. “Not all students have the bandwidth to see live videos. But even the preloaded content on various educational apps is not customised for their needs. They lose interest in the content due to language barriers and lack of subjectivity in content,” said Chavan. The way aheadWhile the state education department has announced the commencement of the academic year 2020-21 from June 15, the reopening of physical schools is likely to take a couple of months more. Sarangapani said the most important thing that schools need to do during these tough times is to not expect pedagogical outcomes from parents. “We don’t want parents to become teaching assistants and teach their children ‘literacy’ and ‘numeracy’. But we can expect them to do various kinds of interactive activities with their children, and make sure their children can read aloud to them. One possibility is to have a resource library accessible to parents who can access these for their children to use and get some advice on how to use and what to expect,” she added.Chavan and a group of 45-odd teachers in Solapur have decided to prepare a video resource library for students across the state where teachers aim to create over 1,000 educational videos in the next two months. “These will be short videos that can be opened with slow internet and will be easy to understand.”The role of school leaders and teachers is considered to be crucial in the interim. “They too might need support on how to get in touch with parents and have conversations over phone or chat to check on the wellbeing and safety of families and children, or develop skills in conducting emotional check-ins with students and opening up conversations with them about how they are coping at this time, and how to respond if children are in distress or at risk,” added Duggal. Duggal is now spearheading an initiative called ‘Back to School’ launched by the School Initiative of Mental Health Advocacy which aims to support emotional well-being of students by training and sensitising school leaders, teachers and counsellors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/for-the-poor-online-learning-a-big-obstacle/story-re2p66QtL9afsndF9qGsmL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nobody from administration approached us for suggestions, allege Chandigarh RWAs||Though the UT administrator in his war room briefings had asked the administration to liaise with the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to control the spread of coronavirus, the RWAs have said that neither were they contacted nor were the authorities willing to listen to their suggestions.Chairman of Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri said, “Nobody from the administration has approached us for any suggestions. Local BJP leader Arun Sood had held virtual meetings with us to understand what problems we faced during the lockdown, but that was that.”Echoing the sentiment, organising secretary of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) Sandeep Bhalla said, “Our communication with the administration is very one-sided. They approach us with surveys for smart city and waste segregation, but when we approach them with suggestions and complaints, they hardly pay heed.”Bhalla, who is also the organising secretary of the Sector-21 RWA where the first Covid case of the city was reported from, said the administration did not involve the RWA in any way after cases started coming up.General secretary of the Sector 33-B RWA Kuljinder Singh Sra said he told the authorities multiple times to monitor the vendors as they didn’t wear masks and moved without permits. “My complaints have not been taken seriously. I have even told the police beat officials but no action was taken,” he said.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “RWAs are free to volunteer just as many local citizens’ bodies are doing. It would be helpful if RWAs could monitor and keep watch on residents in their own localities and inform health authorities about violations in social distancing. RWAs can play a great role in spreading awareness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nobody-from-administration-approached-us-for-suggestions-allege-chandigarh-rwas/story-O7kp0Gxl4ze0MiHZhcJdoO.html
29-06-2020||City||Moga farmer installs meter to gauge water usage via direct paddy sowing technique||A progressive farmer in Moga district’s Talwandi Bhangeria village has installed a meter on the pump irrigating his paddy fields to measure water usage through the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique. Also, he has installed another meter to measure electricity consumed to pump water into the fields. A team led by state agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi recently inspected the fields of Harmanjeet Singh who has adopted the technique to sow paddy on 26 acres with a view to saving water. Plant protection officer Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, who accompanied the team, said, “With the help of these meters, we will compare water usage after two months. This will give us the idea about the exact amount of water and electricity the farmer would save by using the new technique.”Harmanjeet told the visiting team that he was practisng the technique for the past eight years and had saved 25-30% water as well as electricity.Airi commended the farmer for his initiative and appealed to farmers to do away with the conventional technique and sow paddy directly to save water. “There are around 15 lakh tubwells in the state and their extensive use for irrigation has decreased the groundwater level drastically. Of 138 blocks, 110 are overexploited. In 1984, only 64 blocks were overexploited,” he said. Four of five blocks in the Moga district have already been declared ‘dark zone’ due to overexploitation of groundwater.Paddy sown on 4.5 lakh hectare with DSRAiri said the paddy is expected to be sown on around 27 lakh hectares, including 7 lakh hectares under basmati variety, in the state this season. “So far, 70% of sowing of paddy is over. The crop was sown on 4.5 lakh hectares with the DSR technique,” he added. Brar said the paddy fields with direct sowing method require irrigation once a week while those with traditional methods require irrigation twice a week. Some studies claim that directly seeding also reduces methane emissions and slows down climate change, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/moga-farmer-installs-meter-to-gauge-water-usage-via-direct-paddy-sowing-technique/story-8snMqphUHUtJrpiv2wDlkI.html
29-06-2020||City||Cong’s overseas wing picks Sidhu to address Punjabi diaspora in live series||Seen as having been sidelined in the party’s state unit following a tussle with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu will address the Punjabi disapora in a live series being facilitated by the Indian Overseas Congress (IOC). The development is being seen as important in the party circles as only Sidhu has been chosen from Punjab for the international contact campaign. Some even see it as an indication of Sidhu’s resurrection as an active leader in politics.He will speak in the #SpeakUpIndia NRI (formerly known as Mera Bharat Mahaan) series aimed at strengthening link with the Indians living abroad, especially those based in the US, Canada and Europe. The session will start at 12.30 AM (IST) on Monday. Indian Overseas Congress president Mohinder Singh Gilzian, in an interview with a web TV channel, said, “He (Amarinder Singh) and Navjot Singh Sidhu are equally important for us. Under this campaign, we are promoting the top Indian leaders who are an inspiration for others.” “There is no denying the fact that Punjabis living abroad are really fond of Sidhu. Also, the NRIs from other states of the country like him. It is the high command’s prerogative to utilise Sidhu’s services,” he added. On March 14, Sidhu, who represents the Amritsar (East) constituency in the state assembly, had launched his YouTube channel ‘Jittega Punjab’ to speak on different issues concerning Punjab and the country. In the videos he has shared on his YouTube channel since its launch, the former Punjab minister makes no bones about his dissent against the Congress government in Punjab. The cricketer-turned-politician had remained incommunicado for long after his removal as local bodies minister of Punjab after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-s-overseas-wing-picks-sidhu-to-address-punjabi-diaspora-in-live-series/story-MMBbOzpmv8b8fZE5u86HEN.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||City may witness its lowest June rainfall in 5 years||A lull in rain activity over the past 10 days may lead to deficient rain in Mumbai for June with the possibility of the lowest June rainfall in five years.While Mumbai has so far recorded just over 340 mm rain in June 2020, June rainfall was 515.1 mm in 2019, 792.5 mm in 2018, 523.2 mm in 2017, 695.2 mm in 2016, 1106.7 mm in 2015, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).During June 2014, Mumbai witnessed its lowest June rain over the past 10 years at 87.3 mm, while the second-lowest was during June 2012 at 298.5 mm. The all-time lowest June rainfall was in 1972 at 0.2 mm followed by 1995 at 82.2 mm. This year, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, has so far recorded 344.4 mm rain between June 1 and June 28 (5.30pm), against the normal rain of 449.6 mm or rainfall deficiency of 23%.It will take an additional 148.7 mm rain between Monday and Tuesday for the city to meet its monthly target of 493.1mm average June rainfall). However, the weather bureau has predicted only light to moderate showers for both days but an increase in rain intensity is expected between July 3 and 5.During the same period (June 1 to June 28 5.30pm), Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 389.9 mm rain against the normal rain of 496.5mm, which means rain deficiency of 21.5%.Monsoon onset this year was declared on June 14, two days later than its new normal onset date of June 11. So far there has been only one intense rain spell on June 18 that led to 41 mm rain in the suburbs and 44 mm in south Mumbai.However, Maharashtra from June 1 to June 28 received 219.5 mm rain against the normal for the period at 177.1 mm, which is an excess of 24%.“Significant weather systems did not develop over the west coast of Maharashtra, especially towards Mumbai, that could activate monsoon currents due to the rapid progression of the southwest monsoon over north and northwest India, where onset was declared before the normal arrival dates,” said Mryutunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD adding, “However, the performance in July and August is likely to be much better as compared to June as monsoon currents will strengthen over the region.”Last year, monsoon onset over Mumbai was declared on June 25, most delayed in 44 years. However, the city witnessed its first very heavy rain spell as late as June 28 with 234.8 mm rain over 24 hours helping the city surpass its June average rain.Independent meteorologists explained that no significant weather systems formed near north Konkan, including Mumbai, resulting in insufficient moisture convergence and weak westerly winds, resulting in below-normal rains so far for June. “It is not due to cyclone Nisarga, since South Konkan has received above-normal rains. This is the inter-annual variability of monsoon, wherein every year it has a different pattern,” said Professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay.Others said south Konkan received more rainfall due to the effect of Cyclone Nisarga and more active monsoon conditions than north Konkan. “The monsoon’s arrival in Mumbai was not that intense, followed by a considerable reduction in the rain due to reduced moisture. Since typical heavy rainfall events were missing for the Mumbai region throughout June, significant rain deficiencies have emerged,” said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom.Both, Balasubramaniam and Deoras concurred with the IMD that as monsoon currents moved north, Mumbai rains went into a break phase. “Even though June is likely to end in deficit rains, the outlook for July looks very good with above-normal rains, which is likely to cover this deficit. “This is due to strong westerlies and a formation of an offshore trough near the west coast,” said Balasubramaniam.Deoras said, “Rainfall enhancement is possible after July 2. However, there might be subdued rainfall once again from around July 10 due to another possible break-monsoon scenario.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-may-witness-its-lowest-june-rainfall-in-5-years/story-cviyKhalmNs49ujpOhoYjK.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||No community spread of Covid-19 in Delhi: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said there is no community transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, and added that he was confident the Capital would not see 550,000 cases of the disease by July 31, as predicted by the state’s  deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia earlier this month.In an interview to ANI, the Union home minister, who has been monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, said Sisodia’s comments created “fear” among people, and gave the Centre the cue to step in and coordinate the city’s response to the virus which has infected 83,077 people and killed 2,623 here till Sunday.“Around the second week of June, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that by July 31, there will be 5.50 lakh persons infected with the virus. He that there will be no place left, no beds left and the situation will be difficult. This created a lot of fear in the minds of people in Delhi. His estimate was based on figures. I do not want to go into whether estimate was right or wrong. But a situation of fear arose and some people started mulling an exodus (out of Delhi),” Shah said.“The situation regarding bodies (of Covid-19 victims) in Delhi was grim. Over 350 bodies were pending for last rites. We decided that within two days last rites of bodies will be done as per religion. Today, no body is left for last rites. Now last rituals are conducted same day,” Shah said.The Centre stepped in to manage the virus situation in Delhi on June 14, with Shah holding at least four meetings with central and state agencies so far, and visiting hospitals to assess their preparedness. “…After Manish ji’s remarks, I felt that the central government should not stay idle. Modi ji has accountability towards the country. The PM also told me that the home ministry should take initiative to move forward and help the Delhi government,” he said.The home minister stressed that there is coordination between the Centre and state in tackling Covid-19 in Delhi. “There is coordination...(Delhi CM) Arvind Kejriwal is always kept in the loop. Decisions are taken by involving him also,” he said.Reacting to the home minister’s interview, Sisodia in a statement on Sunday said, “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sought help and support of every agency to battle (the) corona (virus disease) in Delhi. We got tremendous support from the central government, religious organisations like Radha Soami Satsang, Akshardham Temple Trust, Terapanthi, various hotels, banquets halls, private hospitals and NGOs like Doctors for U, and others.” He added: “ For increasing testing, we sought central government’s assistance, and they helped us with procuring rapid testing kits. Since then, testing has been increased by four times. The Centre also provided us with oxygen cylinders, ITBP [Indo-Tibetan Border Police] doctors and nurses for Radha Soami Covid centre and guidance from domain experts. “The deputy CM himself hoped that the estimate of 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July would prove wrong and pointed out that the recovery rate in Delhi is now 62%. “We are hopeful that situation will improve in the coming weeks and will certainly not be as bleak as it looked in first week of June when domain experts predicted 5.5 lakh cases in Delhi by July 31.” Shah said a series of steps have been taken to stem the spread of the virus and ramp up medical facilities.“…I can say now with confidence that situation of 5.5 lakh cases will not come on July 31,” Shah said. He added that the situation would be in control by July 31 because the government has focussed on taking preventive steps, including more tests and contact tracing.“The evidence for or against community transmission in Delhi will come from the sero survey that has started in the city, and will be completed in next two weeks or so. It will be too premature to say anything before the results of the survey are out,” says Dr Sanjay K Rai, professor, centre for community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.Shah also referred to the Delhi government’s decision to reserve hospitals, except those run by the Centre, for residents of Delhi — which was overturned by Lieutenant Governor Baijal — and said it was untenable.“I am also from outside Delhi. Where will I go, if something happens to me? Delhi is the capital of the country. And people from different states stay here, come and go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-delhi-amit-shah/story-QzBvyxS9jZoOBStuenTx5H.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees sharpest one-day case spike for 5th day in a row||The state on Sunday, for the fifth day in a row, recorded its sharpest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 5,493 more infections, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the ongoing lockdown would not be lifted after June 30. The state case count went up to 164,626 and toll rose to 7,429 with the addition of 156 deaths on Sunday. Mumbai saw 1,287 more infections on Sunday, taking its total to 75,539. With the addition of 87 deaths, the toll of the city is 4,371. The state health department has, however, said that 60 of the fatalities added on Sunday were reported in the past two days, while the remaining 96 are from the past few weeks. Thackeray, who completed seven months as the CM on Sunday, said the ongoing lockdown will not be lifted after its fifth phase ends on June 30, although the government was mulling more relaxations under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ — a staggered plan to lift curbs.Thackeray said that as the government is opening up activities in a calibrated manner, cases are expected to rise in the coming days. Thackeray, in his address through Facebook live, said that the risk of Covid-19 and the battle against the virus has not passed yet, but the government is relaxing curbs in a phased manner. The state government is expected to decide on relaxations in industrial, commercial activities after the Central government issues its guidelines. Thackeray is scheduled to hold high-level meetings with his cabinet colleagues and top officials over the next two days. He also has warned that the government machinery will be forced to impose stricter lockdown curbs again if the guidelines were not followed by people. “I have been getting requests from a few civic authorities for permission to impose stricter lockdown, owing to the rising numbers. There are cases of violations of curbs in some cities such as Mumbai, Pune and even in rural areas. In case of violations of curbs, we will have no option, but to go for stricter imposition of lockdown in areas with rise in cases,” he said.Thackeray said that there will be a spike in infections in the next few weeks. “As we have been opening up activities to ensure the revival of the economy, we have been witnessing a rise in cases. As part of the relaxation, people step out of their homes, come in contact and spread the virus. Even in the near future, there will be a rise in cases as we open up more activities,” he said. State health department expects the rise in cases during July and August. “There will be a modulating trend in terms of cases for the next few weeks, before we expect the plateau in August,” the official said, requesting anonymity. After allowing salons and beauty parlours to open from Sunday in the fourth phase of Mission Begin Again, the state government is expected to extend more relaxations in transport facilities and industrial operations. It has also hinted at allowing more workforce in private and even government offices. State has been reporting more than 5,000 cases a day for the past three days. It has seen 32, 551 cases and 1,259 deaths in the past seven days, with a daily average of 4,650 cases and 180 deaths respectively. Mumbai’s growth of cases has comparatively improved as it reported 9,051 cases and 700 deaths during this period. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) dropped to 4.51% from 4.69% on June 16, the day on which there was an addition of 1,328 deaths as part of the reconciliation of data. The CFR was 3.79% on June 15. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 52.59% as 86,575 patients were reported to have recovered from the infection. Thackeray said that the state government is ready to take on the surge. “We have increased testing facilities. Instead of waiting for the virus to attack us, we have been chasing it. After it has proven successful in Mumbai, the ‘chase the virus’ drive is being implemented elsewhere in the state. It will help us in containing the spread. The government has received permission from the Centre for the use of remdesivir and favipiravin, the antiviral drugs, and they will be made available to citizens free of cost once adequate stock is procured,” he said. Thackeray said that the government was inaugurating plasma therapy testing centres in Maharashtra on Monday and it will, perhaps, help us Maharashtra become the top state to provide the facility with the highest number of tests for the therapy. We appeal to people who recovered from the infection to come forward for the test of therapy so that other patients can benefit from them,” he said. The CM also appealed to doctors from the private sector to come forward and guide their colleagues from the healthcare sector to treat patients effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-sharpest-one-day-case-spike-for-5th-day-in-a-row/story-RNyk6tKHDPZ7lOyZmoGdjP.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||3,817 trees across tiger corridor to be destroyed?||For construction of the Chandrapur Greenfield airport, the Maharashtra forest department has issued preliminary clearances for tree felling and diversion of forest land at a recognised tiger corridor in Vidarbha.The project would lead to destruction of 3,817 trees and diversion of 75 hectares (ha) forest land (47ha reserved forest and 28ha protected forest) at Vihirgaon and Murti villages in Rajura taluka, an identified tiger corridor by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. The details were revealed after the forest department responded to a right to information (RTI) query filed recently by a wildlife activist. The activist, requesting anonymity, shared documents with HT. WII, which studied the wildlife impact of the project, said the airport would hamper the connectivity of the corridor and result in increased human-wildlife conflict. HT has reviewed WII’s report.Spread across 340ha, the Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC), appointed as the nodal agency for the project by the state government in 2018, intends to develop the first Greenfield airport in Vidarbha which would cater to Q-400, A-320 and smaller planes. It will accelerate economic development in the region by facilitating swift transportation from different parts of the country, MADC said. The Chandrapur forest department gave its nod in March this year. “The proposal was recommended subject to mitigation measures as proposed by WII, regularisation or compensating encroachments, and compensatory afforestation of 1,000 saplings per hectare at degraded forest land across 76.06ha in Chandrapur,” said SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forests, ChandrapurThe airport site is located in central Chanda, which is 32km from Chaprala Wildlife Sanctuary, 38km from the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer, and next to the proposed Kanhargaon wildlife sanctuary.WII said the project should be avoided. “The proposed site is known for its wildlife value, especially for tigers and its importance as a connecting corridor. The present site may or shall not be considered for the construction of the proposed airport. It will impact the functional connectivity of the corridor and may result in increased human-wildlife conflict in the district,” read the report by WII.WII had suggested mitigation measures in case there were no alternative sites for the airport. “The most important mitigation measure is for MADC to undertake restoration of 17 forest patches with mixed plantation to ensure connectivity of the corridor,” said a WII researcher.MADC said they received stage I clearance (from state forest department) under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, and await stage II clearance (from Union environment ministry) before commencing construction. “All clearances from the state have been received. Once the Centre issues final clearance, WII’s mitigation measures will be implemented before commencing construction,” said Deepak Joshi, public relations officer, MADC.However, the state chief wildlife warden denied this. “So far, only the territorial wing has submitted its recommendation. The proposal is with the forest department’s nodal officer. It is yet to be examined by other departments, and will then be sent to the state government. Once the state clears the proposal, stage I clearance will be obtained. At the moment, this has not happened,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). “The tiger corridor makes the project an extremely sensitive area, and the details have to be examined carefully.”Meanwhile, the project will be developed in two phases. Phase I includes development over 291.37ha, while phase II involves work on 48.57ha. “Land acquisition for the first phase is complete. The second phase will begin soon. The Covid-19 crisis delayed the process of receiving clearances,” said Joshi.Chandrapur district is home to about 170 of the state’s 312 tigers. “The proposed airport area has tiger, leopard, and wild prey occupancy. It will be not only disastrous for wild animals, but also dangerous for civil aviation. Such a site will be rejected as per international civil aviation rules,” said Kishor Rithe, former member of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-817-trees-across-tiger-corridor-to-be-destroyed/story-Qs6mZRO7PGbQ1aKnKzHbSI.html
29-06-2020||Mumbai||35-year-old cheats, rapes 7 women; arrested||Rabale police arrested a 35-year-old sales manager of a private firm for allegedly cheating at least seven women by targeting them through matrimonial websites, establishing sexual relations with them and then refusing to marry them. The accused, who is already married and has a child, allegedly forced a few women to terminate their pregnancies, said police. He was produced before the holiday court on Sunday and has been remanded in police custody till July 1. The accused, Sachin Sambre-Patil, a 35-year-old from Thane, has married twice, the first in 2014 and the second in 2017, and has a son aged one-and-a-half year with his second wife, police sources said.The accused has been on the matrimonial website since 2015 and has been targeting women using different profiles. Sometimes, he would use Sachin Sambre and other times used Sachin Patil for his profile, said police.“The accused would register himself as a divorcee or in some cases as a bachelor. He has targeted at least seven women so far including an IT engineer, doctor, advocate and one from the police department. Currently, only a woman advocate has submitted a complaint to the police against him,” said a police officer adding that they are waiting for the other women to step forward and file complaints.After winning their trust, Sambre-Patil would meet the women and get into sexual relationship with them by promising marriage. In some cases, he also forced the women to get abortion when they got pregnant.A Rabale-based advocate, who was forced to undergo abortion, recently learnt that the accused is already married and filed a complaint with the police.Following the complaint, Rabale police have registered a case of rape and cheating against Sambre-Patil. He was arrested on Tuesday and has been remanded in police custody till July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-cheats-rapes-7-women-arrested/story-pFQePW0k1HR414et9JyLjM.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Audit objections over Chandigarh education dept’s ₹17 crore fund disbursal to colleges||The office of the director general of audit (Central) Chandigarh has questioned the UT education department for irregular withdrawal Rs16.93 crore and disbursing it among colleges in a last-minute rush to prevent the grant from lapsing, documents obtained under Right to Information (RTI) by Hindustan Times reveal.“Irregularly retaining” money from the financial years 2017 to 2018 and 2018 to 2019 in a fixed deposit is against Central government rules. The objections were raised by the director general’s office after an inspection in January and February 2020.In a report accessed by Hindustan Times, the director general states that “as there was no requirement of funds lying unspent amounting to Rs13.96 crore and Rs2.97 crore for the financial year 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 respectively, hence the authorities withdrew the funds at the fag end and disbursed to the respective aided colleges.”This “irregular retention of Rs16.93 crore outside the government account” through “fixed deposit” was against the Central government account (receipts and payments) rules governing financial matters of UT, read the report.Rule 100 (2) of the same outlines: “No money shall be drawn from government account unless it is required for immediate disbursement.” It adds: “It is not permissible to draw money from government account in anticipation of demands or to prevent the lapse of budget grants.”The report mentions that during the test check of records at the office of the director higher education (DHE) for the financial years 2017-2018 and 2018-2019, it was found that the funds were released in March, each year, “on account of ‘advance’ grant in aid to meet the expenditure on 95% deficit for the next financial year.”Funds ranging from Rs46 lakh to Rs4 crore were distributed to all the private aided colleges of Chandigarh.Pawan Kumar Sharma, principal of DAV College, Sector 10, said he was not aware if the institute was given a special grant, adding, “We availed the grants as per the directions of the UT education department. “We availed what we were granted as grant-in-aid for colleges that the government pays, which is 95% of the deficit amount,” said Nisha Bhargava, principal of MCM DAV College, Sector 36.Confirming that payments were made, Balraj Thapar, principal of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College in Sector 32 said, “I was not the principal at that time, it was Bhushan Sharma. I am told that this was advance grant paid to us which was later adjusted.”The audit report also mentions that no reply was furnished by the education department when the “lapse” was pointed out. When asked to comment, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, higher education (DHE), said “We will take it up with the audit department and also constitute an internal committee to look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/audit-objections-over-chandigarh-education-dept-s-17-crore-fund-disbursal-to-colleges/story-2DkISQI9b2r6sQwfnDv6AK.html
29-06-2020||City||Out of work, Delhi govt guest teacher stitches PPE kits to make ends meet||New Delhi: Surender Saini, who worked as a Hindi teacher on contractual basis in a government school in north-west Delhi till May 8, has been stitching Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for the past one month to make ends meet.The 35-year-old was among many guest teachers working on contractual basis in schools run by the Delhi government. Many like Saini, who were paid on a daily basis, have been forced to look for alternative modes of livelihood after being rendered out of work, as schools remain closed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Schools in the National Capital are shut till July 31, as per the latest Delhi government orders.Before lockdown, which was put in place on March 25, more than 20,000 guest teachers had been employed in 1,030 government schools across the city and were paid between Rs 1,040 and Rs 1,400 per day. Their contracts are renewed every year. On May 5, the Delhi government’s education department issued an order stating, “All guest teachers shall be paid up to May 8, 2020, and in summer vacation only if they are called for duties”. This time, however, no guest teacher has been called back for duty as schools are shut amid the pandemic. Saini, who is differently-abled from his right leg, was working at the Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya (evening) in Nithari Village near Nangloi as a Hindi teacher till May 8. He has a Master’s degree in Hindi as well as a BEd, and has cleared the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET).“I had to return to my home in Rajasthan’s Neemrana district after we were relieved from work. I had to find some work to feed my family of five. I can’t do physical labour either because of my leg. Finally I got work in a PPE kit factory here” he said.He now earns Rs 200 to Rs 250 per day. “As a guest teacher I earned Rs 1,400 per day after six hours of duty. Now, I barely make Rs 200-250 even after working for eight hours. I don’t know for how long I will have to do this since the schools are now closed till July 31,” he said.HT had first reported on June 23 how guest teachers, who were earlier employed in Delhi government schools, were forced to find alternative livelihoods such as selling vegetables and repairing bicycle punctures, after their services were terminated in view of schools being closed.When contacted, Binay Bhushan, director, Directorate of Education (DoE) said that “the guest teachers will be called back to work when their duties will be required.”Shoeb Rana, president of the all-India guest teachers’ association, said all guest teachers should be given salaries from July 1. “As per the Disaster Management Act, the government cannot remove anyone from the job. The government should pay us salaries from July 1 and give us work. The government should also continue employing non CTET teachers till their exam takes place this year,” he said.The contracts of around 1,000 teachers were not extended after March 31 as they have not cleared the mandatory CTET. The test is generally conducted twice a year and was next scheduled for July 5. However, the CBSE, which conducts the test, announced June 25 the postponement of the test till further orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Delhi government’s norms make it mandatory for its teachers to qualify CTET. A senior government official, requesting anonymity, said, “The Delhi government cannot change the norms of hiring teachers. It’s mandatory to clear CTET for teaching jobs in Delhi government schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-work-delhi-govt-guest-teacher-stitches-ppe-kits-to-make-ends-meet/story-gGZ7I47ZPqH70apLz9dk6K.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt to add 100 more ICU beds in Lok Nayak Hospital||The Delhi government is likely to add 100 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in Lok Nayak Hospital, central Delhi—the city government’s biggest Covid-19-dedicated hospital—taking the total number to 200, a senior government official said on Sunday.Data compiled by the Delhi government on Sunday showed that out of 5,777 Covid-19 patients who have been admitted to the hospital so far, 4,169 have recovered.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We increased the number of ICU beds in the hospital from 64 to 100 earlier this month. A hundred additional ICU beds will be added very soon,” said the official cited above on condition of anonymity, adding that the hospital already has 80 ventilators and 2,000 beds, of which 384 have oxygen support.On Sunday evening, more than 1,300 of the 2,000 beds in the hospital were vacant, showed the government’s real-time Delhi Corona app.In the last three months, the hospital has also witnessed 114 successful child deliveries and 1,130 dialysis sessions of Covid-19 patients.“In most cases of childbirth, we found the babies to not be infected by Covid-19,” said the senior government official mentioned above.In June, the hospital witnessed a 50% drop in deaths, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said in a digital press briefing last week, attributing it to plasma therapy trials. Data compiled by the government on Sunday showed that the hospital witnessed 51 deaths in the week between June 20 and 26, as against 100 deaths recorded between June 6 and 12.The hospital has already administered 29 plasma trials in the first phase, according to government records, and received the central government’s approval for 200 more. “As most serious patients were admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital or have been transferred here, the doctors and nurses have had to face the tough challenge of dealing with the highest number of serious cases. To deal with this crisis, the chief minister had advocated the use of plasma therapy in April itself, at a time when this therapy was still being considered as a possible approach to treat serious Covid-19 patients in the country,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.In the last few weeks, the hospital has also witnessed additional facilities, such as the setting up of a special helpdesk personally monitored by the chief minister’s office and a video calling facility through tablets that enables patients to communicate with their relatives. Many relatives had complained that they had lost contact with patients after they had been admitted to the hospital. Also, rules do not allow non-medical hospital staff to enter the Covid-19 wards.A 100-bed Covid-19 health centre set up in a banquet hall in central Delhi has also been attached to Lok Nayak Hospital now.The government has also set up a team entrusted with calling up every admitted patient in the hospital everyday to enquire about their health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-add-100-more-icu-beds-in-lok-nayak-hospital/story-erigHPjliAyf8x7ZaFUamO.html
29-06-2020||Delhi||With Delhi schools set to reopen online, students set to face fight to stay connected||With schools in the national capital to remain closed till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, students from economically weaker families continue to stare at an uncertain future in the absence of devices and Internet connections to help them learn through online education. While many parents, whose children could not attend online classes before the summer break, said they are trying to arrange devices now, some said they won’t be able to do so due to financial constraints and the challenges they have been facing since the lockdown. The schools will start virtual education and impart lessons online from the first week of July. Malkeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, has been out of work ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced in March to curb the spread of the spread of Covid-19. His daughter (7) and son (11), have not attended any online class since the academic session began online in April. His children are enrolled in two private schools in Rajouri Garden and Paschim Vihar — in Class 2 and Class 6 respectively — under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota.Singh, who was working as a contractual driver in a private firm, said that he has requested some of his friends to help him buy a used smartphone now. “I have been out of work since March. We were thinking that schools would resume physical classes by July and our kids would be able to start attending their lessons. But due to the prevailing situation, it is unlikely that schools will reopen even after July. We are standing where we were in March. We still don’t know what to do. I have asked my friends for some financial help to buy a phone for them to study when the schools reopen (virtually) now,” he said. Singh is not alone. There are several like him who lost their jobs during the pandemic or are not making enough even after resuming their jobs. They now cannot provide their children with devices such as smartphones, laptops or tablets ever since the lockdown came into force. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March 19, though they have switched to online learning by conducting classes via video conferencing and sharing study material on WhatsApp groups. Both the government and private schools closed for summer break between May 15 and June 30. The government on Friday announced that all schools would continue to remain closed till July 31 and online classes would resume by the first week of July. Some private schools have already resumed online classes after the break.Lakshman (who goes only by his first name), a carpenter in Punjabi Bagh, said that he has not got any work despite the lockdown being lifted. His son, a Class 2 student enrolled in a private school under the EWS quota, has not been able to attend any online class yet since they don’t have a smartphone at home. “I am a labourer and I make sofas for contractors. No one wants to call us home for work fearing infection. Even if I buy a smartphone by taking some loan, I won’t be able to afford the Internet packages. I have to feed the family first. I seriously fear my son will lose an academic year to the pandemic. He has already missed the internal exams held online in May,” he said.Justice for All, an educational NGO, had, in May, filed a petition in the Delhi High Court demanding free devices for EWS students amid the lockdown. Responding to a notice issued by the court, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) had said that it was the responsibility of private schools to provide devices and Internet facilities to their students. However, schools have maintained that they are not obliged to do that. The matter is still sub-judice.The principal of a private school in south Delhi said on condition of anonymity, “It’s the duty of the state and central governments to provide the said equipment to the schools. Then the schools will provide them to their students. We cannot provide them to all students. Schools are under immense financial crises since the fee collection has dropped drastically amid the pandemic.”Similarly, thousands of students enrolled in government schools in Delhi also can not attend online classes or access e-learning material due to the logistical challenges. HT had, on June 19, reported that only 58.5% students enrolled in Delhi government schools could access e-learning in the months of April and May. Many government school students are also worried about online classes being resumed the first week of July. Ajay Kumar, a Class 12 student at Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School in northeast Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, said, “I could not attend any online class. The school would send links of uploaded lessons via SMS but I do not have a smartphone or laptop at home. I would visit a neighbour’s house to watch the lessons on their phones. I do not know for how long it will continue now. I had never imagined that I would have to study like this in the last year of schooling.”Binay Bhushan, the director of the DoE, said that the department has sought details of students who do not have access to devices and the Internet from all its schools. “We are planning to come up with a wider plan to cover most students from July. The government will soon unveil a plan to impart e-learning till the schools resume physically,” he said.Khagesh Jha, a lawyer and the president of Justice for All said that there was a need to change the curriculum this year in view of the unprecedented situation. “The government first should make online learning optional in both public and private schools. They should assure parents that these classes will be held offline once the situation normalises. It will bring a lot of relief for parents who are under immense pressure amid the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-schools-set-to-reopen-online-students-set-to-face-fight-to-stay-connected/story-67PMmRzxrIhTr2pv1bmMsM.html
29-06-2020||Noida||Locust threat still looms over GB Nagar, district to remain on alert for July||A day after Gautam Budh Nagar had a close shave from an attack of desert locusts, another swarm of the menacing crop-eating pests passed around the district on its way to Aligarh. While the locusts’ columns did not enter the city on Sunday, officials believe that the threat of an attack by the insects is not completely over and they will continue to stay alert at least for the entire month of July. Favourable wind direction prevented the locusts— who had come from Palwal, in Haryana—from entering the city on Sunday, officials said, adding that with the current environmental conditions– high moisture and incessant rains— another swarm may enter the region soon.“Favourable winds and timing saved the day for Noida on Saturday, and on Sunday another swarm was outside the city doors, but because of the winds, the locusts did not enter the city and rather flew around it on their way to Aligarh,” said AN Mishra, deputy director, department of agriculture, Gautam Budh Nagar. “Since this is the favourable season for the locusts, they might enter the city again. We are on alert and will stay cautious for the month of July at least. The villagers have been cautioned, and have also formed WhatsApp groups to keep them updated. ,” said Mishra.He added that locusts attacks have been categorised as ‘disasters’ and thus, the losses incurred to the farmers, if any, would be liable for compensation. An invasion by locusts can flatten whole farms overnight. The country has been battling locusts invasion since they first entered parts of Rajasthan in April.“Even though the chances are less, more locust swarms may come into the region. Local teams will thus have to stay on alert for at least a month or two. However, if Rajasthan sees good rainfall, there is also a chance that they may settle there as these pests seek green vegetation,” said KL Gujjar, deputy director, Locust Warning Organisation (LWO). On Saturday, a large swarm of the locusts had entered the city during afternoon hours from Faridabad, flew over some of the district’s villages, made a pit stop at Muhamadour Jadaun village and later entered the Bulandshahr district.“The swarm of locusts that left the city yesterday had settled in the Aligarh region. On Saturday it made a pit stop at Muhammadpur Jadaun village, but the teams and the villagers were already ready and they were shooed away by making loud noises. But if they settle during the night time, we would require insecticide to tackle them,” said Mishra.The district administration had raised alarm on Saturday asking the district level locust control team— constituted in May as a precautionary measure following the outbreak in Rajasthan— to take adequate measures including using insecticides like malathion and chlorpyrifos on the pests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/locust-threat-still-looms-over-gautam-budh-nagar-district-to-remain-on-alert-for-july/story-62wTMu0jii130irCN9CYoI.html
29-06-2020||Noida||Noida: ₹ 5,000 penalty for dumping used masks, gloves at undesignated places||Noida authority on Sunday announced a ₹5,000 penalty on anyone found dumping used masks, gloves or personal protective equipment (PPE) at any place other than the designated disposal centres in the city. On April 8, the Uttar Pradesh government had made wearing mask compulsory while outside to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. The next day, the Noida authority appealed to residents to hand over used masks to the agency staff that is collecting waste from households. Even after repeated appeals many people continued dump their masks or gloves, which are hazardous waste, anywhere at their will, thereby creating risk to others, said officials. This prompted the authority to warn of the penalty.“We can fine only if we see anyone dumping the used mask or gloves. So far we have not imposed any penalty against anyone for the dumping used mask or gloves at undesignated places. But if we catch anyone doing so, there will be a ₹5,000 penalty. We need everybody’s support to ensure used masks are dumped in black coloured dustbins only so that these are treated scientifically,” said SC Mishra senior project engineer of the Noida authority heading the health department. Noida generates 25 kg waste daily that consists of used masks, gloves and PPE kits. A private agency was tasked with collecting the waste in black dustbins placed in vehicles that go door-to-door. “This hazardous waste is collected from all sectors and stored at a sector 25 facility. From sector 25, another private agency that handles hazardous waste transports the same to a Meerut based facility that treats this scientifically as per rules,” said Mishra.“We have requested that people should first sanitize the mask or gloves and wrap it in a paper before handing over the same to those, who collect it. We should do our duties responsibly so that everybody stays safe from infection during this tough time,” said PS Jain president of confederation of Delhi-NCR RWAs (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-5-000-penalty-for-dumping-used-masks-gloves-at-undesignated-places/story-CIPb4nudEI6XKsLB2DblnL.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Salons, beauty parlours reopen after three months; rates go up||After a gap of three months, salons and barber shops reopened for business in non-containment zones in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. However, customers’ relief was short lived, as most salons and parlours had increased the rate of their services, considering the financial burden they faced due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The Maharashtra government had permitted barber shops, salons and beauty parlours to resume operations from June 28 in the state, under its Mission Begin Again, unlock plan.Shop owners maintained that the rates had been increased considering the additional safety measures introduced at the premises in the light of pandemic as per government regulations.On the first day, most appointments were only for haircuts and hair colour as skin-related services have still not been allowed by the government. “Only select services such as haircut, dyeing hair, threading are allowed. Skin related services will not be permitted presently. This should prominently be displayed in the shops,” read an order from the state government.“Government’s decision has provided us a big relief. I assure the state government that all guidelines will be followed by salons and beauty centres. We will take care of each customer’s safety,” said Ganesh Walunjkar, working president of Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamandal.The customers in parlours are given a kit, which includes disposable spatula, gloves, mask, disposable shower caps, gowns, bedsheets and slippers. Owners will be sanitising their premises five to six times a day, he added.Leena Khandekar, founder and director, Lee’s Beauty Centre and Spa, Nal Stop, said that although the first day (Sunday) saw less number of customers, the footfall will eventually increase. “We started our parlour at 10am and were open till 5pm. Till 3pm, I had three appointments – two for haircuts and one for hair colour. We are following all precautions and wearing masks and gloves,” said Khandekar who has not increased the rates at her centre.“I will continue with the same rates which we had before the lockdown,” added Khandekar.Parlours and salons were also seen introducing temperature checks for staffers and clients. “Our staff has been given disposable aprons and hand gloves. Special training has been provided to our staff about all the precautions. Scissors and machines will be sterilized in the UV sterilizers,” added Khandekar who also has one more centre at Karvenagar.“We can do 15 haircuts at the same time, but now we are allowing only four customers following social distancing norms. I am only employing four members at work currently. My staff will continue to work on a rotational basis till the situation becomes normal,” added Khandekar.Appointment are taken using digital forms and payment modes will be also digital.Sangita Sutar, owner, Herbal Beauty Centre, Shahu Colony, Karvenagar, said, “I am yet to start my beauty centre and will resume operations in the next few days taking into account all the precautionary measures listed by the government.”For men too, haircut rates have been increased to Rs 200 from Rs 80-100 earlier, while other rates will be decided after the government allows other services.“Only haircut is allowed as of now, so we have not come out with a new rate card. I was charging Rs 100 for a haircut earlier and now, I will be charging Rs200. For my shop, I have not given out prior appointments and customers are served on first come first served basis,” said owner of Hair Affair, men’s parlour, Ramkrishna Pramhans Nagar, Kothrud.Sayali Karandkar, a salon customer said, “My haircut was pending for a long time. I was mentally prepared to pay a higher price so it did not shock me to pay 100 rupees extra.”Another customer, Kalyani Sakhare said beauticians have suffered a lot during lockdown. “I think we should support them. I am happy to get my hair cut,” Sakhare said. Rates: (To be remain same post lockdown)Hair colour root touch up: Rs 1,200Threading/Plucking: Rs 10Waxing: Full arms: Rs 250; Full legs: Rs 350Men’s parlour:Haircut: Rs 200 (earlier 100)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/salons-beauty-parlours-reopen-after-three-months-rates-go-up/story-EwJ7d1JBmBfxp2eAtiCOrM.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Trains, flights taking more passengers out of city than those arriving back||After lockdown, more people seem to have exited Pune through air and rail services amid a surging Covid tally, which on Sunday reached 16,125 positive cases with a total of 613 deaths in the city.According to data available with airport authorities, as many as 71,496 passengers departed Pune while 41,530 people arrived in Pune during a span of one month after May 25, when civic aviation ministry resumed flight operations in the country. As many as 618 flights arrived in the city while the same number of flights departed.On the other hand, around 22,000 people – mostly migrant workers – have returned to the city as against 37,800 leaving on the Pune-Danapur express, the only train starting from Pune after railways resumed partial operations on June 2. Passengers exiting the city by Shramik trains, a special service run by railways, are not included in this. The district administration dispatched around 1.25 lakh migrant workers through 100 trains and buses. “There are average 1,350 boarding Pune-Danapur express daily. The number of passengers arriving at Pune station by the same train is comparatively less,” said Pune Railway Division spokesperson.According to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, Pune is a hub of education and industry, people from various sectors and students, their parents, businessmen, labourers and have exited city by flights and trains.After declaration of a pan India lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all flight operations were stopped since March 25. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) gave its permission to resume flight operations on May 25 after which flights started to Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Prayagraj and Udaipur cities from Pune.Lohegaon Airport Director Kuldeep Singh said “A total of 1.13 lakh passengers travelled through the airport during the past one month. The number of outgoing passengers is high when compared with incoming passengers during the Coronavirus period. Those passengers like students, businessman and other professionals seeking employment opportunities are higher in number in the arrivals category. We are following all the social distancing norms and guidelines issued by the government for passenger safety,” he said.He explained that medical teams were on duty to cater to the incoming and outgoing passenger traffic at the airport and the authorities were being assisted b by Customs and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in their transport duties.Ram said, “Those who were desperate to leave city went during lockdown only. Now people going through regular train are those with regular work purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trains-flights-taking-more-passengers-out-of-city-than-those-arriving-back/story-xLrrdzHhuUqRBGG20L4daM.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Agressive testing has Pune Covid doubling rate at 17.6 days||The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in the city has been revised to 17.6 days as against the June 19 forecast of 24 days by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The city has been reporting a drastic rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases for one week with the highest number of positive cases within 24 hours reported on Saturday. The city registered 822 fresh positive cases on June 27 taking the progressive positive count in the city to 15,602.This has led to an increase in the city’s doubling rate and a reduction in the number of days it takes to double the cases. Two weeks ago, Pune’s doubling rate had shown some signs of improvement.Additional Municipal Commissioner, Rubal Agarwal said, “We had estimated the doubling rate to be around 24 days when we were testing about 2,000 samples per day but now we have increased the test sample from 2,000 to 3,500 and so the number of cases has also gone up drastically. So it is only because of aggressive tracing and testing. If the number of active cases goes up, the doubling rate will also be affected.” The city reported over 500 cases within 24 hours for at least three times in the past one week which has led to a drastic rise in the number of active cases which has also reduced the doubling rate of the city.The city’s active cases have gone up from 2,528 as of June 10 to 5,892 on June 27. The proportion of active cases currently stands at 37.7 per cent to progressive positive cases which were 30 per cent as of June 10.The rise in the number of cases also shot up the graph of active cases which had flattened in the early week of June.The graph is now moving upwards thereby putting in pressure on the health infrastructure and civic administration.Dr Sanjay Dabhade from Jan Aarogya Manch, an NGO that works for public health said, “PMC’s poor tracing and testing is now resulting in the spread of the virus and causing more people to be infected. More testing at the right time followed by isolation and quarantine would have resulted in containing the spread of the virus. Also as time passes we are seeing that the fear of the infection is reducing. I was at market yard two days ago when I saw only 30 per cent of people wearing masks. The study by Lancet recommends wearing three-layered masks to contain the spread of the virus. The PMC must continue to create awareness and take strict measures against people not wearing masks in public places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agressive-testing-has-pune-covid-doubling-rate-at-17-6-days/story-dLGm3OwDhAlQSdmHGFpouL.html
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cong lies on end of MSP exposed after assurance from Tomar: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday said the Congress party’s lies about the end of MSP had been exposed with Union agriculture minister NS Tomar announcing for the third time that the MSP and assured procurement of paddy and wheat would stay.In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said that with the announcement, the resolution by the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and other political leaders on the all-party meeting last week stands infructuous.“With the Union agriculture minister making it clear that there would be no change in the MSP regime and procurement of foodgrains, the Congress party is in no position to carry on the lies to befool the farmers,” said Cheema.He added that it doesn’t behove of a chief minister to leave aside facts and rely on emotional appeals to force the opposition to believe the propaganda being spun by him.“SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal presented irrefutable facts at the all-party meeting to prove that MSP and assured procurement would continue. The CM and state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar had no answer to these assertions and have now started falling back on emotional appeals to sustain their mischievous claims,” said Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-lies-on-end-of-msp-exposed-after-assurance-from-tomar-sad/story-qQ3QpUysZfMpug4RoLVKIO.html
29-06-2020||Pune||Pune-based ZSI scientist claims discovery of new moth sub-species||A scientist of the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) has claimed to find the sub-species of a moth which was first discovered in Isreal in 2005. Upon further studies, the discovery of the sub-species could add to the 11 kinds of species known so far in the Olepa genus.“The species of Olepa moth are important as the larvae of the moths feed on various economically important crops like cotton, castor, sunflower, sesame, maize, ivy gourd, brinjal, sweet potato, banana, among others. Most of the species are morphologically cryptic (difficult to identify) and complex which hinders the taxonomic documentation process in deciphering the actual species diversity of the genus Olepa,” said Dr Aparna Kalawate, Scientist D at ZSI, Pune, in a written statement.The newly found moth is a sub-species has been named as Olepa Schleini Chandrai after the head scientist of ZSI, Dr Chandra.“I started working on moths around five-six years ago. I had collected samples in 2016, 2017, and 2019. I got series of olepa specimen. One of my specimens from Nandurbar matched exactly with Olepa Schleini while the one collected from Palghar showed a slight variation. Therefore, we put it though mitochondrial DNA barcoding and found 0.6% difference,” said Dr Kalawate.The first of the genus kind was discovered in 1980. However, the genus now has 11 different species - one of which was discovered in the Mediterranean coastal plain of Israel in 2005, according to the research paper about the discovery published in Journal of Threatened Taxa on June 26.“In such phylogenetic studies, numbers are arbitrary. If there are some difference, it needs to be studied. In our case, we found two population and one showed difference of 0.6% from the earlier one. Further studies are needed to see if it can be elevated to a new species category,” Dr KP Dinesh, Scientist D, specialising in phylogenetics DNA barcoding, who was a part of the study along with Shital Pawara and A Sahbnam.The geographical difference between India and Israel piqued the scientist’s interest as she found the Israel-based moth in Maharashtra.Once the samples are collected, taxonomic studies are conducted on them. If the studies do not help in identification of the animals, DNA barcoding is conducted, according to the ZSI scientists.“It is heartening to know about this discovery. Every discovery adds to the repertoire of the biodiversity and it’s well-known that the Western ghats are a mine of biodiversity. Generally, a taxonomy needs to be conducted to know the original source of the species or if the species is endemic, a relationship can be established. The more aware we become, the more equipped we will be to save them in-situ. Just the discovery is not enough, their behaviour, cycle, habits, and role in that particular niche also needs to be studied,” said Dr Kalpana Pai, head of Zoology department of Savitribai Phule Pune University, who is an independent expert and not part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-based-zsi-scientist-claims-discovery-of-new-moth-sub-species/story-EYRtZPUpKfe0lj1MlPy4xL.html
29-06-2020||Pune||As monsoon hits state, Sangli residents brace for heavy rains||The much-anticipated monsoon has arrived in Maharashtra, but for the residents and administration of the city of Sangli, it is a grim reminder of the deadly floods of 2019 that ravaged most parts of the district.This year, the Covid-19 pandemic has added to the pre-existing fear of heavy rainfall and the ability of local administration to help those with limited to no means of survival.Last year, 43,043 houses and 1.25 lakh people living in Sangli city were affected, according to Nitin Kapadnis, commissioner of Sangli, Miraj, Kupwad municipal corporations.“We have made announcements through social media and local news channels, asking residents to evacuate when the water level crosses 25 feet as that is when it entered houses last year. We will install displays in every area, as a warning, if and when the water starts rising,” said Kapadnis.People have either turned to their relatives in other villages or started booking rooms on rent in nearby areas like Vijaynagar, Kupwad, and Miraj.“We do have temporary shelters planned in government schools and if need be, local wedding halls will also be roped in. But even so, with social distancing norms in place, we can accommodate around 15,000 people,” said Kapadnis.The residents in low-lying areas are bracing themselves for a possible impact of monsoon and are aware of the water-level at which they need to start moving. However, the fear of the virus is adding to their anxiety.“We received the notice a couple of weeks ago. The corporation officials had come here to serve the notice. Because of the last year’s experience, it is being used as a preventive measure - emptying houses when the water level hits 20 feet. One of them warned of police action if houses are not empty if and when the water hits 20 feet. The water came to our colony after the Irwin bridge mark crossed 40 feet. And they are asking us to leave at half the mark,” said Dattatray Shinde, a man in 40s, who is into cattle and dairy business. He lives in the Magarmach colony. The colony residents lived the flood days in 2019 in a nearby Ganpati temple last year when floods ravaged the city.“Most of the houses were 15 feet deep under water last year,” he recalls.“Our house is located at a height and the canal water level is clearly visible from here. The corporation officials who came to serve notices installed a camera and a sensor at our house. The water entered our house when it reached 45 feet. They have asked us to leave at 20 feet. They said they will provide for those who have no means at all. We are scared of the virus too,” said Imran Hajilala Mujawar, a resident of Suryavanshi plot, Jamwadi. Mujawar owns a grocery store in the area.“They gave us notice that our houses need to be emptied when the water reaches 20 feet. He told us to get a room or go to our relatives’ places. Everybody is scrambling to find accommodation. The lockdown has cut everyone’s income and the virus is a problem too. What if we go somewhere and the people there are coronavirus positive?” said Shaila Devphule, a resident of Suryavanshi plot who is a housewife with a family of five including two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-monsoon-hits-maha-sangli-residents-prepare-for-the-worst/story-q7jC7cXsXrsH5tVO7kJf5N.html
29-06-2020||World||After racist chant post, Trump retweets white couple waving guns at protestors||A day after President Donald Trump sparked outrage by re-tweeting and deleting a post in which a supporter chanted “white power”, a racist slogan, he retweeted Monday a video of a white couple brandishing guns as anti-racism protestors marched by their upscale home in St Lous, Missouri.The couple Mark and Patricia McCloskey, both personal injury lawyers, can be seen walking around in the video posted Sunday with their weapons — the man was carrying an AR-51 rifle and the woman had a small handgun — and waving them at protestors. One time, they accidentally pointed their weapons at each other.“Private property!” Mark McCloskey shouted repeatedly at the crowd, the St Louis Post-Dispatch reported. “Get out! Private property, get out!”Protesters were marching to the mayor’s home a block away, to demand her resignation for revealing names and addresses of people who had been calling for defunding the police, which has been one of the key demands at anti-racism demonstration across the country triggered by the killing of George Floyd, an African American man who died in police custody in Minneapolis.President Trump did not add a comment to the retweet but he has been raging about these protests and the pulling down of statutes of confederate figures and those with any history of racism. Positioning himself as a “law and order” president, he has called for punishing them and has retweeted lookout notices released of suspects involved by law enforcements agencies.The president has appeared to be siding with racist, which he has and his aides have strenuously denied, but has continued to telegraph support for them through actions that are later rolled back, clarified or denied, such as the retweet of a video of a supporter chanting a racist slogan on Sunday.The video was posted by a neighborhood for seniors in Florida, the president’s adoptive home state. Just few seconds into it, a man is seen riding a golf cart with Trump campaign slogans written on it. He chanted an unmistakably racist slogan, “White Power, White Power”. And raised a fist.Trump retweeted it with a brief comment thanking the neighborhood. And he let it be online for four hours.It was pulled down only after Rick Scott, the only African American Republican in US senate, demanded its removal in an interview to CNN. “There’s no question that he should not have retweeted it and he should just take it down,” Scott said, adding, “It was so profanity laced, the entire thing was offensive. Certainly, the comment about the white power was offensive. It’s indefensible. We should take it down.”It was taken down immediately after. And the White House, like so many times before, sought to absolve the president of any responsibility for it, arguing he did not entirely know the content of the post. A spokesperson said in a statement the president “did not hear the one statement made on the video”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-racist-chant-post-trump-retweets-white-couple-waving-guns-at-protestors/story-6PtGpXoLmsJ7zIiNXSruhJ.html
29-06-2020||World||Covid-19: No death on fourth day in a row in Scotland||Pursuing a strategy to ‘eliminate’ coronavirus, Scotland first minister Nicola Sturgeon on Monday reported in Edinburgh that there was no new death for the fourth day in a row, while UK-wide figures released in London showed another low day-rise of 25 deaths.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is due to announce plans for a multi-billion-pound economic stimulus on Tuesday to recover from what he called a ‘disaster’ cased by the pandemic. Moves to ease lockdown and re-open economy from July 4 include abolishing quarantine curbs for some air passengers.Sturgeon said: “I can report today, that an additional 5 positive cases were confirmed yesterday - which takes the total now in Scotland to 18,241 confirmed cases…A total of 10 people last night were in intensive care with confirmed or suspected Covid”.“And in the past 24 hours, I’m pleased to report that no deaths were registered of a patient confirmed through a test as having Covid-19 – the total number of deaths in Scotland, under that measurement, therefore remains at 2,482”.“This is the fourth day in a row when no deaths of patients confirmed through a test have been recorded in Scotland”, she added.According to Devi Sridhar, professor of public health at the University of Edinburgh and an adviser to the Sturgeon government, Scotland is on course to be virus-free by the end July if the rate of decrease of new cases is maintained.“But we are going to see little bumps, so it’s a question of how small can you keep those bumps. July is a crucial month for people to follow the rules and guidance, and be sensible because the virus is still around and can still increase quite fast within days and weeks,” she told BBC.According to the Department of Health, the UK-wide figures were: 43,575 deaths (25 in last 24 hours) and 311,965 cases (day rise of 815 cases). Re-opening of the economy prompted by the dwindling figures is expected to happen from July 4 along with local lockdowns based on new spreads.One such local lockdown is being considered in the east Midlands town of Leicester, which has a large population of Indian origin. Current restrictions are to continue there for two more weeks, unlike the rest of England that will largely re-open later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-no-death-on-fourth-day-in-a-row-in-scotland/story-UsPjlBW2Rfdn2hsiDvC2iM.html
29-06-2020||World||Gilead prices Covid-19 drug candidate remdesivir at $2,340 per patient||Gilead Sciences Inc has priced its Covid-19 drug candidate remdesivir at $2,340 for a five-day treatment in the United States and some other developed countries, potentially reflecting looming competition from a cheap steroid. The price tag is below the $5,080 per course recommendation by U.S. drug pricing research group, the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER), last week.But it is more in line with a lower range suggested by ICER of around $2,520 to $2,800, if cheap steroid dexamethasone, which is not patent protected, is cleared for use in Covid-19.Remdesivir is at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 after the anti-viral treatment helped shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial. It has been approved for emergency use in some patients in the United States.But dexamethasone has since been hailed as a potential breakthrough treatment. The remdesivir price for U.S. private insurance companies will be $520 per vial, Gilead said, which equates to $3,120 per patient for a treatment course of six vials.The per-vial price outside of private insurance will be $390, Gilead added.Analysts at Royal Bank of Canada said they saw revenue potential of $2.3 billion from the drug in 2020, helping offset more than $1 billion in development and distribution costs.Still, the potential to lift Gilead shares was limited because vaccines and better treatments were on the horizon longer term, they added.Gilead has entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), with the agency and states set to manage allocation to hospitals until the end of September.HHS has secured more than 500,000 treatment courses of the drug for U.S. hospitals through September, the agency said on Monday.This represents 100% of Gilead’s projected production for July of 94,200 treatment courses, 90% of production in August and September, in addition to an allocation for clinical trials, HHS said.After this, once supplies are less constrained, HHS will stop managing the allocation, Gilead said.Remdesivir’s price has been a topic of intense debate since U.S. regulators approved its emergency use in some COVID-19 patients in May. Experts have said Gilead would need to avoid appearing to take advantage of a health crisis for profits.The European Union’s healthcare regulator last week recommended conditional approval of the drug when used in the critically ill. The formal go-ahead by the European Commission is expected to follow soon.Gilead has linked up with generic drugmakers based in India and Pakistan, including Cipla Ltd and Hetero Labs Ltd, to make and supply remdesivir in 127 developing countries.Cipla’s version is priced at less than 5,000 Indian rupees ($66.24), while Hetero Lab’s version is priced at 5,400 rupees.($1 = 75.4825 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gilead-prices-covid-19-drug-candidate-remdesivir-at-2-340-per-patient/story-MEvmMo9aCom4Bz7n3YTxXM.html
29-06-2020||World||French’s former PM Francois Fillon, wife found guilty of embezzling public funds||Former French Prime Minister Francois Fillon was found guilty Monday in a fraud case of having used public funds to pay his wife and children more than 1 million euros ($1.13 million) since 1998 for work they never performed.The couple’s lawyers immediately appealed Monday’s verdict from the Paris court.Fillon, 66, was sentenced to five years in prison, three of which were suspended, and a 375,000-euro (more than $423,000) fine. He is also banned from seeking elected office for 10 years. He remains free pending appeal.His 64-year-old wife, Penelope Fillon, was found guilty as an accomplice. She was given a three-year suspended sentence and fined the same amount.In addition, the couple was requested to reimburse the National Assembly more than 1 million euros that correspond to the salaries and payroll charges that were paid. The penalty is suspended pending appeal.The scandal broke in the French media just three months before the country’s 2017 presidential election, as Fillon was the front-runner in the race. It cost him his reputation. Fillon sank to third place in the election, which was won by Emmanuel Macron.The Paris court considered that Fillon “elaborated and established an organization enabling to misappropriate money for his personal use.”In a statement, the court said that “nothing concrete has been proven in court regarding the work of Madam Fillon.”“She did not have any professional activity alongside her husband,” the court added. “Nothing justifies the paid salaries.”Fillon and his wife have denied any wrongdoing.Fillon’s lawyer Antonin Levy told reporters “there will be a new trial ... We will be able to get a full and serene debate that will finally allow justice to be made.”Penelope Fillon’s role alongside her husband drew all the attention during the February-March trial, which focused on determining whether her activities were in the traditional role of an elected official’s partner — or involved actual paid work.Prosecutors denounced “fraudulent, systematic practices.”Fillon was accused of misuse of public funds, receiving money from the misuse of public funds and the misappropriation of company assets. His wife was charged mostly as an accomplice.During the trial, Penelope Fillon explained how she decided to support her husband’s career when he was first elected as a French lawmaker in 1981 in the small town of Sable-sur-Sarthe, in rural western France.Over the years, she was offered different types of contracts as a parliamentary assistant, depending on her husband’s political career.She described her work as mostly doing reports about local issues, opening the mail, meeting with residents and helping to prepare speeches for local events. She said working that way allowed her to have a flexible schedule and raise their five children in the Fillons’ countryside manor.Prosecutors pointed at the lack of actual evidence of her work, including the absence of declarations for any paid vacations or maternity leave, as her wages reached up to nine times France’s minimum salary.Francois Fillon insisted his wife’s job was real and said that, according to the separation of powers, the justice system can’t interfere with how a lawmaker organizes work at his office.A former lawmaker, Marc Joulaud, also went on trial in the case for misuse of public funds after he allegedly gave Penelope Fillon a fake job as an aide from 2002 to 2007, while her husband was minister. He was found guilty and sentenced to a three-year suspended prison sentence.In addition, charges also cover a contract that allowed Penelope Fillon to earn 135,000 euros in 2012-2013 as a consultant for a literary magazine owned by a friend of her husband — also an alleged fake job. The magazine owner, Marc de Lacharriere, already pleaded guilty and was given a suspended eight-month prison sentence and fined 375,000 euros in 2018.Fillon, once the youngest lawmaker at the National Assembly at the age of 27, served as prime minister under President Nicolas Sarkozy from 2007 to 2012. He was also a minister under two previous presidents, Francois Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac.He left French politics in 2017 and now works for an asset management company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-s-former-pm-francois-fillon-wife-found-guilty-of-embezzling-public-funds/story-HaMsNlSDLapK8zpM3XZuKM.html
29-06-2020||World||No Indian visitor as Pakistan reopens Kartarpur Corridor after 3 months||Pakistan on Monday reopened the Kartarpur Corridor more than three months after it was temporarily closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but no Indian pilgrim visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, a top official said.India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan on March 16 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.“Pakistan today opened the Kartarpur Corridor. However, no Indian pilgrim visited it,” Evacuee Trust Property Board Deputy (ETPB) Director Imran Khan told PTI.The ETPB looks after the holy places of minorities in the country.He said a “special Ardas” was held at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur.“Pilgrims from Pakistan and India are allowed to visit the Darabar Sahib by following the SOPs of social distancing. The ETPB and Pakistan Sikh Gurdawara Parbhandhik Committee have made special arrangements for the safety of pilgrims,” he said. Earlier, Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said Pakistan was reopening the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims. “I convey to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh,” he said. Sources in the government of India in New Delhi last week said Pakistan is trying to create a mirage of goodwill by proposing to reopen the corridor on June 29. They said India will take a decision on the matter after consulting health authorities and other concerned stakeholders. The sources also wondered why Pakistan proposed to reopen it in such a short notice while a bilateral agreement on the corridor provided for information to be shared by both sides at least seven days before the date of travel.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative as part of commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine. It is the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur. Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round the year visa-free travel to the historic gurdwara. The relations between India and Pakistan nosedived after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two union territories. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner. On Tuesday, India told Pakistan to slash its embassy staff in New Delhi by half - saying it would do the same in Islamabad amidst allegations of spying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-indian-visitor-as-pakistan-reopens-kartarpur-corridor-after-3-months/story-p9H9L6jYqnlssE6FjioeJK.html
29-06-2020||World||Bomb, mortars kill 23 civilians including children in Afghanistan’s Helmand||A car bombing and mortar shells fired at a busy market in southern Afghanistan’s Helmand province on Monday killed 23 people, including children, a statement form a provincial governor’s office said.Both the Taliban and the Afghan military blame each other for the attack in Sangin district. Details of the reported attack could not be independently confirmed as the area, which is under Taliban control, is remote and inaccessible to reporters.The statement from the office of the governor, Gen. Mohammad Yasin, did not provide further details and there was no claim of responsibility for the attack.A Taliban spokesman, Qari Yusouf Ahmadi, denied the insurgents were involved in the bombing. The Taliban claimed the military fired mortars into the market while the military said a car bomb and mortar shells fired by the insurgents targeted the civilians.The army also said there was no military activity in the area on Monday and that two Taliban fighters were also killed when the car bomb detonated at the marketplace. Livestock that the locals were selling on the market, sheep and goats, were also killed.The United Nations in recent reports and statements has asked both sides in the conflict to be more careful of civilian casualties, saying they are on the increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bomb-mortars-kill-23-civilians-including-children-in-afghanistan-s-helmand/story-dFoiXuVT3r1roJP0iTb5mL.html
29-06-2020||World||Panic at Beijing’s border as county locked down, 7.69 million tested||Neighbouring areas of Beijing could be put on high alert for fresh outbreaks of Covid-19 a day after China imposed a strict lockdown on a county with hundreds of thousands of people close to Beijing where a small surge in cases was linked to the new infections in the Capital city.The set of restrictions were put on Anxin county in the Xiongan New Area in Hebei province, which borders Beijing, and logged 12 cases of Covid-19.The county of Anxin lies around 150 kilometers south of Beijing and a group of traders from the county did business at the fresh food market in Beijing where the new infections emerged in June.The new restrictions were being tightened on Monday as a leading respiratory expert made a grim warning.“In the foreseeable future, Covid-19 cannot be eradicated and a regional outbreak is still possible,” Wang Guangfa, a respiratory expert at Peking University First Hospital, told state media, adding that the possibility made it important for local governments to prepare for a long and protracted battle. In Anxin, officials announced that “all villages, communities and buildings will be fully closed”.Families will be permitted to send one person per household outside to purchase supplies once a day.All vehicles from outside the county are banned from entering it.As per the announcement, only essential workers are allowed to leave their homes,Following the lockdown rules that were implemented in the first pandemic epicentre, the central Chinese centre of Wuhan, no non-residents will be allowed to enter communities or villages.Violating the rules will attract police action.“Hanging out with friends, gathering, and visiting others will not be allowed. Those who disobey management and refuse dissuasion will be dealt with by the public security organ according to the law,” a state media report said.The new outbreak in Beijing began when the city reported its first case at Xinfadi market on June 11 and 318 people in the city of over 21 million have tested positive for the virus since then.The capital has simultaneously ramped up its testing capacity.As of Sunday noon, Beijing had collected 8.29 million patient samples for testing and completed 7.69 million tests, Zhang Qiang, an official from Beijing’s municipal committee, told a press conference.“This means we have already tested all the people that need to be tested. We are also rolling out large scale screening to key regions and key populations (of the city) and improve our capability of testing,” said Zhang, adding that Beijing was also receiving medical support from other provinces.The number of new cases in Beijing is small compared to the Covid-19 numbers that are emerging from the US, South America or India.But it’s an indication that the coronavirus could reemerge in a locality, which didn’t report a single case for days – in Beijing’s case, the city didn’t have a domestically transmitted case for nearly two months.As of Sunday, the overall confirmed cases on the mainland had reached 83,512, including 418 patients who were still being treated, with eight in severe conditions, the national health commission (NHC) said in its daily report on Monday.Altogether 78,460 people had been discharged from hospitals after recovery and 4,634 people had died of the disease, the NHC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panic-at-beijing-s-border-as-county-locked-down-7-69-million-tested/story-6LTcgq8jWKJMf7MIDExDbJ.html
29-06-2020||World||As UK prepares to reopen, PM Boris pledges ‘Rooseveltian’ strategy to recover from Covid ‘disaster’||Terming the coronavirus pandemic a ‘disaster’ for the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday said the way to recover from the ‘profound shock’ will be to spend big on infrastructure, transport and other sectors, as the UK prepares to re-open from July 4. “This has been a disaster, let’s not mince our words, this has been an absolute nightmare for the country. The country has gone through a profound shock. But in those moments you have the opportunity to change and to do things better”, he said in an interview to the newly-launched Times Radio.“We really want to build back better, to do things differently, to invest in infrastructure, transport, broadband - you name it. I think this is the moment for a Rooseveltian approach to the UK”, he added. The legacy of recovery of Franklin D Roosevelt, the 32nd president of the US, from a decade of troubles that included World War II, has become something of a guiding force for the Johnson government, reflected in a speech by cabinet minister Michael Gove over the weekend.Johnson is due to outline his recovery vision in a major speech on Tuesday, expected to include promises to spend billions of pounds. The government is also due to announce this week easing quarantine curbs on air travel, allowing holidays in some EU countries.Johnson tweeted over the weekend: “We want to build our way back to health. If Covid was a lightning flash, we’re about to have the thunderclap of the economic consequences. We’re going to be ready.” Borrowing more to pay for the big spend will pay off in the long run, he added.Johnson, who had a brush with death after being infected by coronavirus in April, said in the radio interview that the government owed it to those who have died and suffered to look at exactly what went wrong in dealing with the crisis, and when.He said: “I totally understand that and we will. I happen to think that the moment is not right now, when everybody is flat out, I don’t think the moment is right now for consecrating a huge amount of official time to all of that. But we are learning lessons the whole time.”As of June 28, the UK recorded 43,550 deaths from coronavirus (the worst in Europe) and 311.151 cases. The incidence of new cases has slowed in recent days and weeks, prompting the government to kick-start its dwindling economy by re-opening some sectors from July 4.Gove said in the Ditchley Annual lecture about Roosevelt (often mentioned by his initials as FDR): “FDR managed to save capitalism, restore faith in democracy, indeed extend its dominion, renovate the reputation of Government, set his country on a course of increasing prosperity and equality of opportunity for decades – and enabled America to emerge from a decade of peril with the system, and society, that the free citizens of the rest of the world most envied”.“He succeeded on such a scale, of course, because he was a remarkable leader. But there were principles underpinning his approach which I think we should learn from now, as we seek to overcome our own crises of authority”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-uk-prepares-to-reopen-pm-boris-pledges-rooseveltian-strategy-to-recover-from-covid-disaster/story-D8yKPrhT0bNLqfnyIJyCXP.html
29-06-2020||World||UN seeks more food funds as Covid-19 pushes millions into hunger||Millions of people have been pushed into hunger by the coronavirus pandemic, the UN World Food Program said Monday as it appealed for nearly $5 billion to help feed the growing numbers in poor and middle-income countries.“The frontline in the battle against the coronavirus is shifting from the rich world to the poor world,” said David Beasley, WFP’s executive director. “Until the day we have a medical vaccine, food is the best vaccine against chaos.”He said without access to enough food, the world could see “increased social unrest and protests, a rise in migration, deepening conflict and widespread under-nutrition among populations that were previously immune from hunger.”To tackle the rising tide of hunger, WFP is undertaking the biggest humanitarian response in its history, aiming to assist 138 million people, up from from a previous record of 97 million in 2019. The agency says sustained funding is needed to support its work in 83 countries, to provide food to the most vulnerable and to support governments working to curb the spread of Covid-19.The number of hungry people in the countries where it operates could increase to 270 million before the end of 2020 — an 82% increase from before the pandemic took hold, said WFP.The fallout from the pandemic is being felt hardest in Latin America, which has seen an almost three-fold rise in the number of people requiring food assistance, and among urban communities in low- and middle-income countries, which are being dragged into destitution by job losses and a precipitous drop in remittances.Spikes in hunger are also evident in West and Central Africa,which has seen a 135% jump in the number of food insecure as well as in Southern Africa where there has been a 90% rise.Coronavirus infection levels are climbing when food stocks in some parts of the world are already low. At this time of year, many farmers are awaiting crops from new harvests. Hurricane and monsoon seasons are getting underway, while record locust invasions in East Africa and outbreaks of conflict are adding to an already challenging outlook for the world’s hungry.“This unprecedented crisis requires an unprecedented response. If we do not respond rapidly and effectively to this viral threat, the outcome will be measured in an unconscionable loss of life, and efforts to roll back the tide of hunger will be undone,” said Beasley.The new challenge requires a big increase in the use of cash-based transfers. Over half of WFP’s new response plan will be delivered in cash and vouchers — allowing urban communities to purchase their food needs in local markets, which boosts local economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-seeks-more-food-funds-as-covid-19-pushes-millions-into-hunger/story-BiZNmagoD7Kw1bXeNw1jsI.html
29-06-2020||World||Iran issues arrest warrant for US President Trump, asks Interpol to help||Iran has issued an arrest warrant and asked Interpol for help in detaining President Donald Trump and dozens of others it believes carried out the drone strike that killed a top Iranian general in Baghdad, a local prosecutor reportedly said Monday.While Trump faces no danger of arrest, the charges underscore the heightened tensions between Iran and the United States since Trump unilaterally withdrew America from Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers.Tehran prosecutor Ali Alqasimehr said Trump and more than 30 others whom Iran accuses of involvement in the Jan. 3 strike that killed Gen. Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad face “murder and terrorism charges,” the semiofficial ISNA news agency reported.Watch | Arrest warrant against Donald Trump by Iran over killing of top general Alqasimehr did not identify anyone else sought other than Trump, but stressed that Iran would continue to pursue his prosecution even after his presidency ends.Interpol, based in Lyon, France, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Alqasimehr also was quoted as saying that Iran requested a “red notice” be put out for Trump and the others, which represents the highest level arrest request issued by Interpol. Local authorities end up making the arrests on behalf of the country that request it. The notices cannot force countries to arrest or extradite suspects, but can put government leaders on the spot and limit suspects’ travel.After receiving a request, Interpol meets by committee and discusses whether or not to share the information with its member states. Interpol has no requirement for making any of the notices public, though some do get published on its website.It is unlikely Interpol would grant Iran’s request as its guideline for notices forbids it from “undertaking any intervention or activities of a political” nature.The U.S. killed Soleimani, who oversaw the Revolutionary Guard’s expeditionary Quds Force, and others in the January strike near Baghdad International Airport. It came after months of incidents raising tensions between the two countries and ultimately saw Iran retaliate with a ballistic missile strike targeting American troops in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-issues-arrest-warrant-for-us-president-trump-asks-interpol-to-help/story-DkQVGrKxboq7s389YAC7ZP.html
29-06-2020||World||Reports of me looking ‘wraithlike’ are nonsense, says British PM Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday that reports of him looking wraithlike were complete nonsense.“When I came out of hospital I did notice there were occasional pieces in the papers saying I was looking a bit wraithlike, or something someone said,” Johnson told Times Radio. “Complete nonsense I want you to know.”“I am feeling very well, yes thank you, again thanks to our National Health Service,” he said.Asked whether he thought every day about the high level of total deaths and infection rates in Britain from the novel coronavirus, Johnson said: “Every day ... What we’ve got is the curve going in the direction roughly that they thought it would. It is very slowly coming down.”“The crucial thing is to make sure that we’re ready to crack down on local flare ups and that’s why we have the wack-a-mole strategy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reports-of-me-looking-wraithlike-are-nonsense-says-british-pm-boris-johnson/story-cSugmq9SeQ5bjCIVCgbrsN.html
29-06-2020||World||196 people dying of Covid-19 every hour, one every 18 sec; global toll tops 5 lakh||The death toll from Covid-19 surpassed half a million people on Sunday, according to a Reuters tally, a grim milestone for the global pandemic that seems to be resurgent in some countries even as other regions are still grappling with the first wave.The respiratory illness caused by the new coronavirus has been particularly dangerous for the elderly, although other adults and children are also among the 501,000 fatalities and 10.1 million reported cases.Follow latest updates on coronavirus coverage While the overall rate of death has flattened in recent weeks, health experts have expressed concerns about record numbers of new cases in countries like the United States, India and Brazil, as well as new outbreaks in parts of Asia. More than 4,700 people are dying every 24 hours from Covid-19-linked illness, according to Reuters calculations based on an average from June 1 to 27.That equates to 196 people per hour, or one person every 18 seconds. About one-quarter of all the deaths so far have been in the United States, the Reuters data shows. The recent surge in cases has been most pronounced in a handful of Southern and Western states that reopened earlier and more aggressively. US officials on Sunday reported around 44,700 new cases and 508 additional deaths. Case numbers are also growing swiftly in Latin America, on Sunday surpassing those diagnosed in Europe, making the region the second most affected by the pandemic, after North America. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On the other side of the world, Australian officials were considering reimposing social distancing measures in some regions on Monday after reporting the biggest one-day rise in infections in more than two months.The first recorded death from the new virus was on Jan. 9, a 61-year-old man from the Chinese city of Wuhan who was a regular shopper at a wet market that has been identified as the source of the outbreak.In just five months, the Covid-19 death toll has overtaken the number of people who die annually from malaria, one of the most deadly infectious diseases.The death rate averages out to 78,000 per month, compared with 64,000 AIDS-related deaths and 36,000 malaria deaths, according to 2018 figures from the World Health Organization.Changing burial rites The high number of deaths has led to changes to traditional and religious burial rites around the world, with morgues and funeral businesses overwhelmed and loved ones often barred from bidding farewell in person.In Israel, the custom of washing the bodies of Muslim deceased is not permitted, and instead of being shrouded in cloth, they must be wrapped in a plastic body bag. The Jewish tradition of Shiva where people go to the home of mourning relatives for seven days has also been disrupted.In Italy, Catholics have been buried without funerals or a blessing from a priest. In New York, city crematories were at one point working overtime, burning bodies into the night as officials scouted for temporary interment sites. In Iraq, former militiamen have dropped their guns to instead dig graves for coronavirus victims at a specially created cemetery. They have learned how to conduct Christian, as well as Muslim, burials.Elderly at risk Public health experts are looking at how demographics affect the death rates in different regions. Some European countries with older populations have reported higher fatality rates, for instance.An April report by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control looked at more than 300,000 cases in 20 countries and found that about 46% of all fatalities were over the age of 80. In Indonesia, hundreds of children are believed to have died, a development health officials have attributed to malnutrition, anemia and inadequate child health facilities.Health experts caution that the official data likely does not tell the full story, with many believing that both cases and deaths have likely been underreported in some countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/196-people-dying-of-covid-19-every-hour-one-every-18-sec-global-toll-tops-5-lakh/story-KrJRifvFKh5Xa7clMfzHEL.html
29-06-2020||World||23 dead, dozens missing as ferry capsizes in Bangladesh’s Dhaka: Report||Twenty-three people drowned and dozens more were missing on Monday after a ferry capsized in the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka following a collision with another vessel, rescue officials said.“We have so far recovered 23 bodies from the sunken ferry,” fire brigade official Enayet Hossain told AFP, adding that there were believed to be around 50 people on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/23-dead-dozens-missing-as-ferry-capsizes-in-bangladesh-s-dhaka-officials/story-SjV8fhl3ec0Xg2PB8w1QMN.html
29-06-2020||World||Gunmen storm into stock exchange in Pakistan’s Karachi, six dead||Four gunmen stormed into Pakistan’s largest and oldest stock exchange in the southern port city of Karachi on Monday morning killing at least two people, according to local media reports. The four attackers have also been eliminated, the Karachi police said.At least four people have been reported injured in the attack, some of them seen on video being wheeled out of the stock exchange into waiting ambulances.The attackers drove to the barricaded entrance of the stock exchange in a silver Corolla car a little before 10 am, got off and hurled a grenade at security personnel before opening fire from automatic firearms. Police officer Rizwan Ahmed said the gunmen opened fire at the entrance and entered the stock exchange grounds. The complex was soon surrounded by heavily armed special forces, according to news agency AP.Press Trust of India said four security guards and a police sub-inspector were killed in the attack apart from the four gunmen.Sindh Governor Imran Ismail condemned the attack that he insisted was aimed at what he described as “tarnishing our relentless war on terror”. Ismail said he had ordered security agencies to catch the attackers alive and deliver “exemplary punishment” to their handlers.Karachi police chief Ghulam Nabi Memon told Reuters that four attackers had been killed. Karachi was once a hotspot for crime and political and ethnic violence, with heavily armed groups tied to politicians frequently gunning down opponents and launching attacks on residential areas. News agency AFP said the situation has largely stabilised in recent years following operations by security agencies against armed political outfits and Islamist militants.The stock exchange is located in the heart of Karachi’s financial district, where the Pakistan State Bank is located as well as the headquarters of several national and international financial institutions.As security personnel tried to stop the attackers, broker Yaqub Memon said he and others stayed huddled inside their offices.Monday’s attack comes more than a week after a grenade was thrown at a line of people waiting outside a government welfare office in the city, killing one and injuring eight others, according to a statement from municipal authorities. In 2018, separatist militants launched a brazen daylight attack on the Chinese consulate in Karachi that killed four people, AFP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-attack-pakistani-stock-exchange-four-killed-report/story-HDc1LD6Yla7S440CzUPNHO.html
29-06-2020||World||Timeline: How the global coronavirus pandemic unfolded||Here are some key developments as the novel coronavirus spread around the world:December 31, 2019: China alerts the World Health Organization of 27 cases of “viral pneumonia” in the central city of Wuhan. Authorities shut down a wet market in Wuhan the next day, after discovering some patients were vendors or dealers.Jan. 11, 2020: A 61-year-old man is reported as the first death. Preliminary lab tests cited by Chinese state media point to a new type of coronavirus.Jan. 13: A Chinese woman is quarantined in Thailand, the first detection of the virus outside China.Jan. 15: Japan confirms its first case.Jan. 20: South Korea confirms its first case.Jan. 22: The WHO convenes an emergency meeting with health authorities around the world. Director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus says the new coronavirus does not yet constitute an international emergency.Jan. 23: China issues a lockdown for millions of people in Wuhan and Hubei as the death toll rises to 18.Jan. 24: The first cases in Europe are reported in France.Jan. 25: China bans wildlife trade after the virus was traced to a Wuhan animal market. The Lunar New Year holiday is extended for workers and schools. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam announces measures to limit links with China.Jan. 27: The United States warns against travel to China, a day after five people who had been in Wuhan become the first confirmed cases in America.Jan. 30: The WHO declares the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern. Feb. 1: The United States, Singapore, Russia and Australia ban foreign travelers who were recently in China.Feb. 2: A 44-year-old man dies in the Philippines, the first death outside China. Feb. 3: Investors erase $393 billion from China’s benchmark stock index, selling the yuan and dumping commodities on the first day of trade after the Lunar New Year break.Feb. 4: Hong Kong reports its first death. Macau shutters casinos. American Airlines Group and United Airlines Holdings Inc suspend flights to Hong Kong.Feb. 5: About 3,700 passengers are quarantined aboard the Diamond Princess, a Carnival Corp cruise liner, off the coast of Japan after 10 people test positive. More than 700 passengers eventually test positive and 14 die. The ship is quarantined for nearly a month.Feb. 7: Li Wenliang, a Chinese ophthalmologist who had been reprimanded for issuing an early warning about the Wuhan outbreak, dies, triggering wide public mourning and rare expressions of anger against the government.Feb. 7: Hong Kong supermarket shelves are stripped bare as residents hoard toilet paper and other supplies.Feb. 11: The Chinese government’s senior medical adviser tells Reuters the outbreak may be over by April.Feb. 12: An Iranian woman dies of a suspected coronavirus infection, according to the state daily newspaper IRAN, the first in the Islamic Republic.Feb. 15: An elderly Chinese tourist hospitalized in France is the first fatality reported in Europe.Feb. 19: A spike in infections in South Korea linked to a church congregation is declared a “super-spreading event.” South Korea later seeks murder charges against leaders of the Shincheonji Church.Feb. 22: Italy seals off its hard-hit northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto.Feb. 24: Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman and Iraq record their first cases, all people who had been in Iran. The WHO says the outbreak can still be beaten, insisting it is premature to declare COVID-19 a pandemic. Feb. 25: The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns Americans to begin preparing for the virus to spread, signaling a change in tone. Austria, Switzerland and Croatia report their first cases.Feb. 26: The number of new infections inside China is overtaken by those elsewhere for the first time. Italy and Iran emerge as new epicenters.Feb. 28: The S&P 500 suffers its biggest weekly drop since the 2008 financial crisis on fears of a global recession. More than $5 trillion is wiped from global market value.March 1: A nursing home near Seattle is locked down after two deaths are reported in Washington state, thought to be the first in the United States at the time. March 2: The new coronavirus appears to be spreading much more rapidly outside China than inside, but it can still be contained, says the WHO chief, Tedros. March 3: In a surprise move, the U.S. Federal Reserve cuts interest rates by half a percentage point to try to stem the economic fallout from the epidemic. Markets continue to fall. March 4: A pet dog is quarantined in Hong Kong, the first suspected case of human-to-animal transmission. March 5: California declares a state of emergency. Friday prayers are canceled in the Shi’ite holy city of Kerbala after Iraq’s first death in Baghdad.March 6: The number of infected people exceeds 100,000 globally. Deaths top 3,400.March 9: Crude prices plunge 25%, the biggest daily rout since the 1991 Gulf War, as Saudi Arabia and Russia begin a price war. Moscow refuses a deeper oil cut by OPEC+ to cope with tumbling demand.March 10: “The whole of Italy is closed now,” reads a headline in the Corriere della Sera newspaper after Rome imposes the most severe controls on a Western nation since World War Two.March 11: The Bank of England slashes interest rates by half a percentage point. The British government unveils a budget splurge designed to stave off a recession.March 12: Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, 48, goes into quarantine for two weeks after his wife, Sophie, tests positive.March 13: U.S. President Donald Trump declares a national emergency to free up $50 billion in federal aid.March 14: France and Spain join Italy in imposing lockdowns on tens of millions of people, Australia orders foreign travelers to self-isolate, and other countries extend entry bans to try to stop the spreading virus.March 15: New York and Los Angeles, the two largest U.S. cities, order restaurants, bars, theaters and movie houses to close. The Fed cuts interest rates again. March 17: Trump proposes to help Americans by mailing checks of up to $1,000 each. Brazil reports its first death. The European Union bars outside travelers. March 19: Italy’s death toll overtakes China. Russia records its first death. The virus has spread to more than 170 countries.March 20: California issues an unprecedented state-wide “stay at home order” and New York state orders non-essential businesses to shut.March 24: The International Olympic Committee and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announce the postponement of the 2020 Summer Games. India goes under lockdown.March 25: A $2 trillion coronavirus aid package, dubbed “the largest rescue package in American history,” is approved by Congress.March 27: South Africa starts nationwide lockdown. Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo and other African countries try to ringfence cities.April 2: Global cases shoot past 1 million as deaths soar in the United States and western Europe.April 5: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, 55, is admitted to hospital with coronavirus after suffering a fever and a cough for more than 10 days. He remains in hospital until April 12. April 6: Carnival Corp’s Ruby Princess cruise liner, the biggest single source of infections in Australia and the target of a criminal investigation, docks south of Sydney to get help for sick crew members.April 7: Early data shows COVID-19 is killing African Americans at a higher rate than the general U.S. population, underscoring disparities in healthcare access.April 8: Wuhan reopens. Its 11 million citizens can leave their homes for the first time in months.April 10: Global deaths reaches 100,000 and confirmed cases exceed 1.6 million.April 13: A handful of European countries begin to ease restrictions. Spain restarts construction and manufacturing, while Austria and Italy allow certain stores to reopen. Danish children can return to school.April 14: Trump halts funding to the WHO over its handling of the pandemic, drawing condemnation from infectious disease experts.April 23: Trump says scientists should explore whether injecting disinfectant might help COVID-19 patients, horrifying medical professionals who worry that some people will poison themselves with bleach. April 25: Global deaths exceed 200,000 and confirmed cases near 3 million.May 4: J. Crew Group Inc files for bankruptcy protection after temporary store closures cost it almost $900 million in sales. In the following weeks, Neiman Marcus Group and J.C. Penney Co Inc would also be pushed to the brink.May 8: The U.S. economy lost 20.5 million jobs in April, the steepest plunge since the Great Depression. The unemployment rate surges to 14.7%. May 9: Avianca Holdings, Latin America’s second-largest airline, files for bankruptcy. It would be followed by LATAM Airlines Group, the continent’s largest carrier, on May 26.May 11: Thousands of visitors stream into Shanghai Disneyland, the first reopened by Walt Disney Co. May 13: The virus could become endemic like HIV and never go away, the World Health Organization says.May 14: The United Nations warns of a looming mental illness crisis as millions of people are surrounded by death and disease and forced into isolation, poverty and anxiety.May 15: Global deaths exceed 300,000 and confirmed cases approach 4.5 million. May 18: Trump says he is taking hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medicine despite medical warnings against the use of the malaria drug. Subsequent studies, including a large multi-country trial by the WHO, would find little benefit in COVID-19 patients treated with the drug.May 22: Hertz Global Holdings Inc files for bankruptcy protection. Brazil overtakes Russia to become the world No. 2 in cases.May 23: Johnson resists calls from British opposition parties to sack his senior adviser, Dominic Cummings, who had traveled 400 km (250 miles) with his son and wife during the lockdown even though she was sick at the time. May 24: Hong Kong police fire tear gas and water cannon to disperse thousands of people protesting against China’s plan to impose national security laws on the city, in defiance of curbs imposed to contain the coronavirus. The public returns to St Peter’s Square to receive Pope Francis’s blessing from his window for the first time in nearly three months. May 25: George Floyd, a 46-year-old African American, dies after a police officer kneels on his neck for nearly 9 minutes. The incident triggers weeks of protests against racism and police brutality around the world, and health experts warn the activity may help spread the virus. Brazil surpasses the United States in daily coronavirus deaths.May 29: Trump says he is terminating the U.S. relationship with the WHO over its handling of the outbreak, accusing the UN agency of becoming a puppet organization of China.June 7: Global deaths exceed 400,000 and confirmed cases approach 7 million.June 8: New Zealand lifts all social and economic restrictions except border controls, one of the first countries to return to pre-pandemic normality. June 12: Beijing shuts six major wholesale food markets and delays plans for some students to return to school after reporting new infections for a second day running. June 15: After 83 days of lockdown, England allows retail stores to reopen.June 16: Honduras President Juan Orlando Hernandez says he has been diagnosed with the coronavirus, as has his wife and two aides. June 19: Brazil cases top 1 million and deaths approach 50,000, a new nadir for the world’s second worst-hit country. June 23: After more than 100 days of lockdown, New York City residents can get haircuts, shop at reopened stores and dine at outdoor cafes. Russia has 599,705 cases, the third highest in the world.June 25: Nigeria’s outbreak may push 5 million people into poverty as it triggers the worst recession in the African powerhouse since the 1980s, the World Bank said.June 26: Amid a spike in infections, Texas and Florida halt efforts to reopen their economies, ordering bars to close again and tightening restrictions on restaurants.June 28: Global deaths exceed 500,000 and confirmed cases top 10 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/timeline-how-the-global-coronavirus-pandemic-unfolded/story-IEe31EwqvuEwnE6DKIC5EN.html
29-06-2020||World||US official defends Donald Trump stepping outdoors without mask||Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar says President Donald Trump’s “unique” circumstances are why he doesn’t wear a mask even as the government is urging people to do so.Addressing spikes in reported coronavirus cases in some states, Azar said people “have to take ownership” of their own behaviours by social distancing and wearing masks if possible.He says Trump doesn’t have to follow his own administration’s guidance because as a leader of the free world he’s tested regularly and is in “very different circumstances than the rest of us.” Azar declined to say whether he’s ever asked Trump to wear a mask. He told CNN and NBC that his own message to the people is to take precautions for “public health.” Democratic Gov. Jay Inslee says Trump should spend more time tweeting about wearing masks instead of monuments.Inslee tells CBS: “We need a president who will care more about living Americans and less about dead Confederates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-official-defends-donald-trump-stepping-outdoors-without-mask/story-PfINJ61daHLujmcFNC83EO.html
29-06-2020||World||At least 12 killed in flooding in southwestern China||Authorities in southwestern China’s Sichuan province say at least 12 people have died and 10 are missing following heavy rains, adding to a grow toll from summer flooding across the country. Sichuan’s Mianning county was battered by storms on Friday and Saturday, with flooding especially bad in Yihai township, the county government reported. Two vehicles plunged into a river along a flood-damaged highway, and 7,705 people were evacuated in the area. The area lies on a plain at the foot of steep hills that eventually rise to the Tibetan Plateau, the source of China’s major rivers. Nationally, flooding since the start of June has left 78 people dead or missing, destroyed or damaged more than 100,000 homes and caused direct economic losses estimated at more than 25 billion yuan (USD 3.5 billion), the Ministry of Emergency Management said on Sunday. Seasonal flooding hits much of China each year, and authorities have sought to mitigate the damage through the use of dams, particularly the massive Three Gorges structure on the Yangtze. China’s worst floods in recent years were in 1998, when more than 2,000 people died and almost 3 million homes were destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-12-killed-in-flooding-in-southwestern-china/story-hoigylC0EnoYygDJhKd09K.html
29-06-2020||World||In single-day record, global Covid-19 cases surge to 189,077: WHO||The global Covid-19 case total has surged past 9.8 million after a single-day record of 189,077 cases were registered worldwide over the past 24 hours, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Sunday (local time).“Today, we report a record number of new cases in the last 24 hours globally (189,077 cases), with several countries reporting their highest number of new cases in a 24-hour period,” the WHO said in its daily statistical bulletin.The latest rise to the overall case count is a significant increase from the 179,316 new positive tests reported on Saturday by the WHO.The bulk of the new cases were reported in Brazil and the United States, which confirmed 46,860 and 44,458 new positive tests over the past 24 hours, respectively. A further 19,906 new cases were also reported in India over the past day.The WHO confirmed on Sunday that 4,612 people died from complications related to the coronavirus disease over the past 24 hours, a drop of 2,254 compared to the corresponding rise to the death toll on Saturday.Earlier in the day, the US-based Johns Hopkins University, whose Coronavirus Response Centre also tallies Covid-19 figures, reported that the global case count has already surpassed 10 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-single-day-record-global-covid-19-cases-surge-to-189-077-who/story-EEpS8MPF8RWXlsW19qrUXK.html
29-06-2020||World||China’ security law to establish ‘red lines’ for Hong Kong, adviser says||The national security law that China could impose on Hong Kong as early as this week won’t need to be used if the financial hub’s residents avoid crossing certain “red lines,” according to a top adviser to Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam.“It really is to warn people: Do not cross those red lines, you cannot ask for Hong Kong independence and we do not tolerate terrorist acts like what happened last year during the social unrest,” Bernard Chan, a convener of Hong Kong’s advisory Executive Council, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Monday.“As long as people abide by the law, I suppose we never have to use this piece of legislation,” said Chan, who is also one of Hong Kong’s deputies to the National People’s Congress, which is drafting the law.Chan, who hasn’t seen a draft of the law, said it will not be retrospective and that Hong Kong’s foreign judges will still be able to rule on sensitive cases. Any US sanctions issued in response to the new law would be “lose-lose,” he said.Chinese lawmakers are meeting in Beijing to discuss the national security legislation, which would bar subversion, secession, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces in the former British colony. A vote could come Tuesday morning, the day before the anniversary of the city’s handover to China in 1997, Now TV News reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-security-law-to-establish-red-lines-for-hong-kong-adviser-says/story-bTvDUOagxeTF641CtS1kiO.html
29-06-2020||World||Starbucks latest to say it will pause social media ads on Facebook||Starbucks is the latest company to say it will pause social media ads after a campaign led by civil rights organisations called for an ad boycott of Facebook, saying it doesn’t do enough to stop racist and violent content. Starbucks said on Sunday that its actions were not part of the “#StopHateforProfit” campaign, but that it is pausing its social ads while talking with civil rights organisations and its media partners about how to stop hate speech online. The coffee chain’s announcement follows statements from Unilever, the European consumer-goods giant behind Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and Dove soap; Coca-Cola; cellphone company Verizon and outdoors companies like Patagonia, Eddie Bauer and REI; film company Magnolia Pictures; jeans maker Levi’s and dozens of smaller companies. Some of the companies will pause ads just on Facebook, while others will refrain from advertising more broadly on social media. In response to companies halting advertising, Facebook executive Carolyn Everson said earlier this week the social networking platform is committed to purging hateful content from its services. “Our conversations with marketers and civil rights organisations are about how, together, we can be a force for good,” said Everson, vice president of Facebook’s global business group. Facebook’s market value dropped on Friday by more than 8 per cent, or about USD 50 billion, as more companies said they would pause ads. Twitter stock also dropped more than 7 per cent on Friday. Sarah Personette, vice president of global client solutions at Twitter, said on Friday the company’s “mission is to serve the public conversation and ensure Twitter is a place where people can make human connections, seek and receive authentic and credible information, and express themselves freely and safely”. She added that Twitter is “respectful of our partners’ decisions and will continue to work and communicate closely with them during this time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/starbucks-latest-to-say-it-will-pause-social-media-ads-on-facebook/story-wmDY0zcM8mpkJAXyPKOVJK.html
29-06-2020||World||Covid-19 death toll drops to 5 in New York, once the US epicenter||Five people died Saturday from the coronavirus in New York state, the lowest daily death toll the state has reported since March 15.Saturday’s total compared to 13 fatalities the day before as the number of fatalities caused by the virus continues to plummet in the state. During the peak of the pandemic in April, nearly 800 people were dying a day from coronavirus.Click here for full US-19 coverage“We are on the exact opposite end,” Gov. Andrew Cuomo said in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press.”New York still leads the nation in Covid-19 deaths with nearly 25,000, according to the state’s official tally, which doesn’t include people who likely died of the disease.Meanwhile, fewer than 900 patients were hospitalized Saturday for Covid-19, down from a peak of over 18,000 in April.The governor cautioned that the numbers could spike again if New Yorkers let down their guard down and fail to follow social distancing and mask-wearing requirements.“I’m now afraid of the spread coming from other states because we are one country and people travel,” Cuomo said. “I’m afraid the infection rate in the other states will come back to New York and raise that rate again.”Confirmed daily infections in the US hit an all-time high of 40,000 on Friday, prompting officials in Texas and Florida to reverse course and close down bars in their states again.US Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar stressed that “the window is closing” for the US to take action to effectively curb the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-death-toll-drops-to-5-in-new-york-once-the-us-epicenter/story-w2jA6jknOf2nQdxi5ZkHzJ.html
29-06-2020||World||US coronavirus surge likely to continue for weeks, experts say||A surge in coronavirus that has seen record numbers of new U.S. cases in recent days is likely to continue for weeks after states moved too soon to reopen their economies, two of the country’s leading public health experts said Sunday.The warnings by Tom Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control from 2009 to 2017, and Scott Gottlieb, the former head of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, came as a new poll showed confidence in how the U.S. is dealing with Covid-19 has fallen.In an interview with Fox News Sunday, Frieden said the virus continued to have the “upper hand,” even as he acknowledged Americans had become tired of the restrictions needed to contain it.“We’re all sick and tired of staying home. But you know what? The virus is not tired of making us sick,” he said.“We are moving too fast,” Frieden said of states that remained eager to continue phased re-openings as cases continue to rise. “It’s like leaning into a left hook. You are going to get hit hard. And that’s what is happening.”2.5 Million CasesUS coronavirus cases now exceed 2.5 million, with over 125,000 reported fatalities -- in both cases the world’s highest. The country’s inability to control the spread of the virus seems likely to result in US citizens being banned from traveling to Europe, for example, where cases are down in some cases 90% from their peak.A move by the EU to restrict travel from the US was the inevitable result of the continuing spread in America, Gottlieb said. Growing restrictions on travel within the US could come next, he said.A CBS poll released on Sunday showed 62% of those surveyed said US efforts to deal with the virus are “going badly,” up from 57% in early June. The percentage who said President Donald Trump was doing a “good job” on the virus was 41%, the lowest of five polls taken since late March.The survey of 2,009 US adults was taken June 23-26. It had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.Alex Azar, the US Health and Human Services Secretary, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” that the “window is closing” to control the spread of the virus.“This is a very, very serious situation,” Azar said, a downbeat assessment contradicted by Vice President Mike Pence in a later interview.‘Much Better Place’Pence, who’s visiting Texas on Sunday, played down the current surge in states, stressing that it affected just 4% of US counties and had been caused by more cases in young people, who were less likely to suffer serious health consequences.“We’re in a much better place to respond to these outbreaks than we were four months ago,” Pence told CBS’s “Face the Nation,” noting that the nation is testing about 500,000 people a day and has a greater capacity for surveillance and community testing.“We’ve also expanded our health-care capacity across the country, literally seeing delivered billions in personal protective equipment, ventilators,” he said. “And most importantly in this moment is we’ve seen the development and distribution of therapeutics that have literally been saving lives around the country.”Pence also dismissed concerns that the increase in new infections had been driven by the rapid easing of public health restrictions and the Trump administration’s push to reopen the economy rapidly with November’s election in mind.‘Simplest Intervention’“There’s a temptation to associate the new cases in the Sunbelt with reopening, but it’s important to remember” that states including Florida and Texas actually began to open up in early May and avoided a spike in infections “for the better part of six weeks,” he said.Also on “Face the Nation,” Gottlieb said the spread of the virus was likely to continue growing in the absence of requirements for the “universal masking” of people in affected states.Requiring people to wear masks is “the simplest intervention that we could take” to stop the spread of the virus, Gottlieb said. Polls, including the CBS survey, show the issue of wearing masks has become highly politicized in the USWhile the virus has ebbed in the Northeast, states like Florida, Texas and Arizona have seen virus cases spike in recent days. Other measures, including hospitalizations and deaths, haven’t risen as much.On Sunday, Florida officials said the state’s coronavirus cases rose 6.4% from a day earlier. Cumulative hospitalizations of Florida residents rose 0.8%. Cases in Arizona jumped by 5.5%, above the state’s average of a 4.4% daily increase over the past week.The current record rates of newly reported cases at 40,000 or more in recent days likely reflected a far bigger outbreak, Gottlieb said.Encouraging SignsBy the CDC’s own reckoning, the real number of infections was 5 to 10 times that being reported, Gottlieb said, and that meant the real rate of new infections was likely to be a “quarter-million” each day.Frieden said that while there were potentially encouraging signs in the growing share of younger people -- who are less likely to suffer severe complications -- among new reported cases, that shouldn’t be a reason to grow complacent.“What starts in the young doesn’t stay in the young,” he said, since younger people, often asymptomatic, can spread the coronavirus to more-vulnerable individuals including family members and co-workers.It was false to dismiss the recent surge in daily cases as a function of a ramping up in testing, Frieden said. A lower death rate was also potentially misleading, he said, with reported deaths likely to lag a surge in cases by about a month.(Frieden is currently chief executive of Resolve to Save Lives, which is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies, whose founder, Michael Bloomberg, is also founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-surge-likely-to-continue-for-weeks-experts-say/story-cNnBe6ecVblK5XPvjnPgmJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Maha extends lockdown till July 31 with stricter curbs||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a month till July 31 while imposing stricter restrictions like reduced time allowed for shopping. The extension came a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned people of stricter curbs if lockdown violations continued.A notification issued on Monday said jogging, running is restricted to neighbourhoods as part of the new norms. It added people will be allowed to travel within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to only attend offices and for essential services and not for shopping.The Covid-19 cases in the state have continued to increase significantly. With 5,257 cases reported on Monday, the number of people infected has gone up to 1,69,883. Thackeray on Sunday announced that the lockdown will not be lifted on June 30 although the state government will extend a few relaxations in a calibrated manner. He expressed unhappiness over overcrowding at public places. The government on May 31 allowed non-essential shops to operate during regular working hours (9 am to 9 pm) on alternate days from June 4 under Mission Begin Again. The timings have now been restricted till 5 pm for the non-essential shops. The notification said the permission for physical activities like jogging since June 3 are allowed only in the neighbourhoods. The government has given powers to district collectors, civic commissioners, police commissioners to impose stricter norms as per the situation and if they feel necessary. An earlier order on XXX had mandated local authorities to consult with the state government in case any such need arises. The government is also considering deferring the proposed relaxations by at least a couple of weeks given the surge in Covid-19 cases. “...[Thackeray] spoke about the relaxations in his address on Sunday, but they are unlikely to come through at least for the next two weeks. The cases are rising rapidly and most of them are due to the opening up of the activities. We are at a crucial stage of the fight against the pandemic and in such a scenario immediate relaxations would not be wise,” an official said after fresh rounds of meetings on Monday, requesting anonymity. Officials said the government was planning further relaxation to the industrial and commercial activities and more transport facilities to support them. It was also planning to allow more staff in government and private offices. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued the notification on Monday under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act citing the continued threat of the virus. The government has also continued its demarcation of the areas as Red and Non-Red zones on the basis of the spread of the disease. Areas governed by 19 municipal corporations, including 9 under Mumbai Metropolitan Region, continued to be under the Red Zones with stricter lockdown norms. Maharashtra has 27 municipal corporations.The notification said the relaxations will be notified in the due course. “The relaxations will be given by issuing separate notifications like issued for earlier four phases, with due care and very cautiously,” said a second official requesting anonymity. Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools continued to remain shut across the state. ANY REACTIONS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-extends-lockdown-till-july-31-with-stricter-curbs/story-G72j6ZyPXPCa7JFzpVOuQL.html
29-06-2020||India||Doda ‘militancy free’ declare J&K police||Srinagar: The Jammu & Kashmir police on Monday declared the Union territory’s Doda district “totally militancy free”, saying the region’s last surviving Hizbul Mujahideen commander was killed in a counter-insurgency operation along with two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in adjoining Kashmir Valley’s Anantnag district.Dilbag Singh, the Jammu & Kashmir police chief, called Masood Ahmad Bhat’s killing “a big success”. “Masood, a so-called commander of terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed by security forces in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday morning. He was the last surviving terrorist from the Doda district which is [now] totally militancy free,’’ Singh said.The three were killed after they fired on security forces and triggered a five-hour gunfight during a cordon and search operation in Anantnag’s Khulchohar area. In a statement, Jammu & Kashmir police said they were tipped about the presence of the three in the area. “During the search operation, the hiding terrorists fired on the joint search party. The fire was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, three terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,’’ the statement said. It added the other two terrorists could not be immediately identified.The statement said the bodies of the three have been sent to Handwara, around 100 km away, for their last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities. ‘’In case any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in last rites at Handwara.’’ Slain terrorists have been buried away from their native places in Baramulla, Handwara, and Ganderbal due to Covid-19 restrictions over the last two months, which have coincided with an escalation of violence in the region.Security forces have stepped up operations and killed over 100 terrorists this year mostly in South Kashmir. As many as 46 terrorists have been killed in June, the highest in a month since 39 were killed in November 2018. The 46 include commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen. Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said Monday’s operation was clean and that there was no collateral damage as security forces exercised maximum restraint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doda-militancy-free-declare-j-k-police/story-HCyRPnmWj0uS4Avjq3j7QP.html
29-06-2020||India||Geelani resigns from Hurriyat, cites internal rift, Art 370 move as reason||Srinagar: Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 90, has resigned from his faction of the Hurriyat Conference, 17 years after he was chosen as its lifetime head, citing the inability of the leaders of the grouping to raise their voice against the Centre’s move to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August last year as one reason. He also blamed internal bickering, financial irregularities within the grouping’s Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) chapter, and attempts by its leaders to seek positions of power.In an audio message released on social media on Monday, Geelani said he has apprised leaders of the constituents of his Hurriyat faction about his decision to quit through a detailed letter. Later, the letter also surfaced on social media.Geelani criticised the Jammu & Kashmir-based constituents of the grouping saying he tried hard to reach those leaders, who were not jailed in August last year, despite his detention so that they could raise their voice against the Centre’s move. He added the leaders were unavailable then. “Now that today you have felt the heat of being questioned, that the veil is slipping off your financial irregularities, you have started to convene meetings and support an unconstitutional decision thereby setting a strange example of unity,” Geelani said in the letter.It wasn’t immediately clear as to who would succeed Geelani who, along with the Hurriyat itself, has increasingly become a fringe player in Kashmir, especially after the Centre abrogated Article 370 and split the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir into two union territories. Geelani is currently under house arrested and could not be reached for comment.Geelani, who served as a member of Jammu & Kashmir assembly before joining the separatist movement in the late 1980s, said the constituents were free to make decisions about their parties and the future. He added he will continue to struggle against India until his last breath. The Hurriyat is a grouping of around two-dozen separatist and spiritual organisations. Geelani, who has been under house arrest since August last year and was instrumental in organising massive street protests since 2008, has been ailing from some time. A cancer survivor, Geelani has also undergone kidney and gallbladder removal surgeries.Almost all separatist leaders were detained in August 2019 when Article 370 was nullified to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special, semi-autonomous status. Three former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti, were also among hundreds of people, who were detained to prevent protests against the Centre’s move. Mufti still remains under detention although the Abdullahs have been released.A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in Kashmir last year in August when Jammu & Kashmir was also divided into two Union territories.The separatist leadership has since maintained a low profile even as Geelani has occasionally been releasing statements. Mirwaiz Umar Farooq leads the other Hurriyat faction. Mirwaiz is under house arrest.In his letter, Geelani cited several complaints about the PoK chapter of the grouping over the last two years. “The leaders there were trying to be part of government and ministries. There were internal bickering, fear of losing posts, financial irregularities, and many other issues. Recently after investigations, some people were expelled and as the investigations were going on against other people, the representatives of your parties started calling separate so-called meetings which led to the dissolution of the chapter till further orders,’’ said Geelani.Ishfaq Ahmad, a political analyst, said it is still unclear why Geelani quit. “We came to know about this decision through the audio clip and the letter. So it is premature to say whether it is end of his politics, but yes, this could be a start for a process of new leadership.”The Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at geelani, with its general secretary Ram Madhav saying he “was responsible for ruining the lives of thousands of Kashmiri youth and their families” and that the resignation would not absolve him of his “past sins”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geelani-resigns-from-hurriyat-cites-internal-rift-art-370-move-as-reason/story-93ZCNjqTvGNq4jBe4MQNmI.html
29-06-2020||India||Woman digs 15-feet well at home to help ailing mother fetch water||Kolkata: As a child, Bobita Soren, 24, would helplessly see her mother, Nina, struggle to fetch water in West Bengal’s Asansol. Nina often braved extreme weather to walk to the nearest water source to get it, leaving Soren to wonder how could she come up with a permanent solution until she thought of digging a well. The Covid-19 lockdown allowed her to finish digging the well that she began in late 2019 as she returned home after her college and hostel were shut. She had left the work half done during a holiday break.Soren has dug the 15-feet well inside her house to ensure her 50-year-old ailing mother does not have to walk to get water 200 m away several times daily under the scorching sun and after standing in queue for 30 minutes.“My mother Nina Soren suffers from anemia and is very weak. Since I was a child, I used to see her work very hard to fetch water. I used to become very sad. She had to walk under the scorching sun and stand in a queue to bring water. I was trying to come up with a permanent solution. Suddenly it struck me that I can dig a well,” said Soren, who has completed her MA in Political Science and is pursuing BEd from Burdwan district.Soren’s effort has drawn parallels with Dashrath Manjhi, famously known as the Mountain Man, who become famous for digging a road through a hillock in Bihar using only a hammer and chisel in memory of his wife. Manjhi’s wife died in their remote village for the want of medical care as they could not reach the nearest town with a doctor. He died in 2007.Soren said her father and brother helped her by tying the ropes tightly with which she would go down and dig whenever she got time from household chores. “This continued for the last two to three weeks, until I hit the water table. Sometimes my sister helped me to bring out the soil but she had her job to sustain,” she said.Soren, who usually does all the paperwork for her family, initially thought of contacting the village panchayat but then backed out as her family would have been unable to bear the cost for digging the well. Also because of the lockdown, labourers were unavailable and it would have taken time.Her father, Hapna, works in a local factory, while her brother is a driver. Her elder sister works in a local garment shop. Senior officials of the local administration rushed to her house on Sunday when they got to know about her feat.“We were awestruck when we saw the well. We have assured her that the administration will dig the rest and make it a 30-feet deep well so that they can get proper drinking water and make it a concrete one. We will also pay her the money it takes to dig a well. Within this week, she will get a laptop and we are also trying to give her a job,” said Tapas Banerjee, the local legislator and chairman of the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-digs-15-feet-well-at-home-to-help-ailing-mother-fetch-water/story-1R8y4jGKWeBivhR04gPFLN.html
29-06-2020||India||SC: Those unable to take CA exam in July may do so in Nov||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Monday assured lakhs of students appearing for the chartered accountancy examinations scheduled from July 29 that due to the Covid-19 situation, if any student fails to take all examinations, they will be given the benefit of appearing in the next cycle of tests in November this year.To formalize this relief, a three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the examination conducting body - Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) - to come out with a notification specifying this provision by Thursday. The ICAI agreed to bring the proposed notification to Court following which it will be notified to all students.Nearly 3.46 lakh students have registered to take the CA examinations scheduled from July 29. In view of the Covid-19 situation, the ICAI came out with an “Opt-Out” scheme by which students could opt out of the examinations in July and attempt the same in November this year. Students had to indicate their preference for this scheme by June 29 to be eligible for this relief. The ICAI had proposed this scheme realizing the practical difficulties faced by students situated in containment zone, or who are unable to travel due to lockdown restrictions.This scheme was challenged in Supreme Court by one Anubha Shrivastava Sahai who alleged that those opting for ‘Opt-Out’ should not be left at a disadvantage due to the situation. The petition argued by advocate Alakh Shrivastava sought more examination centres so that students willing to write the examination are not forced to travel distances.The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked ICAI whether it was possible to extend the opt-out scheme to even those students who did not register this choice in advance but were later unable to take the examination due to Covid-related reasons.“The present situation is dynamic. You have to be flexible to change according to requirement of each area and concerns of students in that area,” said the bench. ICAI represented by senior counsel Ramji Srinivas accepted the suggestion and said that if any student is unable to take the examination, all examinations in that cluster or group will be cancelled and the student will have an option to take the exams in November. ICAI secretary Rakesh Sehgal told the court that increasing examination centres at this stage was not possible. Out of 3.46 lakh candidates, only 57,000 had chosen “Opt-Out” scheme, ICAI counsel stated.The court further asked ICAI to ensure that the time to exercise Opt-Out scheme should be extended by one week beyond June 29. The bench further sought the ministry of home affairs guidelines for conducting CBSE examinations to be adopted by ICAI. With these incorporations, ICAI is expected to submit a revised notification to Court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-those-unable-to-take-ca-exam-in-july-may-do-so-in-nov/story-vczwbpMrgZtV3tSXAYsEvO.html
29-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies set for Ladakh meeting||NEW DELHI: Indian and Chinese army delegations, led by corps commanders, will hold a meeting at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday in their third attempt to make some headway in implementing a daunting disengagement plan aimed at gradually reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said on Monday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The two delegations, led by an Indian lieutenant general and his Chinese counterpart, last met on June 22 --- exactly a week after the brutal Galwan Valley clash --- and hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border.The “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” reached a week ago at the meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, has not resulted in any form of disengagement or thinning of the military build-up by rival forces in the region, said one of persons cited above.In what was seen as a rare meeting, the two senior officers first met on June 6 to reduce border tensions. The limited military disengagement that began in some friction areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley on June 15.On Tuesday, the Indian side is expected to reiterate its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from the friction points and seek the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, said a second person.Experts were not optimistic about what the latest meeting could potentially achieve, especially against the backdrop of continuing Chinese military buildup observed on the ground and captured by satellite imagery. “The purpose of these meetings is to initiate disengagement on the ground at the military level before de-escalation can happen at the strategic level through diplomatic channels. The Chinese are playing hardball and one can’t exactly predict the outcome of these meetings between senior commanders,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The June 30 meeting is expected to begin at 10.30 am at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, said the second person. The previous two meetings were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity in Galwan Valley, Depsang Plains and the Finger Area near Pangong Tso after the senior officers met on June 22, he added.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the Galwan skirmish that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead.India is especially concerned about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding positions in the Finger Area of Pangong Tso where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory, said a third person.The situation is equally critical from the Indian standpoint in the Depsang sector as the PLA has mobilised troops, weapons and other military equipment in sensitive areas, with its forward presence disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there, he added.The Depsang plains lie south of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in a strategic area near the Karakoram pass that the military calls Sub-Sector North and any military moves here by the Chinese forces could threaten a key stretch of the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, experts said.The Chinese buildup in other areas including Galwan Valley and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector hasn’t thinned either. Satellite imagery dated June 22, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, shows not only is the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 25.The PLA’s armoured vehicles and artillery units remain deployed in Chinese areas facing the Gogra Post-Hot Springs area along the contested border. The Indian military is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and has raised its guard to respond to any eventuality, the third official cited above said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-set-for-ladakh-meeting/story-x3OzLgiugR26Ei0A4MLz4J.html
29-06-2020||India||Not wearing sindoor sign of refusal to accept marriage: Gauhati HC||New Delhi: The refusal to wear “sakha” and “sindoor” by a woman married according to Hindu rituals and customs signifies her refusal to stay married to her husband, the Gauhati high court has said while granting a husband’s plea for divorce.Sakha is a bangle made of conch shells that is worn by newlywed women in some customs, while sindoor is vermillion that some Hindu married women apply on their heads.A categorical refusal by the wife to wear sakha and sindoor points towards her unwillingness to continue her married life, a bench of chief justice Ajai Lamba and justice Soumitra Saikia ruled. “Under such circumstances, compelling the husband to continue to be in matrimony with the wife may be construed to be harassment,” the court added in its June 19 order.A family court earlier, in December 2018, had rejected husband’s plea for divorce on these grounds.But the high court observed that the husband alleged before the lower court that the wife refused to wear sakha and sindoor, and that this contention was not disputed by the wife. “The same remained uncontroverted and is therefore an evidence material for the purpose of this proceedings. Under the custom of Hindu marriage, a lady who has entered into marriage according to Hindu rituals and customs, and which has not been denied by the respondent in her evidence, her refusal to wear ‘ sakha’ and ‘sindoor’ will project her to be unmarried and/or signify her refusal to accept the marriage with the appellant,” the high court ruled.The couple was married in February 2012. According to the plea filed by the husband, after a month of living together in the husband’s house with his relatives, the wife raised the demand to live with the husband separately in another house. The relationship deteriorated following this, leading to frequent quarrels, and the woman left the matrimonial home in 2013. She filed a case against the husband and his family members for cruelty and dowry harassment under section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, according to the petition.The husband and relatives were acquitted in that case, and the husband, by then, filed a suit for divorce on the ground of “cruelty” by the wife.She contested the plea alleging harassment at the hands of husband and in-laws for dowry, and that she was denied food and medical treatment.The family court turned down the husband’s plea, but the high court overturned the family court verdict that said that there was no cruelty against the husband and his family members by the wife. The high court relied on the fact that the wife had filed a frivolous complaint against the husband and his family members alleging cruelty in which all of the accused were later acquitted. “The allegation of subjecting the wife to cruelty was not sustained. Such acts of lodging criminal cases on unsubstantiated allegations against the husband and/or the husband’s family members amounts to cruelty”, the high court order said, making that also a ground for granting divorce.“Customs like wearing Mangalsutra or sindoor could be a pointer towards whether a woman is interested in the marriage or treats the marriage as valid. The court is not completely wrong in using it based on other circumstances to determine whether or not the woman is interested in the marriage. It can, however, be considered a parochial way of looking at a marriage and a woman’s interest in the relationship. While judging the relationship between two persons there’s no one size fits all approach. Even if we say it is parochial, it might not be true for someone from a rural background, but it could be so for a person from an urban background. So the court’s enquiry should always be based on the cultural and mental set up of the parties”, said Shreya Srivastava, assistant professor at Institute of Law, Nirma University, Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-sindoor-sign-of-refusal-to-accept-marriage-gauhati-hc/story-dB6wHDkzK65wWbiUXln2nJ.html
29-06-2020||India||NE to receive heavy rainfall in next few days, warns IMD||New Delhi: Several parts of North-east and eastern India are experiencing a flood-like situation as multiple weather stations in Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Bihar and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have reported extremely heavy rains (above 20cm in a day) continuously for the past two to three days.According to officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the eastern end of the monsoon trough continues to run along the Himalayan foothills, with the convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over North-east and east India. This is likely to lead to heavy and widespread rain in many parts of North-east India in the next four to five days. “Assam is reporting floods. Bihar is also in a flood-like situation. Cherrapunji, which is known to receive a lot of rain at this time, has recorded as much as 50-55cm in a day. This pattern of continuous heavy rain will gradually reduce from June 30; from July 2, rains will increase in central India; and from July 5, we can expect rains to resume over north-west India,” said M Mohapatra, IMD’s director general.Heavy rains are expected in Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. Widespread rain is also expected over Madhya Pradesh for the next five days, and over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha on June 29 and 30. There will be widespread rain in the west coast also this week, IMD said in its bulletin, adding that rains will be subdued for now over north-west India and the western Himalayas.The Central Water Commission has, meanwhile, warned of “above-normal” flood situation in Dharamtul, Brahmaputra, Dhubri, Goalpara and others, and “severe” flood situation in Kopili and Kampur in Assam. ‘Severe flood situation’ is where water level is touching or exceeding the danger level but below the highest flood level (HFL) and ‘above normal flood situation’ where water level is touching or exceeding the warning level but below the danger level.The restoration operations at Baghjan gas well No 5 -- there was a blowout on May 27 and a fire on June 9 -- was hampered for two to three days because of flooding, according to an Oil India Limited spokesperson. The well continues to leak gas and oil condensate.Monsoon covered the entire country on June 26, 12 days in advance of its usual pattern. Till June 28, the monsoon rains in the country are 20% in excess of the long period average (LPA) -- 36% over central India, 8% over north-west India, 4% over the southern peninsula, and 20% over east and North-east India.LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1961 and 2010, which is 88.06cm for the entire country. IMD has predicted a normal monsoon this year at 102% of LPA.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector, on which at least 700 million people in India are dependent for a livelihood. It is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.“There is water everywhere. Gas has been leaking from the OIL well for a month now. Work couldn’t be taken up because of incessant rains and flooding. Roads and bridges are destroyed here. Kaziranga downstream will also start flooding,” said Mridupaban Phukon, a wildlife activist in Baghjan.Nineteen houses and an old hostel of a senior secondary school have been damaged in a flash floods in upper Djongu region of North Sikkim district, properties at Passidang village and its surrounding areas on Saturday, PTI reported.Many parts of Delhi NCR received good rains on Monday following three days of intense heat. “The monsoon trough had shifted northwards so hot westerly winds from the land were blowing over Delhi. Now the monsoon trough has shifted southwards marginally so we have started getting moist easterly winds again. There was a lot of heating, maximum temperature was above 40 degree C for last 3 days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava. The maximum temperature on Monday was 40.2 degree C, 3 degree C above normal. Monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 24, three days in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ne-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-in-next-few-days-warns-imd/story-JHk1pVL0dheM1l5VeLtLSO.html
29-06-2020||India||France to advance Rafale deliveries after IAF request||New Delhi: Acting on a special request by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to speed up deliveries of Rafale fighter jets in the wake of heightened military tensions along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, France is reworking the schedule for supplying the planes at a faster pace, people aware of the matter said on Monday.Six Rafale fighter planes are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27--instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered--as France steps up efforts to meet IAF’s immediate requirements, said one of the persons cited above on condition of anonymity. An IAF spokesperson declined comment.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the IAF’s combat capabilities.“We are aware that around 10 Rafale jets are ready at aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility. Preparations are on to fly six Rafale jets to India in July-end with a stopover at Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. The jets will be flown by Indian pilots,” said a second person, also on condition of anonymity.All the 10 fighters are not being delivered as some jets are needed in France to train IAF crews, he said.The French air force will refuel the Indian fighters using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra from where aerial refueling support is expected to be provided by the IAF’s Russian IL-78 refuellers, the second person said.Experts said accelerating the deliveries of Rafale jets is a significant development amid the ongoing border tensions with China.“It is good that the Rafale delivery is being expedited as its operationalisation here would get advanced. Since we are in for the long haul on our northern borders, their availability with the IAF would add to its offensive potential,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Future deliveries of Rafale fighters are also being expedited, said the first person cited above.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. France handed over to India its first Rafale fighters during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8, 2019, which coincided with the IAF’s 87th founding day and the Hindu festival of Dussehra.IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters--both imported from the US--in the region.IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the People Liberation Army-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region. Chinese fighter jets have regularly been making a show of strength in the Aksai Chin area, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in a scrap with the Chinese along the LAC on June 15. An undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers also died in the clash, the worst between the two countries in 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-advance-rafale-deliveries-after-iaf-request/story-h1pFMplEhav6FIKLnLVvAP.html
29-06-2020||India||Oppn parties hold protests against surge in fuel prices||New Delhi:From bullock cart and camel rallies to leaders riding bicycles and promoting social media hastags, the Congress and other opposition parties held protests across India on Monday against the fuel price hikes in the last three months, saying it was hurting the poor and the middle-class adversely.The government has claimed that the fuel prices have risen because of increase in international crude prices but the Congress has said that the Centre has artificially kept the prices high by not lowering the special excise duty imposed when the international crude prices fell to US $30 in March this year. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, however, justified the increase saying that the money was needed for providing relief to the poor suffering because of the Covid pandemic.In Bengaluru, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah along with Congress leaders rode a bicycle from his residence to Minsk Square to protest against the hike. State Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, said: “In Delhi, diesel prices have exceeded petrol prices. We must protest against this.”In Rajasthan, a camel cart rally under leadership of state Congress president Sachin Pilot was taken out. “Despite having full stock of fuel, the government has burdened the common people by increasing fuel prices continuously for last 20 days. Such a steep hike has not been seen in 70 years,” Pilot said.In Haryana and Uttarakhand, Congress leaders took out bullock-cart rallies. “Modi ji called himself janta ka chowkidar, but oil companies have been making profits and the PM has failed to provide any relief to the people,” said Kumari Selja, chief of Haryana Congress, asking what the Centre has done with ₹18 lakh crore earned by hiking the excise duty on fuel in the past six years.In West Bengal, the Congress and Left parties on Monday held their first joint agitation against fuel price hike at Red Road in the heart of Kolkata. The ruling Trinamool Congress also held a separate protest rally.“The country’s GDP has hit the bottom. It is the lowest in 11 years and unemployment is on the rise. Still, fuel prices have been increased,” said Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra.In Maharashtra, Congress state chief and revenue minister, Balasaheb Thorat, public works and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister, Nitin Raut, participated in the protests.In Uttar Pradesh, apart from the Congress, the other opposition parties, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, also demanded roll back in the fuel prices and had held protests. “Diesel has become costlier than petrol. What did not happen in 70 years, has now happened,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. BSP chief Mawayati tweeted: “The (Central) government must control petrol and diesel prices. On one hand people are already distressed with Covid-19 and now this further price rise is staring in peoples’ face.”In Ranga Reddy district of Telangana, the Congress leaders registered their protest by riding cycle rickshaws and in Warangal, they came in bullock carts. However, the bulls were disturbed apparently on seeing the crowd and ran helter-skelter, injuring some party workers.BJP leaders termed the protest as a this as a dramaMaharashtra’s leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the decision to decontrol the prices of the fuel was taken during the United Progressive Alliance government. “If the Congress is so concerned about the price hike, the state government in which Congress is a parner should reduced the VAT,” he said.Madhya Pradesh BJP vice-preisdent Vijesh Lunawat said the Central government is using the money to give a boost to the economic activities and meet aspirations of people. “If Congress is really concerned it should reduce VAT on diesel and petrol in Rajasthan to show the way,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-parties-hold-protests-against-surge-in-fuel-prices/story-b8GrxztKCbkpR5aCcTO20J.html
29-06-2020||India||Sonia slams NDA govt for ‘extortion’||New Delhi: New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of “setting a new example” in extorting the common people with its “unjustified” and “insensitive” increase in fuel prices. Citing an increase in fuel prices 22 times in the last three months, Gandhi also demanded an immediate rollback of the hike. In her video message while participating in the party’s “Speak Up Against Fuel Hike” campaign — as a part of the Congress’ nationwide agitation against the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices — she said the hike directly hurts farmers, the poor, the working class, the middle class and the small businesses.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for its part, has said that the revenue had been used for welfare schemes for the poor, and alleged that during Congress rule, it was used for personal benefit. The Congress president said that at a time of a crisis, the government’s duty was to help people and not make profits. “It has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjustified increase in petrol and diesel prices. This is not only unjust but also insensitive,” she added. Gandhi accused the Narendra Modi government of “collecting lakhs of crores” by raising excise duty on petrol and diesel in the last three months. “All this is happening at a time when the international crude oil prices are continuously falling.” She added that since 2014, instead of giving relief of the falling international crude oil prices to the people, the Modi government had raised the excise duty 12 times, which helped it collect additional revenue of nearly ₹18 lakh crore.The Congress chief demanded that the Modi government “immediately roll back” the increase in prices of petrol and diesel.“I also urge them to roll back the rise in excise duty on petrol and diesel since March this year and give this benefit to the countrymen. This will be a big relief in this period of economic crisis,” she added.As a part of the week-long agitation, Congress leaders such as KC Venugopal and Manickam Tagore were seen riding cycles to Parliament, while Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV pulled a bullock cart to protest the fuel rate hikes. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and hundreds of Congress leaders and workers also participated in the campaign on social media, urging the people to join the party in putting pressure on the government to reduce fuel prices.Countering the charges, union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the money collected was used for welfare measures and not for personal benefits as had allegedly happened during the Congress rule.“I once again reiterate to Madam Sonia Gandhi ji that Modi ji has transferred more than ₹65,000 crore to 42 crore people in the last 3 months,” he said.“Unlike Congress’ legacy of transferring money into the accounts of middlemen, ‘National Daamad’, ‘The Family’ and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Modi ji’s DBT is about putting money in the hands of the poor, farmers, migrant workforce and women,” alleged Pradhan. He also endorsed BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks, asking the Congress to explain the hike in fuel taxes in party-ruled states.In his video message, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to stop profiteering from the fuel hikes. “The affect of rise in diesel and petrol prices are two-fold. One is that you pay directly and the other, indirectly, due to rise in prices of consumer products, including essential items,” he added. He also alleged that while on the one hand, the government had written off loans of “rich crony capitalists”, on the other, it was trying to profit from fuel prices, putting extra burden on the poor and the farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-slams-nda-govt-for-extortion/story-TIQCq6V1HFCRYlzOXe9LxH.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha sees Covid-19 cases double in a month||Odisha continues to witness a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases despite the state government having adopted measures such as weekend shutdown in 11 of the 30 districts at the beginning of this month. These districts had accounted for 78% of the total 2,245 infections in the state on June 1.Officials had reasoned that imposing weekend lockdown would not only help contain the spread of coronavirus but will reduce burden on its frontline workers such as police, doctors, nurses, anganwadi workers and ASHA workers. The 11 districts where the weekend lockdown was imposed were Khurda, Ganjam, Kendrapara, Cuttack, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Bolangir and they account for little less than half of Odisha’s total population. However, in a worrying development, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state have shot up to 6,859 in the last four weeks, more than three times what it was on June 1. The number of deaths, too, have gone up from 7 to 23 during the same period. The number of hotspot districts have gone up from 11 to 14 with Gajapati, Kandhamal and Keonjhar now reporting 800 cases between them.Also, as the weekend shutdown in June came to an end on Sunday, an analysis of the Covid statistics of the 11 districts showed that the drastic measure may not be helping. On June 6, when the weekend shutdown started, the number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha was 3,037 of which the 11 districts accounted for 2,142 cases, about 70 per cent.However, on June 28, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state jumped to 6,859, more than twice than what it was when the weekend shutdown started. By June 28, the 11 districts where the weekend shutdown was being observed, reported 4887 cases, accounting for 71 per cent of the total cases. In Ganjam, the cases in the same period doubled from 636 to 1367 while in Khurda it trebled from 266 to 814. In Cuttack district, the cases increased by more than two and half times from 202 and 557.“The lockdown or shutdown is hardly any solution to battle the pandemic. Announcing a shutdown or lockdown may look politically attractive, but as we have seen in the country it has not helped much except destroying the economy. The simple solution to the pandemic right now is wearing masks and social distancing. Weekend shutdowns would mean people would sacrifice social distancing norms to do last minute shoppings on weekdays,” said noted virologist Jacob John, former professor of Christian Medical College, Vellore.In Bhubaneswar and elsewhere in the state, there have been scores of instances this month when people have flouted social distancing norms as well as wearing masks in public. Last week, the chief of state unit of Congress in Odisha was penalised for not wearing a mask. So far over Rs 1.6 crore have been collected from people for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.The other reason for weekend lockdown was to lessen the burden on frontline workers. But analysis of data shows that even that did not happen. In Cuttack, one of the 11 districts where the weekend shutdown was enforced, 8 people including 4 patients, their attendant and 2 nurses have tested positive in a government cancer hospital over the last two days. The nurses of Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre on Monday staged a protest demanding a quarantine centre in the hospital. In the same district, the sub divisional police officer of Athgarh, and the inspector of Badamba police station have tested positive while in Ganjam district, the SDPO of Chhatrapur and inspector of Chhatrapur police station have tested positive this month. In Bhubaneswar, at least 7 doctors at AIIMS have tested positive while in Berhampur’s MKCG Medical College and Hospital, 4 doctors and 8 nurses tested positive this month. In Ganjam district, 4 doctors in Covid hospitals have been infected while in Bhubaneswar, around 40 employees of a private hospital were infected.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik spelt out a nine-point mantra including the need for creating Covid Care Committees at gram panchayats to tackle Covid-19 in the month July.At a meeting with district collectors and SPs via video conferencing, Patnaik said Covid Care Homes should be set up in every gram panchayats. While asking officials to take care of corona warriors as they are running the extra mile to save people, Patnaik said police and the district administration should show zero tolerance to those who are not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sees-covid-19-cases-double-in-a-month/story-fGOTY3eOO1VNvmSbeGwuKI.html
29-06-2020||India||From bullock cart ride to cycle rally, opposition protests fuel price hike across India||From a bullock and camel cart rallies to leaders riding bicycles to social media hashtags, the Congress and other opposition parties held protests across India on Monday against the fuel prices hike by almost nine rupees in the past 120 days, saying it was hurting the poor and the middle-class adversely.The government has claimed that the fuel prices has risen because of increase in international crude prices but the Congress has said that the Centre has artificially kept the prices high by not lowering the special excise duty imposed when the international crude prices fell to US $ 30 dollars in March this year. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan have, however, justified the increase saying that the money was needed for providing relief to the poor suffering because of Covid pandemic.The Congress and the opposition has from Monday started decided to have four day protest, starting from Monday, against the fuel hike, which they claimed were hurting the middle-class and the poor, whose incomes have dried up due to Covid 19.In Bengaluru, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah along with Congress leaders rode a bicycle from his residence to Minsk Square to protest against the hike. KPCC President DK Shivakumar said: “In Delhi, diesel prices have exceeded petrol prices. We must protest against this.”In Rajasthan, a camel cart rally under leadership of state Congress president Sachin Pilot was taken out. “Despite having full stock of fuel, the government has burdened the common people by increasing fuel prices continuously for last 20 days. Such a steep hike has not been seen in 70 years,” Pilot said.In Haryana and Uttarakhand, Congress leaders took out bullock-cart rallies. “Modi ji called himself janta ka chowkidar, but the oil companies have been making profits and the PM has failed to provide any relief to the people,” said Kumari Selja, chief of Haryana Congress, asking what the Centre has done with Rs 18 lakh crore earned by hiking the excise duty on fuel in the past six years.Sitting on a bullock-cart, former Uttarakhand chief minister, Harish Rawat, said it was because of the “faulty” Centre government policies that for the first time in the country’s history prices of diesel was higher than that of petrol. In West Bengal, the Congress and Left parties on Monday held their first joint agitation against fuel price hike at Red Road in the heart of Kolkata. The ruling Trinamool Congress also held a separate protest rally.“The country’s GDP has hit the bottom. It is the lowest in 11 years and unemployment is on the rise. Still, fuel prices have been increased,” said Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra.In Maharashtra, Congress state chief and revenue minister, Balasaheb Thorat, public works and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister, Nitin Raut, participated in the protests. “The crude oil had mounted to $125 a barrel during the UPA government, but the government under the leadership of the then prime minister Manmohan Singh could keep the diesel-petrol prices under control. Today the crude oil prices have dropped to $50 a barrel, despite of which the prices are scaling new high every day,” Thorat said.In Uttar Pradesh, apart from the Congress, the other opposition parties, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, also demanded roll back in the fuel prices and had held protests. “Diesel has become costlier than petrol. What did not happen in 70 years, has now happened,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. BSP chief Mawayati tweeted: “The (Central) government must control petrol and diesel prices. On one hand people are already distressed with Covid-19 and now this further price rise is staring in peoples’ face.”In Ranga Reddy district of Telangana, the Congress leaders registered their protest by riding cycle rickshaws and in Warangal, they came in bullock carts. However, the bulls were disturbed apparently on seeing the crowd and ran helter-skelter, injuring some party workers. In a separate protest, Telangana Pradesh Congress chief, N Uttam Kumar Reddy, in a memorandum to Suryapet district collector, requested roll back of fuel price hike.Several Congress leaders also released videos as part of the party’s campaign ‘Speak up against fuel price hike’ in his social media messages. “The hike in price of fuel will affect life and livelihood across India. The Modi government has failed again,” said West Bengal Congress chief in Somen Mitra.In a video, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Pramod Tiwari said the enhanced tax on petrol or diesel is like the taxes that cruel Mughal and British rulers imposed on Indians. “The then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had made a policy that diesel prices would always be kept lower to petrol. And all the prime ministers--be it Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Atal Behari Vajpayee or Manhoman Singh--followed it. But, Modi government has overturned that policy,” he said. BJP leaders termed the protest as a this as a dramaLeader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the decision to decontrol the prices of the fuel was taken during the UPA government. “If the Congress is so concerned about the price hike, the state government in which Congress is a parner should reduced the VAT,” he said.Bansidhar Bhagat, Uttarakhand BJP president, said, “The Congress protest on fuel price is nothing but a laughable drama. These are just tactics to deviate the public attention from serious allegations against it like taking funds from China and misusing PM Relief Fund.”Madhya Pradesh BJP vice-preisdent Vijesh Lunawat said the Central government is using the money to give a boost to the economic activities and meet aspirations of people. “If Congress is really concerned it should reduce VAT on diesel and petrol in Rajasthan to show the way,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-bullock-cart-ride-to-cycle-rally-opposition-protests-fuel-price-hike-across-india/story-AUsXUoQBucKw9Kld6VgQoL.html
29-06-2020||India||Unlock-2: Night curfew timings relaxed, training institutes to operate soon||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued a new set of guidelines for Unlock-2 in a move to open up more activities outside Containment Zones and ensure strict enforcement of lockdown norms within designated containment zones, which still have a high concentration of Covid-19 cases.The new guidelines will come into effect from day after tomorrow July 1 and the process of staggered re-opening of activities has been extended further. The new rules, issued late on Monday evening, have been structured on the feedback received from states and Union Territories on the health crisis and its management.Here’s a list of what will be permitted to operate from July 1:*In Unlock-2, domestic flights and passenger trains that have already been allowed in a limited manner will be allowed to function and services will be extended to include more trains and flights in a calibrated manner. International flights, however, will not resume yet.*Night curfew timings have been relaxed and for big shops that are large enough, more than five people can enter at a time. Night curfew shall continue to remain in force but only between 10:00 pm and 5:00 am, except for essential activities and other relaxations. The earlier timings were from 9 pm to 5 am.*Training institutions of Central and state governments which are located outside containment zones, will be allowed to function from July 15, for which a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the Department of Personnel and Training.*According to national directives for Covid-19 management; wearing of face masks is mandatory in public places, workplaces and during travel. To ensure social distance, individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet in public places.*Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and any other large congregations remain strictly prohibited.The lockdown shall continue to remain in force in all containment zones till July 31, the MHA order said. In containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed.and the dates for resumption of those activities which remain prohibited shall be announced later in a phase-wise manner, the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-2-night-curfew-timings-relaxed-training-institutes-to-operate-soon/story-bMMsqjBwL2SyEcKYXTBEjO.html
29-06-2020||India||Tribals protest in Maoist-hit Bijapur district demanding procurement money in cash||Thousands of tribal of interior villagers of Maoist-hit Bijapur district reached district headquarters to start three-day protest in front of collector’s office demanding that money of tendu patta procurement to be given in cash as they have to face many difficulties to reach banks and many of them don’t have bank accounts.Most of these villagers are of Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other interior areas which are located south of the district. Some of these villages are 50 km from district headquarters with no road connectivity.The tribals have also demanded that the bonus given on the paddy procurement should also be given in cash by the government, and opening of schools and hospitals in their area and police atrocities should stop.“The administration is saying to open bank accounts, which we don’t have because we are poor and live in interior and secondly people having bank accounts have to walk for 40 km to reach banks . We are demanding that the tendu-patta procurement money should be given in cash,” said Somari, who was protesting outside the collector told reportersMeanwhile, the police have sealed the district headquarters and extra police forces have been deployed in the city following the protest. Talks between the tribal representatives and administration are being conducted.Bijapur Collector said that district administration will provide every help to tribals.“Those people who have bank accounts, the procurement money will be transferred in their accounts and we will pay them with help of bank-sakhis (banking correspondents), who will reach their villager to pay them their money. We have 11 banking correspondents and recruiting about 30 others in next four days,” collector Ritesh Agarwal told reporters.Tendu-Pattta is procured in Chhattisgarh at Rs 4,000 per sack from the tribals and this year the government procured tendu-patta of about Rs 100 crores from Bijapur district itself. The total population of Bijapur is 2.55 lakh.“The road connectively is till Gangaloor and most of these tribals are from more than a dozen of villages which are beyond Gangaloor. In 2018, just before the legislative assembly elections, the money was paid to them in cash because of non-connectivity and pressure of the then tribal minister Mahesh Gagda, who was from Bijapur. Since then, the tribals of these area are demanding that tendu-patta procurement money should be given in cash,” said a senior government officer posted in the region.The officer further said that their demand should be addressed.“This is fact that they are facing problem. Some of them have to walk for more than 40 km. Most of these tribals don’t have motorbike and hence they rent a four-wheeler to reach bank but owing to lockdown, the vehicles have also stopped. The government should recruit banking correspondents and send it to their villages or the government should arrange vehicle for them,” said the officer. Activists believe that the government is not listening to problems that are being faced by tribals during lockdown. “There demands are genuine…Thousands of tribals from Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other villages in Bijapur reached the district headquarters after walking for a day. The tribals are demanding that they should be paid in cash for tendu patta procurement, which the government is paying through the banks. Bank branches are very less in tribal areas…For some tribals, this distance is up to 50 and 60 kilometers,” said Himanshu Kumar, a tribal rights activist working in Bastar.Kumar claimed that there is no bus or other means of transport available for the tribals to reach these banks.“Thousands of tribal families do not even have bank accounts due to which they are not getting payment. The tribals had told the collector a month ago that they should be paid in cash but they did not listen, therefore they have started this protest,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribals-protest-in-maoist-hit-bijapur-district-demanding-procurement-money-in-cash/story-S1s926N944zR0FwMfygLHL.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India enters Unlock 2 mode. Explained in 12 points||The Union Home Ministry on Monday evening issued guidelines for ‘Unlock 2’ phase across country between July 1 and July 31.The new guidelines will come into effect from July 1 and the focus of remains on the phased re-opening of activities. The revised MHA guidelines have been issued based on feedback received from States and UTs, and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments. Also read: All you need to know about Covid-19 in IndiaSchools, colleges, religious places and places of worship for public; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will remain closed till July 31. Only essential services are allowed in containment zones, according to the revised guidelines issued by the government. Here are all the Unlock 2 guidelines you need to know:1. Domestic flights and passenger trains will be further expanded in a calibrated manner.2. Religious places and places of worship for public; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services; and shopping malls will remain closed in containment zones. 3. Shops depending upon their area, can have more than 5 persons at a time. However, they have to maintain adequate physical distance.4. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31, 2020.5. International air travel of passengers has been permitted in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission. Further opening up to follow. 6. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will not be allowed until further notice. 6. Metro operations to remain shut until further notice. 7. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will not be allowed till further notice. 8. Lockdown will continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till 31 July, 2020.9. No restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or approval or e-permit will be required for such movements. 10. Night Curfew shall continue to remain in force, between 10.00 pm and 5 am, except for essential activities and other relaxation given in Unlock 2. 11. Protection for vulnerable persons: Vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.12. The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covi-19-india-enters-unlock-2-mode-explained-in-12-points/story-CtoL2aTDYGMexau1jUcDWP.html
29-06-2020||India||Here’s why govt banned TikTok, Shareit and other 57 China-linked apps||The government on Monday banned 59 mobile apps linked to China saying they are prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, integrity, security and public order.“The Ministry of Information Technology, invoking its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 59 apps ( see Appendix) since in view of information available they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” the government said in a statement.It said that over the last few years, India has emerged as a leading innovator when it comes to technological advancements and a primary market in the digital space.“At the same time, there have been raging concerns on aspects relating to data security and safeguarding the privacy of 130 crore Indians. It has been noted recently that such concerns also pose a threat to sovereignty and security of our country.”Also read | India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them“The Ministry of Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India. The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” it said.The government said the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, Ministry of Home Affairs has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these malicious apps.“This Ministry has also received many representations raising concerns from citizens regarding security of data and risk to privacy relating to operation of certain apps. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) has also received many representations from citizens regarding security of data and breach of privacy impacting upon public order issues. Likewise, there have been similar bipartisan concerns, flagged by various public representatives, both outside and inside the Parliament of India. There has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against Apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens”.Also read | From Tik Tok, UC Browser to Baidu Map: Complete list of 59 China-linked apps banned by India“On the basis of these and upon receiving of recent credible inputs that such Apps pose threat to sovereignty and integrity of India, the Government of India has decided to disallow the usage of certain Apps, used in both mobile and non-mobile Internet enabled devices,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-59-china-linked-mobile-apps-prejudicial-to-india-s-defence-and-security/story-qhqo2vCCTB5LluBQsp7mnN.html
29-06-2020||India||Amit Shah powers India’s ban on 59 China-linked mobile apps: 10 points||Citing national security, the Centre on Monday banned 59 mobile applications, including China’s TikTok, SHAREiT and WeChat calling the move as one meant to safeguard the interests of Indian mobile and internet users.The formal orders banning the 59 apps were issued by the IT ministry after home minister Amit Shah, who had extended his support to the move to block the China-linked applications, signed Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s recommendation on Saturday. The government had earlier decided against just issuing an advisory cautioning people about the risks associated with these apps and had decided to formally ban the applications in the country.The applications include popular short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master among several others.Indian intelligence agencies had been trying to restrict the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country, where at a later stage they could be used to intrude into the privacy of Indian citizens.Top ten points on the Union government’s latest move banning 59 China-linked apps: 1. The government has issued a formal order asking phone companies to block the applications. The order came after weeks of crucial discussions that started much before the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh earlier this month.2. The decision was fast-tracked, however, after the June 15 violent skirmish between soldiers of both sides at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers died.3. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said it had received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for allegedly “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India”.ALSO READ | India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them: Complete list4. The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre affiliated to the Ministry of Home Affairs, has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these apps.5. Chinese companies have for some time now been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments globally have been cautious at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.6. In a statement, the Centre said the apps were blocked “in view of information available that they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of the country, security of state and public order”.7. According to the government, this huge decision is a targeted move to ensure safety and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace. 8. The government statement indicated that “there has been a strong chorus in the public domain to take strict action against certain China-linked apps that may harm the country’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of its citizens”.9. Some of the applications that make it to the list of banned ones include DU Cleaner,DU Browser, Hago Play With New Friends, Cam Scanner, Clean Master - Cheetah Mobile, Wonder Camera, Photo Wonder, QQ Player, We Meet and Sweet Selfie to name a few.10. On the basis of several recent credible inputs that a number of China-linked apps may pose a threat to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the government has decided to disallow the usage of these apps in both mobile and non-mobile Internet-enabled devices used in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-orders-phone-companies-to-block-59-china-linked-apps-top-10-points/story-5HQLOb6XcaDsJUUGrtl8dN.html
29-06-2020||India||From Tik Tok, UC Browser to Baidu Map: Complete list of 59 China-linked apps banned by India||India on Monday banned 59 mobile applications linked to China and asked phone companies to block them. The order came two weeks after the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. “The Ministry of Information Technology, invoking it’s power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 59 apps since in view of information available they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” a government order issued late on Monday evening said. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the order added.Among them are TikTok, WeChat, Weibo, Baidu Map and XenderThe complete list is as follows:1.TikTok 2.Shareit 3.Kwai 4.UC Browser 5.Baidu map 6.Shein 7.Clash of Kings 8.DU battery saver 9.Helo 10.Likee 11.YouCam makeup 12.Mi Community 13.CM Browers 14.Virus Cleaner 15.APUS Browser 16.ROMWE 17.Club Factory 18.Newsdog 19.Beutry Plus 20.WeChat 21.UC News 22.QQ Mail 23.Weibo 24.Xender 25.QQ Music 26.QQ Newsfeed 27.Bigo Live 28.SelfieCity 29.Mail Master 30.Parallel Space 31.Mi Video Call – Xiaomi 32.WeSync 33.ES File Explorer 34.Viva Video – QU Video Inc 35.Meitu 36.Vigo Video 37.New Video Status 38.DU Recorder 39.Vault- Hide 40.Cache Cleaner DU App studio 41.DU Cleaner 42.DU Browser 43.Hago Play With New Friends 44.Cam Scanner 45.Clean Master – Cheetah Mobile 46.Wonder Camera 47.Photo Wonder 48.QQ Player 49.We Meet 50.Sweet Selfie 51.Baidu Translate 52.Vmate 53.QQ International 54.QQ Security Center 55.QQ Launcher 56.U Video 57.V fly Status Video 58.Mobile Legends 59.DU Privacy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-tik-tok-uc-browser-to-baidu-map-here-s-the-complete-list-of-59-chinese-apps-banned-by-india/story-dNkaBac7WD4G7Btc6AEDfN.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said plasma therapy saved him from Covid-19 and pledged to donate his plasma. “With good wishes of everyone I am recovering at home now. Plasma bank announcement by Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal is a revolutionary step. Plasma therapy saved my life from Corona virus and I pledge to donate my plasma as soon as medical protocols will allow,” Jain tweeted.Read more.India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders phone companies to block themIn a huge move, the central government on Monday decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China on grounds of national security. A formal order, asking phone companies to block the applications, was issued after weeks of discussions that started much before the Ladakh border standoff with China. But government officials told Hindustan Times that the deliberations were fast-tracked after June 15 violent scrap between soldiers at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.Read more. India-China to hold Lt General-level talks tomorrow on LAC standoffIndian and Chinese army delegations, led by corps commanders, will hold a meeting at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday with a focus on cooling tensions and thinning military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said on Monday.Read more. Another 5,000+ surge takes Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 1.69 lakhMaharashtra recorded another huge surge of 5,257 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as the state’s tally touched 1,69,883, the health department said. There were 181 casualties also, including 92 in Mumbai that took the death toll to 7,610 in the state.Read more. Stop trains, domestic flights from 5 worst-hit states: Mamata Banerjee tells CentreThe Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal has written to the Centre to stop sending trains from at least five coronavirus ‘hotspot’ states, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India.Read more. Laxmmi Bomb new posters: Akshay Kumar’s bright bindi and dramatic eyes are striking, film to release on Disney+ HotstarActor Akshay Kumar shared dramatic new posters of his film, Laxmmi Bomb, as it was announced that the film will release directly on Disney+ Hotstar. Official remake of south hit Kanchana, Laxmmi Bomb is a horror comedy that is being helmed by the director of the original, Raghava Lawrence, with Kiara Advani as the leading lady.Read more. Govt to launch an e-marketplace for tribal artisans soonTribal artisans will be able to sell their products online soon as the government is working on a specialised e-marketplace. This online portal will be launched on Independence Day. Managing director of the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), Pravir Krishna said that the Tribes India e-Mart will be launched on August 15 and will be just like e-commerce platforms like Amazon or Flipkart, just that it will be exclusively for tribal artisans.Read more. Watch: 24-yr-old woman digs 15-ft well to ease mother’s troubles in BengalA 24-year-old woman dug a well in her village in West Bengal. Bobita Soren dug the 15-feet-deep well to ease her mother’s troubles. Bobita’s ailing mother had to walk and stand in queue to fetch water multiple times in a day. Bobita, who is pursuing BEd, had started the digging work in 2019 but couldn’t finish it as she had to return to her college hostel. Lockdown, however, came as an opportunity to the 24-year-old. Watch the full video for details.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plasma-therapy-saved-my-life-says-delhi-health-minister-after-beating-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WJbc4KSosfKeb0eugm44FL.html
29-06-2020||India||Kerala starts house-to-house survey in Covid hotspots to contain pandemic||With Covid-19 cases going up steadily Kerala on Monday launched a house-to-house survey in affected areas and ramp up home quarantine facilities with the help of volunteers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.“The government is going all out to mitigate the threat posed by pandemic. We have launched a cluster management strategy and introduced a surge plan in certain areas. In some cases sources are not identified so we have to keep utmost vigil,” Vijayan said.The state was on the verge of flattening the Covid-19 curve in the first week of May but instead cases surged after expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country started to return. At least 1.25 lakh expatriates and 2.50 lakh people from other states have returned to Kerala since the lockdown norms were relaxed in the first week of May. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The CM said vigil on home quarantine facilities will be strengthened and services of Covid volunteers will be used in a big way. The government had earlier floated a volunteer service comprising youth to help grassroots units of the virus management teams. They will keep an eye on those flouting quarantine norms and check “super spreaders”. Health workers have started house-to-house surveys in Covid-19 hotspots, he said. Since institutional quarantine is turning out to be a big financial burden, the state is laying more emphasis on home quarantine these days.Kerala reported one more casualty taking the death toll to 24 while 121 new cases took the Covid-19 tally to 4310. There are now 2,057 active cases in the state while 2,229 have recovered. Nine CISF personnel and five health workers are among the new cases, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-starts-house-to-house-survey-in-covid-hotspots-to-contain-pandemic/story-XzA5nAtEHPlMik7t35miMN.html
29-06-2020||India||Elephant population crosses 2,000-mark in Uttarakhand, around 30% rise since 2015||With a 29.9% increase since 2015, Uttarakhand government on Monday said that the state now has 2,026 elephants. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat released the fresh elephant census on Monday during the 15th State Wildlife Advisory Board meeting.He also released the census of crocodiles and gharials, counted after a gap of 12 years in February this year. However, otters were counted for the first time in the state. Rawat said elephants were counted in Uttarakhand for three days from June 6 to June 8. “It was found that there are a total of 2,026 elephants in the state. In 2012, there were 1,559 elephants while in 2017 there were 1,839 elephants,” Rawat said.For the first time drones were used for counting the jumbos in the hill state. Parag Madhukar Dhakate, who is the coordinator of the forest department’s drone force, said the drones flew over forest blocks in a zigzag manner and captured images of elephants that helped in verifying the ground reports. According to officials, Uttarakhand now has 451 mugger crocodiles (from 123 in 2008), 77 gharials and 194 otters. The officials said from 2020 -2022, the snow-leopard population will also be estimated in the state and that 23% of the state’s geographical area has snow-leopards. For the total count of these animals, teams were trained and allotted river stretches to conduct the estimation by walking along the stretches from 9 am till 11 am, “when crocodiles and gharials come out of water to bask in the sun.” Camera traps were deployed for the estimation of otters. Indirect pieces of evidence like footprints, latrine site, grooming sites were looked into to know about the proximity of areas where otters are found, officials said.In Uttarakhand, crocodiles are found in the Corbett landscape, Terai area, Bhanganga wetland in Haridwar, Rajaji National park and so on. The last crocodile and gharial census in Uttarakhand was carried out in 2008 by the forest department where they found 123 crocodiles and 231 gharials.In other decisions, the board decided to seek the National Board for Wildlife’s approval for road construction projects through Gangotri National Park in Uttarkashi district, which shares border with China and ask the the Wildlife Institute of India will conduct a study elephant and tiger carrying capacity of Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves. The board also decided to form a committee for rationalization of the boundary of Rajaji National Park having district collectors, divisional forest officers and representatives from Wildlife Institute.A proposal seeking permission for the transfer of forest land for construction of Saung Dam project and for expansion of Jolly Grant Airport will also be sent to National Board for Wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-population-crosses-2-000-mark-in-uttarakhand-around-30-rise-since-2015/story-KtatcRi1L2xKuEpvHDcvRM.html
29-06-2020||India||India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them: Complete list||In a huge move, the central government on Monday decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China on grounds of national security. A formal order, asking phone companies to block the applications, was issued after weeks of discussions that started much before the Ladakh border standoff with China. But government officials told Hindustan Times that the deliberations were fast-tracked after June 15 violent scrap between soldiers at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who had extended his complete support to the move to block the China-linked applications, signed off on Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s recommendation on Saturday. Since the government had decided against just issuing an advisory cautioning people about the risks associated with these applications, the formal orders were issued by the IT ministry. Also Watch | TikTok, ShareIt among 59 Chinese apps banned by Modi govt: All there is to know Also Read: Amit Shah powers India’s ban on 59 China-linked mobile appsA statement by the information technology ministry said a decision had been taken to block 59 applications “since in view of the information available, they are engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The applications include popular short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master.Hindustan Times was the first to report about the government move on June 17.Complete list of 59 mobile apps blocked in IndiaTikTok, Shareit, KwaiUC Browser, Baidu map Shein, Clash of Kings DU battery saver, HeloLikee, YouCam makeup, QQ Newsfeed Mi Community, CM Browsers Virus Cleaner, APUS Browser ROMWE, Club Factory, NewsdogBeauty Plus, WeChat, UC News,QQ Mail, Weibo, Xender, QQ MusicBigo Live, SelfieCity, Mail Master Parallel Space, Mi Video Call – Xiaomi WeSync, ES File Explorer Viva Video – QU Video Inc Meitu, Vigo Video, New Video Status DU Recorder, Vault- Hide Cache Cleaner DU App studio DU Cleaner, DU Browser Hago Play With New Friends Cam Scanner, Clean Master – Cheetah Mobile Wonder Camera, Photo Wonder QQ Player, We Meet, Sweet Selfie Baidu Translate, Vmate, QQ International QQ Security Center, QQ Launcher U Video, V fly Status Video Mobile Legends, DU Privacy Explaining the decision, the IT ministry pointed to the raging concerns on aspects relating to data security and safeguarding the privacy of 130 crore Indians. It has been noted recently that such concerns also pose a threat to sovereignty and security of our country. The Ministry of Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India.“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” said the IT ministry statement.Indian intelligence agencies had been pushing for restrictions on the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country where they could be used to intrude into the privacy of citizens.Chinese companies have long been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments across the world have been uneasy at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.Robert O’Brien, the National Security Adviser in the Trump administration, had recently detailed how China-linked companies acted as an arm of Beijing’s communist party and tried to “control thoughts” to serve the party’s interests.The communist party is “collecting your most intimate data — your words, your actions, your purchases, your whereabouts, your health records, your social media posts, your texts, and mapping your network of friends, family, and acquaintances”, he said. This information could be used to influence, to coerce and to even blackmail individuals to say and do things that serve the party’s interests, O’Brien said in a recent lecture on China.O’Brien had also spoken about another facet. Where these companies remove information that doesn’t favour China. Like TikTok, he said, accounts criticising the communist party’s policies are routinely removed or deleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-59-china-linked-phone-apps-orders-phone-companies-to-block-them/story-OZhoz8cpZKv1GAWy8X5PuM.html
29-06-2020||India||Stop trains, domestic flights from 5 worst-hit states: Mamata Banerjee tells Centre||The Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal has written to the Centre to stop sending trains from at least five coronavirus ‘hotspot’ states, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India.The Bengal chief minister has also urged the Union government to stop sending domestic flights from these five states. Flights from other states can be allowed once a week, she said. Uncertainty now looms over the resumption of Kolkata Metro services with metro authorities saying that they would need the nod of three union ministries – rail, health and home – before services could begin again.ALSO READ | Telangana, TN may follow Maharashtra in extending lockdown to stop Covid-19“The chief secretary has sent a letter requesting to stop trains from five states with immediate effect at least for some time now,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat without naming the five states.A senior official said the states are Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. Earlier, migrant labourers who returned from these states were also sent to institutional quarantine. “We would also request to restrict the number of incoming domestic flights from other states to one per week, instead of allowing several flights a day. It would be easier to manage,” she added.ALSO READ | West Bengal extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31Banerjee had earlier raised objections against international flights too. Even though the union government has suspended commercial international flights till July 15, domestic flights and trains continue to operate.The chief minister had said on Friday that the state government had requested the Kolkata Metro to resume services from July 1.“Metro and suburban train services have been suspended till August 12. We will need the nod of the rail ministry, home ministry and health ministry to restart metro services,” said a spokesperson of the Kolkata Metro.On Monday, senior officials of the Kolkata Metro held a meeting with the state government.“The Kolkata Metro will resume essential services for now which can be availed by doctors, police and other frontline staff. The chief secretary will speak to the railway board chairman so that normal services could start soon,” Banerjee added.The state government will also launch tele-medicine services from July 1 to enable patients to consult doctors for medical help over telephone instead of visiting hospitals or clinics. Each district will have dedicated telephone lines.She added that the government will procure 30 million face masks, which would be distributed among school students and frontline health workers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-trains-domestic-flights-from-5-worst-hit-states-mamata-banerjee-tells-centre/story-JxNdwDMxty5xrWXJg1gkmI.html
29-06-2020||India||Another 5,000+ surge takes Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 1.69 lakh||Maharashtra recorded another huge surge of 5,257 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as the state’s tally touched 1,69,883, the health department said.There were 181 casualties also, including 92 in Mumbai that took the death toll to 7,610 in the state. Mumbai recorded 1,226 new cases to take its tally to 76,765. A total of 2,385 people were discharged on Monday taking the total recoveries to 88,960. The health department said Maharashtra’s recovery rate now stands at 52.37%.The number of people who have been tested for Covid-19 has risen to 9,43,485.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The surge of more than 5,000 cases for the fourth successive day came even as the government extended the lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases. Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by Covid-19, Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. The essential services have been allowed while shops selling non-essential services are allowed with certain restrictions in red zones. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 15 and 10% of their workforce. Non-essential services and intra district public transportation has been allowed in non-red zones.The government said the permitted non-essential activities such as shopping and physical activities like jogging, running, cycling will be allowed only in the neighbourhood areas only. The relaxation given to travel is only to attend the offices in a prescribed number of employees and with the due precautions of social distancing and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-5-000-surge-takes-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-to-1-69-lakh/story-hy7ympwn2yVewPc1sWMDEL.html
29-06-2020||India||Four more ITBP personnel test Covid-19 positive, force records 81 active cases||Four more personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, officials said on Monday.There are currently a total of 81 active coronavirus cases and 236 ITBP personnel have recovered and been discharged till date.On Sunday, six personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police had tested positive for the viral infection.ALSO READ | CRPF constable dies of Covid-19, death toll in Central Armed Police Forces rises to 24There have been over 868 coronavirus cases in the BSF, 733 in the CISF, 316 in the ITBP, 184 in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 139 in the SSB and 70 in the National Security Guards (NSG). So far the Central Armed Police Forces—the CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB have reported a death toll of 24.Among them, more than 2,100 security personnel have been cured and only about 1,250 are under treatment at various health facilities across the country.A single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally to 5,48,318 on Monday, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data.This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date.The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the data.The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country includes foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-more-itbp-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-force-records-81-active-cases/story-lpgwyhnxiWKdhBLMG1atyJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Govt using oil revenue for welfare of poor, not RGF: BJP hits back at Cong||BJP leader and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan hit out at the Congress on Monday, saying the central government is using the tax revenue earned from the petrol and diesel sale to fund welfare programmes for the poor and not for any “son-in-law or Rajiv Gandhi Foundation”.Pradhan’s barb at the Congress came after the opposition party president, Sonia Gandhi, attacked the BJP-led government for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown, accusing it of “extorting” people, and sought an immediate rollback of the hikes.Hitting back, Pradhan said Gandhi seems to have forgotten that states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, where the Congress is in power on its own or with allies, have also hiked VAT on petrol and diesel and burdened people.  Instead of doing politics over the issue, the Congress chief should get factual information from these states, he said in a statement, adding that the Centre and states are using the money to meet challenges being posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Pradhan said, “The tax earned from petrol and diesel is being spent on healthcare, generating employment and giving people financial security. The BJP government uses people’s money for the poor’s welfare through direct benefit transfer. It is not like the Congress, which would use the revenue for welfare of a son-in-law and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF).” “Sonia Gandhi is saying so because the Congress has for generations used power to transfer money meant for government schemes to bank accounts of son-in-law and the RGF,” he alleged.The BJP has targeted Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra for alleged dubious land deals and has also been raising the issue of donations to the RGF to attack the Congress.  Pradhan said the global economy is undergoing a crisis due to the pandemic, which has also posed demand and supply issues for petroleum products.  The common consumer has not been affected much by the recent hike in oil products as, he said, their demand had gone down by 70 per cent in April and May before it was revived in June after the ‘unlock’ began.  When a family faces a crisis, then its members arrange financial resources to deal with it, he said, adding that the recent hike in oil products should be seen in a similar manner.  Sonia Gandhi charged the government with profiteering at the expense of people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profits out of their hard-earned money.Participating in the Congress’ “Speak Up Against Fuel Hike” campaign across the country, she said on the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic was wreaking havoc and on the other, the rise in petrol and diesel prices was making life very difficult for the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-using-oil-revenue-for-welfare-of-poor-not-rgf-bjp-hits-back-at-cong/story-BF3ASdp5j98gS5cgD882lL.html
29-06-2020||India||Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said plasma therapy saved him from Covid-19 and pledged to donate his plasma. “With good wishes of everyone I am recovering at home now. Plasma bank announcement by Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal is a revolutionary step. Plasma therapy saved my life from Corona virus and I pledge to donate my plasma as soon as medical protocols will allow,” Jain tweeted.The minister was discharged from hospital on June 26, 12 days after he was admitted to hospital with high-grade fever and a drop in his oxygen saturation levels.Earlier on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that his government will set up a plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients in the national capital which is likely to be the first such bank in the country.The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.The plasma bank which will operate on the lines of a blood bank will be set up in the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital in south Delhi.Patients admitted in both government and private hospitals can avail of the services but it has to be recommended by a doctor, Kejriwal said.Last week, Kejriwal had said that plasma therapy helped reduce the Covid-19 death rate by more than 50% in Delhi’s LNJP hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-saved-my-life-says-delhi-health-minister-after-beating-covid-19/story-NoX6dI39ddRfBvhiM7iqGM.html
29-06-2020||India||FAO sounds high alert for India for next 4 weeks over locust||The United Nation’s (UN) Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in its latest situation update has asked India, Pakistan in Asia and Sudan, Ethiopia, South Sudan and Somalia in Africa to be on high alert for the next four weeks in view of locust breeding.The FAO has warned that although locust control operations are in place, a northerly movement of the swarms in these countries is on the cards.Some of the swarms in north-west Kenya are expected to transit through South Sudan to reach the summer breeding areas of Sudan, which has reported some monsoon rains.The swarms could move towards eastern Chad and spread westwards across the northern Sahel part of west Africa. Swarms that accumulate in northern Somalia are likely to migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along the Indo-Pakistan border.“Spring-bred swarms are present along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where they are awaiting the onset of the monsoon rains that will start in the coming days and allow the swarms to mature and lay eggs. In Pakistan, some swarms have already started laying eggs in Nagaparkar of south-east Sindh province near the Indian border, while swarms are present in the Indus Valley and are starting to form the hopper bands in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,” the FAO said.The UN organisation said swarms and adult groups are largely present in the west of Jaipur in Rajasthan but some infestations have been reported in parts of Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Uttar Pradesh (UP). At least one small group of immature adults moved north of UP last Saturday, reaching the northern districts of Kushinagar and Sidharth Nagar where they split up and a few crossed across the border to the central lowlands near Butwal in Nepal’s Terai region.In Iran, locust infestations declined further in the south. Only adult groups remain along the Pakistan border in the interior of Sistan-Baluchistan province and hopper groups are also present in South Khorasan province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fao-sounds-high-alert-for-india-for-next-4-weeks-over-locust/story-R2bBx0BEK4XF3reP43fmlK.html
29-06-2020||India||Bamboo water bottles made in Tripura find many takers including actress Raveena Tandon||Tripura has introduced its first handmade and organic bamboo water bottles, which have been widely appreciated, and gained more popularity after actress Raveena Tandon placed an order for the ethnic product. The bottles are manually made by placing a copper bottle, or a thermostat flask, inside columns of bamboo that grows in abundance in the border state.Local artisans from West Tripura and Khowai districts have manufactured these products manually over the past six months.Herbal products such as turmeric and neem are used to treat these bottles, instead of the usual bleaching powder, which have struck a chord with the consumers because of their organic appeal amid the ecologically-fresh city slickers.Last year, the Tripura government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the New Delhi-based National Centre for Design and Product Development (NCDPD) for the promotion of bamboo products.“ Tripura is proud to introduce a variety of unique and eco-friendly handcrafted bamboo made bottles. The bottles made by the bamboo artisans of the state are being developed by TRPC (Tripura Rehabilitation Plantation Corporation) in collaboration with BCDI (Bamboo & Cane Development Institute) and FRCLE (Forest Research Centre for Livelihood Extension) in Tripura. The products are being promoted under PMVDY (Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Yojana) and NBM (National Bamboo Mission) schemes. This industry can create huge employment and livelihood opportunity to thousands of artisans of the state,” Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb had tweeted three days ago.“ It’s a unique product, as water is not directly stored in these bottles. Each bottle costs Rs1,200,” Prasada Rao Vaddarapu, chairperson, TRPC, told media persons.Vaddarapu is the brain behind designing the product.Tandon’s was among the first batch of the order that was shipped on Monday, Vaddarapu said.Soon, other consignments will find their way to Delhi, Mumbai, some European nations and the United States of America (USA), as the ethnic product seeks to put the tiny north-eastern state on the global map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bamboo-water-bottles-made-in-tripura-find-many-takers-including-actress-raveena-tandon/story-tYDc7i59HJpfxavMtCyo8O.html
29-06-2020||India||Landslides in north Sikkim hamper army movement near Indo-China border||Parts of north Sikkim close to the China border have been cut off by multiple landslides that occurred on Saturday night and left hundreds of people homeless.Five major landslides took place between Dikchu to Chungthang.The main highway, connecting Mangan, the north district headquarters, and Chungthang is closed. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working overtime to repair the strategic road leading to the border.Chief Minister P S Tamang on Monday visited the worst hit areas in the Dzongu area in North Sikkim.“Many parts of Sikkim had been witnessing incessant rainfall till Sunday. Mangan received 611 mm rainfall in four days beginning June 24,” said Gopinath Raha, regional director meteorological department, Sikkim. An army officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “Landslides often damage roads leading to the Indo-China border. All stakeholders work jointly in situations like these.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sikkim state committee has written a letter to Jitendra Singh, Union minister of state for Development of North East Region (DoNER), seeking emergency assistance for relief and rehabilitation work.“Considering the present situation in the India-China border in North Sikkim, restoration of the highway and the border roads should be the top most priority,” D B Chauhan, BJP Sikkim state president said in the letter.The state government has already evacuated all villagers from the worst-affected area that is Passingdong village in Upper Dzongu, about 10 km away Mangan.Tenzing T Kaleon, district collector of North Sikkim, said, “There have been massive damages and all the agencies are working overtime to restore road connectivity.”The chief minister on Monday handed over compensation to 48 affected people.Pintso Namgyal Lepcha, the legislator from Dzongu, said, “There is no road connectivity beyond Sangkhalang. Relief workers have to walk.”Many villages including Tingvong and Sakyong-Pentong and some lying beyond Passingdong are cut-off since the Mantam landslide in 2016.Praful Rao, president of Save the Hills, an NGO involved in disaster management, said “Many parts of North Sikkim have become vulnerable after the 2011 earthquake that caused massive damage to Sikkim. Heavy rainfall and strong current in the rivers in the north have added to the problem.”NH-10, which connects Sikkim to Bengal and rest of India needs repair in at least eight locations between Sevok and Rangpo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-in-north-sikkim-hamper-army-movement-near-indo-china-border/story-bsYAPm86qI2mTirOGjEYsN.html
29-06-2020||India||LAC standoff: India increases surveillance in Indian Ocean region to track Chinese activities||The Navy has increased its surveillance missions and beefed up operational deployment in the Indian Ocean region in the wake of India’s seven-week bitter border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. The Indian Navy is also ramping up its operational cooperation with various friendly naval forces like the US Navy and Japan Maritime Self Defense Force in view of the fast evolving regional security landscape, they said. On Saturday, the Indian Navy held a crucial exercise with Japanese Navy in the Indian Ocean region, an area where Chinese naval vessels and submarines are making frequent forays, they said. Indian Navy ships INS Rana and INS Kulish were part of the exercise while Japan Maritime Self Defense Forces deployed its two ships, JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki, for the exercise. The exercise assumed significance as it took place amid India’s border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and Chinese Navy’s aggressive posturing in South China Sea as well as in the Indo-Pacific region. “The aim of the exercise was to enhance interoperability between the two navies,” said a source. Navies from the US, India, Australia, Japan and France have been deepening their mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region in view of China’s growing attempts to expand military influence in the resource-rich region. Following an escalation in tension between India and China in eastern Ladakh after the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers on June 15, the government put all the three forces on alert. The Indian Navy was asked to raise its alert level in the Indian Ocean Region where Chinese Navy has been making regular forays. The people cited above said Indian Navy has increased its surveillance missions and enhanced operational deployment in the Indian Ocean region in the last couple of weeks. “We are increasing surveillance to track Chinese activities in Indian Ocean region,” said a military expert. The Galwan Valley incident on June 15 was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. India and Japan are part of the influential “Quad” or Quadrilateral coalition which also comprises the United States and Australia. In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending “Quad” coalition to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China’s growing clout in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-standoff-indian-navy-increases-surveillance-in-indian-ocean-region-to-track-chinese-activities/story-VVspC7KvqRUrc1jGPSn2sI.html
29-06-2020||India||Bengal govt starts ‘Covid-19 Warrior Club’ comprising recovered patients in bid to contain pandemic||West Bengal has formed a unique “Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Warrior Club”, which comprises patients who have recovered from the viral infection, and will be deployed in various dedicated hospitals treating those suffering from Sars-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and help the state government in its bid to contain the pandemic. “The unique initiative, perhaps, the first in the country, is on display at Berhampore in Murshidabad district, where out of the 170 recovered Covid-19 patients, 60 have agreed to join the club. Ten each will serve in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Murshidabad and Malda districts and the rest 40 in various healthcare facilities in Kolkata,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal.Similar clubs will be formed in all the 22 districts across the state. The Bengal government will pay them an honorarium and also provide for their accommodation.Over 11,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the viral infection in Bengal and the state authorities are trying to enlist their help.“They have fought against Covid-19 and have seen the viral disease from close quarters. We will need their help to treat other patients, who are undergoing treatment. They can give mental support to the patients and do other work in Covid-19 hospitals,” Banerjee added.The state government has also written to the Centre and the Union Ministry of Railways to ensure that trains from the five states, which have reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases, are barred from entering Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-starts-covid-19-warrior-club-comprising-recovered-patients-in-bid-to-contain-pandemic/story-7hW3YebgybWO0A2nn4BgjP.html
29-06-2020||India||Mumbai witnesses traffic snarls at busy intersections despite strict checking||Mumbai: The city reported traffic snarls at various busy intersections on Monday morning and afternoon, despite the impounding of around 7,000 vehicles a day before because of the violations of the restrictions for lockdown 5:0, which ends on Tuesday, and has been extended till July 31 in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Western and Eastern Express highways, arterial roads leading to the city from Vashi, Navi Mumbai; central and south Mumbai, and other main roads in western and eastern suburbs reported traffic snarls. Motorists and the police attributed the traffic jams to nakabandis put up on main roads in a bid to prevent the violation of lockdown restrictions by the public.“We are checking vehicles across the city and impounding those that are out on the roads without any valid reason or documents,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police, (Traffic), Mumbai Police.“People are taking advantage of the easing of lockdown restrictions and there could be a surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Our drive has been intensified and stricter restrictions on movements have been enforced across Mumbai,” said a senior police officer.Mumbai Traffic police authorities have put up nakabandis at over 180 places in the city in a bid to keep a strict vigil on motorists, who are roaming the streets without any valid reason.Nakabandis were carried out at Kandivali SV road, Dahisar toll naka, Samta Nagar, Kora Kendra bridge, Malad Marve Road, and Magathane, which led to traffic snarls in western and northern suburbs.All 94 police stations under the jurisdictions of Mumbai Police have been asked to carry out nakabandis at two major junctions in their respective areas.Mahendra Nerlekar, a senior inspector from Jogeshwari police station, said, “At least 50 cars and 150 two-wheelers have been impounded over the past two years, as the motorists were found to be wandering aimlessly. Some claimed that they hit the streets because they thought the lockdown restrictions were over. People are riding pillion on a two-wheeler even though it is banned.”The violators are giving bogus reasons to evade police action.“They have been coming up with all kinds of excuses such as going to work, delivering food to a relative admitted at a hospital, attending a court hearing, etc. However, almost all of them have failed to show valid documents to substantiate their claims,” Nerlekar added.Many motorists complained that they were harrassed by the police personnel for alleged violation of lockdown restrictions.Many videos of Monday’s traffic snarls went viral on social media. While #MumbaiTraffic also trended on Twitter.On Sunday, the Mumbai Police had appealed to all Mumbaikars to comply with lockdown restrictions and urged them not to move beyond a two-kilometre (km) radius of their homes for any work. They have also been instructed to restrict their outdoor movements only for essential activities. Mumbai Police is likely to deploy additional personnel for stricter implementation of lockdown restrictions and a spike of Covid-19 positive cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-witnesses-traffic-snarls-at-busy-intersections-despite-strict-checking/story-n36PFH6FqsLr9MUlnpw2bO.html
29-06-2020||India||Demanding a rollback, Sonia Gandhi accuses Centre of extorting people by hiking fuel prices||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of extorting the common people by raising fuel prices 22 times since the coronavirus-induced lockdown.In her video message while participating in the ‘Speak Up Against Fuel Hike’ campaign as part of the party’s nationwide agitation against the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices, she said it directly hurts the country’s farmers, the poor, the working class, the middle class and the small businesses.Demanding an immediate rollback of the fuel rates, the Congress chief also accused the government of profiteering at the expense of the common people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profit out of their hard-earned money.Watch l Fuel price hikes: Govt extorting people says Sonia Gandhi, demands rollback On the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic was wreaking havoc and on the other, the rise in petrol and diesel prices was making life very difficult for the people, she added.While Congress leaders such as KC Venugopal and Manicka Tagore were seen riding cycles to Parliament, Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV pulled a bullock cart to protest the fuel hikes. The agitation will continue for a week.Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and hundreds of Congress leaders and workers also participated in the campaign on social media, urging the people to join the party in putting pressure on the government to reduce fuel prices.“I, along with all Congressmen and others together, demand from the Modi government to immediately roll back the increase in prices of petrol and diesel raised during this crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic,” the Congress president said.“I also urge them to roll back the rise in excise duty on petrol and diesel since March this year and give this benefit to the countrymen. This will be a big relief in this period of economic crisis,” she added.Sonia Gandhi said the hike on its own was living proof of taking the hard-earned incomes of the people and filling the government’s coffers.“The government’s duty is to support the countrymen in difficult times and not take advantage of their plight and profiteer. It has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjustified increase in petrol and diesel prices. This is not only unjust but also insensitive,” she added.“The Modi government has made provisions for collecting lakhs of crores by raising excise duty on petrol and diesel in the last three months. All this is happening at a time when international crude oil prices are continuously falling.”Since 2014, Sonia Gandhi said instead of giving relief of the falling international crude oil prices to the people, the Modi government has raised the excise duty 12 times, which helped it collect additional revenue of nearly Rs 18 lakh crore.In his video message, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to stop profiteering from the fuel hikes. “The affect of rise in diesel and petrol prices are two-fold. One is that you pay directly and the other indirectly due to rise in prices of consumer products, including essential items,” he added.On one hand the government had written off loans of big people and on the other it was trying to profit from fuel prices, putting extra burden on the poor and the farmer, the former Congress president said.“The country is reeling under an economic tsunami due to the coronavirus pandemic and everyone, including the rich and the poor, had been affected. We had urged the government to implement NYAY (Nyuntam Aay Yojana) to help the poor, but it didn’t listen,” he said.Countering the charges, union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the money collected was used for welfare measures and not for personal benefits as had allegedly happened during the Congress rule.“I once again reiterate to Madam Sonia Gandhi ji that Modi ji has transferred more than Rs 65,000 crore to 42 crore people in the last 3 months,” he said.“Unlike Congress’ legacy of transferring money into the accounts of middlemen, ‘National Daamad’, ‘The Family’ and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Modi ji’s DBT is about putting money in the hands of the poor, farmers, migrant workforce and women,” alleged Pradhan.He also endorsed BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks, asking the Congress to explain the hike in fuel taxes in party-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demanding-a-rollback-sonia-gandhi-accuses-centre-of-extorting-people-by-hiking-fuel-prices/story-fmStmMHBYovykN3eGlR5ZM.html
29-06-2020||India||Telangana HC clears construction of KCR govt’s new secretariat complex||The Telangana High Court on Monday cleared the decks for the construction of an ultramodern secretariat complex by the state government by demolishing the existing buildings on the banks of Hussain Sagar lake in Hyderabad.The high court, which had heard a batch of public interest litigation (PIL) petitions filed by various groups including opposition parties, NGOs and environmentalists over the last four years, dismissed all of them and gave the green signal for the demolition of the existing secretariat buildings complex.The government of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had taken the decision in 2016 when it proposed to build the new secretariat in a defence land in Secunderabad. But the Centre did not give consent. So, after three years in 2019, the cabinet took a fresh decision to construct a new complex in the existing premises itself by demolishing the present buildings.A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Raghvender Singh Chauhan and justice Abhishek Reddy refused to interfere in the decision taken by the K Chandrasekhar Rao cabinet on June 18, 2019. “We do not find any irregularity in the cabinet decision to demolish the secretariat,” the bench observed.The bench dismissed the petitions filed separately in 2016 by Congress MLA T Jeevan Reddy, advocate T Rajinikanth Reddy and Forum for Good Governance secretary M Padmanabha Reddy, and also those of Congress MP A Revanth Reddy and Prof PL Vishweshwar Rao filed in 2019, challenging the impending demolition of Secretariat buildings.The court also refused to entertain the plea of one of the petitions for a four-month stay on its order so as to enable him to challenge it in the Supreme Court. It said the petitioner could approach the Supreme Court straightaway as it was hearing urgent cases through video conferencing.The high court on February 12 this year directed the state government not to go ahead with the demolition of the existing secretariat buildings until further orders of the court. After concluding the arguments on March 6, the high court reserved its judgment in the case.In its cabinet meeting held on June 18 last year, the chief minister proposed to raze the existing secretariat complex and construct a new spacious official complex at a cost of Rs 300-400 crore.The cabinet also proposed to construct a modern, state-of-the-art state legislature complex by dismantling the 150-year old heritage structure Errum Manzil near Khairatabad. KCR laid foundation stones for both the assembly as well as Secretariat on June 27 last year.However, the high court in September 2019, struck down the cabinet decision on demolition of Errum Manzil building. The high court found fault with the KCR government for excluding Errum Manzil from the list of heritage structures under the Telangana Heritage (Protection, Preservation, Conservation and Maintenance) Act of 2017, so that it could be demolished for constructing an assembly complex.The high court observed that protection of the heritage is as equally important as preparing plans for the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-clears-construction-of-kcr-govt-s-new-secretariat-complex/story-v9vfaKtgc9TRU8nH6LeaYO.html
29-06-2020||India||Cow’s jaw damaged after eating explosives wrapped food in Andhra’s Chittoor||A cow’s jaw was badly injured after it ate a ball of explosive material wrapped in edible substance in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor.The incident comes close on the heels of the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad district after it ate a pineapple filled with firecrackers.According to the police, the incident took place at Kogileru village of Peda Panjani block on Saturday evening. “A cow belonging to the local goshala (cowshed), which was being grazed in the nearby forest area, ate a ball of explosive material wrapped in some edible substance accidentally. And it exploded in the cow’s mouth,” Peda Panjani police inspector Chitreddy Lokesh Reddy told Hindustan Times.Due to the impact of the explosion, the lower jaw of the cow got ripped off. On hearing the loud noise, local cattle grazers rushed there and moved the cow to the goshala, where it was given first aid.“On Sunday, we shifted the cow to government veterinary hospital in Tirupati, where a surgery would be performed on Monday evening,” the inspector said.Arjun Reddy, caretaker of “Gow-Matha Peetham,” said the injured cow was in a very bad condition, as its lower jaw had completely come off. “We are not sure whether we can restore the jaw back to its normal position through surgery. As of now, the cow is alive and is surviving on intravenous fluids. We don’t know whether it will come back to the position of eating grass again,” he said.Preliminary investigations revealed that the explosive, made of sulphur and other material, covered in an edible substance, was placed by some hunters to trap wild boars. “We have identified a few suspected hunters of the nearby villages and are questioning them,” Lokesh Reddy said.The police filed cases under Sections 286 (Negligent conduct in using explosives) and 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of Indian Penal Code, Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960 and Section 9 (B)(1) of the Explosives Act.Arjun Reddy said there were in all 17 cows in his shed. “They all belong to the popular Punganur breed of Chittoor, known for their rich nutritious milk. We have been protecting these animals with a lot of reverence and care,” he said.He said generally, these cows were taken to the nearby forests for grazing as the area was known for medicinal plants. “The explosive was covered with wheat flour or other bakery stuff like ajinomoto that smells nice to attract animals,” the goshala caretaker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-s-jaw-damaged-after-eating-explosives-wrapped-food-in-andhra-s-chittoor/story-dBQbteA5yL3VKb5wWN4OnO.html
29-06-2020||India||77 new Covid-19 cases found in Maharashtra Police in 48 hours, 2 cops die||Two policemen succumbed to the infectious Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in the Maharashtra Police to 59, an official statement from the force said on Monday.With 77 new coronavirus infections found in the force in the last 24 hours, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra Police has risen to 4,743 and is inching closer to the 5,000-mark.The total number of active coronavirus cases in Maharashtra Police now stands at 1,030.On Sunday, 150 new coronavirus infections were detected in the force over the last two days.Earlier this week, on Thursday, three more Maharashtra Police personnel had died of the infectious disease.Till date, nearly 3,500 police personnel have been cured and discharged and another 1000-odd more security personnel are undergoing treatment for the pathogen.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Saturday that bravery awards will be given to policemen working in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19, during a visit to Solapur district.The minister was reviewing the law and order situation in the district in view of the Ashadhi Ekadashi celebrations next week.“The Maharashtra Police have done a good job working in the frontline. They will be given bravery awards for their work,” Deshmukh, who was accompanied by state health minister Rajesh Tope, said.Deshmukh also indicated that families of police personnel dying of the deadly pathogen will get Rs 65 lakh assistance and they can stay in their official quarters till the deceased’s date of retirement in the normal course.He said there are dedicated Covid Care hospitals in each district for police personnel.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will also conduct antigen tests, which give results in an hour, giving priority to frontline Covid-19 workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/77-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-maharashtra-police-in-48-hours-2-cops-die/story-NZ6S6sHmmRuhgegAE9LgFI.html
29-06-2020||India||Telangana, TN may follow Maharashtra in extending lockdown to stop Covid-19||A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state will not be lifted after June 30, the government on Monday announced the extension of the lockdown till July 31.Maharashtra remains India’s worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with over 1.64 lakh cases out of the country’s tally of 5.48 lakh. Maharashtra became the latest state to extend the lockdown to curb a surge in Covid-19 cases.West Bengal and Jharkhand had already extended the lockdown till July 31.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also asked the Centre to stop international repatriation flights as well as domestic flights to Kolkata from states with a high Covid-19 infection rate till July 31. Bengal has recorded over 17,000 cases so far.Tamil Nadu has chosen to enforce the lockdown selectively in a few Covid-19 hotspots.Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is expected to take a decision on extending the lockdown in Tamil nadu after holding discussions with experts from the medical field on Monday. The state’s Covid-19 tally stands at over 82,000.In Assam, the government imposed a total lockdown in Kamrup (Metro) district which includes Guwahati for 14 days from June 28 following a sharp rise in the number of infections that have taken the tally past 7,000. In Delhi, where chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had ruled out another lockdown, the government has declared that schools in will remain closed till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 situation while online classes and activities shall continue. The number of Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital has increased by 141 to 421 over the weekend after a re-mapping of such areas. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has crossed 83,000.In Telangana where the number of Covid-19 cases is over 14,000, the government is planning to reimpose lockdown in Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation limits for at least 15 days. On June 26, many shopkeepers associations in Hyderabad announced a voluntary lockdown for a period ranging from seven to 10 days as a precautionary measure against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-tn-may-follow-maharashtra-in-extending-lockdown-to-stop-covid-19/story-fl1qImwcn0JsIRKN2TJz6L.html
29-06-2020||India||Parts of northeast India receive extremely heavy rains, says IMD||Many parts of northeast India such as Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Bihar and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have reported incessant rains – measuring above 20 centimetres (cm) in a day – since last Friday, triggering floods.“Assam is reporting floods. Bihar is also in a flood-like situation. Cherrapunji, which is known to receive a lot of rainfall around this time of the year, has recorded up to 55 cm in a day. This pattern of continuous heavy rains will gradually reduce from Tuesday. While from Thursday, torrential rains will increase in central India and over the north-west parts of the country from next Sunday, ” said Dr. Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).The eastern-end of the monsoon trough continues to run along the Himalayan foothills with the convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and eastern India. This is likely to cause widespread and very heavy rain in many parts of north-east India in the next four-five days. There may be extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 cm in a day, in the next 24 hours, according to IMD.Heavy rains are expected in Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. Widespread rainfall is also expected over Madhya Pradesh for the next five days and over Chhattisgarh and the Vidarbha region on Monday and Tuesday.There will be widespread rains in the west coast also this week, IMD said in its bulletin.However, rains will be subdued over north-west India and the western Himalayas.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has warned of an above-normal flood-like situation in Dharamtul, Brahmaputra, Dhubri, Goalpara and other parts of flood-prone Assam.A severe flood-like situation is also likely in Assam’s Kopili and Kamrup.The restoration operations at Baghjan gas well in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, which reported a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas and oil – on May 27 and later caught fire on June 9,were hampered last week for at least three days because of inundation of low-lying areas, while the well continues to leak gas and oil condensate, according to an Oil India Limited (OIL) spokesperson. The well is set to resume its operations gradually.From June 1 to 28, Sikkim and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have received 56% rainfall, Bihar received 92% of excess rains, and Assam and Meghalaya received an excess of 34% of rains.Monsoon this time covered the entire country on June 26 – a good 12 days in advance.Usually, monsoon covers the country by July 8. But from last Friday an intense monsoon phase in the north-east and eastern India started.Monsoon rains in the country are 20% excess of the long-period average (LPA) as of Sunday -- 36% excess over central India; 8% excess over north-west India; 4% excess over southern peninsula and 20% excess over eastern and north-east India.LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1961 and 2010, which is 88.06 cm.IMD has predicted a normal monsoon this year at 102% of LPA.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector on which at least 700 million people are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-north-east-india-receive-extremely-heavy-rains-says-imd/story-tqM4r16uENwdHnvdjaMnpK.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs; monthly quota fixed at 5 million unitsThe Central government on Monday allowed the export of five million personal protective (PPE) equipment coveralls per month after a ban since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreMaharashtra extends lockdown till July 31 amid spike in Covid-19 casesThe Maharashtra government on Monday extended the coronavirus lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases. Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. Read moreSajid Mir, LeT’s project manager for Mumbai attacks, plotted terror in 3 continentsSajid Mir had ties to al Qaeda in Afghanistan and had direct access to Lashkar’s military chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the powerful terrorist who continues to be shielded by Pakistani authorities. Read moreMany Indians, families of diplomats not allowed on special flight to ChinaAfter the two Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19, Chinese authorities gave permission only for an empty flight from India to land in the southern city of Guangzhou to repatriate Indians. Read more‘If banned from IPL, why shouldn’t I play other T20 leagues,’ asks veteran Indian spinnerDue to his participation in the Abu Dhabi T10 League, Tambe, who was acquired by KKR at last year’s auction, was barred from playing the IPL this year. Read moreGmail users on Windows 10 Mail app facing some serious issuesWindows 10’s Mail app is causing some Gmail users to lose their sent emails completely or moved to the spam folder. Read moreUpdated Audi Q5 revealed with sharper looks and world’s first OLED rear lightsThe new Audi Q5 is scheduled for an India launch in 2021 and boasts of significant changes to its visual profile and packs even more comfort and convenience features on the inside. Read moreMughal-e-Azam to Ram-Leela: Fashion goals that Bollywood has given us through the yearsCharacters on the big screen have inspired countless generations of fashion, be it through period dramas like Mughal-e-Azam, Devdas, Jodha Akbar or through modern sagas like Jab We Met, Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara, Veere Di Wedding. Read moreThis man’s Hasan Minhaj impression is extremely on point. Watch him explain the ‘pizza problem’An admirer and skilled impersonator is mimicking Minhaj to tell everyone about his ‘pizza problem’. This video was posted on Facebook on June 25 from actor, writer, and filmmaker Saiyam Kumar’s account. Read moreWatch: Sikh community in US hosts drive-thru food distribution for needyGuru Nanak Foundation of America has been organising the ‘Langar Seva’. A group of 25 volunteers have distributed over 2100 food packages. Watch the full video for more. Watch it here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nEtwwgWFaIRyjiaHYj1JXM.html
29-06-2020||India||Arrival of Rafale jets will send a clear message to India’s ‘adversaries’: Officials||India is likely to receive by July 27 the first batch of six Rafale fighter jets which are expected to significantly boost the combat capability of the Indian Air Force, people familiar with the development said. The IAF has been on a high alert for the last two weeks in view of escalation in tension with China following clashes between troops of the two countries in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The two armies are locked in a bitter standoff in the region for seven weeks. On June 2, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a telephonic conversation with his French counterpart Florence Parly during which she conveyed that the Rafale jets will be delivered to India as scheduled notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in France. Military officials, on the condition of anonymity, said the arrival of the Rafale jets will significantly enhance the IAF’s overall combat capability and will send a clear message to India’s “adversaries”. When asked about the matter, the IAF did not comment. The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA’s Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden Besides the missile systems, the Rafale jets will come with various India-specific modifications, including Israeli helmet-mounted displays, radar warning receivers, low-band jammers, 10-hour flight data recording, infra-red search and tracking systems among others The IAF has already completed preparations, including readying required infrastructure and training of pilots, to welcome the fighter aircraft. The second squadron of Rafale will be stationed at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The IAF spent around Rs 400 crore to develop infrastructure like shelters, hangars and maintenance facilities at the two bases Out of the 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. The Congress had raised questions on the deal, including on rates of the aircraft, and alleged corruption, but the government had rejected the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-will-send-a-clear-message-to-india-s-adversaries-officials/story-WlxO7aBx7pM1aVxtBxlsYI.html
29-06-2020||India||Maharashtra extends lockdown till July 31 amid spike in Covid-19 cases||The Maharashtra government on Monday extended the coronavirus lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases.Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. The essential services have been allowed across the state, while shops selling non-essential services are allowed with certain restrictions in red zones. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 15 and 10% of their workforce. Non-essential services and intra district public transportation has been allowed in non-red zones. It has also clarified that the permitted non-essential activities such as shopping and physical activities like jogging, running, cycling will be allowed only in the neighbourhood areas only. The relaxation given to travel is only to attend the offices in a prescribed number of employees and with the due precautions of social distancing and lockdown.Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with a tally of almost 1.6 lakh out of which more than 74,000 cases are in Mumbai. Ten major cities, including Mumbai, continue to be in red zones with strict restrictions in place. More than 7,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the state so far.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ruled out lifting the lockdown in the state as the risk of infection is not over. “There will be a spike in cases owing to relaxations in lockdown curbs,” the chief minister had warned.As part of its efforts to ease restrictions under fourth phase of its Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government on Sunday allowed barbershops, salons and beauty parlours to reopen after more than three months of shutdown.West Bengal is another state where chief minister Mamata Banerjee has extended the lockdown till July 31 to contain the spread of Covid-19. In Assam, the government imposed a total lockdown in Guwahati for 14 days from June 28 in view of the rising coronavirus cases.After four stints of nationwide lockdown, the Centre said lockdown will be in place only in containment zones till June 30 and began opening the economy in a three-phased plan called Unlock 1.Delhi, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have also recorded huge spikes in the coronavirus cases, putting enormous strain on the states’ facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-in-state-till-july-31-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-hXA8Whnpz3yfVp5XTUpBcK.html
29-06-2020||India||Madras HC clears decks for CBI probe into alleged custodial deaths in Tuticorin||The Madras High Court on Monday cleared the decks for a CBI probe into the custodial death case of a father-son duo in Tuticorin.The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court said it did not have any objection and will not interfere with the decision of the state government, ANI reported.On Sunday, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had said that the Tamil Nadu government had decided to transfer to CBI the probe into the death of the two men in Tuticorin and that the government was awaiting the High Court’s approval.The death of the two men on June 23 allegedly due to police torture had sparked an outrage.The two men, Jayaraj and his son Fennix, who were arrested for allegedly violating lockdown norms on business hours of their mobile phone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23. Relatives alleged that policemen had severely beaten them at the Sathankulam police station. Meanwhile, another case of death allegedly due to police torture has surfaced following the death of an autorickshaw driver in Tirunelveli Saturday night even before the outrage over the Tuticorin deaths ebbed.According to media reports, the family of the victim alleged that he died of internal injuries and haemorrhage resulting from being kicked and punched by two policemen weeks earlier. A sub-inspector and a constable have reportedly been suspended following a complaint by the victim’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-clears-decks-for-cbi-probe-into-alleged-custodial-deaths-in-tuticorin/story-ZMgffVeoAMgi4WgI01MxdK.html
29-06-2020||India||To help her ailing mother get access to water, woman digs 15-feet well at home||At 24 years, Bobita Soren may be one-third the age of Dashrath Manjhi, famously known as the ‘Mountain Man’, but her feat is no less extraordinary.Manjhi, who died in 2007, had become famous for digging a road through a hillock using only a hammer and chisel in memory of his wife. Soren has dug a 15-feet well inside her house so that her 50-year-old ailing mother doesn’t have to walk to the villages’ water source about 200 metres away several times a day and stand in the queue for 30 minutes every time to fetch water.“My mother Nina Soren suffers from anemia and is very weak. Since I was a child I used to see her work very hard to fetch water. I used to feel very sad. She had to walk under the scorching sun and stand in the queue to bring water. I was trying to come up with a permanent solution. Suddenly, it struck me that I can dig a well,” said Soren, who has completed MA in Political Science and is pursuing B.Ed in Burdwan district.Even though she started digging the well in 2019-end when she had come home from her hostel, she had to leave it half done and return to her hostel soon. But lockdown gave her a unique opportunity. With the college and hostel closed, Soren returned home and gave her time to complete digging the well.“My father and brother tied the ropes tightly with the help of which I used go down every day and dig whenever I got time from household chores. This continued for the last two to three weeks, till I hit the water table. Sometimes my sister helped me to bring out the soil but she had her job to sustain,” she said.Soren, who usually does all the paper work of her family, had initially thought of contacting the village panchayat but then backed out as her family would not be able to bear the cost. Also because of the lockdown, labourers were not available and it would take time.Her father Hapna Soren works in a local factory, while her brother is a driver. Her elder sister works in a local garment shop. Her feat, however, hasn’t gone unnoticed. As the news spread, senior officials of the local administration rushed to her house on Sunday.“We were awestruck when we saw the well. We have assured that the administration will dig the rest and make it a 30-feet deep well so that they can get proper drinking water and make it a concrete one. We will also pay her the amount it takes to dig a well. Within this week she will get a laptop and we are also trying to give her a job,” said Tapas Banerjee, MLA and chairman of the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-help-her-ailing-mother-get-access-to-water-woman-digs-15-feet-well-at-home/story-9pKwMgtn0w3EOvu0uFmzxI.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha official due to join new govt job found dead at home||A newly-recruited official of the Odisha government was found dead in his house in Bhubaneswar on Sunday, a day before he was supposed to join his duties, police said on Monday.Officials said Abhilash Swaroop Mahapatra, a 35-year-old official in Odisha Finance Service cadre, was supposed to join duty at the treasury office on Monday. They said Mahapatra locked himself up in a room of his house on Sunday following a quarrel. When he did not open the door despite repeated calls, his wife called some of their neighbours.He was immediately rushed to Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, where doctors pronounced him dead.Mahapatra, a native of Titlagarh in Bolangir district, earlier worked with a bank and was recruited in the OFS cadre a few months ago.The OFS officer’s body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination and the last rites were performed in Puri’s Swargadwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-due-to-join-new-govt-job-found-dead-at-home/story-CNADSvvZrj9aFd41D9uVOO.html
29-06-2020||India||Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs; monthly quota fixed at 5 million units||The Central government on Monday allowed the export of five million personal protective (PPE) equipment coveralls per month after a ban since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DFGT) in its order stated that “PPE coveralls for Covid-19 export are now restricted for export. A monthly quota of five million has been fixed for issuance of export licences to eligible applicants to export medical coveralls.”However, masks, medical goggles; nitrile rubber, or NBR, gloves; and face shields remain prohibited for export in accordance with the DGFT order issued on June 22.Also read| Delhi to get plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients: CM Arvind KejriwalHT had reported that the Centre was considering the export for the medical overalls since the industry had reached surplus production levels. But, the government officials had also said that there would be a quantitative ban on the export of the PPE items to ensure that the country doesn’t suffer from any shortage of it.India was producing one crore PPE units per month as per the Central government’s specifications to fight the viral outbreak.The Central government had placed an order for 2.2 crore PPE units in March to meet the demand for healthcare workers. Earlier, the government had also faced severe criticism for not being able to provide enough coveralls for frontline workers battling the pandemic.“It’s a very encouraging move by the government, as the country seeks to capture the global market,” said Dr. Sundamram, chairman, Indian Technical Textile Association (ITTA).However, not all are convinced that the move is comparable to the losses that the industry has faced due to the pandemic.Also read: 196 people dying of Covid-19 every hour, one every 18 sec; global toll tops 5 lakh“The quantum of export is low,” said a member of one of the textile associations, requesting anonymity.“Existing PPE exporters stand to gain, as the new entrants will struggle for certifications for at least the next five months,” he said while comparing the gains made by the quantum of exports like a “drop in the ocean”.“There has been a drastic fall in garment sales. The export of PPE units won’t be able to offset the mounting losses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppes-monthly-quota-fixed-at-50-mn-units/story-Hns2SIrADV5YfKJVp7hJpO.html
29-06-2020||India||Many Indians, families of diplomats not allowed on special flight to China||China did not allow several Indians, including families of diplomats, from taking a special Air India flight from New Delhi to Guangzhou city early on Monday because two Indians had tested positive for Covid-19 on a Shanghai-bound special flight that landed on June 21.After the two Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19, Chinese authorities gave permission only for an empty flight from India to land in the southern city of Guangzhou to repatriate Indians. The special plane from India took off from Guangzhou this afternoon with 86 Indians under the third phase of the “Vande Bharat Mission”, the repatriation scheme for the country’s citizens stranded abroad.The June 21 Shanghai flight was also part of the repatriation mission on which 186 Indians returned.China’s decision not to allow Indians even on special airlifts and with diplomatic passports is an indication that commercial flights between the two countries are unlikely to resume any time soon. Hindustan Times had reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry for a clarification on the decision not to allow families of Indian diplomats to take the flight to China. HT had also asked if the decision was linked to the ongoing border tension.The foreign ministry responded without referring to the ongoing border problem.“Recently, we have assisted in arranging the return of some Indian diplomats and their families to China,’’ the Chinese foreign ministry said in a written statement in Mandarin today.“In view of the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 on the temporary flight, China and India agreed in advance that the temporary flight arriving in Guangzhou on June 29 would not carry passengers,” the ministry statement added.More than 100 Indians, including diplomats’ families and officials of a multilateral bank, were on the June 21 flight.The Shanghai health commission (SHC) confirmed the cases of three foreigners – one from the US and two Indians on that flight.“Cases 2 and 3 are of Indian nationality and live in India. They departed from India on June 20 and arrived at Shanghai Pudong International Airport that day. After entering the customs, they were intensively isolated and observed. Symptoms occurred during the period. Comprehensive epidemiological history, clinical symptoms, laboratory tests and imaging findings, etc, were diagnosed as confirmed cases,” the SHC said in statement.“Three imported confirmed cases have been transferred to designated medical institutions for treatment, and 47 close contacts with the flight have been tracked, and all have been implemented for centralised isolation and observation,” the statement added.While China has seemingly controlled the Covid-19 outbreak – barring the burst of more than 300 domestically transmitted cases in Beijing this month – it has reported nearly 2000 “imported” cases of the disease.“The Chinese mainland reported five new imported Covid-19 cases Sunday, bringing the total number of imported cases to 1,907,” the national health commission (NHC) said Monday.The confirmed cases have mostly been diagnosed among Chinese nationals returning to the country from abroad.China suspended the entry of foreign nationals holding normal visas or residence permits from March 28 because of the spreading pandemic.Entry of persons with diplomatic visas were not affected except for the fact they could only return on special or chartered flights.In February, India had evacuated hundreds of its citizens from the worst-hit Hubei province in central China, and the first pandemic epicentre, Wuhan city, the provincial capital in two special flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-indians-families-of-diplomats-not-allowed-on-special-flight-to-china/story-HgXQFzjSfZeEMqJ7vJehVK.html
29-06-2020||India||26/11 planner Sajid Mir, protected by Imran Khan govt, plotted terror in 3 continents||Sajid Mir, the top Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist who joined the terror group after a career in Pakistan army that required him to train terrorists, expanded the terror group’s reach across at least three continents, plotting terror attacks in Australia, Virginia in the United States and France. In 2008, the top Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist whose name had figured in interrogation reports of Frenchman Willie Brigitte five years earlier, plotted and oversaw execution of the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed over 160 people.Brigittee had been one of Sajid Mir’s early discoveries in 2001 when he was handling the Lashkar’s overseas operatives.Willie Brigittee was arrested along with Faheem Khalid Lodhi, a Pakistan-born architect in October 2003 before they could execute a planned bombing in a joint operation by French and Australian intelligence operatives.Brigitte spoke in much detail about Sajid Mir who coordinated with foreign recruits at the Lashkar headquarters located on the outskirts of Lahore in Muridke. Sajid Mir had ties to al Qaeda in Afghanistan and had direct access to Lashkar’s military chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the powerful terrorist who continues to be shielded by Pakistani authorities.Sajid Mir has lately been associated with Lashkar’s recruitment activities, a responsibility that he has held since at least 2001. He has also served as an aide to Lakhvi and at one point, was also directly responsible for his security.Sajid Mir, officials said, had passed himself off as a cricket fan to enter India in April 2005, and conducted reconnaissance of the Indian Military Academy at Dehradun and the National Defence College.But it was only much later that US intelligence agencies figured the crucial role that the 44-year-old played in the Lashkar’s operations. Mir was directly responsible for the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and was the one who ordered the terrorists to take the head shot at a Holtzberg couple at Chabad House in Mumbai during the massacre.But it was only after American national David Coleman Headley was caught in 2009 that intelligence agencies got a clearer picture of the man. In 2012, the US announced a $ 5 million reward (Rs 37 crore) on Sajid Mir. The reward has gone unclaimed, not because Sajid Mir is on the run but because of the ISI protection that he has been given in Pakistan.Over the last week, the Donald Trump administration also acknowledged the special treatment by Pakistan deep state extended to the Lashkar terrorist who was described as the ‘project manager’ of the Mumbai attacks. In its country report for Pakistan, the US State Department noted that Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and Sajid Mir “are widely believed to reside in Pakistan under the protection of the state, despite government denials”.Also Read: Lashkar’s Sajid Mir, Jaish’s Masood Azhar enjoys ‘state protection’ in PakistanIndian security officials say Sajid Mir has the level 7 security in Pakistan, the security that ISI extends to visiting heads of state.But the Mumbai terror attacks that had been planned for years wasn’t the only one that Sajid Mir had been working on.According to the FBI, Mir is also alleged to have conspired to commit a terrorist attack against a newspaper and its employees in Denmark between 2008 and 2009. Mir was indicted in the United States District Court, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, Chicago, Illinois, on April 21, 2011, and was charged with conspiracy to injure property of foreign government; providing material support to terrorists; killing a citizen outside of the U.S. and aiding and abetting; and bombing of places of public use. An arrest warrant has been pending since 22 April 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sajid-mir-let-s-project-manager-for-mumbai-attacks-plotted-terror-in-3-continents/story-xHyHUNtWUVQAjZOGSiMwVM.html
29-06-2020||India||Kerala SIT probing Shamna Kasim extortion case summons actor Dharmajan||Malayalam actor Dharmajan, known for his comic roles, has been summoned by the Kerala police to record his statement in the extortion case in which actor Shamna Kasim was targeted, a police official said.Police summoned Dharmajan after they came to know that one of the accused in the extortion case, hair stylist P Haris was close to him.So far 18 women have complained about extortion and blackmailing after Shamna Kasim’s father filed a complaint last week, police said. In her complaint, her father had alleged that the extortionists were threatening to release some video clips if they were not paid.Shamna is expected to reach Kochi this evening and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) will record her statement through video conferencing.Police sources said more actors will be summoned for questioning. Eight people have been arrested so far and the SIT has registered nine FIRs.On Saturday, the SIT arrested the main accused Mohammad Sharief from Palakkad.Four other models had also filed separate cases against the accused for extortion, blackmail and criminal intimidation.Police said suspect the accused are members of a thriving gold smuggling and sex racket based in Kochi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sit-probing-shamna-kasim-extortion-case-summons-actor-dharmajan/story-5qZoR2aua3iuQBONKhSvdL.html
29-06-2020||India||Lost and found: Snake species endemic to Assam rediscovered after 129 years||A team from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has rediscovered a species of a snake in Assam considered extinct after a gap of 129 years since it was first seen.The species ‘Hebius pealii’, called Assam Keelback, was first seen in 1891 when a British tea-planter Samuel Edward Peal collected two male specimens from Sibsagar district in Assam.One of them was kept at the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) in Kolkata and the other in London’s Natural History Museum (NHM). The snake was never seen after that and was believed by some to be extinct. It was accidentally found in a reserve forest, 118km from the place where it was first collected, on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border in September 2018 when a team from WII was retracing steps of the Abor Expedition, a military expedition by the British against Abors in 1911.The find was published on June 26 in Vertebrate Zoology, an international journal published from Germany.“To commemorate the Abor Expedition, which besides being a military campaign had resulted in the collection of a large number of animals and plants, we revisited the area to find out the changes that had occurred in a century,” Abhijit Das, a scientist in endangered species management department of WII, said.“Since the British started their expedition from Dibrugarh in Assam from a place near Poba reserve forest on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border, we also began there. It was in a marshy wetland inside the forest, where I encountered this snake endemic to Assam and not seen for the last 129 years. It was totally unexpected as people had thought it to be extinct,” he added.Das, an expert on snakes of Assam and northeast India, caught the snake, an adult female which is bi-coloured—dark brown above and pale mid-ventrally. To confirm the species, the WII team had to get details from NHM, London as the specimen at ZSI had got damaged.“We got data from London and also did DNA profiling to establish that the specimen found in Poba reserve forest is Assam Keelback. We were lucky that the specimen in London was intact or else it would have been difficult to identify the snake,” said Das.“Now we know what kind of habitat this snake, which measures around 50-60cm and is non-venomous, resides in. We need to look for more members of this species in those areas and also undertake special efforts to protect these micro-habitats, marshy wetland within evergreen forests” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-and-found-snake-species-endemic-to-assam-rediscovered-after-129-years/story-c6cbNeFlJk76kMwWApbLKM.html
29-06-2020||India||SC asks Centre whether visas of blacklisted Tablighi Jamaat foreigners cancelled||The Supreme Court on Monday sought information from the Centre whether visas of blacklisted foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat have been cancelled and separate orders issued against each of the 2,500 foreigners by the Union ministry of home affairs (HA) on April 2 and June 4.A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the Solicitor General to give a response by July 2.The top court said if visas are cancelled then why have these persons not been deported yet and allowed to be still here. Thirty-four foreigners belonging to 15 countries, who had attended a religious congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March, had approached the Supreme Court claiming that no individual orders were issued to them and a general direction issued to states directing blacklisting and registration of first information reports (FIRs). Their senior counsel CU Singh informed the court that FIRs were filed and their passports impounded. These foreigners had approached the Supreme Court challenging the decision of MHA to blacklist them without hearing them even once. The petitioners were aggrieved by the April 2 decision of MHA to blacklist 960 foreigners of 35 countries for participating in the Tablighi Jamaat activities. They were not allowed to travel to India for the next 10 years. Later on June 4, MHA further blacklisted 2,500 foreigners presently in India for their participation in Tablighi Jamaat event and directed director general of police of states and Union territories to register FIRs against them. The petitioners claimed that the order was passed without hearing them and restricts their rights under Article 21.They demanded MHA to remove them from the blacklist and reinstate their visas. They also demanded the court to facilitate their return to their respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-centre-whether-visas-of-blacklisted-tablighi-jamaat-foreigners-cancelled/story-OTIN9bPAqLFhBIyCAKfSaM.html
29-06-2020||India||France speeds up Rafale fighter jet deliveries on IAF’s ‘special request’||Acting on a “special request” by the Indian Air Force to speed up the deliveries of Rafale fighter jets, France is reworking the calendar for supplying the planes to India at a faster pace, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.India is currently in a stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector.Six Rafale fighter planes are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27 --- instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch --- as France steps up efforts to meet the IAF’s immediate requirements, said one of the persons cited above, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. An IAF spokesperson refused to confirm or deny the development.HighlightsThe twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence.It can carry more than nine tonnes of weapons on as many as 14 hard-points.The two Rafale squadrons will be based at Ambala in Haryana and Hasimara in West Bengal, covering the western and eastern fronts.The Indian fighters will be equipped with Meteor beyond-visual-range missiles built by European defence major MBDA Missile Systems.The Meteor’s no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles.India-specific enhancements on the jets include helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with enough storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the air force’s combat capabilities.“We are aware that around 10 Rafale jets are ready at aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility. Preparations are on to fly six Rafale jets to India in July-end with a stopover at Al Dhafra air base near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. The jets will be flown by Indian pilots,” said the second person cited above, also speaking on the condition of anonymity.All the 10 fighters are not being delivered in the first batch as some jets are needed in France to train IAF crews, he said.The French air force will refuel the Indian fighters using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra from where aerial refueling support is expected to be provided by the IAF’s Russian IL-78 refuellers, the second person said.Experts said accelerating the deliveries of Rafale jets was a significant development amid the ongoing border tensions with China.“It’s good that the Rafale delivery is being expedited as its operationalisation here would get advanced. Since we are in for the long haul on our northern borders, their availability with the IAF would add to its offensive potential,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Apart from the first batch, future deliveries of Rafale fighters are also being expedited, said the first person cited above.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year.The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, the IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters --- both imported from the United States --- in the region.The IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the PLA-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region with Chinese fighter jets regularly making a show of strength in the Aksai Chin area, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the bloodshed along the LAC in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers died in the line of duty. An unconfirmed number of Chinese troops were also killed in the Galwan Valley brawl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-speeds-up-rafale-fighter-jet-deliveries-on-iaf-s-special-request/story-d52eideBabhi6BG9Nhmu5J.html
29-06-2020||India||‘What is CM doing?: Stalin on autodriver’s death after alleged police assault||Close on the heels of the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin allegedly after being thrashed by police,an autorickshaw driver here died on Sunday, days after being allegedly assaulted by the men in uniform. The victim, Kumaresan, died at the Tirunelveli Government hospital on Saturday where he was admitted with injuries after being allegedly assaulted on June 12 and two police personnel have been booked in this connection, police said.They said the relatives of the auto driver, aged about 25 years, staged a road roko, demanding justice.Police, who were holding talks with the people of Veerakeralamputhur near Alangulam in this district, said cases had been filed against two police personnel, including an Assistant Sub Inspector.The deceased man had appeared at the local police station in connection with a dispute and soon after he was allegedly thrashed by the cops, the victim’s father had filed a complaint with the district police chief.DMK President M K Stalin slammed the incident, asking if Chief Minister K Palaniswami has “handed over” the state to the police.“..what is the chief minister doing,” he said on Twitter. Meanwhile, in an another incident, a construction worker from Ettayapuram in Tuticorin district committed suicide after being allegedly assaulted by police.His relatives held a road blockade and refused to accept the body.Authorities held talks with the family members and after a compensation was provided, the agitation was withdrawn. Earlier, in Tuticorin, a man and his son died at a government hospital after they were allegedly thrashed by police at the Sathankulam police station, before they were lodged to a sub-jail. P Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for ‘violating’ lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with their relatives alleging they were severely thrashed at Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier.The incident had triggered a national furore, leading to the suspension of five policemen, including an inspector and two sub-inspectors.Palaniswami announced on Sunday that the government will hand over the case to the CBI for probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-cm-doing-stalin-on-autodriver-s-death-after-alleged-police-assault/story-IiviCgMjh7nb5SJ7tV7hrJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Refusal by wife to wear sakha and sindoor signifies refusal to accept marriage: Gauhati HC||The Gauhati high court (HC) has observed that a Hindu married woman’s refusal to wear sakha – bangles made of conch-shell – and sindoor (vermillion), as per the marriage rituals and customs, signifies her refusal to accept her marriage to the husband, while granting her husband’s plea for divorce.A two-member of the HC, comprising Chief Justice Ajai Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia, said the woman’s steadfast refusal to wear sakha and sindoor – the trappings of a Hindu bride – denotes her unwillingness to be considered married to her husband. “Under such circumstances, compelling the husband to continue to be in matrimony with the wife may be construed to be harassment,” the HC held in its June 19 order.Earlier, a family court in Assam had rejected the husband’s plea for divorce on the grounds that the wife is not found to have inflicted any cruelty against the complainant.However, the HC observed that the husband had alleged before the lower court that the wife refused to wear sakha and sindoor, a contention that has not been disputed by her.The marriage between the couple was solemnised in February 2012.However, a month after the marriage, the wife wanted a separate accommodation for the couple, as she did not wish to live in a joint family.The husband alleged that their conjugal relationship worsened because of her demand to live like a nuclear family, which led to frequent quarrels and his wife also failed to conceive a child.She left her husband’s home in 2013 and filed a case against him and his family members under Section 498A (husband or his relative subjecting a married woman to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Though the husband and his relatives were acquitted in the case by HC, he filed a separate divorce plea, citing cruelty by his wife. She contested the plea alleging harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. She also alleged that she was denied food and medical treatment and it was left to her brother to take care of her basic necessities.But, the HC overturned the family court’s decision.“The allegation of subjecting the wife to cruelty was not sustained. Such acts of lodging criminal cases on unsubstantiated allegations against the husband and/or the husband’s family members amounts to cruelty,” the HC order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refusal-by-wife-to-wear-sakha-and-sindoor-signifies-refusal-to-accept-marriage-gauhati-hc/story-he1IqIL4beJo1EVxshAGBO.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Syed Ali Shah Geelani resigns as chairman of Hurriyat Conference and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Syed Ali Geelani, 90, resigns as head of Hurriyat ConferenceJammu and Kashmir-based separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, under house arrest since last August, resigned as chairman of Hurriyat Conference on Monday. Read more‘Price-gouging of India has to stop’: Shashi Tharoor on rising fuel ratesCalling it “ unconscionable”, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday launched a withering Twitter attack on the government over the relentless hike in fuel prices over the past 21 days. The Congress is holding mass protests across the country today over the “unprecedented” rise in petrol and diesel prices. Read moreCJI SA Bobde tries out a Harley Davidson, photos go viralPhotographs of SA Bobde, the Chief Justice of India, trying a Harley Davidson motorcycle in Maharashtra’s Nagpur are being shared repeatedly on social media. Justice Bobde was seen in a t-shirt and a pair of sneakers on the limited edition Harley Davidson CVO 2020 in his hometown of Nagpur on Sunday. Read morePrasanta Chandra Mahalanobis: Father of Indian statistics, founder of ISIPrasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. Read moreRahul Dravid asked Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly to not play 2007 T20 World Cup: Lalchand RajputThe 2007 T20 World Cup was a redefining moment for Indian cricket. A young team led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who was captaining the country for the first time, went on to beat arch-rivals Pakistan in the final to win the trophy. Read moreRatan Rajput says meeting Sushant Singh Rajput’s father gave her hope: ‘He’s different, his words give you energy’TV actor Ratan Rajput visited Sushant Singh Rajput’s family in Patna and has shared a video to thank his father for helping her become a stronger person. The actor called Sushant’s father “different” for how he has been holding himself during the time of grief and said that she will be pray that he continues to stay strong. Read morePUBG Mobile, Truecaller and others found snooping on your iPhone clipboard dataA couple of days ago a popular social media app called TikTok came in the headlines for its suspicious behaviour of snooping on the iPhone’s clipboard. While the company is yet to fix this, a couple of researchers have found additional 53 iOS apps that work in a similar fashion. Read moreMickey Mouse, Doraemon distribute books, food to children of Mumbai’s slum areasThe coronavirus pandemic may be testing the limits of human will and perseverance, bringing down our spirits and making the possibility of life returning to normal look like a distant dream. Read moreCan you identify the dangerous animal from this zoomed in image?“You must appreciate that Nature is the finest, biggest and most versatile artist,” this is how a tweet, which has now piqued people’s interest, starts. Shared on Twitter by Dr JK Soni, the tweet is of an image of a dangerous animal. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: Worldwide cases exceed 10 million; India, Brazil new epicenter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-syed-ali-shah-geelani-resigns-as-chairman-of-hurriyat-conference-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pm3SFVOfS7v9P0mw1UJGTN.html
29-06-2020||India||CJI SA Bobde tries out a Harley Davidson, photos go viral||Photographs of SA Bobde, the Chief Justice of India, trying a Harley Davidson motorcycle in Maharashtra’s Nagpur are being shared repeatedly on social media.Justice Bobde was seen in a t-shirt and a pair of sneakers on the limited edition Harley Davidson CVO 2020 in his hometown of Nagpur on Sunday.The Harley Davidson CVO 2020 is priced at more than Rs 51 lakh, features a nearly 2000cc V-Twin engine, weighs more than 400 kilograms.The 64-year-old Justice Bobde has often talked his love for motorcycles and said he once had a Bullet, which is manufactured by Royal Enfield.Justice Bobde had suffered a broken ankle after an accident while test driving a high-end Harley Davidson bike last year. The accident had kept him away from court duties as well as the Supreme Court Collegium meetings for some time. Reports said the Harley Davidson cruiser bike does not belong to CJI Bobde.Some users praised his “swag level” for living a life and called him a Knight Rider Our Chief Justice of India at the Supreme Court, Shri Arvind Bobde ji on his Harley Davidson!!😂Swag levels😎 pic.twitter.com/axZOzkpxMc "Never get so busy making a living that you forget to make a life" - Dolly PartonChief Justice of India - Sharad Aravind Bobde on weekends in Nagpur pic.twitter.com/bybx9AWEceSome also pointed out that the chief justice of India was not hearing a helmet and a mask during the coronavirus pandemic. No MaskNo helmet No insurance paid on bike No social distancing Of course he can do it, he is above law, he is the one who delivers it. Chief Justice of India 😭😭 pic.twitter.com/yphb5MMbFU Hon’ble Chief Justice of India on his bike but with a wrong message. WITHOUT A MASK. 😶 pic.twitter.com/tl3Gruqr8g||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-sa-bobde-tries-out-a-harley-davidson-photos-go-viral/story-o6bQXMAr2MgXB5gO0ppVeO.html
29-06-2020||India||Syed Ali Geelani, 90, resigns as head of Hurriyat Conference||Jammu and Kashmir-based separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, under house arrest since last August, resigned as chairman of Hurriyat Conference on Monday. He was chosen as lifetime chairman of the Hurriyat. In a letter, Geelani, 90, said there have been certain issues which forced him to resign.“After considering the present circumstances, I announce to quit the Hurriyat forum,” Geelani said in an audio message.Watch l SAS Geelani quits Hurriyat Conference, lashes out at cadre in his letter The leader referred to inaction by the Hurriyat members post the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, and the division of the erstwhile state into two Union territories.Geelani had been leading the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference while the moderate faction is helmed by cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/syed-ali-geelani-90-resigns-as-head-of-hurriyat-conference/story-nV1zquKZnktmngYU6XY8mM.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Price-gouging of India has to stop’: Shashi Tharoor on rising fuel rates||Calling it “ unconscionable”, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday launched a withering Twitter attack on the government over the relentless hike in fuel prices over the past 21 days. The Congress is holding mass protests across the country today over the “unprecedented” rise in petrol and diesel prices.“The unconscionable price-gouging of India by an anti-people Government, w/21 days of continuous fuel price rises, has to stop. @INCIndia leads the resistance,” tweeted Tharoor. While the diesel rates have been hiked for the 22nd time since June 7, petrol price has been raised on 21 occasions. There was no change in prices on Sunday.Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. The cumulative increase since the oil companies started the cycle on June 7 now totals to Rs 9.17 for petrol and Rs 11.14 in diesel.In Delhi, a litre of petrol now comes for Rs 80.43 per litre as compared to Rs 80.38 earlier. Diesel rates have been increased to Rs 80.53 per litre from Rs 80.40.Rates vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.Tharoor listed out a series of steps to bring relief to the common man at a time the nation is also battling a raging coronavirus pandemic. “1) Pass the benefits of low crude oil prices to the people by reducing prices of petrol-diesel-LPG 2) Bring petrol and diesel under GST 3) Immediately withdraw 13 hikes in excise duty since May 2014 on petroleum products,” Tharoor added.  The unconscionable price-gouging of India by an anti-people Government, w/21 days of continuous fuel price rises, has to stop. ⁦@INCIndia⁩ leads the resistance. #SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike pic.twitter.com/oGSTJa7WKzIn a little over one-minute video, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too urged people to join “SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike” campaign.  आइये #SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike campaign से जुड़ें। pic.twitter.com/oh8AEfqM3yIn a circular, Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal asked cadre to register a strong protest against the BJP-led government at the Centre through demonstrations against the “extortionate increase” in fuel rates when people face “unprecedented” economic challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee were detained by police while protesting near IP College against continuous hike in fuel prices. In Bengaluru, former CM Siddaramaiah, along with other party leaders, cycled from his residence to Congress office in the city to register protest against rising fuel prices. According to the Indian Oil Company’s website, total taxes on petrol and diesel are more than their basic rates. Almost all states have raised the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel since mid-March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-gouging-of-india-has-to-stop-shashi-tharoor-on-rising-fuel-rates/story-xEcUqUPRCylvwaUtl6tMJP.html
29-06-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan to meet PM Modi; MP political situation, Covid-19 likely on agenda||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Monday evening. It will be their first official meeting in three months after Chouhan became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh for the fourth time.On March 23, after taking an oath as the chief minister, the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed, and Chouhan could not formally meet the Prime Minister. In today’s meeting, the two senior leaders are likely to discuss the current political situation in Madhya Pradesh and the possible expansion of the state cabinet.Besides this, the chief minister is expected to brief the Prime Minister about the current Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh. The two are also likely to discuss steps taken to ensure self-sufficient India and self-sufficient Madhya Pradesh.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Apart from that, Chouhan may brief the Prime Minister on the status of farmers in the state and the procurement of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-meet-pm-modi-mp-political-situation-covid-19-likely-on-agenda/story-mbAeDfOmzMkYrx3yDMRT1O.html
29-06-2020||India||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis: Father of Indian statistics, founder of ISI||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. PC Mahalanobis was also instrumental in formulating India’s second five-year-plan (1956-1961), which laid the blueprint for industrialisation and development in India. Mahalanobis’ birth anniversary is celebrated as the National Statistics Day. He was the eldest of six children—two sons and four daughters—of Probodh Chandra Mahalanobis and Nirodbashini Devi and was born on June 29, 1893. He died on June 28, 1972, a day before his 79th birthday.Here are a few things about PC Mahalanobis on his 128th birth anniversary:* Mahalanobis studied at the Brahmo Boys’ School, which was founded by his grandfather Guru Charan Mahalanobis in 1904, and joined the Presidency College to study physics. He graduated in 1912. He also attended the King’s College in Cambridge, where he met the mathematical genius, Srinivasa Ramanujan.* He worked at the Cavendish Laboratory with physicist CTR Wilson for a while. He returned to India and started teaching physics at the Presidency College in 1922 and was a teacher there for more than three decades. He was also the principal of Presidency College for a few years and held the post of Meteorologist in the Alipore Observatory in Calcutta from 1922 to 1926.* He formed a group that was interested in statistics, which later expanded and eventually, the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) was founded in 1932. In the next year, he launched Sankhya: The Indian Journal Of Statistics.* He also established the National Sample Survey in 1950 and set up the Central Statistical Organisation to coordinate statistical activities. He became a member of the Planning Commission in 1955 and continued in that capacity till 1967. ISI was declared as an institute of national importance in 1959.* Mahalanobis devised a measure of comparison between two data sets, now called Mahalanobis distance. He first proposed it in 1930 in the context of a study on racial likeness and it is now widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.* He also introduced innovative techniques for conducting large-scale sample surveys, calculated acreages and crop yields, using the method of random sampling. He devised a statistical method called fractile graphical analysis, used to compare socio-economic conditions of varied groups.* He analysed data regarding the floods in Odisha and published his findings in 1926. This analysis later formed the basis for the construction of the Hirakud dam on the Mahanadi River.* He was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan in 1968 and was also conferred a large number of awards by international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasanta-chandra-mahalanobis-father-of-indian-statistics-founder-of-isi/story-pMwnq7y2OsmBLba9QjVGkL.html
29-06-2020||India||Jammu’s Doda is militancy free, say cops after Hizbul terrorist Masood killed in encounter||Masood, a so-called commander of terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed by security forces in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday morning. Masood was the last surviving terrorist from the Doda district, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh said.Masood was wanted in a rape case in Doda and had joined the Hizbul Mujahideen when he was on the run, the Kashmir police said. He had shifted his area of operation to Kashmir.J&K police chief Dilbag Singh counted Masood’s elimination as a huge win for the security forces.“Doda district in Jammu Zone becomes totally militancy free once again as Masood was a last surviving terrorist of the Doda District,” Dilbag Singh said. Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists including a district commander were also killed in Monday’s encounter with a joint team of Kashmir police and Rashtriya Rifles in Anantnag’s Khull Chohar. This is not the first time that terrorists from two groups have been found to be working together in Kashmir in recent months. With today’s operation at Khull Chohar by Anantnag Police along with 19 RR,CRPF in which 2 LET terrorists including one district commander & one HM commander Masood were neutralised, Doda district in Jammu Zone becomes totally militancy free once again.@Sandeep_IPS_JKP pic.twitter.com/sCvioo2f3XDoda, a district in eastern Jammu region that borders south Kashmir’s Anantnag, has been a key area of focus for security forces.Monday’s encounter less than a fortnight after Dilbag Singh went on to declare that they were within striking distance of clearing Doda of terrorists.Security forces have stepped up the offensive in Kashmir and killed more than 100 terrorists in operations this year, prompting sharp protests from Pakistan’s foreign office who rushed to describe the terrorists killed in encounters as ‘innocents’. The government had earlier this year tightened the security grid along India’s border to stop infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan’s terror factories.Forty terrorists were killed this month alone, and most of them were killed in south Kashmir, which is considered the hotbed of militancy in the region. The terrorists eliminated this month include so-called commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-s-doda-is-militancy-free-say-cops-after-hizbul-terrorist-masood-killed-in-encounter/story-dZsjrZuPZISqGz4mwlnzEL.html
29-06-2020||India||India-born lawyer who defended 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed dies in Pakistan||Mumbai terror attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s India-born counsel has passed away after a brief ailment in this Pakistani city. He was 86. Abdullah Khan Dogar, whose family had migrated to Pakistan from India’s Rampur in UP after the Partition, breathed his last at a hospital here on Sunday. He was the father-in-law of former chief justice of Lahore High Court Mamoon Rashid Sheikh. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Dogar was the counsel of Jamaat-ud-Dawah chief Saeed for many years and defended him in Pakistani courts following the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people were killed. He was also the lead counsel of Saeed in the terror financing cases in which he was sentenced to jail for 11 years. Dogar had challenged the coup by former military dictator General (retired) Pervez Musharraf in 1999 in the Supreme Court and represented Kulsoom Nawaz against the detention of her husband, former prime minister Nawaz Sharif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-born-lawyer-who-defended-26-11-mastermind-hafiz-saeed-dies-in-pakistan/story-E2K8xhNK7tzeNqNmVJigbM.html
29-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 5.48 lakh with 19,459 fresh cases; toll at 16,475||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease mounted to 548,318 after 19,459 new cases and 380 deaths were reported between Sunday and Monday morning, Union health ministry data showed.The death toll stands at 16,475 after 380 people succumbed to the respiratory disease. The country’s recovery rate improved further to 58.67% after 12,010 people were cured of the highly-contagious disease in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry dashboard.There are 321,722 Covid-19 patients who have been discharged from hospitals till date and 210,120 active cases. On Sunday, the difference between the number of recovered and active cases crossed the 100,000-mark for the first time.Also read: ICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testing“India’s recovery rate has been steadily going up, which is good news. More than 50% of those having tested positive have recovered and taken out of active medical supervision,” a senior health ministry official had said on condition of anonymity.According to experts, the rising recoveries may suggest that the outbreak was stabilising.“When the number of those infected in a day is the same as the number of people recovering then it usually highlights the fact that the disease outbreak is going to stabilise and start declining in some time unless some other variables come in such as floating population or new births that change the entire dynamics,” Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of community medicine department at state-run Safdarjung Hospital, said.As one of its steps to stem the coronavirus pandemic, the government has focussed on aggressive testing as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added more laboratories and introducing newer testing techniques.India’s current capacity is about 350,000 a day, with 200,000 samples tested daily on average. The total number of samples tested stands at 8.2 million since the first one was tested on January 22.The government is also planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to complement the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country.Also read| ‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19A senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said rapid antigen-based tests can help to quickly determine an ongoing infection.These tests detect the presence of a foreign substance in a person’s nasal or oral swab that triggers the production of antibodies, and, therefore, can find infections. But these are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid-19 but those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation.RT-PCR, or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, tests for the genetic material of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. But RT-PCR testing is limited in terms of widespread availability because of the need for a specialised lab for analysis, and it takes about five hours to get results.Maharashtra, India’s worst-affected state, Delhi Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal continued to add to the country’s caseload with more than 85% of infections and 87% of deaths due to the disease.Globally, the infection tally has crossed the 10 million mark and there have been 501,281 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-5-48-lakh-with-19-459-fresh-cases-toll-at-16-475/story-1A7dqcQwvQeRE6YGdsgCEK.html
29-06-2020||India||Lok Nayak doctor, Hindu Rao ward boy die of Covid-19||A doctor of the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital died of Covid-19 in the intensive care unit of a private dedicated coronavirus facility on Sunday, hospital officials said. The doctor, a consultant anaesthesiologist, died in the morning, they added.Lok Nayak Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. Officials said the doctor, an anaesthesia specialist was posted in the ICU ward of the hospital.The officials said the doctor died in Max Smart, a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Saket.A 53-year-old ward boy deployed at Hindu Rao Hospital also died Covid-19 on Sunday afternoon. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to the hospital on June 26 while he tested positive on Saturday. The deceased had last attended duties on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-nayak-doctor-hindu-rao-ward-boy-die-of-covid-19/story-OnGdaescDaOX5heeVPQhGK.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After a day of pause, fuel prices witness another hike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up again after a day’s pauseState-run oil marketing companies raised the prices of petrol and diesel on Monday, a day after there was no hike in rates that were increased continuously for three weeks. Read moreICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testingThe government is planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to compliment the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country. Read more‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19A 26-year-old man from Hyderabad sent a selfie video from the hospital bed to his father minutes before he succumbed to Covid-19, stating that he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support. Read moreThe art of creative expression: Does adding new painting materials help a child’s creativity and emotional health?Creativity as a form of self-expression is the most cathartic, and free of judgment. There is nothing more satisfying and fulfilling than to be able to express oneself openly. Read moreHT Salutes: Two Mumbai residents who made theplas for migrants amid lockdownVarsha Shah and Varsha Padia made theplas for migrants and labourers in Mumbai amid the lockdown. The duo from Mumbai coordinated with an NGO called Circle of Love and Care who further distributed theplas. Watch to know moreSathankulam custodial deaths: Singam director Hari regrets making films glorifying policeFilmmaker Hari is the latest Tamil celebrity to express shock and condemn the deaths of Jeyaraj and his son Fenix due to alleged custodial torture in Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi. In a statement, he deeply regretted making five Tamil films that glorified police. Read moreIndia captain Virat Kohli vs RCB captain Virat Kohli: Parthiv Patel explains the differenceParthiv Patel is someone who has made his debut under Sourav Ganguly, played a lot of cricket when MS Dhoni was India’s captain and also plied his trade under current captain Virat Kohli. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-a-day-of-pause-fuel-prices-witness-another-hike-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iLj1oXZ4yl0aYXZAKSH3vL.html
29-06-2020||India||Animal activists demand arrest of 2 men alleged to have poisoned 20 dogs||Animal welfare activists in Odisha have demanded the arrest of two men who allegedly poisoned more than 20 stray dogs nine days ago in Cuttack district of the state.On June 19, Brahmananda Mallick (61) and his nephew Bharat Mallick (40) of Nahanga village under Bhaunria gram panchayat of Cuttack district allegedly poisoned over 20 stray dogs in the locality after one of the dogs allegedly bit their goat. They reportedly boiled the bark of strychnine tree, known for its poison, with goat and chicken meat and left the meat pieces at several places in the village to bait the dogs.The carcasses of the dogs were later found by sarpanch of Bhaunria gram panchayat, Gagan Bihari Sethi and a few ward members on June 21. A neighbour of the accused revealed how the two men had cooked meat to kill the stray dogs. “He was upset over one of the stray dogs having bit his goat and wanted to kill the dogs,” said Sethi.The local workers of the Biju Yuva Vahini, a voluntary organisation of the Biju Janata Dal, lodged a case with the Mahanga police station against the two under section 428, 429 (which lay out rules against animal cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code. However, the duo fled the village soon after a local veterinary surgeon visited the area and took a sample of the carcass to determine the kind of poison used.Decrying the killing of dogs, Purabi Patra, animal welfare activist, alleged that police were going easy on the arrest of the two. “The way the dogs were poisoned, it seems to be the handiwork of sick minds. Unless one is sick and inhuman, one can’t poison so many dogs. But the police do not seem to be making any attempts at arresting them,” said Patra.Similarly, Jiban Das of People For Animals too demanded a thorough investigation into the killing of the dogs. “Just because one stray dog had allegedly bitten a goat, how can one poison all the dogs in the area. Police should apply more stringent provisions of the IPC and arrest the uncle-nephew,” he said.Ranjan Pradhan, inspector of Mahanga police station, said police are making all efforts to arrest the men. “We would surely arrest them. We would also apply stricter provisions once the lab report of the carcass indicating the kind of poison used is available,” said the inspector.The strychnine is a thorny tree whose seeds and bark are toxic. However, toxic alkaloids may be found in the entire plant.In April this year, there was similar outrage in Bhubaneswar after a pregnant stray dog was beaten up with a rod by a woman and a few others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-activists-demand-arrest-of-2-men-alleged-to-have-poisoned-20-dogs/story-dY513URsAsbSo8rUFR5BFK.html
29-06-2020||India||Religious places to open from July 1 in Rajasthan’s rural areas: Govt||The Rajasthan government has allowed religious places and those of worship to open in the state’s rural areas with a limited number of devotees from July 1, saying norms of social distancing will have to be followed.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said during a review meeting on the coronavirus pandemic that a decision has been taken against opening religious places in urban areas and big religious sites in rural areas based on the suggestions of committees constituted under district collectors. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Gehlot said only those religious places will be allowed to open in rural areas where 50 or fewer people visit every day. A limited number of people will be allowed to worship or do other religious works at a time at these places.Social distancing, sanitisation, wearing of masks, and the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre for religious places should be ensured, he said.The chief minister also said that the mandatory 14-day home quarantine period for people coming from other states to Rajasthan has been lifted. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage But they will have to voluntarily keep their movement limited and adopt all protective measures to prevent infection and get medical attention immediately after getting their symptoms checked.He also said the period of the coronavirus awareness campaign for a week, which is being run across the state from June 21 to June 30, will be extended.Rajasthan has reported 16,944 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 391 people have succumbed so far, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-to-open-from-july-1-in-rajasthan-s-rural-areas-govt/story-Mgpg0JAUNY5aT3lqlIJStO.html
29-06-2020||India||Bengal govt set to market ‘Arogya Sandesh’ to boost immunity amid Covid-19 pandemic||Sweet-loving Bengalis have something to cheer about in Covid-19 time as the West Bengal government decided to come out with a ‘sandesh’ which will contain honey from Sundarbans and increase immunity, an official said on Sunday.Cotton cheese made from cow milk will be mixed with pure honey from the Sunderbans to prepare the ‘Arogya Sandesh’ which will also have extracts of tulsi leaves, an official of the Animal Resources Development Department told PTI.No artificial flavours would be added to the sweetmeat which will be available in the department’s outlets in the city and neighbouring districts, he said.The sandesh will boost the immune system as a whole but it is not a Covid-19 antidote, the official said.Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira said the honey for making Arogya Sandesh will be collected from beehives in places such as Pirkhali, Jharkhali and other parts of the Sunderbans and it will be stored in a scientific manner. The sandesh is expected to hit the shelves in another two months and the pricing will be within the reach of the common man, the animal resources development department official said.Earlier this month, a reputed sweetmeat chain of Kolkata came out with an ‘Immunity Sandesh’ claiming that it contains various herbs and spices such as haldi (turmeric), tulsi, saffron, and cardamom and Himalayan honey, which will boost immunity to fight novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-set-to-market-arogya-sandesh-to-boost-immunity-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-IGrBJf3wnCiA8KWP831g6M.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha health minister’s daughter booked for flouting social distancing norms||Odisha health minister Naba Das, who is at the forefront of the government’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, landed in a spot after police on Sunday lodged a case against his daughter for violating social distancing norms while holding an official meeting.Rahul PR, Jharsuguda’s superintendent of police, said a case has been registered against Deepali Das and some other people at Jharsuguda Town police station after a complaint by the municipality executive officer.The complaint said a ceremony was organised by Deepali and others at the conference hall of the District Rural Development Agency to felicitate corona warriors on June 22. More than 50 people were present during the ceremony without maintaining the mandatory social distancing norms.Minister Das, who has been grooming his daughter as his successor in Jharsuguda district, refused to comment.However, Deepali said some people are unnecessarily pointing fingers at him. “I will respect the law and continue to work for the people of Jharsuguda,” she said.Two days ago, Das was ticked off by the ruling Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD’s) top brass over allowing his daughter to be his political representative in Jharsuguda district and hold official meetings. The first information report (FIR) against Deepali comes at a time when the number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Odisha are galloping towards 7,000-mark amid a spate of violations of social distancing norms and masks. Niranjan Patnaik, the state unit chief of the Congress party, was fined for not wearing masks at a public demonstration two days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-health-minister-s-daughter-booked-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-h0EoNk68SsArmk6Gz02GpI.html
29-06-2020||India||Alice Wells: India should invest in Quad instead of BRICS and RIC||The US administration’s former pointperson for South Asia on Sunday called on India to step up its “investment in the Quad” grouping instead of giving preference to engagements with organisations such as Brics and RIC in which China plays a key role.Alice Wells, a career diplomat who retired as the acting assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia last month, made the remarks on Twitter in response to an article that argued India shouldn’t be seen as a pushover in its ongoing border standoff with China.“This is a good time for India to up its investment in the Quad. The appearance of privileging BRIC/RIC meetings over engagement with likeminded partners is discordant,” she tweeted, referring the Quadrilateral alliance or Quad that groups together Australia, India, Japan and the US.India has traditionally been reluctant to play up its participation in the Quad, which was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers only last September. Amid the tense standoff with China, external affairs minister S Jaisjankar had joined a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23. He had also taken a thinly veiled dig at China in his address, saying the world’s “leading voices” should act in an exemplary manner by respecting international law and recognising the interests of partners.The foreign ministers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping had held a virtual meeting on April 28, days before the border standoff became public. China has mobilised troops in several stretches of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), especially the Galwan Valley that has been the focus of tensions. A violent face-off on June 15 resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties.Wells’ remarks came a day after the Indian Navy and Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) conducted an exercise in the Indian Ocean. The Japanese warships JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki of the JMSDF training squadron were joined by the Indian Navy’s INS Rana and INS Kulish for the exercise that promoted mutual understanding.The deputy chief of the Japanese mission in New Delhi, Toshihide Ando, said this was the 15th exercise between the two sides in the past three years.“This is a goodwill training to promote mutual understanding and trust with the Indian Navy,” he said. “The content of this exercise is tactical and communications training with no specific scenario.”This is a good time for India to up its investment in the Quad. The appearance of privileging BRIC/RIC meetings over engagement with likeminded partners is discordant. https://t.co/yN9I9QW22JShortly before she retired in May, Wells had strongly backed India amid the border tensions with China, saying such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.Wells had also said that like-minded nations such as the US, India, Australia and Asean states have rallied together in the face of China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.Answering a question on the India-China tensions, Wells had said: “The flare-ups on the border, I think, are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power.”She had added, “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system in which there is suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance, the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alice-wells-india-should-invest-in-quad-instead-of-brics-and-ric/story-gSV2rA1VIvdakY3qOqqvMK.html
29-06-2020||India||Assam reports one more Covid-19 death, toll climbs to 11||Assam reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 11 in the state, and 327 new cases of the infection, health and family welfare minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.A 45-year-old man died at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) while undergoing treatment for the coronavirus, he added.“Sad to inform that a 45 year old, resident of Khanapara, Guwahati died due to COVID-19 today in GMCH. He was brought to the hospital late, in critical state. The doctors could not save him. My sincere condolences to the bereaved family,” the minister said in a tweet Of the 327 new cases, 195 were reported from Guwahati city and the tally of coronavirus cases climbed to 7,492 in the northeastern state, he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayGuwahati in Kamrup (Metro) district, where a complete lockdown has been imposed for 14 days from Sunday night, has so far reported 1,160 Covid-19 cases.“327 new #COVID19+ cases detected in Assam today. Out of these, 195 cases were reported in Guwahati City in last 24 hours,” Sarma said in another tweet.It is the second-highest single-day hike after the 331 cases detected on June 21.Meanwhile, 44 police personnel have tested positive for the disease in the state and 1,127 are in quarantine, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Law and Order, G P Singh said.“Continuing to serve the people of Assam during Covid pandemic, 44 @assampolice personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 till June 28th 2020. 1127 personnel are under quarantine. They are all in high spirits,” he said in a tweet.A total of 274 patients were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals on Sunday, Sarma said. Of the 7,492 Covid-19 cases reported in the state so far, 5,088 have recovered from the disease.Also read: 23, including 8 kids, test Covid-19 positive in shelter home for mentally challenged“There are 2.5 times more people who’re back home than in hospitals now. With 5000+ recovered at a rate of 71 per cent we’ve done very well,” the minister tweeted.Assam currently has 2,390 active coronavirus cases and three persons have migrated to other states.The state has so far tested 3,85,299 samples for the disease in 12 laboratories.“Our teams continue to painstakingly carry out #COVID19 testing to ensure targeted tracing. Today about 10,000+ tests were conducted, taking the total to 385,299,” Sarma tweeted.Meanwhile, the Dhubri Circuit House has been declared a Covid-19 containment zone after a commandant of the 20 Assam Police (IR) Battalion tested positive for the infection on Saturday, an official said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Sarma said 300 nurses have been recruited at the GMCH.“We have recruited 300 nurses on regular basis today in Guwahati Medical college in order to strengthen nursing workforce in our fight against COVID-19,” the minister tweeted.Besides the 14-day complete lockdown in Kamrup (Metro) from Sunday night, a 12-hour night curfew has been imposed across Assam from Friday, along with weekend lockdowns in towns and municipal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-11/story-IsEMl1akN6FX95PY8TeATL.html
29-06-2020||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag||Three unidentified terrorists were gunned down by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday, police said. Following inputs about terrorists in Khulchohar area of the south Kashmir district, the security forces launched a search operation. The operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated. The gunfight is underway, police said. An AK-47 assault rifle and two pistols were recovered from the site, the Indian Army said. More details are awaited.On June 26, three terrorists were killed when troops launched an operation at Chewa Ullar in Tral of the Union Territory’s Pulwama district after receiving information about the presence of terrorists in the area.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag/story-CREOFG3nWtTkYwZFYumDIJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Ten million cases, half a million dead. That’s the global Covid-19 count as we near the end of June. It’s summer in Western Europe, which seems to have put the worst behind it, and the United States, which saw its two highest single-day numbers in terms of cases on Friday and Saturday. The monsoon has settled in across India, a week-and-half earlier than it usually does, but like Hokusai’s famous wave (did you know that it’s the world’s most reproduced image?), the pandemic rolls on. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe seven-day average of the cases in the US seemed to be trending down in the middle of June but the curve has now reared its ugly head again, and is trending up. The country accounts for a quarter of all cases, and a fourth of all deaths. Size, it would appear, is not to the US’s advantage. The US is the world’s fourth largest country by land area (India is the seventh, and would do well to pay heed to what’s happening in that country), and as cases come down in one state, they start rising in another. The country’s southern and western states are among those showing the most cases now. New York, an early epicentre of the disease, is now calm. What New York State and New York City were to the US till they got things under control, Delhi, Maharashtra (and Mumbai), and Tamil Nadu (and Chennai) are to India. On Saturday, as India registered 20,179 new cases according to the HT dashboard, the highest daily number so far, the three states recorded 2,948 (Delhi), 6,368 (Maharashtra), and 3,713 (Tamil Nadu) infections. That’s a total of 13,029 or 64.5% of the total number of new cases in the country. This is a trend that has been maintained for weeks now (and which this column has mentioned time and again). It’s a trend that’s evident in the total numbers as well: of the 529,485 cases of Covid-19 India has seen thus far (till Saturday evening), 80,188 have come from Delhi, 159,133 from Maharashtra, and 78,335 from Tamil Nadu. That’s 60% of the total. Of the 16,101 deaths in the country, Delhi accounts for 2,558, Maharashtra, 7,273, and Tamil Nadu, 1,025. That’s 67.4% of the total. On the positive side, of the 309,526 people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease in the country, 49,301 are from Delhi, 84,245 from Maharashtra, and 44,094 from Tamil Nadu. That’s 57.4%.Despite the number of cases, there is some reason for cheer. On Saturday, Delhi tested 19,180 samples for 2,948 new cases; Maharashtra, 24,999 for 6,368, and Tamil Nadu, 34,805 for 3,713. On Friday, Delhi tested 21,144 samples for 3,460 new cases, Maharashtra, 23,849 for 5,024 and Tamil Nadu, 33,675 for 3,645. Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate (number of positive cases to tests) was 10.82% on Friday and 10.66% on Saturday — both in the 7-11% range the state has been maintaining (which is well below the peak positivity rates it once displayed). Delhi’s positivity rate on Friday was 16.36% and on Saturday, 15.37%, still high, but well off its peaks again.Maharashtra bucks this trend, unfortunately. Its positivity rate on Friday was 21% and on Saturday, 25.5%. These are among the highest the state has seen. It’s clear (especially if you have been reading this column regularly; I’ve become obsessed with positivity rates in recent weeks) that Delhi has begun to test adequately (hurrah!), Tamil Nadu is testing adequately, and Maharashtra has to test even more aggressively.How many people should be tested? There are no rules, but based on the experience of every country ravaged by the virus, and India’s own constraints, I think it would be good for small states to test 5% of the population and large ones, 3-5% (caveat: this isn’t based on science; the US and many countries in Western Europe have tested 8-12% of their population). In Delhi, that would translate into a million tests, or half a million more to be done. At its current rate, the state could get them done in the next 25 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-obduWtwRZAMEkwpQa2a1CM.html
29-06-2020||India||‘It may take 18-24 months to recover from crisis’: IndiGo CEO||India’s aviation industry may take up to two years to recover from the turmoil caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, said IndiGo, the country’s top domestic airline. The budget carrier is focusing on controlling costs and maintaining liquidity to tide over the crisis, CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in an email interview. He said a recovery would also depend upon how soon other nations reopen their skies. Edited excerpts:Leisure flying has taken a back seat. Is safety the biggest factor that is keeping people from flying?We can all agree to the fact that due to the pandemic situation, business and leisure travel may take a back seat for some time until the virus subsides to a great extent. However, the risk of transmission of Covid-19 from one passenger to another passenger on board is very low, making flying the safest way to travel. The reasons for this are that the customers sit facing forward and not toward each other, seat backs provide a barrier, the use of HEPA (high efficiency particulate air) filters and the direction of the air flow on board (from ceiling to floor), and the limited movement onboard aircraft once seated add to the onboard protection. Furthermore, as a responsible airline, we have also taken steps to ensure our passengers and crew members are safe while onboard. When will industry return to pre-Covid-19 level in India in terms of travel demand? There have been a lot of estimations that predict the recovery of the aviation industry, which has been hit hard by this pandemic. We believe it may take 18-24 months to recover from the current situation to come back to the pre-Covid-19 levels of travel demand, also depending upon how other countries resume international operations. The international travel demand will largely depend on how different countries are placed in terms of Covid-19. We expect the aviation industry to slowly and steadily rise even stronger. Furthermore, what will drive this recovery is consumer confidence in airlines .Can you elaborate on the costs measures initiated by IndiGo?Amid the crisis situation, we strive to manage not for profitability or growth but for liquidity. Our focus is on reducing costs, exploring alternate sources of revenue, and building consumer and employee confidence. We are negotiating better prices and terms with partners, staggering pay cuts, placing our discretionary expenses on hold and deferment of certain capital expenditure projects to reduce costs. We are replacing our old A-320ceos with new A-320neos to enhance cost efficiency and freezing supplementary rentals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-may-take-18-24-months-to-recover-from-crisis-indigo-ceo/story-IzxiMNpvOrezH9jWNx93rJ.html
29-06-2020||India||How Covid-19 and carriers unbalanced Indo-Pacific||Chinese military power and strategic attention is overwhelmingly directed towards the Pacific Ocean. Which is why Beijing’s military planners are presently dividing their attention between troop face-offs in Ladakh and three US carrier groups in the Pacific Ocean. The last time there were so many US super-carriers in the Pacific was three years ago because of North Korea. The US Indo-Pacific Command last month added that all its forward-deployed submarines were at sea. The US naval deployment, while not originally motivated by events along the Sino-Indian border, has inevitably become part of China’s larger strategic calculus. Explains Vice-Admiral Anil Chopra, who just completed a term as the maritime expert on the National Security Advisory Board, the “movement of naval forces escalates things. Whenever you move them into an area of confrontation it serves to send a message. The Chinese will worry about what the carriers can do, not what they necessarily will do.” Chopra says, “It has to be taken into account. That’s the main point of a carrier, it injects a degree of uncertainty.” While one carrier is off the US Pacific coast and another is near the Philippines, the USS Theodore Roosevelt has moved southwards to Vietnam. This location, says Mohan Malik, professor of strategic studies at the Pentagon’s Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, means that “in the event of a war, this carrier group would probably move to the Malacca Straits and the Bay of Bengal.”The USS Roosevelt is a super-carrier, three times the size of an Indian or Chinese carrier, and its battle group would include accompanying cruisers, destroyer squadrons and submarines. “The US could deter the outbreak of a two-front war involving China and Pakistan on one side and India on other by dispatching an aircraft carrier battle group to the Indian Ocean,” says Malik, if events were to spiral out of control. The unusual carrier deployment is a remarkable consequence of the Covid-19 epidemic. In March, viral outbreaks infected three US carrier crews. At one point , only one functional US carrier was left in both the Indian and Pacific Oceans. China began increasing naval and air force incursions into Taiwan’s airspace and tightening its grip on Hong Kong. The official WeChat account of Eastern Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army posted articles in mid-April calling for China to prepare for war.A Chinese scholar on the US, Wang Jisi, warned in a webinar the same month that hawks in China saw opportunities in the “US preoccupation in the election year and over the pandemic.” Concerned China might consider an attack on Taiwan, Washington ordered all three of its active super-carriers, now virus free, and at least eight nuclear submarines into the Pacific. Beijing warned Washington to “stop moving chess pieces around” the region and “flexing its military muscles around China.”This underlines the degree to which the US deploys its military with an almost single-minded determination to contain China. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Thursday explained that US troops withdrawing from Europe were being moved to tackle the threat China posed to countries like India. His is the latest in a series of senior US official statements derived from the 2018 National Defence Strategy’s broad recommendation that US military power be directed primarily at China. US officials have privately told their Indian counterparts that one reason for their desire to leave Afghanistan was to divert the $ 50 billion-a-year the US spends there to take on China. US Pentagon chief Mark Esper in February spoke of converting the 2018 strategy into a “new war plan” that would be completed this summer. The plan would integrate the assets of the four US military services in the Indo-Pacific. As Esper explained to Defence News, “A drone sees an enemy target, relays it to an airplane, an F-35, which relays it to a Navy ship, which either shoots it or relays it back to a Marine Corps long-range precision fire that’s island-based.” Esper called this a “big pivot point for us,” possibly recalling the original and militarily feeble “pivot to Asia” of the Obama administration.The US military’s biggest concern is its “missile gap” against China. The US was banned from testing or deploying intermediate-range missiles (500 to 5,500km range) globally because of a Soviet-era arms control treaty. Exploiting this lacuna, China has deployed over 2,000 long-range missiles along its shore. The US has war gamed that, if forced to fight close to the Chinese shore, its military would be defeated. The Trump administration pulled out of the missile treaty last year and begun the rapid deployment of similar missiles along the Pacific. But Beijing knows it is secure against even a limited military engagement near the mainland for the next few years.It is likely this has emboldened China and contributes to the recent aggression it has shown to a variety of countries, the most recent being India.“In the Cold War between China and America, India has emerged as a front line state. China’s military pressure all along the disputed boundary is clearly aimed at the Finlandization of India. Beijing wants to deny India a peaceful environment essential to realizing its economic developmental goals that would narrow the power gap with China,” says Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-covid-19-and-carriers-unbalanced-indo-pacific/story-Su6zF7qACcXPunNQECSBOJ.html
29-06-2020||India||23, including 8 kids, test Covid-19 positive in shelter home for mentally challenged||At least 23 people at the Asha Kiran shelter home for the mentally challenged in northeast Delhi’s Rohini have tested positive for Covid-19, including children, adult inmates and staffers. The home run, by the Delhi government’s social welfare department, houses 960 inmates but only has the capacity for 550.According to officials at the home, of the 23 inmates who tested positive between June 5 and June 20, eight are children in the age group of 11-13, seven are adult inmates and the remaining are staffers, including caregivers as well as a doctor deputed at the facility. Of the total, three staffers tested positive in the first week of June, one of whom succumbed to the infection while three others recovered and are currently in home isolation.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“At present, 20 persons, including children, adult inmates and caregivers, have been admitted to different quarantine facilities. The children mostly had mild symptoms and have been shifted to the Sultanpuri Covid Care Centre. The others have been admitted to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital in Ashok Vihar and GTB Hospital in Dilshad Garden. It is difficult for the children, as they need full-time support. Even though we have a staff crunch, we have deployed the children’s attendants at the facilities, as they are close to their caregivers and rely only on them for their needs,” AK Kaushal, administrator of the shelter home, said.He added that the first case was reported around June 3 when a caretaker had tested positive. He had come in contact with children on May 29 while serving them food and helping them eat, as most of the inmates suffering moderate or severe mental disabilities need help with such activities. “Soon after the first positive case was reported, we isolated around 11 children. We got them tested and only two asymptomatic children were found to be positive. Following this, another staffer tested positive in the first week of June and died on June 10. We then got tests conducted at a larger scale and found that many had been infected,” he said.Testing of inmates and staff at the shelter home is being done regularly by the district health officials. Around 30-40 samples are collected every other day, officials said.A senior official, who is in home isolation as well, said that all precautions were being taken and the staff was being called to work in shifts to reduce the number of people coming from outside at a given time. He added that limited transport availability was adding to the staff crunch. “Everyone is being thermally screened at the entrance, and except for the staff, no visitors are allowed. Despite all precautions, the infection started with one of the staffers. Since it takes around 5-7 days for symptoms to develop, people inside the home were exposed to the infection,” the official said.One of the caretakers, who did not wish to be named, alleged that the number of people being infected must be more than 50, as distancing is not possible among so many inmates. “Initially when two caretakers had tested positive, no immediate action was taken. It was only later that some children were isolated and tests were conducted. Also, there is no regular sanitisation within the premises,” he said.Delhi social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautum said, “I have come to know of the positive cases. We take daily reports from the home. I have been informed that those in quarantine are recovering well. Besides, a community centre near the home has been roped in to isolate the inmates, including the children, if they show any symptoms and tests are being conducted regularly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-including-8-kids-test-covid-positive-in-shelter-home-for-mentally-challenged/story-07IP1KPqPGAJ2jCGUP9GKJ.html
29-06-2020||India||ED files two fresh cases against Singh brothers||The Enforcement Directorate recently attached properties worth ~300 crore belonging to Fortis Healthcare founders Shivinder Mohan Singh and Malvinder Mohan Singh and registered two fresh money laundering cases against the brothers, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.A Delhi court was apprised about the fresh developments last week by the ED, which opposed the bail plea of Shivinder Mohan Singh.Officials refused to disclose details of the new cases, registered during the Covid-19 lockdown, against the Singh brothers, but said that there had been several complaints against the promoters of Religare Enterprises, a financial services group, in various police departments.Delhi police had in April filed a charge-sheet against the brothers for an alleged fraud of ~791 crore in Lakshmi Vilas Bank. To go ahead with money laundering probes against any suspect, ED usually needs a scheduled offence registered through a first information report (FIR) by the local police or any other agency.The attachment of properties worth Rs 300 crore, the first in the case, includes shares and some properties, the officials cited above added.The agency has already filed a charge sheet against the Singh brothers in its principal case in which funds running into thousands of crore of rupees borrowed from banks were diverted by them from Religare Finvest Ltd.According to the ED’s charge sheet, filed in January, ~2,036 crore worth “proceeds of crimes” was moved to 19 companies linked to the Singh brothers over a period of eight years. In its principal FIR, registered last year, ED is probing alleged loan fraud worth ~47,968 crore.While opposing Shivinder Mohan Singh’s bail plea last week, ED’s special public prosecutor Nitesh Rana informed the court of additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav at Saket that the accused failed the “triple test” or “tripod test” criteria fixed by the Supreme Court while granting bail in such cases.Rana argued that if given bail, Shivinder Mohan Singh can “hamper the investigation of the case; he will try to liquidate the proceeds of crime and destroy the money trail; apart from continuing to be involved in the commission of the offence of money laundering.”The judge agreed with the ED counsel, saying that “triple test has failed in the present case” and that there are two fresh cases against the accused which need to be investigated. Shivinder Mohan Singh’s bail plea is pending in Delhi high court.Under “the triple test” criteria, an accused can be granted bail if it can be established that he or she is not a flight risk, will not influence witnesses and will not tamper with the evidence. The SC had given bail to former finance minister P Chidambaram in December 2019 on the basis of these criteria.“ED’s investigations are mostly flimsy and they have no basis. They have no evidence whatsoever,” Shivinder Mohan Singh’s lawyer Tanveer Ahmed Mir said. Asked about the two fresh cases, Malvinder Mohan Singh’s lawyer Manu Sharma said:“We have never been summoned or called for interrogation in the fresh cases. We are completely in dark about this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-two-fresh-cases-against-singh-brothers/story-nLyj65sJp1zMBtABPPrCFK.html
29-06-2020||India||Sanjaya Baru duped on pretext of online delivery: Police||The Delhi Police have arrested a 30-year-old man from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur for allegedly duping political commentator Sanjaya Baru after promising online liquor delivery, officers aware of the matter said. Baru, who served as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s media adviser, had ordered liquor worth ₹24,000 online. He approached the police after realising he had been conned. The officers said the arrested man, Akib Javed, has duped many people using a similar modus operandi since the lockdown was imposed in late March, and liquor shops were closed.Baru confirmed he was duped but said he did not want to comment further. The police said on June 2, Baru ordered the liquor after searching online and found what he believed was a south Delhi liquor store. “He placed the order over the phone and was assured on-time delivery after he made the payment online. But after he paid, the person who took his order switched off his phone,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjaya-baru-duped-on-pretext-of-online-delivery-police/story-A1mtB9ia8ZmiMo5qtMhJnO.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi increase to 421||The number of containment zones in the national capital stood at 421 on Sunday, recording an increase of 141 over two days, after the Delhi government decided to break existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots into smaller clusters for better surveillance and control of the outbreak, officials said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Centre and the Delhi government agreed to deploy a revamped strategy to fight Covid-19 at a recent meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah, deciding to remap the containment zones for improved scrutiny. The new strategy on containment zones, where movement is strictly restricted and health screening is intensified, was to be prepared by June 26.“The new containment zone strategy focuses on breaking down existing ones into smaller containment zones. The strategy was finalised on June 26, within the given deadline, and implemented at the earliest. District magistrates have redesigned containment zones so as to ensure that all clusters are comprehensively brought under aggressive surveillance. The next goal is to accomplish a full health survey of all residents of these containment zones by June 30,” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Also read: ‘Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July end, Sisodia’s comments created fear’: Amit ShahFor the delineation exercise, district health officials located clusters within existing containment zones in order to create micro-containment zones, another senior government official said on condition of anonymity.Till Friday, when the delineation strategy was finalised by the office of the divisional commissioner, Delhi had 280 containment zones. On Sunday, the number rose to 421, according to records compiled by the Delhi government. An official said the count of such zones could increase further as some of the 11 revenue districts of Delhi were in the process of redrawing the boundaries of their containment areas.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, previously sought help of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to draft the revised plan, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.The 11 districts in the Capital have also initiated a health survey of more than 250,000 individuals who reside in these containment zones, the official said. This survey was recommended at the meeting held by Shah and the final report was to be drafted by DDMA by Tuesday. As part of the exercise, symptomatic residents in the containment zones will be asked to undergo Covid-19 diagnostic tests through the rapid antigen kits. Tests through new antigen-based devices can be carried out on-site and can provide results within 30 minutes.The 141 new containment zones have been created by breaking down existing hot spots in neighbourhoods that include Pratap Nagar, Ghanta Ghar in Malkaganj, Alipur, Mahendru Enclave, Jahangirpuri, GTB Nagar, Meet Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Badarpur, Tilak Vihar and Hari Nagar, data shared by the government showed.Official data showed that the Southwest district has reported a rise of 37 containment zones in the remapping exercise, taking the number of such areas in the district to 80. The North district has 59 containment zones, followed by South (56), Central (40), Shahdara (38), East (33) Southeast (32), Northwest (28), West (25), New Delhi (21) and Northeast (nine).Containment zones are sealed areas where all residents are put under surveillance and most business and travel activities are prohibited. The areas are periodically sanitised and essential goods are delivered to people’s doorsteps so that residents do not have to venture out. The entry and exit of these areas are also restricted and monitored by the police and government authorities to contain the spread of the disease. Within the containment zones, testing centres are set up to boost the surveillance and control of the infectious disease.According to the findings of an advisory committee of the central government, 19% of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi so far have originated in containment zones. About 45% of these cases have been found in smaller clusters within such zones.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at the Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Such a policy helps implement better surveillance in containment zones, which gets difficult when the sealed area is too large and has a high population. It also helps in early detection of hidden cases. Also, the containment policy has a negative psychological impact. So, fewer numbers of people in a containment zone is better.”On June 21, the Centre and the Delhi government decided to revamp the action plan to control the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital, laying emphasis on the need for more effective containment and tracing efforts, widening the scope of detecting infections, and intensifying social distancing and surveillance at the ground level.Union home minister Shah chaired the meeting attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, lieutenant governor Baijal, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and other senior officials. One of the key recommendations discussed at the meeting was an improved containment tactic under which the boundaries of such areas would be redrawn to tackle a surge in the cases. On Sunday, Delhi reported 2,889 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of infections to 83,077. So far, 2,633 people have died of the disease in the national capital.The other strategies in the new action plan include health surveys for people residing inside and outside containment zones, a serological survey of 20,000 people, and strengthening existing contact-tracing and surveillance policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/containment-zones-in-capital-increase-to-421/story-cQ37MhR2AYlZZkp6QZgxzM.html
29-06-2020||India||TRS, Congress in tussle to claim legacy of ex-PM Narasimha Rao||Telangana’s ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government kicked off year-long centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao with a publicity blitz even as the local unit of the Congress, Rao’s own party said it too would celebrate his centenary (his hundredth birthday is on June 28 2021) , as competitive politics saw the two parties trying to outdo each other in their bid to claim the political legacy of the late leader.TRS supremo and Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, popularly known as KCR, made a strong pitch for conferring Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, on Rao and placed him at par with the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru.At a function in Hyderabad, KCR paid tributes to Rao on his 99th birth anniversary and called him the “proud son of Telangana” while recalling his contributions to the country when it was passing through a critical phase during his tenure as PM 1991-96, including ushering in bold economic reforms. KCR claimed that Rao did not get the due respect in the Congress and said he would soon meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek Bharat Ratna for the late leader.“While Jawaharlal Nehru ji was among the architects of modern India, it was PV Narasimha Rao who initiated economic reforms....created a global India. There is no doubt about it. He was in the same league as Nehru. PV was a personality who was on par with Nehru,” he said.In full page advertisements in national and regional newspapers published on Sunday, the state government also described Rao as ‘Telangana’s son….India’s Pride’.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Modi also paid tributes to Rao. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio broadcast, Modi said Rao led the country through a “critical phase”.It is well known that Rao shared an uneasy relationship with the Nehru-Gandhi family and the Congress rarely mentions the former Prime Minister in any of its programmes.A powerful section in the Congress blames Rao for his political misjudgment of the Ayodhya issue and his failure to stop the demolition of Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 when he was the Prime Minister.While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who held the finance portfolio in the Rao government from 1991 and 1996, has always paid glowing tributes to the late leader, others in the party have usually been more reticent about this. That seems to have changed this year. Several Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and P Chidambaram, paid tribute to Rao on Sunday.In a Facebook post, Gandhi wrote: “My tribute to former Congress President and Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his birth anniversary.”On its official twitter handle, the Congress said: “We honour PV Narsimha Rao, a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations of the Indian economy. His contributions to the nation shall never be forgotten.” It added that Rao put India on the world’s economic map. Chidambaram mooted the idea of naming a university, existing or new, after Rao to focus on the “study of the old PPE -- Politics, Philosophy and Economics -- subjects in which the former Prime Minister was a scholar and practitioner”.Rao was a scholar and a linguist and spoke 17 languages and was good enough in six of them to actually translate scholarly works. His quiet demeanour also hid a shrewd political mind. In a statement, Chidambaram said Rao was the person who boldly pulled India out of an outdated mindset and put the country firmly on the path of becoming a prosperous and self-reliant nation.The Telangana Congress too is celebrating Rao’s centenary year and reiterated its demand for Bharat Ratna for him.Telangana Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy told reporters in Hyderabad that party chief Sonia Gandhi has directed the state unit to celebrate Rao’s centenary year in a befitting manner. “A committee will be constituted to conduct various programmes. His family members will be invited in all the programmes,” Reddy said, adding the erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh assembly in January 2014 passed a resolution demanding Bharat Ratna for Rao.Former union minister Jitin Prasada, whose father Jitendra Prasada was political secretary to Rao, tweeted: “Tributes to former PM #PVNarasimhaRao ji on his birth anniversary. My father worked closely with him as his political secretary and witnessed the course changing economic policies ushered in by Rao sahab which opened up the Indian economy and gave it a much needed impetus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-congress-in-tussle-to-claim-legacy-of-ex-pm-narasimha-rao/story-0LCsJREY0erN7jwrhnoqrL.html
29-06-2020||India||Our immediate priority will be to streamline approval processes: RP Gupta||The Union environment ministry is set to make significant revisions to the environment clearance process as the economy is gradually emerging from the impact of a two-month Covid-19 lockdown and the pandemic. It plans to do away with conditions for environmental clearances that cannot be monitored and make the approval time for projects as short as possible. RP Gupta, who took over as the environment secretary this month, spoke to Jayashree Nandi about issues like the ministry’s priorities and forest loss associated with coal auctions. Edited excerpts:You have taken charge at a difficult time amid the pandemic and an economic slowdown. What are the ministry’s immediate priorities?Our priorities are to streamline our approval processes. We should keep the environment and pollution in mind [and] that there shall be no compromise as far as environmental clarity and pollution is concerned. But undue processes which have no meaning should be cut down. Processes of giving approvals can be simplified. We should save time and focus more on the enforcement of environmental regulations. We should not keep holding approvals for 4 to 5 years. If a project is not environmentally-friendly and cannot be given permission, we must say it within a short time. Similarly, approvals should also be given in a short time. Giving approvals with conditions we are unable to monitor is not required. Have only those conditions which are relevant. Generally, try to avoid putting conditions just for the sake of putting them.The Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, is being debated widely. Will you extend the deadline for people to submit their comments on it?We are not simply because rules provide for 60 days to send objections... We have already got 30,000 comments. The request for extending the timeline started 2 to 3 days after the draft notification was published [in March] which means people were more interested in seeking extension rather than submitting objections and remarks. Some people are not interested in seeing an appropriate notification.There have been concerns about regularising environmental violations by projects through EIA 2020...It will be premature for me to comment on these aspects. These are objections we have received and we will be taking a well-considered view on each of these. So, what will be the final notification, the final decision cannot be commented upon now.A number of coal mines being auctioned have large forest covers and have a rich biodiversity. Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have objected to the auctions. How will forests be impacted?Auction is not the environment ministry’s concern. Coal mine auction is done by the ministry of coal. All I can assure is that we will see to it that our regulations and laws are complied with. Most of the blocks being auctioned are out of those 204 blocks, which were allotted earlier and but were cancelled by Supreme Court for irregularities and corruption. The process is much more transparent...We are importing about 250 million tonnes of coal every year despite having one of the largest reserves. ...why not have it [coal] from our country...We have a commitment under the Paris Agreement to increase the share of clean energy. Do you think the coal auctions are sending out a message of continuing to be majorly invested in fossil fuels?We are using coal. The use has been considered in our climate commitment. We will be only substituting imported coal. I do not find any contradiction. We will overshoot our climate commitments. I want to assure people of this. We will not only achieve our nationally determined contribution but also much earlier.Scientists and UN bodies have said the pandemic is linked to large scale biodiversity loss. How will India protect its biodiversity hotspots?Biodiversity or food habits? We are committed to preserving our biodiversity. The pandemic is linked to biodiversity loss and food habits that are unnatural to an extent which leads to nature taking its revenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-immediate-priority-will-be-to-streamline-approval-processes-rp-gupta/story-JBUzmePrcLEUhSpfk1nRQI.html
29-06-2020||India||Deadline for public comments on draft green policy nears||The deadline for submission of public comments or objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, released in March as part of the process to overhaul environmental regulations for infrastructure projects, is due to expire on Tuesday amid calls for another extension to it.Environmental groups have opposed the draft citing its contentious clauses. The clauses include the one pertaining to the regularisation of projects, which violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction work before environmental clearance or by expanding capacity. The draft also proses shortening of the time for public hearings, which give people affected by a project the opportunity to understand it and give their consent.The draft was released for comments on March 23 and 60 days were provided to the people to send their comments. The Union environment ministry extended the deadline from May 22 to June 30 because of the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread in late March.The ministry has received thousands of requests over the last month for extending the deadline and for the redressal of concerns related to the draft. “We have informed the environment minister’s office about these representations,” said Sharath Kumar Pallerla, the director of the ministry’s policy wing.Pallerla said the draft has been in the public domain for nearly 100 days. “In fact, we had issued a zero draft to get people’s comments in April 2019 following which we held public consultations in several cities on the draft. Recently, we had consultations with industrial associations and accredited environmental consultants also. But still, we are receiving representations to extend time on this notification.”R P Gupta, the environment ministry secretary, said they do not intend to extend the deadline and have received 30,000 comments.An expert committee will vet the comments received after the deadline expires and make changes to the draft if necessary before notifying it.The ministry has been flooded with representations over the draft, according to information obtained under the Right To Information (RTI) Act on June 12 by activist Vikrant Tongad.The ministry had till April 20 received 1,190 emails. Out of them, 46 related to suggestions and 1,144 to requests for an extension in the deadline.As per the information under RTI, in a note to environment minister Prakash Javadekar, Geeta Menon, a joint secretary in the ministry, said she has received over 4,000 representations. “Since the EIA notification and any change thereto is of great significance to the management of the environment in the country as a whole and to the matters of access and the utilisation of natural resources…it is suggested that we may extend the time frame to a total of 180 days from the time of issue on March 23,” the joint secretary wrote.The note was signed off with June 30 as the date till which the deadline for comments will be extended.Over 50 university student unions, college environment clubs, and youth groups from across the country wrote to the environment ministry on Thursday demanding that the draft be put on hold and rewritten as per recommendations from environmental experts. They cited examples like the May 7 gas leak at Visakhapatnam LG Polymers plant, the blowout at a gas well in Assam’s Baghjan this month, and its consequences on biodiversity, to underline the impact of a “weak environmental policy”.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said the ministry has 725 days, almost two years, to issue the final notification based on the number and nature of comments received. She added many are demanding the strengthening of environmental regulations in the light of the threefold crisis of health, climate, and economy. “This period between the draft and final notification should not be used to introduce the proposed changes into the existing 2006 notification, as has been done in the past with other laws such as the coastal regulation zone, ” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-public-comments-on-draft-green-policy-nears/story-4ImwkDvcanODuftk2XoKEN.html
29-06-2020||India||Scientists trace genes that aid and stem spread of Sars-CoV-2||Using the gene-editing tool CRISPR-Cas9, scientists have traced some of the genes that either aid or stem the spread of Sars-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, in cells that were infected with the virus.The screening of such genes, researchers say, can help them understand how the pathogen replicates in the human body, and point them towards potential treatments and vaccines that can target specific genes and cellular processes to stop the virus in its tracks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Identification of host factors essential for infection is critical to inform mechanisms of COVID-19 pathogenesis, reveal variation in host susceptibility, and identify novel host-directed therapies, which may have efficacy against current and future pandemic coronaviruses,” said a study by researchers at the Yale School of Medicine and Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in the US. In the study, scientists snipped specific genes in cultured African green monkey cells – which are susceptible to Covid-19 – and infected those gene-edited cells with Sars-CoV-2 to identify the genes that were “pro viral” or “anti viral”.The study, published as a preprint on BioRxiv on June 17, confirmed that the ACE2 receptor (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) and Cathepsin L – proteins that were already believed to be crucial for the coronavirus’s entry into a host cell and its fusion with it – aided the virus in causing the infection. Researchers also traced genes and pathways that assist the virus in replicating. These include a group of proteins that help package the DNA – called the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex – and components of the TGF-β (Transforming Growth Factor- Beta) signaling pathway, a family of proteins that plays a critical role in the growth of cells and their development. The study, published on June 17 and yet to be peer reviewed, also found proteins called HMGB1, which can help activate the immune system, as “proviral”. Similarly, the study discovered that antiviral genes such as components in histones – proteins around which the DNA winds itself to fit into a cell nucleus – deterred the virus from replicating.Scientists across the world are working round-the-clock to decode the workings of the Sars-Cov-2, but little is known about the pathogen’s ability to infect easily and its path of destruction in the human body. “Studying these will help us figure out how the cell is ‘trying’ to combat the virus,” John Doench, one of the authors of the study, wrote on Twitter last week.“The genes and pathways identified here may explain this variation as disease susceptibility may positively correlate with expression of resistance genes [proviral genes] and negatively correlate with sensitization genes [antiviral] on the cellular, tissue, and organismal level,” the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-trace-genes-that-aid-and-stem-spread-of-the-virus/story-EeMHiYgnpBEFbQxKW6IGZP.html
29-06-2020||India||Maha surge due to relaxations, migration||MUMBAI/New Delhi: On June 27, Maharashtra reported 6,368 new Covid-19 cases, a record single-day spike not only for the western state but for any Indian state as well. This was the fourth consecutive single-day spike record for Maharashtra, India’s worst-affected region that has seen 164,626 infections. From June 24 to June 28, excluding the record on June 27, Maharashtra recorded 3,890, 4,841, 5,024 and 5,493 new cases.In the past week, until June 27, the state recorded more than 4,400 new cases a day on an average, compared to 3,400 the week before that. The doubling rate of cases – the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double –dropped from 24 days a week ago to 22 days as of Saturday.The positivity rate, too, showed no signs of slowing down. Two weeks ago, the state had an average positivity rate of 20.6%. Since then, it has slowly, but steadily been rising despite a big increase in daily tests — on June 27, the positivity rate stood at 22%. This means that the more samples that the state tests, the more the positive cases it detects. In the two other states with high caseloads – Tamil Nadu and Delhi –the positivity rate has declined as testing has been ramped up,. In Delhi, the average positivity rate dropped from 30.7% two weeks ago to 18.7% on June 27. The corresponding number dropped from 12.2% to 9.9% in Tamil Nadu.The number of average daily tests increased from 14,000 to 20,000 in Maharashtra; 18,700 to 30,000 in Tamil Nadu; and 5,200 to 18,000 tests in Delhi in the past two weeks. Maharashtra tested 26,628 samples on Sunday, the highest since the first case was detected on March 9.Mumbai’s cases have plateaued, albeit with a caveat – the number of tests have not risen significantly. Mumbai’s share in the state’s overall cases has fallen from 59.49% on May 28 to 45.89% on June 28. Simultaneously, districts like Pune, Dhule, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and Solapur, among others, recorded an almost 10-fold rise in cases, say state-appointed district health officers. Relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and migration of workers are the main reasons behind the surge, they say. “In May, most cases were reported from Mumbai and Pune. We had eight orange and five green districts. Now, we don’t have any green districts due to rising Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, epidemiologist and state surveillance officer. “Districts like Nanded, Osmanabad, Beed and Bhandara have shown a 100% rise in the number of Covid cases in a month.”HT spoke to 10 district health officers (DHOs), and each of them said that cases surged primarily due to a relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and the human migration from metropolises to smaller cities and villages.Dr Aniruddha Athalye, (DHO), Satara, said, “We have recorded 42 Covid-related deaths, but 40 of them were migrants from Mumbai who died within a few hours of admission in hospitals due to delay in treatment.” According to him, Satara has 1004 Covid-afflicted people, but 80% of them are those who came from Mumbai, Pune and Uttar Pradesh.In Latur, of the 275 total Covid-19 cases, 95% are migrants. “With the relaxation in the lockdown, several migrants returned home. Gradually, asymptomatic infected people started spreading the disease to their family members. We had zero cases in the first week of May,” said Dr G Garaghe, DHO. Latur had 303 cases on June 28.In Dhule, people got infected while trying to provide food and water to the migrants on Mumbai-Agra highway. “Though it was a noble cause, 45 people contracted the infection,” said Dhule DHO Dr Shivendra Shagle. “Those cases were just the beginning. Soon, it started spreading among others.” Dhule has 962 cumulative cases on June 28, up from 129 a month ago. All DHOs HT spoke to said the general public did not follow physical distancing norms since lockdown relaxations on June 3. “The national lockdown relaxation was implemented for economic reasons, but people are behaving irresponsibly. We are therefore unable to break the infection chain. We have asked the state to extend the lockdown,” said Dr AR Gita, DHO of Aurangabad where cases have increased to 4,833 (June 28) from 1,370 (May 28).Activists blamed the state’s rigid testing policy. Dr Athalye said asymptomatic migrants didn’t qualify for a swab test for diagnosis. “Later, these carriers infected more people. If we had tested them earlier, we could have controlled the spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-surge-due-to-relaxations-migration/story-Q3Vgsk8oCoHsr4CgvB9xzI.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Bye dad, bye all,’ says Hyderabad patient in viral video minutes before his death||A 26-year-old resident, minutes before his death due to Covid-19, had sent a video recording to his father saying he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support.The incident, which took place on Friday night, went viral on social media on Sunday.“They have removed ventilator and have not been responding to my plea for the last three hours to provide oxygen support. My heart has stopped and only lungs are working, but I am unable to breathe, daddy. Bye daddy. Bye all, bye daddy,” the man said in the short video selfie, which he had sent to his father from his bed at the Government Chest Hospital in Erragadda of Hyderabad.Chest hospital superintendent Mahboob Khan, however, denied the allegation that the ventilator was removed. “The ventilator support was very much there, but the patient was in such a critical stage that he could not feel the oxygen supply,” he said.His father said minutes after sending the video, his son had died and his last rites were performed on Saturday. “My son was suffering from high fever on June 24. After trying for admission in a few hospitals, he was finally admitted to the Chest Hospital on June 24, where he died on June 26,” the father, of Jawaharnagar on the city outskirts, said.Khan said the man had died of sudden heart collapse. “We have come across such cases in the last few days. Usually, aged people die because of the collapse of the lungs infected by Covid-19. We are seeing a new phenomenon of people in the age group of 25-40 years succumbing because of viral infection in the heart. They are provided oxygen, but they feel it insufficient,” he said.He said the doctors had done their best to save the man, but he was already in a critical condition at the time of admission. “There was no fault on part of the doctors at all,” the hospital superintendent said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bye-dad-bye-all-says-hyd-patient-in-viral-video-minutes-before-his-death/story-nMqXCWu46fAWOICFDD4jcI.html
29-06-2020||India||ICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testing||The government is planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to compliment the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country. A senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said rapid antigen-based tests can help to quickly determine an ongoing infection. “This is why it is a good tool that can be used for diagnosis of Covid-19 along with the RT-PCR testing. RT-PCR, while a gold standard in diagnosing Covid-19, needs a proper biosafety level 2 lab for analysis,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Antigen based test is a rapid point-of-care test that can be done on the spot without posing a biosafety hazard as it doesn’t deal with analyisng a live virus,” added the official. These tests detect the presence of a foreign substance in a person’s oral or nasal swab that triggers the production of antibodies, and, therefore, can find infections. But these are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid-19 but those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation.RT-PCR, or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, tests for the genetic material of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. But RT-PCR testing is limited in terms of widespread availability because of the need for a specialized lab for analysis, and it takes about five hours to get results .Delhi was the first state to roll out antigen-based testing as Covid-19 cases soared in the past two weeks, making it imperative to conduct large-scale quick testing to trace, treat and isolate the infected individuals. ICMR provided 50,000 kits to the Delhi government, and has asked other states to start antigen-based testing. Uttar Pradesh has started the tests. On Sunday, the sole approved manufactuer of the antigen tests, South Korean SD Biosensor, said daily production had exceeded 200,000. The ICMR and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, validated the Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit by SD Biosensor about two weeks ago. “We are already producing about two lakh kits in a day, and even started supplying to eligible hospitals,” said CS Bedi, medical advisor, SD Biosensor.A section of private players complained of lack of availability of the antigen kits.“There is just one company that is approved; we would need more if they want widespread testing,” said a representative of a private lab who did not want to be identified.Bedi, however, said there was no shortage of testing kits. “We only sell to NABH [National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers]and NABL [National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories]approved hospital and standalone labs as that is mandatory requirement of the government. We are guided by the government directive, and are being extremely careful to not sell the product to someone who may sell it further to people who are not eligible to use it,” said Bedi.On June 25, the ICMR released a document where it detailed the need for rapid antigen tests to massively scale up testing capacity as the number of Covid-19 cases rise and lockdown restrictions are gradually relaxed. “As India is lifting lockdowns in various parts of the country in a phased manner, it is expected to see an upsurge in cases of COVID-19 due to increased transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus. In view of this, it is important to scale up testing capacity to the maximum possible levels,” the document said. “The gold standard RT-PCR diagnostic test for COVID-19 has limitations in terms of widespread availability. In view of this, there is urgent requirement of reliable and convenient rapid point of care antigen detection assays with high sensitivity and specificity,” added the document, while inviting applications from manufacturers who produce antigen-based kits. The ICMR has approved seven institutes for validating antigen-based test kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-to-scale-up-antigen-based-testing/story-CBYcw3K1zSEXAT6CNBQEGI.html
29-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: Portrait of a contented man||Can you look back at your life and tell yourself confidently that “yes, I made it!”?“Office Pantry boy” Subbal Chowdhury feels that about himself.“I transformed my fate,” he says. “I’m satisfied with myself.”Mr Chowdhury has reached this contented state of being while still in his early 30s. He does double jobs, actually. He spends the whole day as the so-called “pantry boy” in an office in Delhi’s Aerocity but, early in the morning, he is a “car cleaner”, dusting and mopping about a dozen private cars in a Gurugram apartment complex. He lives in the Millenium City and this late morning is talking on WhatsApp video from his one-room dwelling in Prem Puri neighbourhood in Sector 32.Mr Chowdhury gives a quick survey of his house through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. The place looks sparse except for two mattresses on the floor and a small wooden shrine—the household “mandir”—on the window ledge. He shares the place with his wife and two young sons. “Just a few days ago, I sent them to her parents’ place until this mahamari ends,” he says, referring to the coronavirus pandemic. The idea was to save his family from himself. Mr Chowdhury started going to the office again, shortly after the lifting of the prolonged lockdown, and “every evening on my return home my kids would rush to hug me... now what if some day I inadvertently catch the infection while outside, and pass it on to them?”So he convinced his unwilling wife to take the kids for the time being to her parental home in West Bengal—an especially chartered bus was heading to their district, taking many Prem Puri residents wanting to escape to their villages in the same district. Returning to the subject of his contentment with life, Mr Chowdhury reveals that both he and his wife are illiterate “but my school-going kids can read newspapers.”He concedes that thousands of day-jobbers in Delhi offices might not feel the same satisfaction as him “but I had to struggle to reach here.”He grew up in a village in Malda, in West Bengal, as his parents’ only child. His father had no agricultural land and would rent himself out as a labourer in other people’s fields. His mother died when he was 12. “Babuji soon became too ill too work.” Mr Chowdhury, still a teenager, somehow managed to get work in a brick kiln on the village’s outskirts. “They initially refused to hire me because of my age, but I insisted.”He would earn 15 rupees daily, and when it rained too hard for the kiln to be operational, Mr Chowdhury would be without money, forcing him and his ailing father to spend the night without food. “It happened many times... we were that poor.”Ultimately, a few acquaintances who were from the same village but were working in Delhi took him with them to the big city. “I had no money except for five rupees... my friends paid for my train ticket.”Those kind men also helped him get a job as a pantry boy. “And gradually I built up my life.” Fifteen years have passed since then and that former brick kiln labourer progressed enough to be able to rent a room, get his father to move to the Millennium City with him, and he also married and raised a family.“Working in cities like Delhi can greatly improve your life if you are responsible,” he observes, informing that his wife was also adding to the monthly income by working as a cleaner in two households. “We would spend money wisely.” Indeed, he saved enough to not only purchase 1.5 beegha of agricultural land in his village (currently looked after by a relative) but he also constructed a two-room brick house in the village. “With a verandah,” he points out. “In my brick kiln days, my father and I lived in a small shelter built of straw.”Looking intently into the phone screen as if in deep thought, Mr Chaudhury concludes in retrospect that the most decisive moment of his life was when he decided to follow his friends to Delhi. “I wouldn’t have been able to do anything had I stayed in the village.”His father passed away in 2015. “I think he was satisfied with me.”Mr Chowdhury convinced his wife to temporarily quit Gurugram with their kids on the assurance that he would join them soon and together they would live in their village house for as long as the pandemic lasts.“But we can’t go back to where we started... I will have to explain to her that I cannot come... she will understand,” he says.And after the pandemic fades away, they will again be a working couple, their sons back in school—building up a life “even better than mine.”A minute after the chat, Mr Chowdhury Whatsapps an image of his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-contented-man/story-6emGlqkG8m6wOf8njFFYGN.html
29-06-2020||India||Second stimulus may stop contraction in the economy: EY India report||A second round of fiscal stimulus in the latter part of the financial year may help arrest the strong contractionary momentum in the Indian economy, and a borrowing-based full implementation of Rs 111 lakh crore is needed to restore growth and generate tangible employment, consultancy firm EY India said in its latest edition of Economy Watch report.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made the announcement of the first stimulus on March 26 to immediately provide relief to the poor through direct cash assistance, free food grains, and cooking gas to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. It was followed by monetary measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to infuse liquidity in the system. Sitharaman announced a five-part stimulus package between May 13 and May 17, providing credit guarantee to the industry along with far-reaching policy reforms. The government said the total value of all announcements since March 26, including RBI’s monetary measures, was Rs 20.97 lakh crore. The report said India’s growth projections by global institutions like the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and Asian Development Bank (ADB) had been downwardly revised despite a series of measures to stimulate the economy between March end to mid-May. It added it shows that the package had only a “limited impact” in reversing the contractionary momentum, which mainly relates to the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.The World Bank on June 8 projected India’s FY21 growth to contract by 3.2%, a downward revision from its earlier forecast of 2.2% on April 12. IMF’s World Economic Outlook Update on June 24 also sharply revised down its earlier growth projection of 1.9% for India to (-)4.5% in FY21. ADB revised its projection even more sharply from its earlier 4.0% to (-)4.0% on June 10.DK Srivastava, the chief policy advisor at EY India, said the downward revisions in growth forecasts by international agencies came after factoring in the stimulus packages announced by RBI and the finance ministry by mid-May. “Clearly, these stimulus packages were not considered to be enough to reverse the contractionary momentum of the Indian economy,” he said.Citing global rating agency Fitch’s report this month— ‘Coronavirus Macro Policy Responses Unprecedented: Tracking Policy Easing in the Fitch-20 Countries’ — he said, “In the case of new fiscal measures, India was placed last but one after Mexico. India’s fiscal measures amounted to only 1.1% of GDP [gross domestic product]... whereas the largest fiscal injection was given by Brazil at 13.5%, followed by the US at 11.5%. In the category relating to monetary easing, India was placed well below a number of countries such as Turkey, South Africa, Brazil, the US, Canada, Mexico, and Poland. India’s rate reduction amounted to 115 basis points as compared to 300 basis points for Turkey and 250 basis points for South Africa.”He said policymakers are constrained in terms of offering larger stimuli because of a number of India-specific challenges particularly since the growth had slowed even before the Covid-19 crisis and there was a contraction in gross tax revenues.The report foresees a need to have another stimulus measure with more focus on capital expenditure. “A second round of fiscal stimulus in the latter part of the fiscal year may help arrest the strong contractionary momentum in the Indian economy. There is also scope to further reduce the repo rate,” Srivastava said.“It is not only the size of the fiscal stimulus but also its composition in terms of low multiplier expenditures [revenue expenditures] viz-à-viz high multiplier expenditures [capital expenditures], which matter.”The report acknowledges that lower revenue collection would constrain the Centre’s fiscal capacity to announce a larger stimulus. “In order to break out from the vicious circle of low tax revenue-low fiscal stimulus-low real and nominal GDP growth in addition to coping with COVID-19, the Centre has to develop a strategy which requires a borrowing-based full implementation of NIP [National Infrastructure Pipeline],” it said. Sitharaman in December unveiled the Rs 102 lakh crore NIP for economic and social infrastructure in line with the aim to make India a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said, “It is too early to assess the impact of economic stimuli announced so far. However, more fiscal and monetary interventions will be required to bring the economy back on track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-stimulus-may-stop-contraction-in-the-economy-ey-india-report/story-Oqh1IzDw73LOcN72SfCdwK.html
29-06-2020||India||Sports some distance away, pandemic a safe bet for bookies||With all Indian sporting events suspended amid the public health crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi’s betting rings have found a new game to wager on – predictions of statistics linked to the pandemic.While legal betting is limited to horse-racing in the country, syndicates run illicit betting markets, often called the “satta bazaar”. The Delhi Public Gambling Act (1955), which is an offshoot of the old colonial statute Public Gambling Act (1867), bans public gambling and keeping of common gaming houses in the national capital. Seven illegal bookmakers Hindustan Times spoke to in Delhi-National Capital Region said that since the Covid-19 outbreak forced sporting events to be put on hold, bets were now being placed on the dates and contours of the lockdown necessitated by the pandemic, the infection rate, the death toll, etc. These bets are often placed through surreptitious phone calls.“Initially, when the virus was still new, bets were being placed on when it would be eradicated. Then, money was being placed on lockdown dates, which had a longer validity. Daily bets also included the infection and death counts in different cities,” a 38-year-old bookie, who has been involved in the illicit gambling business for nearly a decade, said on condition of anonymity.Under the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events were banned.During the first phase of the lockdown, people were mostly placing bets on when the restrictions would be lifted. For instance, if a punter called to ask the “bhaav” (odds) to place a bet and they were told “44-46, Corona”, it meant that the odds were in “favour of corona” (infections rising in India) and the lockdown continuing beyond April 15. This means that for any bet, a bookie offers two odds — ‘safer’ and ‘riskier’. In the above cited instance, if a punter bets ₹1lakh in favour of the safer odd (44), they get a return of ₹1.44 lakh. If they place their bet against safer odds, they bet ‘riskier’, so a win will earn the punter their principal amount of ₹1 lakh plus ₹46,000. “The validity of the bet on lockdown dates was usually set a day before the government announcement was expected. Those who bet for Corona, which means lockdown extending, won a good sum of money,” the bookie quoted above said.To seal transactions, most bookies are using code words such as “India jeetega”, “un-India” or “Dilli mein corona”. “If the odds are in favour of corona, it means you are betting that cases will rise or the lockdown will continue. In the context of Delhi, at present, the odds are in favour of Corona, which means cases will rise as compared to the previous day,” a second bookie said, asking not to be named.An east Delhi-based bookmaker, who has been involved in the “satta market” for nearly three decades, said that the interest in placing bets on the Covid-19 situation in India was primarily because of the ease with which predictions can be made on the widely available statistics and because of suspension of sporting events.He said that many gamblers were eagerly waiting for the Indian Premier League (IPL), previously scheduled to begin from March 29, but the announcement on the postponement the matches came as a jolt to them. “IPL is a major season for us and the clients, and that being cancelled was a big hit. Many arrange for money to bet on these matches from different sources so that they can repay debts or pump this money into their businesses, etc,” said this bookie.According to Doha-based International Centre for Sports Security, which promotes integrity and security in sports, the illegal betting market in India $150 billion, which includes $200 million bet on every one day international played by the Indian cricket team. Officials estimate that everyday transactions worth ₹12-15 crore is made in Delhi on illegal bets. He added that since the first phase of the lockdown coincided with IPL, gamblers found the Covid-19 statistics to put their money on. However, considering the predictability and ease of availability of these numbers, many bookies have set minimum betting amounts of ₹50,000-₹1 lakh and are insisting that all transactions be made in cash.“Operating has become considerably easy these days because it seems like the police are busy with the management of Covid-19. But you never take it easy in this field, because you can get busted anytime,” he added.Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that even though police personnel were busy because of the Covid-19 outbreak, units of the force were keeping a watch on such illegal networks.“We do not know how the nature of betting has exactly changed after the pandemic, but the Delhi Police are showing no laxity in cracking down on any crime network. Our teams are monitoring all cyber operations to check for any illegal activity. Yes, our men are getting infected because of the kind of work we do, but they are also recovering at a fast rate and we are taking all the care that policing in the city does not suffer in any sense,” Shrivastava said.A crime branch official, who did not wish to be named, said that many bookies were compulsive gamblers. “They place bets even on the weather during the monsoon season. We are yet to come across any such case of them betting on the issues related to the Covid 19 pandemic. It is possible they may be doing it. The extent of the betting will be clear when we get any specific tip-off and make arrests.”Former Delhi police officer Ashok Chand said that the police generally relies on information collected from a network of sources to nail bookies because it is difficult to monitor their operations. Chand, who was the head of the crime branch in 2010-2012, said, “They (bookies) have very discreet way of operating so it is difficult to regularly monitor them. Therefore police mostly depend on the tip off they get from their sources or informants and then go back and forward to crack the whole chain. The nature and way of the way this network operates has definitely evolved, but so has policing,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-a-safe-bet-for-bookies-in-delhi/story-kcJQhusabGH8DzpHmiBmZN.html
29-06-2020||India||‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19||A 26-year-old man from Hyderabad sent a selfie video from the hospital bed to his father minutes before he succumbed to Covid-19, stating that he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support.The incident, which happened on Friday night, came to light on Sunday after the video was widely shared on social media.“They have removed ventilator and have not been responding to my plea for the last three hours to provide oxygen support. My heart has stopped and only lungs are working, but I am unable to breathe, daddy. Bye daddy. Bye all, bye daddy,” the man said in the short selfie video, which he had sent to his father from the bed of Government Chest Hospital, Erragadda in Hyderabad.His father said his son died minutes after sending the video. His last rites were performed on Saturday. “My son was suffering from high fever on June 24. After trying for admission in a few hospitals, he was finally admitted to the Chest Hospital on June 24, where he succumbed on June 26,” the father, who hails from Jawaharnagar on the outskirts of Hyderabad said.Chest hospital superintendent Mahboob Khan, however, denied the allegation that the ventilator was removed. “The ventilator support was very much there, but the patient was in such a critical stage that he could not feel the oxygen supply,” he said.Khan said the young man had died of sudden collapse of heart. “We have come across such cases in the last few days. Usually, aged people die because of the collapse of the lungs infected by Covid-19. We are seeing a new phenomenon of people in the age group of 25-40 years succumbing because of viral infection in the heart. They will be provided oxygen but, they feel it insufficient,” he said.He said the doctors had done their best to save the man, but he was already in a critical condition at the time of admission. “There was no fault of doctors at all,” the hospital superintendent said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feeling-breathless-dad-says-hyderabad-man-in-selfie-video-minutes-before-dying-of-covid-19/story-hXtjvlRwT0Z5CaPYQfgzXP.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Need to be close to our friends’: India holds naval exercise with Japan amid stand-off with China||Indian and Japanese warships conducted exercises in the Indian Ocean on Saturday, announced the navies of both the countries. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force described the manoeuvres as designed to “promote mutual understanding” and consisted of four warships, two from each country.Naval exercises are now routine between India and Japan, but the timing of the present exercise will be bracketed with the military stand-off between India and China in Ladakh.“We are using the exercises for strategic communications,” said Vice-Admiral Pradeep Chauhan, director-general of the National Maritime Foundation. The navies were “not there for combat purposes but for signalling,” he added.Also Read: China’s Xi Jinping is a successor to dictator Joseph Stalin, says US NSA O’Brien“We need to be proximate with our friends and the Chinese know there is a direct ladder of escalation between Japan and the United States,” said the Vice-Admiral.The Indian navy training vessels INS Rana and INS Kulush were joined by the Japanese navy’s JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki. The Japanese embassy in New Delhi said this was the 15th such exercise in three years. “The content of this exercise is tactical training and communications training,” said embassy spokesperson Toshihide Ando, “with no specific scenario.” 27 JUN, JS KASHIMA (TV 3508) and JS SHIMAYUKI (TV 3513), the JMSDF Training Squadron, conducted an exercise with INS RANA and INS KULISH, Indian Navy at the Indian Ocean. JMSDF promoted mutual understanding with Indian Navy through this exercise. pic.twitter.com/obiXOSVULHThe Japanese navy has become one of the principal partners of the Indian Navy. Indian naval ships take part in the exercise, both bilaterally with their Japanese counterparts and as part of the Malabar Exercises, which include the United States. Also Read: India waits for China’s PLA to disengage at Ladakh, says won’t allow a ‘new normal’Vice-Admiral Chauhan noted that Indian Army deployments were “sector specific” but India needed to apply pressure across military theatres. Exercises like these remind Beijing that Indian military can quickly deny air cover for Chinese naval assets in the Indian Ocean - and that such plans are ready. “They are still far away from deploying a carrier in the Indian Ocean,” he added.Also Read: With aggressive posturing along LAC, China turning bilateral relationship back to 1990s, says IndiaJapan was one of the few countries who publicly supported India during the Doklam crisis. New Delhi and Beijing have preferred to let the Ladakh crisis be handled bilaterally, one reason it rejected US President Donald Trump’s offer of mediation. Tokyo has only expressed condolences over the deaths of the Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley and pointedly said nothing about Chinese casualties. Also Read: India deploys air defence systems in eastern LadakhThe Japanese navy has itself been upgraded and expanded in recent years because of the territorial disputes it has with an increasingly aggressive China. Despite its Pacific constitution, Tokyo has inducted a “helicopter destroyer” that has the some tonnage as India’s aircraft carriers and is now building a “helicopter carrier” which has a full flight deck.Japan has one of the best non-nuclear submarines in the world and cutting edge anti-submarine warfare technology. Masashi Nishihara, head of the Japanese defence think tank, Research Institute for Peace and Security, says, “We are leaders in submarine detection. Not only can we find them, we can identify any variety of submarine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ladakh-indian-army-galwan-valley-need-to-be-close-to-our-friends-india-holds-naval-exercise-with-japan-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-clZK5EzU9TBfp1iVd7uJXN.html
29-06-2020||India||Shikhar Dhawan: I would urge everyone to help animals in whatever capacity they can||Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan has many fans and admirers for what he does on the pitch with a bat in his hand. But on Friday, he won everyone’s hearts with his activities outside the stadium, after he posted on Instagram revealing that he has adopted two dogs. Adopted these cuties today ❤️ Chloe and Valentine our new family members 🐕🐕 #desidogsA post shared by  Shikhar Dhawan (@shikhardofficial) on Jun 26, 2020 at 7:38am PDTTalking about the new additions to his family, Shikhar says, “Chloe and Valentine are a mother-daughter pair of stray dogs who have been looking for a home for over three years now. Their caretaker didn’t want to separate them and so we decided to take both of them in and care for them.”Shikhar’s wife, Aesha Dhawan, reposted his photo and urged everyone to adopt.   Meet our new family members!!! Welcome to our pack!! Adopted these two, mother and daughter. Blessed and grateful!! @aliyah_dhawan @puppylove.az @pfa.official @cesarsway Adoption is the way to go guys. #desidogsA post shared by  Aesha Dhawan (@aesha.dhawan5) on Jun 26, 2020 at 8:45am PDTEchoing the sentiment, Shikhar says, “For me the looks and pedigree don’t matter as much as the need to care for the animals who are abandoned and on the streets. I truly believe in the ‘Adopt and Don’t Shop’ policy and I would urge everyone to help animals in whatever capacity they can.”“I think we should consider ourselves blessed by God to have a good decent life and hence we should take responsibility for the less fortunate around us,” he adds. Interact with the author on Twitter/@sammysamarth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shikhar-dhawan-i-would-urge-everyone-to-help-animals-in-whatever-capacity-they-can/story-4kgYFDzFMYaGOrB8FjEWKN.html
29-06-2020||Today's||Covid-19: A review of three medical approaches||As the cases of Covid-19 increase, many are wondering what they can do if they or someone close to them gets the infection. First, some reassurance. A vast majority of those infected with SARS-CoV2 is asymptomatic or have minimal symptoms which require no treatment. This proportion is highest among the young, more than 90% in children and young adults, but is less in older adults with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. In seroprevalence studies, where we look for the presence of antibodies in people’s blood, indicating they have been infected and are recovering or have recovered, most who test positive do not recall any unusual symptoms. This indicates widespread asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic infection and recovery.While this is good at a population level and should reduce the panic associated with Covid-19, the more symptomatic patients should not think of this as just another flu. In this group, especially for the elderly or those having diabetes, hypertension or other co-morbidities, there is a small but real risk of severe illness which could be fatal.What are the available treatments for those with moderate to severe disease and when or to whom should they be administered? The answers are still evolving. The treatment can be broken down into three categories. First, general supportive care targeted at managing the symptoms and general complications. Second, antiviral treatment directed at killing or limiting the growth of the virus. Third, modulating the immune response of the infected person such that it is strong enough to clear the virus, but not so much that it kills the host.The first category, access to good quality supportive care, is simple in concept but needs a strong public health focus. There must be timely testing so that people are diagnosed early, with simple monitoring for common danger signals such as low oxygen levels in the blood that can be monitored by a simple pulse oximeter. If this is done, patients likely to become more ill can get necessary care in time — oxygen supplementation, with face down positioning (proning) and ventilator support, if needed, preferably non-invasive. Attention can also be paid to preventing, detecting and treating blood clots.The second category is antiviral treatment. This ranges from true antiviral drugs, such as favipiravir and remdesivir, to commonly available medicines that may additionally reduce viral entry or replication such as zinc, vitamin C, chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, doxycycline, ivermectin, niclosamide, ciclesonide and indomethacin. There is no authentic evidence that any of these are effective, but data so far offers some hope. Remdesivir seemed to accelerate recovery in one randomised controlled trial (RCT). In moderately ill patients, it may reduce death. Favipiravir is cheaper, has fewer side effects, and can be given orally, making it more attractive but lacks any quality RCT data and is thus used for mild to moderate illness only. Zinc and vitamin C are being commonly used by patients with mild illness, due to lack of any known or postulated side effects, with some observational data of zinc being potentially useful. Treatment with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine has not been very promising so far. While recent reports of high toxicity turned out to be false, side effects may occur at high doses, especially in those with existing heart disease.The last category, immune modulation, looks promising since much of the severe disease is either due to uncontrolled viral infection in people with compromised immunity, or due to an exaggerated immune response causing damage to the lungs and other tissues. Increasing natural immunity through vaccines appears distant at the moment and externally providing antibodies via the plasma of recovered patients (plasma therapy) is neither risk-free, nor easy to do at scale. The only published RCT for plasma therapy was inconclusive. In fact, the first clear winner in immune modulation is the widely available and cheap steroid, dexamethasone. It is expected that when used correctly, steroids will dampen excessive immune response, limit damage, and promote recovery. However, it also suppresses immunity and should not be used early in the disease. More sophisticated immune modulators like tocilizumab that can selectively block cytokine storms, without compromising immunity, have also shown promising results. Many other approaches have been suggested for immune modulation, ranging from mycobacterium w vaccine to traditional remedies that boost immunity. What works remains to be seen.Currently, we have both a shortage of proven treatments and an excess of unproven ones. With exaggerated claims from every quarter, it is difficult to subjectively determine the best treatment. Objectively, uncomplicated disease in otherwise healthy subjects usually requires no specific treatment beyond general support. In fact, such support is probably both necessary and sufficient to prevent most Covid-19 deaths. More specific treatment, including new antivirals and targeted immune modulators, will certainly be beneficial in specific settings but are not required for everyone. We should treat based on what we have learnt and keep learning as we treat. For this, patients, doctors and researchers must come together and share information at covbase.igib.res.in, a site meant for this specific collaborative purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid-19-a-review-of-three-medical-approaches/story-4c4kPZaFbYIvocwCw7M6zO.html
29-06-2020||Editorials||The five tools against Covid-19||With over 80,000 cases and 2,500 deaths, Delhi is the second most affected state in terms of the spread of Covid-19. To its credit, Delhi has tested close to half-a-million samples. But this is little consolation at a time when the disease is affecting almost every neighbourhood, people have struggled to get tested or get admitted to hospital, and the death count has climbed up. But over the past 10 days, recognising the scale of the crisis, both the Centre — led by home minister Amit Shah — and the Delhi government have stepped up to deal with a surge in cases with a renewed plan. This is positive, and if implemented well, will begin showing results. In this backdrop, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has come up with what he called five weapons against the disease. The first is ramping up hospital beds. As a column in this paper pointed out on Sunday, 22% of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have occurred within 24 hours of hospital admission and another 40% within 48 hours. This means that patients are getting admitted at too delayed a point, which reduces the prospects for recovery. Home isolation is essential for mild and asymptomatic cases — but hospital care is essential for those who are deteriorating. The absence of hospital beds and the complications with regard to admission often acted as a disincentive for patients. That is why ensuring enough beds is key. The second tool is testing. This newspaper has argued that the time for restrictive guidelines is over — anyone who wishes to get a test must be able to do so. Delhi has increased testing, and now has the infrastructure to do so even more. There must be no laxity on this front, for only testing can identify the infected, isolate cases, and stop people from spreading the disease, at a time when the lockdown is effectively over. The other tools in the Delhi playbook to deal with Covid-19 include the provision of pulse oxymeters to patients (an effective way to check oxygen levels), plasma therapy (which has not yet been scientifically proven as an effective remedy but has shown positive results in moderate cases), and surveys and screening (an essential step of Covid-19 protocols). The Centre’s intervention has helped in forcing the Delhi government to recognise its mistakes and step up. Mr Kejriwal has done well in appreciating this support. It is now time to put the plan in action and provide the support Delhi’s citizens need and deserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-five-tools-against-covid-19/story-67PCf2kmylbzmfIKrF8wcI.html
29-06-2020||Editorials||The inhumanity, illegality of custodial torture||On June 19, P Jayaraj, 59, and his son, J Fennix Immanuel, 31, were picked up by the police at Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, for allegedly violating lockdown norms, by keeping their shop open for longer hours and defying the night curfew. They were lodged in jail on June 21. On June 22, Immanuel died of breathlessness, and a day later his father passed away. The family has alleged that both were subjected to custodial torture, resulting in rectal bleeding and eventual death. The deaths sparked protests. But even though two FIRs have been filed, no officer has been booked on murder charges. Only four policemen have been suspended.The Tamil Nadu deaths are not a one-off case. India’s police personnel are well-known for their high-handed behaviour, and third-degree methods in custody. As many as 100 people are reported to have died in police custody in 2017, according to the National Crime Records Bureau data. Of these, 58 were not on remand, while 42 were on police or judicial remand. Suicide (37) was the most reported reason for the deaths, followed by death due to illness (28) and injuries sustained during the police custody (5); journey connected with investigation (4); while escaping custody (3); injuries prior to custody (1); and Others (22). In 62 cases pertaining to custodial deaths, 33 policepersons were arrested, 27 chargesheeted, four were acquitted or discharged, and none was convicted. The State must implement the 2018 Supreme Court directives on police reforms that recommended the separation of police functions of investigation and maintaining law and order, and setting up of a complaints authority to look into complaints against officers in cases of custodial death, grievous hurt or rape in police custody. For India, custodial torture and deaths are a huge blot on its democratic credentials. It undermines rule of law, erodes the faith of people in the system and is inhuman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-inhumanity-illegality-of-custodial-torture/story-zeKevID9wENCFmVcbvW9kM.html
