20-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 1,000 vendors to be added to city’s vending zones||The town vending committee of the municipal corporation decided to add at least 1,105 street vendors to its zones in a meeting on Tuesday, with officials reiterating their stance on taking action against those found responsible for various discrepancies and unpaid dues.The meeting, held at John Hall in Civil Lines, was aimed at scrutinising and discovering anomalies in the policy to initiate action against violators, an issue that has been in the focus since last November, said officials. The matter pertains to pending payments from three contractors who were hired for the street vending zone project.Deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) Vijaypal Yadav, who oversees the project, submitted a report on his findings to the committee, highlighting that although the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) issued a work order for incorporating 3,452 street vendors in its street vending zones, only 1,620 vendors, 53% of the capacity, were operational.Yadav’s report also highlighted various discrepancies and negligence on part of a retired MCG city project officer (CPO) who was in charge of the project since its inception in 2016 till last year.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “Based on the investigation report in the street vending project, appropriate action will be taken against all officials concerned found to be guilty and the action taken will be conveyed to the MCG House in the next meeting. Along with this, directions were issued to recover the remaining amount from the vending agencies. If not paid on time, criminal action will be taken against the agency concerned.”Each street vendor pays ₹1,500 per month for stationing their cart in the MCG’s street vending zone.Until January, each vendor paid ₹1,000 to the contractor and ₹500 to the MCG per month. The entire sum, including MCG’s share, was collected by the contractors. However, the same is yet to be deposited with the MCG.The services of the three contractors were terminated by the MCG.In the meeting, Singh directed Yadav to recalculate the pending amount and subsequently, initiate criminal action against the contractors for non-payment.In Yadav’s report, it was highlighted that of the 1,620 street vendors, around 300 were found to be illegal as their original owners had either leased the carts to others or transferred the ownership to them, which is not allowed under the street vending policy. Singh directed Yadav to remove all such carts as well as those found illegally stationed across the city.Singh said, “For all existing street vendors, the committee has decided to not collect monthly fees for May. From June 1 onwards, they have been directed to pay the money to the MCG every quarter, through digital payment. MCG officials have been directed to create a software for digital fees mechanism by June 1 for payment purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-1-000-vendors-to-be-added-to-city-s-vending-zones-101618942118322.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents’ associations take charge of fight against Covid-19 in condos, gated societies||Amid the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, residents’ welfare associations of several condominiums and gated societies have effected restrictions in their societies to limit the spread of infections. The measures range from limiting the entry of visitors and restricting entry to parks to banning renovation work and walking pets in common areas.At Carlton Estate, a condominium in DLF-5, entry of property dealers, potential buyers or tenants, and all renovation work has been banned till April 26.Pawan Tharwani, the president of the Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA) said that depending on the number of Covid-19 cases, the RWA will take a call next week on extending the ban. “Seeing a large number of cases in the condominium, which led to one of the towers being made a containment zone, the RWA considered various measures to limit the spreading of Covid-19. We realised that nearly 100-130 visitors could be stopped daily by banning the entry of property dealers, potential buyers or tenants, and all renovation related work till April 26. This may be extended depending on the situation,” said Tharwani.He said that there were positive cases in at least 25 apartments in the condominium.At Fresco Apartments, a gated society in Nirvana Country, the number of visitors has been capped, with no more than five outsiders allowed in a house. Besides, gyms and squash courts were also shut until further notice.The RWA has also set up a three-stage sanitation process for domestic helps and vendors — wash hands with soap at a basin located at the entrance and sanitise their hands twice, once at the entrance and the other before entering the tower.“The main reason behind limiting visitors to just five per house is for ensuring that no large gatherings are taking place and minimising the chances of people contracting the coronavirus disease through interaction. We have also closed our gyms and squash courts while our in-house sports academies only allow entry of one resident at any given point for training purposes,” said Nilesh Tandon, president, Fresco Apartments.Tandon said that there are currently 35 active cases in the housing society.In the township of DLF Phases 1 and 2, the RWA has restricted the entry of residents in parks. Residents walking their pets must do so only outside their houses and cannot venture into lanes or vacant spaces nearby for the purpose, the RWA members said.“Only our horticulture staff is allowed inside the parks in DLF Phases 1 and 2. The security staff is constantly keeping vigil over such restrictions. Our main aim is to limit the potential areas where large-scale public interaction can occur and restrict the rising number of cases in our township,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Qutub Enclave residents’ welfare association that looks after both DLF Phase 1 and DLF Phase 2.There are at least 50 active Covid-19 cases in DLF Phases 1 and 2, said Bansal.On April 7, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg had issued an order to RWAs directing them to take actions that encourage residents to stay indoors and discourage social events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-associations-take-charge-of-fight-against-covid-19-in-condos-gated-societies-101618942062924.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Govt issues order to shut Sheetla Mata temple, withdraws it hours later citing clerical error||The Haryana government on Tuesday issued and withdrew an order to close Sheetla Mata temple in the city within a few hours, citing a clerical error. On Tuesday afternoon, citing the need to “break the chain of Covid-19 infections,” the state government issued an order for closing Sheetla Mata temple and Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula. Both temples receive heavy footfall and large crowds are anticipated on Wednesday, due to the Hindu festival of Ramanavami.The decision, however, was reversed a few hours later, with the Haryana government saying that directions issued by the Centre regarding religious places will be followed.“It was a simple case of a clerical error. The original order was meant to state that due to rising Covid-19 cases, coronavirus protocols such as six-foot social distancing, limited entry of devotees, mandatory wearing of masks, temperature checks at entrance and sanitising of hands need to be followed strictly at the two religious sites and greater vigilance needed to be adopted for the same during the ongoing Navratri celebrations. Due to miscommunication, an incorrect order was originally sent out and later reversed,” said a senior official in the Urban Local Bodies (ULB), privy to the matter. Vinay Pratap Singh, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who is also the chief administrator of the Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, said that adequate staff has been deployed to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed. “The decision on closing or opening the temple rests with the Haryana government. All Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed closely to ensure there are minimal chances of the virus spreading among devotees. We realise that a large gathering is taking place and hence, deputed necessary temple staff, MCG staff, and Gurugram police at relevant points to keep close vigil,” said Singh.For keeping a vigil, 58 CCTV cameras are installed inside the premises and around 200 workers will be stationed, said MCG officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-issues-order-to-shut-sheetla-mata-temple-withdraws-it-hours-later-citing-clerical-error-101618942062046.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Wildlife department asks GMDA to stop waste dumping at Basai wetland||The district wildlife department on Tuesday appealed to authorities concerned, including the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), to stop the dumping of mixed waste in the ecologically sensitive Basai Wetlands.Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram, said that the land falls under the jurisdiction of GMDA but is part of the ecologically sensitive wetland. “Mixed waste, including construction waste, cloth, glass pieces, loose soil was being dumped at the site on Tuesday evening when I went there for a visit. Waste had accumulated over a 50-metre stretch to almost 10 feet in height, with more trucks spotted coming in,” said Chahal.“From the wildlife point of view, this area is extremely sensitive as it falls on the flyway of migratory birds from Najafgarh Jheel to Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary. Being an old wetland, birds are habituated to visiting this region. We are requesting the authorities to immediately stop dumping of waste here,” he said.Officials from GMDA said that they are looking into the matter. Ajay Malik, additional chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “I have learnt about this incident, but I will not be able to comment till I check the details.”Another forest official, requesting anonymity, said, “Even though this is an ecologically sensitive area, due to not being notified as a protected site, our hands are tied, and we are not able to stop this.”Basai is a village in Gurugram with a network of ponds and a wetland, making it home to a variety of frogs, turtles, fish, insects and other aquatic life. It also hosts a variety of migratory birds, such as ducks, geese, songbirds, snipes, godwits, stints, plovers, harriers, eagles and cranes that fly in from Siberia and Europe. Further, egrets, herons, kingfishers and spoonbills, among other birds, reside at the wetland.Environmentalists also raised concerns about the issue. Vaishali Chandra, a city-based environmentalist, said, “The Basai wetlands is the abode of thousands of avian lives, both migratory and native, throughout the year. The dumping of construction and demolition waste along with loose soil will slowly exterminate the habitat of these birds, jeopardising their lives. This needs to be stopped immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wildlife-department-asks-gmda-to-stop-waste-dumping-at-basai-wetland-101618942061101.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 in Haryana: Congress hits out at BJP over pandemic situation||The state unit of the Congress on Tuesday accused the state and central governments of failing to handle the Covid-19 situation, with party members saying there was no plan in place to deal with the pandemic.State Congress president Kumari Selja and state party in-charge Vinay Bansal, who were in the city, alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gave a higher preference to fighting elections rather than working on upgrading healthcare and saving lives.“The BJP government is not ready to listen to the woes of farmers and is bent upon handing over agriculture to corporates. The Central government has failed to meet Covid challenge and the people are dying because of lack of beds, medical oxygen and failure to vaccinate people,” said Selja.Members of the BJP, however, said that the maximum failure on the Covid front happened in Punjab, Maharashtra and Delhi. “These states are worst affected. The Congress and opposition leaders were responsible for causing vaccine hesitation. The government is working on a plan and it is being executed,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.Selja also criticised how the union health minister had replied to the suggestions made by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to manage the challenges posed by Covid-19. “The conduct of the BJP leadership was neither civil nor decent,” said Selja.“The entire energy is being spent to subvert the electoral machinery to win elections at a time when lives of people should have been saved,” Bansal said, pointing to the incidents in West Bengal.Senior leader Ajay Singh Yadav said that Congress functionaries across the state will soon actively engage in helping Covid-19 patients and also workers suffering due to the lockdown-like situation. “We will be helping people across the state as the party will form district-wise committees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/congress-hits-out-at-bjp-over-pandemic-situation-101618942060420.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||‘Lockdown in Delhi will help contain spread in Gurugram too’||TC Gupta, the additional chief secretary, mines and geology, employment, and housing, who has been appointed as the Covid-19 officer for Gurugram by the Haryana government spoke to Archana Mishra about the current situation in the district.Gurugram has been grappling with multiple challenges in dealing with Covid-19. How do you analyse the current situation?The main problem is the availability of beds as some people who could be home isolated have been hospitalised. Teams have been deputed to monitor hospitals. To ramp up facilities, hospitals on Tuesday were directed to tie up with three or four-star hotels where moderately ill coronavirus patients can be isolated and have a provision for emergency medical treatment. At least five hospitals have assured of tying up with the hotels by Wednesday. Thirdly, there is a lack of government health facilities in Gurugram. In Civil Hospital, there are 21 beds only for suspected cases. Any moderate to severely ill case is referred to ESIC Hospital, which has only 72 beds, of which 14 beds do not have oxygen support. The 120-bed Medeor Hospital is not fully operational due to many reasons.How do you plan to address the situation?Many hospitals raised the issue that they do not have enough health staff even if they increase the beds. Their existing staff is also getting infected. Therefore, we have decided to provide private hospitals with paramedic staff. We can deploy over 400 health staff in Gurugram after discussion with the state government. Already, Medanta Hospital has been given an additional staff of 100. Likewise, nearly 64 are given to Medeor Hospital. The demand is for roughly about 200 health workers.So far, at least 47 ventilators have been procured from the state warehouse and four from Civil Hospital. In all, 61 ventilators will be given to the SGT Medical College, as the 500-bed facility is being upgraded. Also, hospitals were directed to give preference to patients, especially those from Gurugram, who require hospitalisation.Has there been an assessment on how many people from Gurugram have not been able to find beds?With the mutual consent of private hospitals, we are starting a portal where people who require beds can register. The civil surgeon’s team will review the registration based upon parameters and medical reports. Health facilities will give preference to registered beneficiaries who require immediate hospitalisation. It is expected that over 200 Gurugram residents will register. Through this, we will get to know how many are not getting beds. However, people can directly approach hospitals too.Hospitals and chemists have been complaining about the poor supply of medical oxygen? How is the administration tackling the situation?Hospitals had earlier tied up with a medical oxygen supplier in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan. Since the Rajasthan government has imposed a ban on the export of oxygen to other states, the oxygen supply mechanism has been slightly affected. But to facilitate hospitals, we have connected them with a supplier in Panipat. The distributor has limited tankers and we are trying to supplement the distributor with tankers. Availability of oxygen is not a problem in Haryana but it is the logistics that have to be managed. It will be stabilised within a day or two.After the lockdown in Delhi, will the Haryana government impose a lockdown in Gurugram?Not yet. The issue was discussed at a state-level task force meeting on Monday. Lockdown has not been contemplated.Are we seeing any impact of Delhi’s lockdown in Gurugram?Because of a lockdown in Delhi, the spread will be contained due to less movement between the two cities. Daily cases in the last three days have almost stabilised. There is no exponential increase as it was happening a week before. If the stability is maintained, the situation will not worsen. But we are on our toes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-in-delhi-will-help-contain-spread-in-gurugram-too-101618942058899.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Migrant exodus a concern for Gurugram’s industries||Fearing an impending lockdown due to the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, droves of workers employed in industries and construction work have started leaving fearing a repeat of last year’s situation, despite repeated assurances by the state government. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday that the industry in the state will not be impacted like last year.Factory owners in Manesar and Gurugram said that at least 15 to 20% of workers have left and they expect more to leave, as the decision of the Delhi government to impose a lockdown and the enforcement of a night curfew in Gurugram triggered panic among workers. More than 2,000 workers’ families dotted the areas in Rajiv Chowk, Khandsa and Sector 12 from where private buses to UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh operate. “The number of people leaving is increasing every day,” said Rakesh, an auto driver, who waits for commuters at Rajiv Chowk.,“We are a group of 10 people living together in Patel Nagar and we work as construction workers. All of us are returning home to Darbhanga in Bihar as last year, we were left with no food to eat during the lockdown. Once the police come on the road, none will be allowed to move. We don’t want to ask for food or help,” said 20-year old Manish, adding that they will return only after the situation improves.Workers who were queuing up to buy tickets at Rajiv Chowk said that the bus fares have more than doubled due to the demand over the last three days. “The fare was ₹1,000 three days ago, but now, bus operators are demanding ₹2,500 to ₹3,000 per person, which is exorbitant,” said Ritesh Kumar, a resident of Madhubani in Bihar.A large number of workers said that they were returning home to attend weddings, but admitted that the economic difficulties faced last year played a part in their decision. “If there is a lockdown, then the salary would stop but expenses such as rent, food, and other things won’t stop. It is difficult to depend on government machinery in such a situation,” said Brahmdeep Kumar, of Supaul in Bihar.Industry owners in Gurugram and Manesar said that the government must reassure workers that there would no lockdown. “Around 30% of the workers in my unit left yesterday without any intimation and another 20% of them are preparing to leave,” said Dinesh Sharma, a garment unit owner, adding that they will not be able to fulfil existing orders.Manmohan Gaind, the vice-president of Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said that workers were affected by their experiences during last year’s lockdown. “The industrial output is going to dip further if this labour migration is not stopped. The closure of markets in Delhi has also stopped raw material supply and lack of workers will further hit industry badly,” he said.Pawan Yadav, the president, IMT Industrial Association, said that workers should not panic and the industry will support them if a difficult situation arises. “We will soon be reaching out to workers to motivate them to stay as the Haryana government has repeatedly said that there would no lockdown,” he said.Industrialists in Udyog Vihar said that apart from the migration of workers, the industry was badly hit as workers and executives from Delhi were unable to commute. “Many unit owners have complained to us that workers are unable to come and that movement passes are difficult to get in Delhi,” said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar.Taking cognizance of the problems faced by industrial workers, Khattar, who addressed the people in the state on Tuesday evening, appealed to migrant workers to not panic and said that the economic cycle will not be allowed to stop on the lines of 2020. “Economic activity will continue in the state and there would be no lockdown as it hurts workers who earn ₹10,000 to ₹15,000 monthly. If they lose a job they have to find a new one and it is very difficult. The economic activities will not be stopped and we will ensure the industry remains functional in all circumstances,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/migrant-exodus-a-concern-for-gurugram-s-industries-101618942058259.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen in short supply in city, chemists say many are hoarding them||Private hospitals in the city on Tuesday said they were running short on medical oxygen as the city’s health-care infra has reached a saturation point with Covid-19 cases continuing to surge, a senior government official said, after holding a meeting with the hospital representatives. “Hospitals have been assured that oxygen supply will be streamlined in the next two days as logistics are being arranged to get them supply from Panipat. Hospitals have cited genuine concerns about medical oxygen availability after the supply stopped from Bhiwadi,” said TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, mines and geology, employment, and housing, who has been appointed as the Covid-19 officer for Gurugram. Even chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday, while addressing the state, said medical oxygen supply will be maintained in the state from a gas plant in Panipat. The assurance was much-needed, hospitals managements said. Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy Hospital in Civil Lines, said the oxygen supply was not reaching the hospital on time. “There has been a delay of six to seven hours in receiving supply,” he said. The city chemists, meanwhile, alleged that there is hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as people have stored them as a precautionary measure. They said there has been a sudden spike in the demand and the manufacturer has stopped taking orders due to the load. People have even bought oxygen packs and stored them at home without actually needing them, thereby wiping out the stock in the market. Jatin Chachra, a chemist in Jacobpura in Sector-12A, said they have no oxygen cylinders left. “An oxygen cylinder, a B type, for example, cost ₹8,000 while a small handy pack costs between ₹200 and ₹350. Both these are not available anywhere in the city. More than 50 people came to buy them for patients and had to return empty-handed. The manufacturing and transportation are taking time but people are panicking and hoarding up stock leading to the crisis,” he said. Another chemist on Sohna Road said they too have run out of stock as there has been no supply for the past 10 days. “People are even ready to pay double the price of a cylinder but there is no stock available anywhere,” said chemist Gurdeep Singh. Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said the shortage is to a large extent fuelled by panic buying, with the result that several Covid patients in home isolation are being denied oxygen support after they suddenly developed respiratory issues. “We have arranged a 12 tonne oxygen tanker for supply to hospitals in need. Even reputable dealers and pharmacies, which were earlier reliable suppliers, have run out of stock. We will take action against persons hoarding cylinders without need, if we receive complaints against them,” warned Chauhan. Suppliers of oxygen cylinders, who leased them out in the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, said people have not returned the empty cylinders, nor have they refilled them. But they are regularly paying the rent, pointing ot the fact that they had no medical requirement for it, as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-in-short-supply-in-city-chemists-say-many-are-hoarding-them-101618941999696.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Short supply of Covid-19 testing kits a major concern||Hospitals and labs in the city are dealing with a short supply of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing kits, leading to long queues outside facilities with a wait time of more than six hours, in some instances, on Tuesday.“There has been a shortage of kits after a lockdown was announced in Delhi. The suppliers are not providing kits due to travel restrictions. The hospital has been sending its own vehicle to collect the kits so that there is no delay in sample collection. The process is likely to be streamlined in a few days,” said Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56.A representative of a private lab administering RT-PCR tests, said, “Due to lockdown, many labs and hospitals are stocking up RT-PCR kits. Due to this reason, the entire testing process is getting affected. Testing is getting capped based on the available stock of kits.”A visit by an HT team to some of the big hospitals found that many people who arrived as early as 8am were still waiting to be tested at 2pm. Due to the swelling of crowds, distancing norms were also flouted.Santosh Gupta, a resident of Sector 10, who works in Sector 66, said, “I came at 8am, thinking I will go to office directly after my test, but even after six hours, I was not tested. They asked me to return on Wednesday morning. More than 100 people were waiting along with me, including people with high fever and flu.”Several hospitals had also posted outside the testing room early in the day that the sample collection for RT-PCR testing had ended. Even as some resumed testing later in the day after receiving kits, queues did not subside.“Due to heavy footfall, the hospital has started a token system for the general population and senior citizens. Documentation also takes time, but we are trying to streamline the process,” Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute.Depender Kumar, a resident of Sector 65, who was waiting in a line outside a big private hospital, alleged that there are no facilities for people coming to give their samples. “The government should think about what problems people are facing while visiting for tests. We are even waiting in long queues but are unable to get the tests done or get reports on time due to long pendency and shortage of kits. Waiting outside the hospitals with many people around, with a few not even taking any precautions such as wearing face masks, is also a threat for us. There is no clarity and the hospital staff does not give a correct estimate of how much time will it take. Waiting for six hours is no joke,” he said.At present, the government is conducting Covid-19 tests at more than 40 locations across the city, of which 23 are government locations where tests are conducted for free without prior reservation.“Gurugram is doing the highest number of sampling in the state. Government institutions are being approached by people for testing and a lot of them were turned away by private labs due to shortage of kits or other reasons,” said Dr Umang, medical officer, Patel Nagar urban primary health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/short-supply-of-covid-19-testing-kits-a-major-concern-101618941998406.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram records 2,344 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||The district has reported nine Covid-19 deaths in the last two days, including four deaths on Tuesday which took the death toll to 387. On Tuesday, at least 2,344 new Covid-19 cases were also confirmed, taking the active case count to 14,270 and the total tally to 85,878.As the district continued to struggle to contain the transmission of infection, the number of hospitalisations was at 788 on Tuesday, an increase of over 100 from 663 people who were undergoing treatment at government and private facilities on Tuesday. The increase in daily test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the samples tested, from almost 19% to 23% shows an unprecedented spread of infection since the outbreak of the pandemic, said officials. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that the focus is currently on containing the number of deaths. “The mortality rate is currently around 0.46%. The effort is to keep it below 1% by ensuring that serious patients receive treatment on time,” he said.  According to the district health bulletin, out of the 14,270 active cases, over 13,343 are in home isolation, while at least 211 moderately ill patients are in Covid care centres. To control the surge, the district health department conducted 12,013 tests on Tuesday, including 1,534 rapid antigen tests. At least 11, 622 people took the Covid-19 vaccine shots on Tuesday, of which over 9,381 were administered in government facilities and 2,241 in private ones. Overall, 414, 997 have taken the Covid-19 vaccine shots over the last four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-records-2-344-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-101618941999037.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Delayed test results hamper efforts to check virus spread||Even as Covid-19 testing was intensified in the district since April 1 to identify local clusters and check the positivity rate, delayed test results are hampering the measures to contain the spread of the virus in the district. Residents said that in most cases, it is taking at least five days to get the results, which is delaying medical treatment as well as causing them anxiety.“A lot of challenges have emerged recently in delivering timely test results. Currently, it is taking over five days to give a test report due to the lack of availability of RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) kits and other medical consumables. Many hospitals and labs have been stocking up the supplies due to lockdown in Delhi and other states. Second, diagnostic teams are also getting infected with coronavirus, leading to insufficient staff. Therefore, it is getting difficult to deliver test results in 72 hours,” said a representative of a private lab, requesting anonymity.According to government guidelines, test results have to be confirmed within 24 to 48 hours. However, the issue of delayed test results continues to persist since the first week of April, when 5,000 tests were being conducted every day. With the testing scaled up to 10,000 tests per day at present, the delay is compounding isolation and contact tracing processes.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, said, “Private labs have already been directed to deliver timely test results. Action will be taken against labs or hospitals if any case of delays.”A representative of a second private lab administering the RT-PCR test attributed the delay to overload of sampling and documentation work. “Due to increased sample collection, the testing process has been getting delayed by more than 72 hours. Also, now, the documentation process for every test has increased, which consumes a lot of time,” said the representative of the second lab, requesting anonymity.Residents said the delay in getting the results is causing uncertainty and stress, especially to those in quarantine.“It took six days to get the report and I tested positive. My entire family got infected because of me as we were not sure of my status. Now, all of us are admitted to a private hospital,” said Pawan Kumar, a resident of Sector 86, who is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Manesar.Sunita Joshi, a resident of Sector 45, said that delay in receiving the test results of her two children affected the subsequent isolation process. “The hospital informed me that negative reports take time and if I had not received a message, it means there is nothing to worry about. Thinking they are negative, I did not take precautionary measures but the reports, sent after six days, stated that both were positive,” she said.Another resident alleged that he developed a lung infection as he could not get timely treatment. “It’s been more than four days that I isolated myself and developed a high fever, cough and cold. My doctor asked me to get a chest scan but the hospital refused to do it without a negative Covid-19 report. I am in no state to drive or visit hospitals, yet I am still running from pillar to post to get my test done, but to no avail,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 1.Due to consistent delay in getting results from private facilities, people have started queuing up at urban primary health centres (UPHCs) for testing. “There has been a manifold increase in sampling size, which is leading to a slight delay in delivery of test results,” said Dr Umang, medical officer, Patel Nagar UPHC.Doctors are advising people to wait for reports, with primary and secondary contacts asked to wear masks and isolate themselves. “As the spread of Covid-19 is intensifying, along with new strains of the virus emerging, the health department is working day and night. The public needs to understand the situation and exhibit Covid appropriate behaviour that involves strict isolation in case of any symptoms like fever, cough, runny nose. Sanitisation and using masks is extremely important and mandatory,” said Umang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delayed-test-results-hamper-efforts-to-check-virus-spread-101618941938265.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 6,842 new Covid-19 cases, Gurugram worst-hit district||Haryana on Monday recorded 33 coronavirus-related deaths which pushed the toll to 3,448, while 6,842 fresh cases, another big spike in daily infection count, pushed the cumulative tally to 3,63,813, a health department bulletin said.Among the districts that reported a big spike in Covid-19 cases are Gurugram (1,809), Faridabad (1,080), Sonipat (588), Hisar (527) and Panipat (351) districts.Five of the new fatalities were from Gurugram, four from Panchkula and three each from Sonipat, Ambala and Panipat districts.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 45,363. So far, 3,15,002 people have recovered from the infection and the state has a recovery rate of 86.58 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-6-842-new-covid-19-cases-gurugram-worst-hit-district-101618883041330.html
