21-04-2021||Gurugram||Industrialists save the day with oxygen supply||Manesar-based industrialists on Wednesday answered the district administration’s request for oxygen supply, providing 10,000 litres, as city-based hospitals were running low on their supplies earlier in the day, officials of the health department said.Officials of the district administration said that although the volume was not high, it helped hospitals tide over short supply till the evening, when the stock from their distributor in Panipat was expected to arrive. Officials of the health department confirmed in the evening that a tanker was on its way to Gurugram.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram confirmed that help was sought from the industrialists in Manesar to source oxygen. “Yes, we have got it,” said Garg, on Wednesday afternoon.Health department officials said that industrial units supply oxygen directly to hospitals and they have no role to play in it. “Since the regular supply from Bhiwadi is disrupted, the hospitals have sought our help,” said a health department official requesting anonymity, adding that surge in Covid-19 cases led to excess demand and the problem was complicated due to disruption in supply. The health department official said that a tanker ferrying 22 metric tonnes of oxygen is on its way from Panipat. “We will distribute to all the hospitals using liquid oxygen,” the official said. Pawan Yadav, the president of IMT Industrial Association, said that they were told that oxygen supply in Gurugram hospitals would last only until the afternoon and they needed help to tide over the situation as the regular supply would be provided by the evening. “We got a call from deputy commissioner, Gurugram, in this matter and soon after, the industry owners started an exercise to reach out to one another,” said Yadav. He said that the owner of an industrial gas production company in Manesar supplied 10,000 litres of oxygen through cylinders to the district administration.The demand for oxygen shot up in the last two weeks due to an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the district, said officials. While the consumption of oxygen prior to the surge was five to six metric tonnes, it has now risen 13 to 14 tonnes per day. On Wednesday, the number of cases reported in the district stood at 2,988, the highest single-day spike since the start of the pandemic.Yadav said that the 10,000 litres of oxygen were given to the district administration free of cost and that industrialists will pool in money to bear the cost. “This gas is worth ₹16 lakh, but it was decided that no money would be charged and it would be a free service for the people of the city. The industrialists will contribute towards the cost,” said Yadav. “We had stock of few hundred cylinders in our factory and some in large tanks. We decided to recall supplied gas from large customers and this was filled into cylinders for delivery to hospitals,” said Deepak Shami, managing director, Star Specual Air Gas Pvt Ltd, which provided the supply to the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/industrialists-save-the-day-with-oxygen-supply-101619027985320.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram inches closer to 3,000 daily infections||The district on Wednesday reported 2,988 Covid-19 cases, which is the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, according to the health department data, surpassing the previous high of 2.549 cases reported last Saturday.With the record spike, the number of active cases increased to 16,027, with the health department officials contemplating to increase the number of containment zones, despite isolating several clusters since the spike began over four weeks ago.The health department also reported four deaths on Covid-19 on Wednesday, with the fatality rate at 0.4% at present. The weekly case positivity rate stood at 16%.Officials of the health department attributed the spike in number of daily cases to increased testing, with over 10,000 conducted every day. “Heavy testing is being carried out to identify local spread and these are notified as containment zones,” said Dr Virender Yadav, adding that to manage the emerging situation, the health department is working with the district administration to increase the number of beds. Officials said that 1,227 Covid-19 patients recovered on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries in the district to 72,448. The rate of recovery in the city stands at 83% while the total deaths caused by Covid related complications stood at 391. According to the data, 15,010 people in Gurugram are in home isolation, while 74 patients were sent to institutional quarantine on Wednesday. The health department on Wednesday collected 10,108 samples for testing. Health department officials said that 4,019 people took the vaccine shots at 100 session sites on Wednesday. Out of the eligible 428,000 people, over 340,000 beneficiaries in the prioritised age groups have already taken the jab. “The vaccination outreach will be expanded to cover maximum people in the new few days,” said Yadav, adding that fewer vaccination sites were set up on the day at government establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-inches-closer-to-3-000-daily-infections-101619027984525.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Portal launched for reserving beds||The district administration on Wednesday launched a portal that allows residents to request Covid-19 hospital beds and also provide real time data on the availability of beds in hospitals. Officials said that reservations can be made only by those who have a local address, as per their Aadhaar card.On Wednesday, the data available on the portal -- covidggn.com -- showed that there were 43 beds with oxygen support and three ICU beds were available, while no ventilator beds were free, at 10pm.Health department officials said that they were also working on increasing the bed availability at Civil Hospital, SGT Hospital and Medeor Hospital in Manesar.Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that hospital beds at SGT Medical College and Civil Hospital were increased on Wednesday by around 200 and the health department and district administration were working in tandem to ensure increased availability. “Beds in the two hospitals were increased today and a portal was also launched for people to get registered for a hospital bed, which shall be allotted on the basis of requirement. The portal provides real time information on beds, ventilators, ICUs and other facilities,” said Yadav.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that all efforts would be made to segregate patients through the portal and ensure that those in need of hospitalisation receive the necessary support. “We are working to increase the number of beds in hospitals and it would also be ensured that Covid safeguards are followed strictly,” he said.The district administration on Wednesday reiterated that there would not be any lockdown in the state and warned traders and shopkeepers not to indulge in black-marketing essential items. “The shopkeepers should not try to take advantage of the situation and overcharge for essential items or any other items. There is no possibility of any lockdown in the state and people, in general, should refrain from spreading panic,” said Garg.Garg also referred to the statement by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who stated that economic activities would not be stopped. “The district administration is ready to meet the emerging situation caused by the surge in Covid-19 cases,” said Garg, adding that the district administration had already appointed nodal officers for management of hospital beds and to work towards better facilities for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/portal-launched-for-reserving-beds-101619027983927.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Officially, only 8 died of Covid in Gurugram in 2 days, but crematoriums handle over 100 such bodies||The health department in Gurugram reported four Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday and four more on Wednesday, but cremation ground staff say they have performed the last rites of at least 106 bodies, as per Covid-19 protocols, over the past two days(till 10pm Wednesday). While a few of these bodies were sent from Ghaziabad and Delhi, a majority of them are from Gurugram, the staffers said.The crematorium records, accessed by Hindustan Times, show that the Sector 32 crematorium alone recorded 17 and 40 Covid-19 deaths of city residents on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, while the Madanpuri crematorium recorded 23 and 26 Covid-19 deaths, respectively, over the past two days. According to the health department data, however, 13 deaths were reported in the past three days from Gurugram, including five on Monday. Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “Over 45 bodies arrived within the past 12 hours (from Wednesday noon). Of these, 40 were of Covid-19 deaths from Gurugram. The others were from Ghaziabad and New Delhi. In the past four days, the count of bodies has increased and we have been cremating bodies till 11 in the night.” “We fill all details of the deceased and follow protocols set by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). All bodies of Covid-19 deaths cremated here are recorded,” he said. Sharma said they receive at least eight to 10 calls daily from people informing them of Covid-19 deaths at home and enquiring about funeral proceedings. In some cases, the Covid-19 test reports are awaited, but cremation is done as per Covid-19 protocols. Such cases are not recorded as Covid deaths, he said.Officials of the health department attributed the discrepancy in numbers to differences in protocols followed by the MCG. The health department data shows that 31 deaths were recorded in the district from April 1 to 21.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Only those deaths confirmed by hospitals as Covid-19 are shown as official in the health department bulletin. The crematorium data comes under the MCG.” However, officials of the MCG said their data is based on hospital reports.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said, “We collect death summary and Covid-19 positive reports. We are not aware why the data of the health department is not matching with crematoria data. We are collecting our data on a daily basis.”The city has three Covid-19 cremation grounds at Sector 32, Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk, and Madan Puri near Pataudi Chowk, while three burial grounds have been earmarked in Sector 58 near the Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village, and Badshahpur village. Singla said they presently have two dedicated ambulances for transporting Covid-19 bodies to crematoriums from hospitals and that two more vehicles will be addedto handle the surge. “The two ambulances are transporting over 30 Covid-19 bodies daily. Before handing over the bodies to the ambulance drivers, the hospital staff issue death summary and Covid-19 positive reports and these are duly handed over to the crematorium staff,” he said. Amit Kumar (33), a private ambulance driver for the past 10 years, said on average, he is transporting two Covid-19 bodies to cremation grounds daily. “I have never seen this kind of rush. There is no space to even park vehicles and bodies are lined up on platforms,” he said. A spot check by an HT team at the Madanpuri cremation ground found that bodies were lined up on all 26 cremation platforms, of which two are electric. Grieving kin in PPE overalls stood at a distance and watched as MCG workers placed the bodies on pyres. A team of four workers prepared one pyre after another, as ambulances kept arriving without a break. “The rush has been ongoing for days. Families are not allowed to come near the body. The family member who has to perform the last rites lights the torch. But it is the MCG worker who puts the torch to the pyre,” said Vinod Kumar, who has been working 12-hour shifts at the electric crematorium since the pandemic started. “Every day, over 30 bodies of Covid-19 patients arrive here for last rites,” he said. It is in the last week that hospitalisation has increased dramatically from at least 171 on April 1 to 806 on Wednesday, stretching the existing health infrastructure to saturation point. The situation is constantly deteriorating due to a record surge in daily new infections. Gurugam on Wednesday reported 2,988 new infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. The total number of cases now stands at 88,866, of which 16,027 are active. Families of Covid-19 victims continued to opt for last rites instead of electric cremations, even as protocols state that electric cremations should be preferred to avoid the spread of infection. “There are only two electric furnaces, but most of the people refuse an electric cremation. Since rituals take time, there is a waiting time of at least an hour for a cremation on platforms,” said Kumar. The teams performing last rites have undergone basic training on sanitising the body, covering it in a transparent, protective sheet even as families watch from a distance. MCG officials said the ashes are handed over to the family later. Singla said the ambulances are thoroughly disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride upon returning to the MCG’s health branch office in Sector 39, where the vehicles are stationed. “To ensure there is no contact with the driver, each ambulance has two compartments, separating the space where the body is kept from the driver,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/officially-only-8-died-of-covid-in-gurugram-in-2-days-but-crematoriums-handle-over-100-such-bodies-101619027923818.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Plasma stock low amid rising demand due to case spike||The plasma bank set up by the district administration in the district has almost run out of stock amid increasing demand due to rising Covid-19 infections, with residents being allowed to avail of stock only if they bring along a donor.Dr Mahima Kilhor, medical officer at Rotary Blood Bank, who is also the nodal in-charge of the plasma bank, said, “At present, the stock at plasma bank is almost nil because voluntary donation of plasma is not happening. In the past few months, when Covid-19 cases reduced, people stopped donating plasma and now, suddenly, there is a peak in cases, with increased demand for plasma.”However, Dr Kilhor could not provide data about stock availability or the demand at present.Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer said, “We are constantly working with the district administration to increase the stock of plasma in the bank. We have roped in societies like Red Cross to help us ensure availability of plasma and are also trying to motivate public to come forward and donate voluntarily.”According to the health department data, Gurugram’s active caseload stands at 16,027 cases, with over 12,000 patients in home isolation. Due to the rising number of cases, the rate of recovery in Gurugram has gone down from 90-99% and stands around 82% at present. The fatality rate in the district currently stands at 0.44%.“At present, the requests that we are getting for plasma are being met with replacements. If anyone is Covid-19 positive and needs plasma, then their family members, relatives or friends are donating the same. A particular data has not been maintained regarding the demand, but it is quite high, and we are getting calls on a daily basis,” added Dr Kilhor.A person, who has fully recovered from Covid-19, can donate plasma, which contains antibodies to fight the infection. In July last year, the district administration inaugurated Gurugram’s first convalescent plasma bank for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at the Rotary Blood Bank in Sector 10. The bank has a capacity of storing over 1,000 units of plasma, with each unit costing ₹8,500.When asked if any sensitisation campaigns are being planned, she said that appeals have been made to recovered patients to donate plasma, “but the willingness to do so is lesser this year among people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plasma-stock-low-amid-rising-demand-due-to-case-spike-101619027864632.html
