22-04-2021||Gurugram||25MLD sewage plant in the works for Manesar||To increase sewage treatment capacity in Manesar, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start constructing a sewage treatment plant (STP) having a capacity of 25 million litres per day (MLD) from July, said officials. “This new STP will focus on sewage treatment of all villages falling on the stretch from Manesar till Naharpur Kasan village. This will be in addition to the 50 MLD STP already functional for Industrial Model Township area of Manesar,” said a senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity. The authority has invited tenders for the project and given time till May 11 for companies to submit proposals. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and lack of labour force, the official cited above said that on-ground work is likely to get delayed, and start by July, with a target to finish the project by December 2022. The official cited above said that they have decided to undertake the work on behalf of the health department, following a request in this regard. “The public health department is supposed to provide sewerage facilities in villages of Manesar region under Mahagram Yojana, but they did not have land available with them. So, GMDA is providing the land while the public health department will bear the cost, which is estimated to be around ₹31.76 crore,” the official said. Meanwhile, the authority is also working on a project for using treated water from the Common Effluent Treatment Plant in Manesar IMT for horticulture work in green belts and industrial purposes. A proposal in this regard was prepared by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and tabled during the 8th authority meeting that was held on April 9. Around 45-48 MLD of treated wastewater will be made available by GMDA for this region, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25mld-sewage-plant-in-the-works-for-manesar-101619113013231.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Civil Hospital suspends OPD, non-emergency surgeries||To divert the maximum resources towards managing Covid-19 cases, all non-emergency surgeries and out-patient department (OPD) services for non-emergency cases at the Civil Hospital will be suspended from Friday, doctors familiar with the developments said on Thursday.“Due to increasing Covid-19 cases, we have been asked by our higher authorities to temporarily stop OPD services for dermatology, dental, general surgery. Routine surgeries will not take place in the hospital as we are completely focusing on managing Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, which is the only major government hospital in the city.Senior doctors said that the move will allow them to increase bed capacity for treating Covid-19 positive and suspected patients. According to health department data, Gurugram’s active caseload stands at over 18,000 cases. The rate of recovery in Gurugram is at 79.96%, while the fatality rate is at 0.43%.“This week, we were able to augment the beds in the hospital for treating Covid-19 patients. We now have separate wards for positive patients and suspected patients. Earlier, we were only treating suspected patients. We have 21 beds for positive patients, which will be increased to 30 by next week, while 20 more beds will be added for suspected cases. By stopping the non-emergency surgeries, we are able to divert those resources also for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.Doctors said that on average, 20 surgeries take place every week, but these will now be delayed.Dr Sanjay Narula, consultant, general surgery, Civil Hospital, said, “All routine surgeries have been cancelled but emergency cases like caesarean deliveries will be conducted. The surgeries for issues such as hernia, which were scheduled, have been put on a wait list for now. With both general and orthopaedic surgeries, around 20 surgeries per week (estimated) will get affected and patients put on a wait list.”He said that patients have also stopped visiting the OPD due to fear of rising cases. “Inflow of patients in OPD has reduced to almost one-third of the usual. I would usually see around 100-125 patients daily in OPD, but now, it has reduced to around 40. People are scared to visit hospitals,” said Narula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/civil-hospital-suspends-opd-non-emergency-surgeries-101619113012665.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Markets, shops selling non-essentials to shut from 6pm||All markets and shops selling non-essential items will shut from 6pm starting Friday, state home minister Anil Vij said in an interaction with media persons on Thursday, adding that the order will be implemented in concurrence with the ongoing night curfew.With Covid-19 cases rising unabated — the district recording 3,553 new infections and 10 deaths on Thursday — permissions have to be taken for functions and social gatherings from subdistrict magistrates concerned, Vij said. “To curb the spread of Covid-19, we can either impose a lockdown or enforce safety protocols strictly. As we have reiterated that a lockdown would not be imposed, we decided that all shops should shut at 6pm,” said Vij, who is also the health minister for the state. Even as detailed orders from the state government are awaited, the Gurugram police confirmed that directions in this regard were issued in a meeting chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, held with officials of district administrations and police on Thursday. “We will ensure the compliance of the directions issued by the government in this matter,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police.In the interaction with the media, Vij said that the Covid-19 safeguards must be implemented strictly to ensure that economic activities are not affected. “I have asked the home department, urban local bodies department, industries and other departments to enforce mask discipline and social distancing strictly,” Vij said. Stating that more than half of the cases in the state were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat, Vij said that 800 Covid-19 beds will be added to facilities in Gurugram and a nodal officer would be appointed to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen and other equipment. The health minister also refuted allegations that Haryana was denying oxygen supply to any state. “We are following the allocation made by the Central government, by which 140 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen will be supplied to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 50 MT to Punjab,” said Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/markets-shops-selling-non-essentials-to-shut-from-6pm-101619113011855.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Crematorium staff raise health concerns over violations by hospitals||Staff at the Sector 32 and Madanpuri crematoriums alleged that a few private hospitals were sending bodies of Covid-19 victims wrapped in bedsheets, instead of body bags, as mandated to prevent the spread of the virus. They said that rules were violated in at least three instances over the last two days.Sharing footage of one such incident on Thursday, staff at the Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32 raised health concerns, to themselves as well as the public, due to the violations. They said that ambulance drivers were also not wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and taking the help of family members to carry the bodies.In the footage, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, the driver of an ambulance is seen entering the crematorium in an ambulance and placing a body on one of the platforms without following any precautions.Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “In one instance, family members (of a Covid-19 victim) who had come in private cabs did not take any precautionary measures despite a Covid death in the family. They are at risk of getting infected as they were standing close to the body before handing it over to us.”As per the protocols, a body is kept in a crematorium near the platform for 30 minutes for people to pay their respects from a distance.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they will issue a notice to the hospitals concerned to ensure such violations are not repeated. “We have already passed directions to not send any corpse without body bags. A body cover with a transparent face area should be used. The driver is instructed to wear PPE kits and no family members are allowed to touch the body. Strict action will be taken against people violating the protocols,” he said.Singla said the hospitals have procured these body bags but small nursing homes are still not fully equipped to handle the bodies of Covid-19 patients. There is no shortage across the market and each hospital should keep at least five bags in case of emergency, he said.Vinod Kumar, a staffer at the Madanpuri cremation ground, said that every day, there is at least one such violation. “All day, we are handling and cremating bodies, but we do not want to risk our lives. The hospitals should be held responsible for such negligent and careless approach,” he said.Sharma said that in one instance, the body of a Covid-19 victim was placed in a public area in the vicinity of the crematorium, following which they complained to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the hospital that sent the ambulance.Family members of Covid-19 victims said they were unaware of the protocol, but admitted that they were not allowed to travel to the crematorium along with the bodies. “We learned after coming here that there is such a protocol and we are not supposed to handle the body or touch it. We performed the last rites standing at a distance,” said a resident of New Palam Vihar, who was performing the last rites of his elder brother at the Sector 32 facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/crematorium-staff-raise-health-concerns-over-violations-by-hospitals-101619113011237.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals fall short of oxygen, supply from Bhiwadi resumes||Hospitals in the city reported a shortage of oxygen on Thursday and sought help from the state, due to an increase in consumption owing to the sharp spike in serious Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks and the supplier in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan halting shipments due to a ban by the state government.“1 hour oxygen left in Fortis Gurugram. Tanker from Bhiwadi not allowed to come to Haryana. We cater to Pt from all India they cannot pay price for a political war,” Dr Rahul Bhargava, director, bone marrow transplant programme, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, tweeted at 4.11pm on Thursday.Officials of the administration said that the supplier in Bhiwadi resumed operations on Thursday after discussions with the Rajasthan government. “There was a delay on the part of the hospital to inform us about the situation. The hospital had a tie-up with the Bhiwadi plant. To tackle the situation, the deputy commissioner coordinated with the supplier and arranged the oxygen required by the hospital,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department.The management of the Fortis Memorial Research Institute later confirmed that they received the supply. “Tanker from Bhiwadi has reached averting a serious crisis,” a statement from the hospital read.However, other hospitals in the city said that a crisis is looming.An official from Artemis Hospitals said, “Yes, there is an acute shortage. We are living one day at a time with 24-hour oxygen (supply) at any given time. Refilling with liquid oxygen is a challenge for continuous supply; even oxygen cylinders are not available. It is leading to huge stress on the medical staff. They are getting demoralised as patient care is adversely affected.”Anil khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that the administration has asked them to increase the number of beds, but they are unable to fulfil the demand of patients already undergoing treatment. “There has been increase in the demand and if we add more beds, we will not be able to meet fill the requirement. Upgrading infrastructure with the current situation is not possible. We used to get 90 cylinders refilled twice a week but now, we need the same twice a day due to the number of patients,” he said. Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy hospital in Civil Lines and Sector 90, said that they are reeling under an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. “We need at least 90 oxygen cylinders for our Covid-19 patients but are getting a supply of hardly 10 a day. Two suppliers have stopped supply due to the increased demand. If the situation remains the same for the next few days, the number of causalities will increase. We are somehow making do at present, as we have an oxygen generation plant,” he said.The short supply comes at a time when neighbouring Delhi is dealing with an unprecedented crisis, with hospitals approaching courts and pleading for replenishment of their oxygen stocks. A few Delhi hospitals on Thursday had to discharge their patients, as their oxygen stock ran out.At present, the district has 18,120 active cases of Covid-19, of whom 1,055 are currently hospitalised.Arora said that currently, the oxygen demand of Gurugram is almost 28-30 metric tonnes a day, which the state is trying to fulfil from oxygen plants in Panipat, Bhiwadi and Himachal Pradesh.“Panipat-based plant has a capacity to produce 240MT oxygen. As discussed in a meeting with the Central government on Thursday, over 140 MT has been allocated to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 20MT to Punjab to ensure there is an uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals. Haryana has also been getting 20MT of oxygen from Bhiwadi, Rajasthan and 20 MT from Himachal Pradesh. Overall, the Central government has allocated over 162 MT oxygen supply for Haryana,” he said.The oxygen plant in Bhiwadi was the main source of medical oxygen for Gurugram hospitals, as over 20 metric tonnes were supplied every day. The supply resumed on Thursday after the state government and district administration spoke with the Rajasthan government, said officials.Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that the situation improved on Thursday as supply has been resumed from Bhiwadi and the situation should normalise by Thursday night. “If we get regular supply from Panipat and Bhiwadi, we will have enough for all of our hospitals,” he said.“We sent Fortis an oxygen tanker and 100 oxygen cylinders to ensure there is enough supply for the patients,” he added.Meanwhile, staff of smaller hospitals in the district are dependent on oxygen cylinders from a Manesar facility and said they have to queue up for hours to get their quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-fall-short-of-oxygen-supply-from-bhiwadi-resumes-101619113010666.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital beds for Covid-19 patients increased as cases shoot past 3,500||The district on Thursday reported 3,553 new Covid-19 cases, the first time the single-day spike has crossed 3,000, and 10 deaths, following which the district administration issued a slew of directions to increase the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients.“It has been decided to reserve more oxygen and ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in both private and government hospitals. Of the total, 60% of general beds and 75% of ICU beds will be reserved for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.The district administration also appointed officials to ensure that seriously ill patients are given priority for hospitalisation, and directed private hospitals to record the number of patients admitted on the administration’s recommendation. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also conducted a review meeting to assess the emerging situation caused by the surge in cases of Covid-19 across the state.Increasing bed capacity is expected to alleviate the stress of home isolation for moderate to serious patients, many of whom took to the social media platforms to complain about the difficulty in getting hospital admissions and medicines for treatment.As per details shared by the health department, the highest single-day spike of cases on Thursday took the total to 92,419 cases and the active cases to 18,120, with 17,968 in home isolation. On Thursday, 1,450 patients recovered from Covid-19.Officials said that the number of daily cases hit a record high on consecutive days, with the district recording 2,988 cases on Wednesday. The fatality rate is currently at 0.4%.Yadav said that the health department will expand testing, vaccination and also focus more on isolating the micro-containment zones in the city. “We have also recommended that micro-containment zones should be increased in the city and directions in this regard have been issued by the authorities,” he said.“People should wear masks, avoid gatherings and those in isolation should monitor their vitals regularly to avoid complications,” said Yadav.On the testing front, the health department collected 12,067 samples and reported that the results of 7,679 patients were awaited.Meanwhile, in the review meeting held by the chief minister, Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram stated that 40-50% of beds in general wards were reserved for Covid-19 patients. He also said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district and an HCS (Haryana Civil Services) official has been deputed for allocation of oxygen for hospitals.Garg also said that the positivity rate of Covid-19 patients in the district stood at 22-23% and that 200 to 300 patients of the 2,500 to 3,000 cases every day require hospitalisation.The nodal officer will ensure proper allotment of beds to patients and hospitals have been asked to inform how many patients were admitted on the recommendations of district administration, an order issued by the deputy commissioner stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients-increased-as-cases-shoot-past-3500-101619112950658.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Officially, only 8 died of Covid in Gurugram in 2 days, but crematoriums handle over 100 such bodies||The health department in Gurugram reported four Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday and four more on Wednesday, but cremation ground staff say they have performed the last rites of at least 106 bodies, as per Covid-19 protocols, over the past two days(till 10pm Wednesday). While a few of these bodies were sent from Ghaziabad and Delhi, a majority of them are from Gurugram, the staffers said.The crematorium records, accessed by Hindustan Times, show that the Sector 32 crematorium alone recorded 17 and 40 Covid-19 deaths of city residents on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, while the Madanpuri crematorium recorded 23 and 26 Covid-19 deaths, respectively, over the past two days. According to the health department data, however, 13 deaths were reported in the past three days from Gurugram, including five on Monday. Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “Over 45 bodies arrived within the past 12 hours (from Wednesday noon). Of these, 40 were of Covid-19 deaths from Gurugram. The others were from Ghaziabad and New Delhi. In the past four days, the count of bodies has increased and we have been cremating bodies till 11 in the night.” Also Read | Bengal reports highest daily spike of 10,784 Covid-19 cases, 58 new fatalities“We fill all details of the deceased and follow protocols set by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). All bodies of Covid-19 deaths cremated here are recorded,” he said. Sharma said they receive at least eight to 10 calls daily from people informing them of Covid-19 deaths at home and enquiring about funeral proceedings. In some cases, the Covid-19 test reports are awaited, but cremation is done as per Covid-19 protocols. Such cases are not recorded as Covid deaths, he said.Officials of the health department attributed the discrepancy in numbers to differences in protocols followed by the MCG. The health department data shows that 31 deaths were recorded in the district from April 1 to 21.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Only those deaths confirmed by hospitals as Covid-19 are shown as official in the health department bulletin. The crematorium data comes under the MCG.” However, officials of the MCG said their data is based on hospital reports.Also Read | Jharkhand reports 4,969 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deathsAshish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said, “We collect death summary and Covid-19 positive reports. We are not aware why the data of the health department is not matching with crematoria data. We are collecting our data on a daily basis.”The city has three Covid-19 cremation grounds at Sector 32, Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk, and Madan Puri near Pataudi Chowk, while three burial grounds have been earmarked in Sector 58 near the Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village, and Badshahpur village. Singla said they presently have two dedicated ambulances for transporting Covid-19 bodies to crematoriums from hospitals and that two more vehicles will be addedto handle the surge. “The two ambulances are transporting over 30 Covid-19 bodies daily. Before handing over the bodies to the ambulance drivers, the hospital staff issue death summary and Covid-19 positive reports and these are duly handed over to the crematorium staff,” he said. Amit Kumar (33), a private ambulance driver for the past 10 years, said on average, he is transporting two Covid-19 bodies to cremation grounds daily. “I have never seen this kind of rush. There is no space to even park vehicles and bodies are lined up on platforms,” he said. A spot check by an HT team at the Madanpuri cremation ground found that bodies were lined up on all 26 cremation platforms, of which two are electric. Grieving kin in PPE overalls stood at a distance and watched as MCG workers placed the bodies on pyres. A team of four workers prepared one pyre after another, as ambulances kept arriving without a break. “The rush has been ongoing for days. Families are not allowed to come near the body. The family member who has to perform the last rites lights the torch. But it is the MCG worker who puts the torch to the pyre,” said Vinod Kumar, who has been working 12-hour shifts at the electric crematorium since the pandemic started. “Every day, over 30 bodies of Covid-19 patients arrive here for last rites,” he said. Also Watch | How HC slammed Centre on Delhi hospitals’ Oxygen SOS, The 5 Key ObservationsIt is in the last week that hospitalisation has increased dramatically from at least 171 on April 1 to 806 on Wednesday, stretching the existing health infrastructure to saturation point. The situation is constantly deteriorating due to a record surge in daily new infections. Gurugam on Wednesday reported 2,988 new infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. The total number of cases now stands at 88,866, of which 16,027 are active. Families of Covid-19 victims continued to opt for last rites instead of electric cremations, even as protocols state that electric cremations should be preferred to avoid the spread of infection. “There are only two electric furnaces, but most of the people refuse an electric cremation. Since rituals take time, there is a waiting time of at least an hour for a cremation on platforms,” said Kumar. The teams performing last rites have undergone basic training on sanitising the body, covering it in a transparent, protective sheet even as families watch from a distance. MCG officials said the ashes are handed over to the family later. Singla said the ambulances are thoroughly disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride upon returning to the MCG’s health branch office in Sector 39, where the vehicles are stationed. “To ensure there is no contact with the driver, each ambulance has two compartments, separating the space where the body is kept from the driver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-8-covid-19-deaths-in-2-days-but-106-cremations-performed-101619029119845.html
