25-04-2021||Gurugram||Health department asks for more ambulances, police re-purpose 20 vans for emergency use||The health department has asked the Gurugram district administration for seven additional Covid-19 dedicated ambulances due to the recent spike in cases and more people needing medical assistance, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. In a related development, the police department has also re-purposed 20 vans into ambulances to deal with the increasing demand.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer said in addition to nine existing ambulances, the health department has requested seven more. “With increasing cases, the demand is increasing. To tackle that, earlier this week, we wrote to the district administration requesting them to provide seven additional ambulances with advanced life support systems,” said Dr Singh. Of the nine ambulances currently in use, two have advanced life support systems, while others have basic life support systems. The health department has also deployed one ambulance each in Sohna and Pataudi blocks. In total, there are 24 ambulances at present. According to Dr Singh, in January and February, the 108 emergency helpline received six to eight calls each month, requesting ambulances for Covid-19 positive patients, which increased to over 100 in March. However, the health department is currently receiving 34-45 calls every day, due to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases.When asked if there are delays in taking patients to hospitals due to the increased demand, Singh said, “It does take a little time to follow all the procedures and take patients to hospitals, because we are mostly getting calls for transfers to patients being referred to other hospitals. Further, to make sure that patients are not made to wait on calls while requesting an ambulance, we are upgrading our technology in the 108-control room, which will be functional from this week.”At present, active cases in the district stand at over 25,000 with the health department expecting the number to rise. The positivity rate in the district is also around 25%. The district administration on Saturday held a review meeting and decided to increase beds, create more facilities and also enforce safeguards strictly. Officials said that people can also reach the health department on 7015663108, to request an ambulance. PCR vehicles turned into ambulancesThe police on Sunday converted 20 police control room (PCR) vans into ambulances to help with emergencies. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said they are receiving multiple calls every day from distressed residents who are unable to get an ambulance. “It was seen that those in need were unable to get an ambulance due to shortage of them with the rising number of cases. Through this initiative, we are trying to help family members who need help in these difficult times,” he said. The police said that these 20 vehicles are stationed in different areas for quick response. Officials said that residents can call or send messages through WhatsApp on a dedicated helpline, 9999999953, launched on Sunday for Covid-related issues. The police said that residents can also send complaints about black marketing of medicines and suggestions on police action.Rao said all 41 station house officers (SHOs) have been directed to be on alert and to respond to all distress calls promptly. “These ambulances are for free, there are no charges and people should only use them in case of emergency. People should not occupy the beds in hospitals if not required,” he said. These ambulances will be used to shift patients with conformed beds in hospitals. Green corridors are created across the city in case of emergency, the police said. The police said that they have also enlisted a panel of doctors for providing free consultations to Covid-19 patients through calls and video conferencing. In other initiatives, the police are using MCG water cannon vehicles to spray disinfectant across the city, especially in crowded areas such as Sadar market, railway station, bus stand, community markets and near malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-department-asks-for-more-ambulances-police-re-purpose-20-vans-for-emergency-use-101619373076244.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||RWAs aid staffers who have tested positive for Covid-19||Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and residents across the city are undertaking a slew of measures, such as collecting monetary donations, gathering medical and food supplies, for providing assistance and aid to maintenance staff and security guards in condominiums and societies, who have been hit by the Covid-19 disease amid the wave affecting the entire country.In DLF Phases 1 and 2, at least 10 maintenance staffers and four security guards have tested positive for Covid-19, according to the residents of the townships. To aid them, the RWA there is procuring medicines from local chemists and also providing them with accommodation for isolation purposes.“We have tied up with gurudwaras and local NGOs, who have provided lodging for maintenance staff and security guards for isolating themselves at their facilities. We are also incurring all the costs for their meals and have tied up with a local chemist to ensure they have a continuous supply of vital medicines, such as multivitamins, cough, and cold medicines. We are also looking for local hospitals and health centres, through which the staff’s health condition can be monitored regularly and medical aid can be provided to them if their condition deteriorates,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Qutub Enclave RWA, which looks after DLF phases 1 and 2.In all, the townships have more than 40 active Covid-19 cases, according to Bansal.At a Covid-19 testing camp held at Carlton Estate in Sector 54 last week, two security guards tested positive.“The security guards were immediately sent home. They have been regularly provided with financial assistance by the RWA to procure meals and medicines. The RWA came to know that one of the guards was staying alone in the city. We arranged transportation for him, and a taxi dropped him at his home town in Uttar Pradesh where he could be looked after properly by his relatives,” said Pawan Tharwani, president of Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA).At Carlton Estate, two towers are currently under containment, with at least residents in 30 apartments isolating after testing positive for Covid-19.At Westend Heights in DLF-5, 19 maintenance staff tested positive during a Covid-19 testing camp held in the condominium.“Besides the maintenance staff, few security guards also tested positive for Covid-19 recently. Since then, through various social platforms, residents have come forward for their assistance and have agreed to provide financial and medical assistance to those affected. Residents have also volunteered to arrange oxygen cylinders so that they can be availed of during an emergency,” said Saket Arora, a resident of Westend Heights. Three towers in Westend Heights are currently under containment.The RWA of Westend Heights said that many volunteer support groups are available round-the-clock to provide help for the smooth implementation of services. “Camps for testing and vaccinations for residents, staff as well as part-time and full-time helps are regularly conducted. Daily sanitisation of all lifts and common area happens every day,” said Priti Anand, secretary, Westend Heights condominium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwas-aid-staffers-who-have-tested-positive-for-covid19-101619373075621.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals report vaccine shortage, residents worried over second dose||Hospitals across the city are reporting a shortage of vaccines, due to which residents who have taken the first jab are concerned over the non-availability as they have to take the second jab within the stipulated time frame.Multi-speciality hospitals across the city said they are awaiting vaccine supply, with some not having received stock for four days. Many residents also took to social media expressing their concerns over the delay in getting vaccinated.Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy hospital, located in Civil Lines and Sector 90, said that they have not received vaccines for the last four days. “There has been an acute shortage of vaccines. People are following up for their second jab, but they are unable to get them,” he said.Representatives of a private hospital in Sector 56 said they are struggling to get the supply of vaccines, while Artemis Hospitals has halted vaccination drives in residential societies and offices due to low stock.“The pace of vaccination has slowed down due to problems in supply of vaccines. Vaccination drive in residential societies and corporates/workplaces has been put on halt temporarily. We are hopeful that with the help of district administration we will soon overcome glitches and have our community vaccinated,” said Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent, Artemis Hospitals Gurugram.In Gurugram, the vaccination drive is being conducted in 89 hospitals, including 37 government health centres and 52 private hospitals, said officials. However, officials of the health department refuted the allegations and said that sufficient doses of vaccines are available, even as private hospitals have put up messages outside vaccination rooms over the process being on hold due to non-availability of stock. Officials said that if the hospital where residents took their first shot does not have stock, they can take the second vaccine shot at another facility where stock is available.Officials said that the hospitals are getting the supply as per their demands on a daily basis. The district is replenishing its stock every three to four days, with no fixed quota, said officials. Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “Sufficient vaccine doses, over 25,000, are currently available with the health department. The health department provides doses as per the requirement of the hospitals to avoid any vaccine wastage or stocking up of vials. In one particular case, the hospital concerned failed to provide the required doses, based on the footfall of vaccine beneficiaries.”The footfall of people turning up for vaccinations has increased due to the recent spikes in Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, 2,591 people received the first dose of vaccine, while 2,526 people took the second jab across session sites, said officials. So far, 464,840 have received vaccines, said officials.Senior citizens are concerned that they might have to restart the vaccination process if they are unable to take the vaccine doses on time.The Centre has recommended a gap of six to eight weeks between the two doses of Covishield vaccine, while a gap of four to six weeks is recommended for the Covaxin vaccine. Vimla Devi, (75), a resident of DLF Phase-3, said that she was due to take her second vaccine shot between April 15 and 25, but is waiting to do so as the hospital is yet to receive its stock. “I have been checking with the hospital for the last three days, but there is no supply,” she said.“I am worried now as there will be a rush in all hospitals after May 1 and with the current shortage of vaccines, those who need it will be ignored,” said Murti Sharma, a resident of Sector 54, who has been following up with a hospital in Sushant Lok-1 over vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-report-vaccine-shortage-residents-worried-over-second-dose-101619373074808.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||50 shanties gutted in fire at Wazirabad village, no injuries||Around 50 shanties and stores were gutted in a massive fire that broke out at Wazirabad village in Sector 52 on Sunday night. No injuries were reported in the incident, said officials.According to fire department officials, the incident was reported at 12.15am on Sunday, following which seven fire tenders were sent to the spot, located near the Bihari market. It took fire department officials three hours to douse the flames and they were able to stop the fire from spreading to at least 100 more shanties in the area, said officials.“The cause of the fire is yet to be determined. Sporadic LPG cylinder blasts stored inside the shanties as well as strong winds aggravated the blaze. We doused the blaze within three hours and all fire tenders returned to their respective fire brigades by 4.30am,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Kashyap said that the fire department was able to control the blaze within an hour of starting the dousing operations, while ensuring the flames did not spread to an adjoining area, where 100 more shanties are located.Residents said that most of them were asleep as the fire broke out around midnight.“The fire broke out around midnight and most people were sleeping at the time. I was also sleeping. Two people woke me up and told me that a fire broke out. I left in a hurry. Within minutes, my shop was engulfed in flames,” said Musir, a resident, who owned a sugarcane shop in the vicinity.Residents said that around 40 shanties and 12 shops were gutted in the incident.“Besides the cylinder blasts, a hardware store too caught fire. Due to paints and chemicals stored inside, the store was highly flammable, and it further aggravated the blaze. I have been staying here for the past five years. Suddenly, I am left without a home and my daily source of income,” said Musir.Of the 100 shanties that were saved, 22 were unoccupied and those affected have relocated there temporarily.“The contractor owning the shanties has adjusted everyone in the unoccupied shanties. These were constructed recently and hence, were empty. Four to five people are staying in each of these shanties temporarily. The contractor said that all gutted items will be removed by Tuesday and by Thursday, 20 new shanties will be erected so that those displaced can have a home once again,” said Tamim, a ragpicker, whose shanty was also gutted in the incident. It is the third such major fire incident this month that broke out among a cluster of shanties.On April 3, over 180 shanties were gutted in Nathupur village, and on April 11, over 100 shanties and structures storing scrap and plastic waste were gutted after a fire broke out at a field in Naharpur Kasan, near Sector 6 of Manesar. No injuries were reported in both incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/50-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-wazirabad-village-no-injuries-101619373074077.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram health dept to set up independent quarantine centres with oxygen beds soon||As the plan to increase hospital beds in Gurugram is still under execution, the district health department on Saturday recommended setting up independent quarantine centres with oxygen beds, in collaboration with private companies, philanthropists, and welfare trusts in the city.The reason for setting up the proposed 100-bed quarantine centres is that the number of critical Covid-19 patients who require oxygen support is expected to rise further. The proposal was discussed during a review meeting held under the chairmanship of TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, Haryana — who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 related issues in Gurugram. Besides the proposal to set up quarantine centres, Gupta also asked the nodal officers to ensure that the hospital beds were made available to critical patients.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the number of cases were expected to increase, and there was an urgent need to create independent quarantine centres for critical patients, apart from augmenting bed capacity in the hospitals. “It was decided in today’s meeting that the hospital beds will be increased by 1,000. But our key proposal is to collaborate with private sector firms, trusts, and philanthropists to set up quarantine centres of 100 beds with oxygen support,” Yadav said, adding that these facilities could be set up at community centres, banquet halls, and other such places.Private companies can also set up such facilities under the corporate social responsibility programme, and city-based developers can come forward to set up such large-scale quarantine centres. “We could also utilise vacant towers in a newly built unoccupied project to create such a facility,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.In a related development, Rao Inderjit Singh, MP, Gurugram, released ₹50 lakh to the district administrations of Gurugram, Rewari and Mewat from the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) fund on Saturday for the immediate purchase of essential medicines and equipment. “I have decided to release this money for the immediate purchase of medicines and other equipment needed for Covid-19 patients. More money from the MPLADS fund would be released as and when required,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-dept-to-set-up-independent-quarantine-centres-with-oxygen-beds-soon-101619373067007.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Rewari resident arrested for black marketing remdesivir||A Rewari resident was arrested for black marketing remdesivir, a broad-spectrum antiviral medication, and charging ₹23,000 per vial even as a shortage continues in the market, the police said.In a joint raid by the chief minister’s flying squad and district drug controller on Saturday night, a decoy customer was sent to buy the injection, at a mobile shop, and the suspect was arrested while delivering the medication, the police said.Remdesivir is being used to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients, although experts have said that it is not a sure-shot treatment. The demand for remdesivir has shot up over the last month, with an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases and those having access to the medicine are hoarding them to make a quick buck, the police said.To be sure, seven companies producing remdesivir in India have slashed prices by an average of 39%, with the costliest variant, offered by Hetero Healthcare, is priced at ₹3,490 for a 100mg vial.The police identified the suspect as Rahul, of Chauki Bareilly village in Rewari, who worked as a compounder in a hospital, from where he allegedly stole the medicines.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said they received a tip-off, following which they asked a decoy customer to call the suspect and ask for a delivery. “ Rahul asked him to pay ₹23,000 for remdesivir injection to an associate at a mobile shop. The decoy, along with the police team, went to buy the injection and caught him red-handed while he was delivering the injection,” he said.Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that they conducted a reconnaissance of the area on Tuesday. “We are yet to verify details from where the injection was supplied to the private hospital and how Rahul stole them. The number of vials and the persons who bought them are also being ascertained,” he said.A case was registered at Rewari police station, and after his arrest, police recovered one remdesivir injection and a mobile phone from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rewari-resident-arrested-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-101619373008791.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen only for medical use, supply to Gurugram increased||The state government on Sunday banned the supply of oxygen to industrial units, barring a few key exceptions, to ensure adequate stock of medical supply for treatment of Covid-19 patients, even as the authorities increased the allocation of oxygen to Gurugram to 35 metric tonnes (MT). Officials familiar with the developments said that an additional stock of 10 MT will be available with the district administration for emergencies.Invoking the powers conferred under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the state government prohibited all oxygen manufacturers and suppliers from providing oxygen to industries. All oxygen units were also directed to dedicate complete supply for medical purposes and also to ensure production of maximum capacity. Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, health, said that a call centre has also been set up to monitor the oxygen supply in all the districts. “Based on the daily feedback From the chief medical officers (CMOs), any area facing shortage will be supplied gas on priority,” he said in a statement on Sunday. The industries exempted from the oxygen ban are pharmaceutical companies, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy plants, oxygen cylinder producers, waste treatment plants, food and water purification establishments, process industries with furnaces, ampule and vial makers. Gurugram’s deputy commissioner on Sunday also formed an eight-member committee to devise a district-level oxygen distribution and monitoring plan for the city. The committee will assess the average oxygen requirement of the district, individual requirement of hospitals, current availability, and projected requirement for at least the next four days, an order issued by Garg stated. “Accordingly, movement of oxygen tankers should be planned. The team should have a list of all supplies and vendors including Air Liquide, Panipat (from where oxygen is supplied). The committee shall also be responsible for preparing a daily oxygen distribution plan, distributing oxygen rationally,” the order issued by Garg, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, stated.The eight-member committee comprises seven officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and one official of the Gurugram police department. The district administration also observed that private hospitals first assure them that oxygen supply was adequate but later make distress calls on social media, which creates panic. “These issues are also posted on Twitter and it creates panic. Today, a private hospital was supplied oxygen in Palam Vihar after it flagged the matter on social media,” a spokesperson for the district administration said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/oxygen-only-for-medical-use-supply-to-gurugram-increased-101619373008258.html
25-04-2021||Gurugram||3,410 new infections take caseload past 100,000||The district crossed the 100,000 mark of Covid-19 cases, with 3,410 new infections reported on Sunday, while 11 Covid-related deaths were also reported on the day. In order to curb the surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration also implemented Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code, prohibiting gatherings of more than four people “unless specifically permitted”.The order issued by Yash Garg, deputy commissioner Gurugram came into force from Sunday across the district. The district administration on Sunday also directed all IT and ITes companies in the city to work from home till May 3. Officials said that these measures and curb on social gatherings were taken to break the chain of infection. Meanwhile, the health department said that the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district is 103,284, while the active cases reached 25,086. The death toll due to Covid-19 reached 429 in the district, as per the data.Authorities said that 1,359 positive patients recovered from the disease on Sunday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 77,769. The rate of recovery in the district stands around 75.30%, said officials.On the testing front, the health department collected 10,091 samples and reported that the results of 6,578 patients were awaited.Appealing to the public, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, on Sunday said that people in the district must use masks at all times. “The graph of Covid-19 infection has increased more than expected in the last few days in the district, mainly due to people not wearing masks properly. A triple layer mask is important to cover the face and especially, the nose,” said Garg.Officials of the district administration said that another problem is that people who were awaiting test results were not isolating despite exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19. Garg appealed to all residents who are suspected to have Covid-19 to isolate themselves and get tested at the earliest. Those flouting norms were warned of action under the sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and The Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3410-new-infections-take-caseload-past-100000-101619373007676.html
