26-04-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi nature park to be turned into Covid care centre||With an aim to boost the health infrastructure amid the coronavirus crisis, a Covid-19 care centre is likely to be built at Bhondsi Nature Park, according to the officials on Monday.Chinar Chahal, sub-divisional magistrate, Sohna, said, “Amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, we are trying to find places where new health infrastructure could be built. A team had visited the Bhondsi Nature Park last week as it has a lot of space available. A temporary structure would be set up there. The district administration and the health department are likely to set up a Covid-19 care centre there, after estimating the total cost.”The Haryana Forest Development Corporation officials, meanwhile, said that it will be a temporary structure with around 50 oxygen beds. “We and the forest department are trying to find places that could be used for treating Covid-positive patients. The existing infrastructure at the eco-tourism destination, Bhondsi Nature Park, suits the requirements to an extent, so a temporary structure with around 50 oxygen beds could be built there,” said a senior official from the forest development corporation, requesting anonymity.The official added that the forest rest houses in other blocks of Gurugram, if required, could also be converted into Covid-19 care centres on further instructions by the district administration. Gurugram has been witnessing a continuous spike in the number of Covid-19 cases since the past few days, with the district reporting over 3,000 cases on a daily basis for the past five days.On Monday, Gurugram reported 3,555 fresh Covid-19 cases, and seven deaths. At present, Gurugram has over 27,000 active cases, with a doubling rate of 28.82 days, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bhondsi-nature-park-to-be-turned-into-covid-care-centre-101619461039726.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||17 RWAs write to DC for more empowerment, enforcement of measures||Around 17 Resident Welfare Association (RWAs) from Gurugram sent a joint letter to Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, on Sunday evening, asking for more empowerment and enforcement of measures to mitigate the spread of Covid-19 at their respective condominiums, societies, and plotted housing colonies.In the letter — a copy of which was accessed by HT — the RWAs have appealed to Garg to give them the power to take action against those violating home isolation norms repeatedly. They also highlighted that, despite a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in their residential areas and informing the local primary health centres (PHCs) about the same, the areas are either not named in the administration’s list of containment zones or added after a prolonged delay.Garg had issued an order to the RWAs on April 7, directing them to take action to encourage residents to stay indoors, discourage private functions, and ensure that everybody wears masks. His order, however, had not mentioned or given any executive powers to the RWAs for taking action against the violators. “Any suggestion or advice that can help reduce or contain the spread of the virus is always welcomed, especially during this Covid-19 crisis. All the demands of the respective RWAs will be examined, and the administration will take the next step on the matter accordingly,” Garg said on Monday.Barring Carlton Estate in DLF 5, the remaining RWAs are either located near Sohna Road or Golf Course Extension Road. The remaining 16 RWAs that submitted the joint letter to the Garg via email are: Wembley Estate, Tatvam Villas, Unitech Escape, Unitech Harmony, Uniworld Gardens, Vatika City, IREO Uptown, Grand Arch, Malibu Towne, Orchid Petals, The Nile, Vipul World, Tatvam Villas, Central Park 2, Nirvana Country, and TATA Raisina.Pawan Tharwani, president, Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA), said that there were several towers in the condominium that have been reporting a lot of Covid-19 infections. Despite informing the local PHC about the situation repeatedly, two of these towers have not been mentioned in the list of containment zones yet. “There is no prior information given or taken from the RWA on several measures. The lack of communication and clear directives on behalf of the administration are an obstacle in the efforts of the RWA to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Hence, in our letter, we have stated that the criteria for containment zones should be made clear, and the list should be updated on a daily basis. We are thus seeking the DC’s intervention in the matter,” said Tharwani, adding that two towers in the condominium were added in the list of containment zones two weeks ago, much after the RWA had highlighted the rise in the cases there.Tharwani also said that the administration had informed the RWA after three days that the two towers were included in the latest list of containment zones.Several RWAs also highlighted that they are not “empowered enough to deal with the repeated offenders and nuisance makers, who have been violating isolation norms or safety protocols”.Rear Admiral (retired) Kapil Gupta, president, Unitech Escape RWA in Sector 50, said that action can be taken against the RWAs for not implementing Covid-19 norms as per the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority (HSDMA) guidelines. “While the government has the right to take action against the RWAs for failing to take restrictive measures, they also need to realise that we have no power or authority to take action against the violators now. Even if a person under home isolation steps out, there is a little we can do, besides requesting him/her to comply, or make a complaint to the administration. Hence, we have requested the DC to give us executive powers and contain the spread of the virus,” said Gupta.In the letter, the RWAs have also highlighted non-availability of basic Covid-19 related medicines, medicines being sold at inflated prices, shortage of oxygen cylinders, concentrators and ambulances, private ambulance owners charging hefty amounts, shortage of RT-PCR tests, non-availability of oxygen beds in hospitals, non-availability of yellow garbage bags for Covid-19 waste segregation and collection, late removal of bio-medical waste from residential areas, and shortage of vaccines, due to which the residential vaccination camps are being cancelled, among other such observations. In addition, they have also appealed to Garg to hold a video conference call with the RWA representatives, to understand their difficulties and address the issues mentioned in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/17-rwas-write-to-dc-for-more-empowerment-enforcement-of-measures-101619461038401.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Patients in home isolation struggle to get antiviral drugs||Covid-19 patients in home isolation are struggling to get antiviral drugs over the last 10 days, with many taking to social media and some even paying procuring stocks from those black marketing them.Officials said that the shortage of drugs to treat Covid-19 patients, including remdesivir, is mainly due to panic buying. “People have stored the medicines thinking there is a lack of supply, whereas the manufacturers have been asked to double their production and the consignments are expected midweek. While people are stocking up these medicines expecting a shortage, those who are in dire need are not getting them, due to which several Covid patients in home isolation are suffering, with many developing serious complications,” Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said.According to the data available with the health department, 26,137 Covid-19 patients are in home isolation in the district, most of who consult doctors on video calls.Chemists familiar with the situation said that only favipiravir, an antiviral, and tocilizumab, an immunosuppressant, besides multivitamins, are available at a few stores.Prince Philkana, a resident of Palm Drive, who has been in isolation for the last two days said he has been trying to arrange medicines for his ailing mother and himself, but to no avail. “People are messaging me to pay more than the market price, but it is only available in Delhi and other states. Chemists in Gurugram said they have not received the stock for the last 10 days,” he said.Another resident, Vatsala Arora, said she was trying to buy antiviral medicines for her husband who tested positive, but has not been able to do so. “People are black marketing these medicines and there is no support from the local administration. The government should cap the charges and these should be available for the residents. We are struggling every day, while the mafias are getting data of home isolation patients and contacting them for the supply,” he said.In a few instances, hospital staffers were also stealing the drugs to make a quick buck, as reported by HT over the past few days.Doctors said that many private hospitals recommended remdesivir to patients in home isolation, but due to the non-availability of the same, they are in a panic. “Lots of patients are also consulting doctors of their home town who have been prescribing these medicines even at a stage where it is not required,” said a senior doctor at a government hospital.Meanwhile, chemists said they have run out of antiviral medicines, with many stopping home deliveries due to rising demand and increasing pressure.Jatin Chachra, a chemist in Jacobpura, said that there is high demand for remdesivir, tocilizumab, Medrol tablets, zinc tablets, Mucinac and Tazact over the last 10 days. “People are ready to pay ten times the cost, but there is no supply in the market. There are a few available medicines, but people pick them as soon as the supply hits the market,” he said, adding that a few people were found stocking up to sell at higher prices.A chemist in Basai Road, Vineet Madan, said that the situation is getting difficult to manage with every passing day. “People threaten us to give medicines thinking we are stocking them. Families beg us and cry, pleading with us to give them a few doses, but it is unfortunate that despite regular follow-ups with the stockists, we are unable to fulfil the needs of customers who are in dire need,” he said.Chauhan, on the other hand, said that strict action will be taken against those found black-marketing the medicines. “We will take action against persons hoarding these medicines without need, if we receive complaints against them,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/patients-in-home-isolation-struggle-to-get-antiviral-drugs-101619460978331.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital, realty firm tie up to treat moderately ill patients in empty flats||Amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 beds, a multi-speciality hospital and a real estate company have tied up to shift 300-400 mild to moderately ill Covid-19 patients to empty flats where oxygen beds will be placed, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Monday, even as the city continues to face a shortage of beds.“A tie-up between Medanta hospital and M3M (a real estate developer) has been done in Gurugram where beds with oxygen facility will be arranged in empty flats, where less serious patients will be shifted from Medanta Hospital. Through this, 300 to 400 more beds for Covid-19 patients can be made available,” a release by the district administration stated.As per the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), a real-time portal managed by the district administration, there were only four oxygen, three Intensive Care Unit (ICU), and a solitary Covid-19 ventilator bed available in Gurugram across its 43 Covid-19 hospitals on Monday night.Khattar was in the city on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation and visit oxygen plants, the release stated. Issues of oxygen supply, availability of beds and remdesivir stock were the main points discussed with senior officials from across the state through video conference at the PWD rest house in Civil Lines.A key development in the conference was the formation of a centralised control room at Chandigarh, to monitor the status and arrangements of Covid-19 across Haryana, under principal secretary Vijendra Kumar.Khattar said that Haryana has been allocated 162 metric tonnes of oxygen from the Central government and the same will be distributed based on their assessments. He said that district drug control officers have been made responsible for arranging as well as ensuring the correct distribution of oxygen.In the meeting, it was also decided that medical students who have undertaken the fourth and fifth year examinations of PGIMS, Rohtak, and those doing MD and MS will also be taken to fill any shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-realty-firm-tie-up-to-treat-moderately-ill-patients-in-empty-flats-101619460979000.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Smaller hospitals struggle to transport oxygen supplies||More than 20 hospitals with low bed capacities in the city are struggling to replenish their oxygen supply on a daily basis, with hospital staffers having to restock and transport the cylinders from facilities across the district, according to hospital administrations.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, which has a capacity of 70 beds, all of which are occupied by Covid-19 patients, said that the hospital staff is involved in refilling and transporting oxygen cylinders. “It is sad to see more than six staff members are only involved in arranging oxygen supply. The administration only shares the location but is not delivering the supply. It is taking more than eight hours to arrange four oxygen cylinders,” he said.Dr Aryan also said that he contacted the deputy commissioner and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), asking them to hire private vehicles for the deliveries. “The cost of oxygen and vehicle can be taken from the hospitals. This way we will get the oxygen supply at our doorstep and the staff can focus on patients health instead of arranging oxygen. There is no support from any department and it seems it is an individual battle, we are fighting for our patients’ lives and officers have turned a blind eye,” he said.Dr Ashok Khanna, of Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14, said that they are managing oxygen on their own with great difficulty. “There is shortage everywhere and we are managing to get oxygen every day from different places so that 28 patients can get proper oxygen,” he said.Private hospitals that do not have oxygen plants in their hospitals are dependent on cylinders, which are already short in the market.Doctors of private hospitals said they were assured that oxygen supply will be streamlined last week, with supplies arranged from plants in Panipat and Bhiwadi of Rajasthan, but to no avail. Hospitals have cited genuine concerns about medical oxygen availability even after the supply was resumed from the Bhiwadi plant.Dipankar Sethi, general manager, operations, Sethi Hospital in Model Town, said that the oxygen supply was not reaching the hospital on time. “It is the responsibility of the hospital to arrange and manage oxygen. We are running to Manesar and Sector 37 to get the oxygen cylinders refilled. Despite repeated reminders to the administration, we are not getting oxygen,” he said.On the other hand, the district administration said that all demands were met and regular oxygen supplies were sent to private hospitals.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said the mobile numbers of all the officials have been shared with the private hospitals. “We are responding to all calls and messages throughout the day and the teams are on their toes. If any hospital is alleging that they have not received oxygen supply, then I have all the records (to show that) they have regularly being supplied. We are trying to increase the oxygen supply and demands are being met,” he said.Garg said they are regularly coordinating with oxygen plants and with the two companies in Bhiwadi and Panipat to increase the supply. “Hospitals have been assured that oxygen supply will be streamlined this week as logistics are being arranged. There has been an improvement, as compared to last week and we are hopeful to overcome this issue at the earliest,” he said.Hospitals in the city have been grappling with a shortage of oxygen supply amid the spiral in Covid-19 cases.On Sunday, six critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support died at two private hospitals due to a shortage of oxygen. Staff at the hospital alleged that they had raised the alarm with the authorities concerned well on time, but did not get the supply despite assurances.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, where four patients died on Sunday, said that if the situation remains the same, the hospital will have to shut operations as families of other patients are also panicking. “Raising voice against the administration will leave an impact but we cannot play with the lives who are admitted in our hospital and have faith in us,” he said.Officials said that it is a difficult situation for all parties concerned and they are regularly coordinating with the hospital staff on daily basis. “Even a green corridor has been created by police for the regular and quick supply from Bhiwadi and Panipat. We are also trying to tie up with the local suppliers for delivery,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smaller-hospitals-struggle-to-transport-oxygen-supplies-101619460918366.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Two more deaths in Gurugram as hospitals grapple with low oxygen supply||Two critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support at the Center of Diabetes and Allied Sciences (CDAS) died late Sunday evening due to oxygen shortage, according to the hospital management, which took the number of deaths due to oxygen shortage in the district to six, all reported over the last two days.Dr S Raghunandan, vice-president, CDAS, said that they alerted the local administration about the shortage two hours before the supplies ran low, but did not get any help. “A 60-year-old woman died at 8.25pm and a 61-year-old man died at 8.35pm on Sunday due to lack of oxygen. There was another death but that was not related to Covid,” said Dr Raghunandan.“We are facing a huge problem due to shortage of oxygen supply. The local supplier has refused to supply. We are managing our operations with the minimum oxygen supply we can manage,” said Dr Raghunandan.CDAS in Sector 47 has a capacity of 50 beds, of which 38 are occupied by Covid-19 patients.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, where four Covid-19 deaths were reported due to low oxygen on Sunday, said on Monday that the situation has not improved. “We are still struggling for oxygen cylinders and there is no help from the administration. My son who is also a doctor is struggling in queues to get the cylinders filled from Manesar. We are not even getting eight cylinders a day, whereas we require 25 in a day. Where is the oxygen going? This is a question we want to be answered,” he said.Officials of the district administration refuted the allegations made by the hospital managements but admitted that there is a shortfall in oxygen supply.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said they have been delivering oxygen supply to all the hospitals and they have records of all the deliveries, but failed to share the same. “We were informed regarding the deaths later but we were not aware that the situation was grim and patients could die. The hospitals are creating pressure tactics. We are here to meet their need, not their greed. There is a WhatsApp group where all the private hospitals, nodal officer, chief medical officer (CMO) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner has been added and prompt action is taken on each request,” he said.Garg said that at present, the district is receiving 35 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, against a requirement of 50 MT. “We are adding more beds and will need more oxygen, for which we are trying to increase the supply through both plants in Panipat and Rajasthan,” he said.Also, the district administration directed hospitals to report shortfall in supply at least six hours in advance, as it is not possible to respond to requests made an hour or less before the supply runs out.Garg said, “We have asked private hospitals to inform us six hours in advance if they are facing a shortage of oxygen so that timely oxygen can be managed. We need this much time to arrange and send oxygen supply as it’s not readily available with us.”The city has been grappling with a shortage in oxygen supply for the past 10 days amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases. Many hospitals on Monday also reported a shortage in oxygen and took to social media platforms, seeking immediate help from the district administration. At 6.51pm on Monday, a Twitter user posted that Genesis Hospital in Sector 84 was running out of oxygen, with 12 to 13 patients requiring oxygen support.Officials of Genesis Hospital could not be contact for comment on the matter.Many family members of Covid-19 patients said they paid exorbitant amounts, up to ₹1.5 lakh, to get oxygen cylinders.Dr Raghunandan of CDAS said, “We were standing in long queues on Monday to get oxygen cylinders but our demands are not met. The doctors at the hospital are running pillar to post to refill cylinders, leaving patients. We have never felt this helpless in our entire career.”Many hospitals said that they have stopped new admissions due to lack of oxygen supply. “We have limited oxygen now and the situation is getting worse day by day. We are getting very less supply of oxygen and cannot run a hospital like this,” said a senior official of W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56.“Issue continues with the oxygen supply. We are making our own arrangements on a daily basis,” said Dr Devlina Chakravarty, the managing director of Artemis Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-more-deaths-in-gurugram-as-hospitals-grapple-with-low-oxygen-supply-101619460918976.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram launches free doctor consultation for two hours on Zoom as Covid-19 cases grow||In view of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India, the district administration of Gurugram in Haryana announced it is launching a novel initiative for its citizens -- free doctor consultation for two hours, virtually on Zoom, where attendees can talk to a doctor face-to-face in a scheduled online meeting, and receive relevant medical advice free of charge. The Zoom meeting will be held daily from 11am to 1pm, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner (DC) of Gurugram informed.As you quarantine at home and fight the virus, join District Administration Gurugram’s free of cost Doctor consultations between 11AM-1PM everyday on Zoom. In this time of crisis, we are with you in ensuring the best possible care and treatment for your loved ones. #CurbTheVirus pic.twitter.com/1FezZbjjkuGurugram continues to remain the worst-hit district in Haryana registering a huge single-day spike of 3,410 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, in view of which the district administration has ordered imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC with immediate effect, prohibiting the gathering of more than four people at one place, unless specifically permitted."As you quarantine at home and fight the virus, join District Administration Gurugram’s free of cost Doctor consultations between 11AM-1PM every day on Zoom. In this time of crisis, we are with you in ensuring the best possible care and treatment for your loved ones. #CurbTheVirus," detailed a tweet posted from the official Twitter account of DC Gurugram.The notice reads, "Talk to a Doctor, face to face", with the invitation elaborating "District Administration Gurugram is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting to interact with the Medical team".To join the free Zoom meeting with doctors, those living in Gurugram are required to log into the website at 11am and the virtual meet shall last till 1pm. Here are the credentials for attending the meeting:Timing: 11am to 1pmZoom Meeting ID: 819 7816 9398Passcode: 318187For more details on the Gurugram free doctor consultation, citizens are advised to contact the Gurugram DC’s office, following the addresses mentioned at the bottom of the notice.Haryana on Sunday recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 64 more people succumbing to the disease on Sunday as well as 10,985 fresh cases, which pushed the tally to 424,319. Among the districts that reported a big spike in Covid-19 cases are Gurugram (3,410), Faridabad (1,560), Hisar (940), Sonipat (610), Karnal (570), and Sirsa (469).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurgaon-launches-free-doctor-consultation-for-two-hours-on-zoom-as-covid-19-cases-grow-101619418593910.html
26-04-2021||Gurugram||Four critically ill Covid-19 patients die as hospital runs out of oxygen||Four critically ill Covid-19 patients who were on ventilator support at Kathuria Hospital died on Sunday afternoon due to a shortage of oxygen, according to the hospital management. Staff at the hospital alleged that they had raised the alarm with the authorities concerned around 11am, but did not get the supply despite assurances.The four patients, aged between 45 and 67, died around 3pm after the oxygen cylinders ran empty. The incident also caused a furore among relatives of other patients, who rushed to industrial units to fetch oxygen from private suppliers, the hospital authorities said.Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road has a capacity of 30 beds, all of which are occupied by Covid-19 patients.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, said that they had informed the health department and the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) concerned regarding the critical situation around 11am. “I called the health department and they asked me to contact the nodal officer and SDM concerned responsible for oxygen supply. We were assured by authorities that the oxygen supply would reach the hospital within time, but nothing happened. Around 3pm, the oxygen cylinders went empty and four critical patients lost their lives,” he said.However, officials of the district administration said that they were not informed about the shortage and there was no demand raised for supply.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “I was neither informed about the matter nor was any request made regarding the shortage. Duty magistrates were deployed and I am making further enquiries.”He said that there was ample oxygen available in the city and the same could have been supplied without any problem. Later in the evening, Garg ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter by subdivisional magistrate Jitender Kumar.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram said that the supply of oxygen is not the prerogative of the health department but they will probe the reasons for the death of four patients. “We will probe if the deaths were caused by lack of oxygen or any other reason. I had told the hospital management to contact the official concerned responsible for oxygen supply,” he said.Amit Shandilya, executive engineer and nodal officer for the hospital said that he was not informed about the matter by the hospital authorities. “I am on record that no message or call was made to me in this matter. If they had informed, we would have managed supply,” he said.Pradeep Kumar, subdivisional magistrate, Pataudi, said that the charge of oxygen supply management was given to another official on Saturday. “I received a call from the hospital authorities but since I was busy, I messaged them that they should raise the matter with the new in-charge of supply in the district,” he said.Kathuria alleged that the system of oxygen supply in the district was faulty. “We informed them within time and despite that, this tragedy happened. Relatives of other patients were forced to rush to get cylinder filled themselves,” he added.A relative of a patient who is admitted to the hospital said that relatives of all patients rushed to industrial areas in Manesar and Gurugram to get cylinders filled. “We ran on car and bikes as cylinders finished and lives of many were in danger,” the relative said, requesting anonymity.Kathuria said that they managed to arrange oxygen cylinders from private sources around 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-critically-ill-covid-19-patients-die-as-hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-101619373006989.html
