27-04-2021||Gurugram||50 large outbreak areas notified in Gurugram district||As the Covid-19 infections in the district continue to surge, with 3,684 new cases reported on Tuesday, the district administration notified 50 large outbreak areas, officials familiar with the matter said. Non-essential movement will be completely barred in these clusters and rigorous contact tracing will be undertaken, said officials.The maximum number of outbreak areas, under 11 public health centres across the district, were notified under the Nathupur and Chanderloke public health centres, with most of the containment zones under these areas located in condominiums along the Golf Course Road and around MG Road. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Earlier, we were declaring micro-containment zones, but as we saw that cases are continuing to increase, we will now be declaring macro containment zones, blocking non-essential movement in a whole area from where cluster cases are being reported. Thereafter, focus will be on rigorous contact tracing and testing in the given area.” As per the district administration, large outbreak areas were decided on the basis of geographical areas where localised increase in cases are being reported. The cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked, but for operational purposes, a large outbreak area is one where there are 15 or more cases, while a containment zone is an area where at least five Covid-19 cases are reported, officials said.According to guidelines issued by the district administration, reasonable restrictions on movement of people will be imposed in these areas, along with intensive public health campaigns, sanitisation of entire large outbreak area by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram or other agencies responsible, and operation of only essential shops and commercial establishment in such areas. In case transit through a large outbreak area is unavoidable, then usage of Aarogya Setu application will be a must, along with thermal scanning and symptomatic scanning at entry/exit points. Rapid testing facilities will be made available at exit points for symptomatic persons, said officials. The district administration also directed the Ayush department to distribute immunity boosters to people in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/50-large-outbreak-areas-notified-in-gurugram-district-101619546432869.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||3,684 new cases, 10 deaths reported in Gurugram||The district on Tuesday reported 3,684 new Covid-19 cases, taking the active case tally to 29,682 and 10 deaths of patients, taking the toll to 446, according to the district health department data.While officials of the health department said that they are working on the vaccine roll out plan for residents aged above 18 years of age from May 1, officials of the district administration will focus on enforcing containment measures in areas of large outbreak.“In order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, the authorities have identified large outbreak areas in the city to ensure strict enforcement. This will help in curbing the spread of infection. We are also working on a plan to roll out vaccinations after May 1 and training will be held on Wednesday at state level,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. According to the district health department data, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 110,523. Meanwhile, 1,310 Covid-19 patients recovered in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 80,395. The rate of recovery in the district stands at 72.74%, as per the data. On the testing front, the health department collected samples from 11,535 persons, with results of 6,681 patients awaited. On Tuesday, 705 beneficiaries took their first jab of the vaccines while 680 beneficiaries took their second dose, taking the total number of people vaccinated in the district to 467,844.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3684-new-cases-10-deaths-reported-in-gurugram-101619546431380.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP registers case against ex-MLA, 5 others over development of illegal colony in Sec 77||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Gurugram has registered a case against six persons, including a former city MLA, for developing an illegal colony on five to six acres of land in Sector 77.The case was registered under sections 10, 7(I), and 7(ii) of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, at the Kherki Daula police station. The case was registered against Praveen Yadav, Deepak Chugh, Manorama, Mahender Sharma, Sombir Jakhar, and former Gurugram MLA Umesh Agarwal, said the police on Tuesday, adding that an investigation is underway.RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said that they had received a tip-off that a colony was being carved out on five to six acres of land — an institutional area — in Sector 77. “It was revealed during a probe that a notice was already issued against the previous landowner for trying to carve out a colony there. However, the previous owner had ceased the activities, and later sold the land to the present owners,” Bhath said.The present owners, who were engaged in developing an illegal colony on the land, got a local court notice issued to the DTCP, asking it not to take action against them. “We were alerted by this notice and conducted an inspection. We found that a colony was being developed here, and roads were being laid,” Bhath added.Following this, the DTCP took legal advice from Anil Yadav, additional advocate general, Haryana, who asked the department to report the matter to the local police. “We again conducted a joint inspection with the revenue department and found that two property dealers, and former MLA Umesh Agarwal were promoting the illegal colony. A complaint was lodged with the police, and a case was registered on Monday,” Bhath said.According to the DTCP complaint, “Bare perusal of the said report clearly reveals that the above detailed land was sub-divided into plots by laying roads. Six electricity poles were erected. A house was constructed at Khasra No. 758/2, and a park was developed at Khasra No. 760/1. An office and a tower were constructed at Khasra nos. 756/1/1/2, 757, 758, and 761/1/1/2. At the time of spot inspection, construction of roads was on with the help of JCBs and tractors. Labourers were working there,” as per to the FIR.The DTCP officials said that a road network, electric poles, and an office were constructed on the land. “This is an institutional area and development of an illegal colony can’t be allowed in this area. No permission was taken for developing it. We request the people not to buy plots in such colonies as they could lose money and face penal action,” Bhath said.A representative of the former MLA, when contacted, did not comment on the matter..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-registers-case-against-ex-mla-5-others-over-development-of-illegal-colony-in-sec-77-101619546432103.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Sell properties on carpet area, not super area: H-Rera to developers||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) in Gurugram announced on Tuesday that apartments and flats in the city would be sold only on the basis of carpet area, and not super area — which has been the norm so far. The authority said that the final decision will be notified within two to three days, following which sale of flats in new projects, ongoing projects, and projects without occupation certificate would be carried out as per the new rules.Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, said that the Supreme Court and high court have given several decisions, saying that sale of properties on the basis of super area was just cheating the customers, and the authority has decided to take measures to stop this. “Sale of apartments will be allowed only on the basis of carpet area as it is defined, and physically verified. The concept of super area is not defined, and used differently by developers as per their convenience,” said Khandelwal, adding that in case of ongoing projects — where the promoters had allotted real estate units on super area basis, before the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, came into effect — the developer will now have to define all the components of the super area, and mention it in the builder-buyer agreement.“The inclusion of common area, club facilities, health centre, veranda, and other such areas will not be allowed to be clubbed in saleable areas, as had been done in the past,” Khandelwal added.Carpet area means the net usable floor area excluding the area covered by external walls, service shafts, balconies, verandahs, open terraces, according to the H-Rera Act, which came into effect on May 1, 2017.“In cases where the real estate unit was allotted to the allottee before the Act came into force, the developer will have to disclose all the components constituting the super area,” said Khandelwal, adding that the conveyance deed shall still be registered only on carpet area basis — according to the H-Rera rules.Sameer Kumar, member, H-Rera, said that any sale agreement will have to be based on carpet area after the notification of the order, and any violation would be considered as unfair and fraudulent practice. “Any property dealer, who will be indulged in any sale on the basis of super area or violate the directions issued by the authority, would face action under the Act,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sell-properties-on-carpet-area-not-super-area-h-rera-to-developers-101619546430780.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||MP appeals to Khattar govt to impose lockdown amid surge in Covid cases||Taking cognisance of the unabated surge in Covid-19 cases in the district, Gurugram Lok Sabha member and Union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh on Tuesday asked the state government to impose a curfew in Gurugram to contain the spread of the virus. Singh also said that he has been in talks with the state government regarding imposition of a lockdown for the past four days.“I spoke to the chief minister today and apprised him of the critical situation in the city. If we have to break the chain of infection, then it is important to impose a complete lockdown or curfew. I also suggested that only shops selling essential items be allowed to remain open. The cases are going to increase unless strict measures are taken,” said Singh, adding that he had received information about the long queues at cremation grounds in the city for Covid-19 victims, and this was an alarming situation which could be tackled only through a curfew.“I have been asking for a lockdown for the past four days,” Singh said.For the first time, a senior Uttar Pradesh BJP leader has called for a lockdown in Gurugram. Last week, Haryana chief secretary Vijay Vardhan had proposed a week-long lockdown in Gurugram and Faridabad. State health minister Anil Vij, however, said that no decision has been taken to impose a lockdown there.Meanwhile, Amit Arya, media advisor to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, said that Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 was imposed across the state on Tuesday, which was enforced on the weekend, and it will be ensured that the enforcement is very strict there. “Around 50 large outbreak regions were notified in Gurugram on Monday, and these regions would be treated almost like closed areas. The situation is being continuously monitored, and further decisions will be taken based on local feedback,” said Arya.A few days ago, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla had also said that a lockdown is necessary to bring the situation under control. “The total number of critical patients is rising on a daily basis, and a lockdown is necessary to stop it,” Singla had said.Traders in Gurugram have also demanded that a limited lockdown be imposed to save the people. “...There is a lack of oxygen, medicines, and hospital beds, and people are dying,” said Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association. Meanwhile, Rakesh Malik, president, Sector 22 Market Association, said, “What is the point of opening shops when our lives are in danger. The evening curfew is not enough.”The residents are also supporting a limited lockdown or curfew for 10 to 15 days in the city. A Twitter user ‘NCR Citizen’ wrote, “Please sir, everyone must stay home for a week . Lives must be saved.” City-based health officials on Covid-19 duties have also been pushing for a lockdown. “A lockdown must be imposed as the hospitals are full, and the healthcare system is under immense pressure. We need to curtail the infections like Delhi. Movement of people has further allowed the infection to spread,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.Health officials, privy to the matter, said that a proposal for a lockdown was sent to the state authorities last week, and the state chief secretary had recommended a 10-day lockdown on that basis, but the proposal was shot down at the ministerial level.The industry owners in Gurugram, however, are a bit wary of the lockdown and said that if it was at all required, then it should be limited and allow factories to operate. “The lockdown will impact the production and economy, but personally speaking, it is needed as the cases are rising. It can be imposed for some days to contain the spread,” he said.Senior Congress leader Ajay Singh Yadav said that a lockdown should be imposed in highly contaminated areas. “Industrial areas like Manesar, and markets should be allowed to operate with safeguard. The poor will suffer badly if a complete lockdown is imposed,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mp-appeals-to-khattar-govt-to-impose-lockdown-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619546372756.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG takes charge of oxygen supply, to ensure buffer for emergencies||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) took over the charge of oxygen supply management in the district on Tuesday, following which senior officials said that one of their main priorities is to arrange a buffer of at least 10 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen to ensure that hospitals and clinics don’t run out of oxygen and there is no loss of life.“The Haryana government has allocated 35 metric tonnes of daily oxygen supply to the city, of which 20 metric tonnes is procured from the INOX oxygen plant in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan and 15 metric tonnes from the Air Liquid Company in Panipat. Teams have been formed for (monitoring supply from) each of the plants and the three oxygen refilling stations in the city,” said MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Tuesday.Singh was designated as the leader of a high-level five-member committee constituted by the district administration on Tuesday and would be responsible for the procurement and regulation of oxygen supply to facilities in the district.Officials familiar with the developments said that the MCG is in the process of setting up a dedicated call centre for addressing oxygen-related matters round-the-clock.Singh said that all hospitals and clinics will have to alert the MCG at least four hours in advance, before their oxygen supply runs low, so that the civic body can deliver it to the facilities, within the stipulated time frame.MCG officials said that while the oxygen company in Bhiwadi has tankers to transport oxygen to Gurugram, the same is not the case with the company in Panipat. The MCG team designated for the Panipat plant will arrange tankers through the Regional Transport Office (RTO) for transporting oxygen to the city. The team designated for the Bhiwadi plant may also avail of tankers from the RTO if the need requires.MCG officials said that the vehicles from the Bhiwadi plant will supply liquid medical oxygen directly to 10-12 hospitals that have their own oxygen tanks, such as Medanta, Fortis, Artemis, Max hospital, Park and Metro hospitals, among others while the oxygen from the Panipat plant will be transported to the three oxygen refill stations, two of which are in Manesar and one in Sector 16. From the three refilling stations, oxygen will be supplied through cylinders to the remaining hospitals in the city. There are 43 Covid-19 hospitals in Gurugram.Singh said that all teams deputed in oxygen supply management will work round-the-clock and they have been directed to deal with all oxygen-related matters on priority to avoid a crisis. According to private hospitals, at least six people have died in the city since Sunday due to a shortage of oxygen.To address the shortage of oxygen in Gurugram, deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Sunday had formed an eight-member committee to devise a district oxygen plan for the city. The committee comprised seven officials from the MCG and one from the Gurugram police.In the first meeting of the MCG’s committee on Tuesday, members met Singh at his residence in Civil Lines along with other senior MCG officials to take stock of the oxygen situation in the city.Singh said that the MCG has constituted another team for determining the average oxygen requirement of the district, the individual requirement of hospitals, current availability and projected requirement for at least the next four days. “Depending on these factors, the team will be responsible for making a schedule for distribution and determining the delivery time, as per the requirement. All teams have been directed to ensure the city soon has enough oxygen stock, so that there is always a buffer of 10 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen. This will ensure that hospitals and clinics never run out of oxygen and there is always a surplus,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-takes-charge-of-oxygen-supply-to-ensure-buffer-for-emergencies-101619546371454.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||G’gram admin urges all medical professionals to help in Covid care||The Gurugram administration has appealed to private doctors, retired medical professionals, and MBBS students to come forward and help in managing Covid-19 cases as the work for increasing bed facilities continues amid the rise in the coronavirus cases, the officials said on Tuesday.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Right now, what we need are medical professionals, hospitals, and oxygen. We will be operating makeshift hospitals in the coming days and are planning to increase the bed capacity drastically. It is an appeal to all the healthcare workers to come forward and help us... We will need more doctors. This is an extraordinary time, which demands such extraordinary measures.”The district administration, through social media, put out an appeal on Tuesday, saying, “The Gurugram administration requests for volunteer doctors, nurses, and MBBS students who are fit and willing to be available to provide services in the public health facilities. We appeal to all such doctors to come forward at this hour of need. You could be a retired government, armed forces medical services, or a private doctor. We will be immensely grateful for your support to help us treat our residents.”The appeal further mentioned that people who wish to contribute and be a part of this mission to serve Covid-positive patients can register themselves on the link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gj1lSw5l7kChkmYSXhop2d886IKjonc0ikuQ_Q-nK8I/viewform?edit_requested=true. Oxygen supply is also being increased along with beds in the district, Garg said. He also appealed to the public to not panic and start finding hospitals if they test positive.“We are following three basic steps: Establishing macro containment zones and ensuring strict enforcement to contain the spread of the virus. Secondly, we are working to increase the oxygen allocation for Gurugram, and adding more beds to our health infrastructure... But while these activities are being carried out, I want to appeal to the people to not panic, while seeking beds in hospitals or monitoring their health conditions at home. I also appeal to them to not stock up basic medicines, oxygen meters, and other medical equipment as the patients who really need these may not get it on time,” Garg added.The officials also said that the district administration and the health department are setting up new hospital beds, but access to the public might get delayed till oxygen allocation of the district is increased. At present, Gurugram has an allocation of 35 metric tonnes of medical oxygen.“We are setting up excess beds amid the rise in the cases, but till our oxygen allocation is not increased, the opening of these new centres is also getting delayed, because if something unfortunate happens to the patients, then it will be difficult to manage the situation,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Gurugram crossed the active caseload of 29,000 mark with 3,684 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and reported 10 deaths. The recovery rate in the district is at 72.74%, while the fatality rate stands at 0.40%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ggram-admin-urges-all-medical-professionals-to-help-in-covid-care-101619546370790.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram DC appeals to people to stay indoors, follow Covid norms||Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, appealed to the residents to stay indoors and follow the night curfew imposed in the district, among other such measures, to curb the spread of Covid-19, according to a release issued by the district administration on Monday. Garg said that, at present, the district has a recovery rate of 75.29%, doubling rate of 22.86%, positivity rate of 8.80%, growth rate of 3.30%, and mortality rate of 0.41%.“The entire planning has been done to break the coronavirus transition cycle in the district. We are serious about the health and security of the people, and the administration is taking concrete steps and keeping a watchful eye on every aspect,” said Garg. He also appealed to the people to ensure a compliance with the Covid rules set by the government and the administration, yet again.“Extensive arrangements have been made at the administration level to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The health department is monitoring persons infected with the virus. A control room has been set up by the administration along with various helpline numbers for medical services, information related to prevention of Covid-19, and plasma donation... and an app has also been launched for patients in home isolation. A team of doctors will give them free health counselling,” said Garg, adding that there are various government portals through which the bed availability in the district or other information related to the infection can be availed.Covid-19 awareness vehicleGarg also said that a Covid-19 awareness vehicle has been travelling to urban and rural areas in the district, informing people to get vaccinated, follow night curfew, stay in their homes, wear masks, maintain social distancing, conduct sanitisation, among others.He also said that a sound system has been installed in the awareness vehicle, through which the people are provided with detailed information about Covid-19 through pre-recorded messages. These vehicles are essentially waste collection vehicles of Ecogreen, the concessionaire of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), for door-to-door collection of waste in Gurugram. Speakers are fitted on top of these vehicles that play minute-long pre-recorded audio about information on Covid-19 in urban areas and villages. The MCG launched this service in April 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-dc-appeals-to-people-to-stay-indoors-follow-covid-norms-101619461038990.html
27-04-2021||Gurugram||Active cases cross 27,000, admin starts initiatives for patients||The district on Monday reported 3,555 new Covid-19 infections, which took the tally of active cases past the 27,000 mark, and seven deaths according to the health department data.With the spike on Monday, the total cases reached 106,839, while the active cases and the death count reached 27,318 and 436, respectively.Officials of the district administration said that several initiatives are being undertaken to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Efforts are being made on a war footing by the district administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. Most patients are recovering from home. The e-Sanjeevani OPD (out-patient department) application has been launched for patients living in home isolation, where they can get free health consultation from doctors. We have also flagged off vehicles from the public relations department that will visit places and spread awareness on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in both urban and rural areas.”Meanwhile, 1,316 positive patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in the district on Monday, taking the tally of total recoveries to 79,085. The rate of recovery in the district stands around 74.02%, as per the data.On the testing front, the health department collected 10,047 samples and reported that the results of 6,134 patients were awaited.On Monday, 976 people got the first dose of the vaccines, while 663 people took their second dosage, as per the health department data. So far, 466,459 people have been vaccinated in the district in total.Helplines launchedA release issued by the district information department released helpline numbers — 0124-2322412, 7011710570, 1950 — for Covid-19 positive patients to avail of help, besides the 1075 helpline of the state government. Officials said that patients can get medical information for availing of health services round the clock.Further, two helplines were also set up — 8826320564 and 9999999953 — by the Gurugram police department for Covid-19 patients to get plasma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/active-cases-cross-27-000-admin-starts-initiatives-for-patients-101619460980087.html
