28-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents above 18 years register for Covid-19 vaccinations||With the process of registration for Covid-19 vaccination for beneficiaries above 18 years of age commencing on Wednesday, many city residents got themselves registered on the Co-win portal, said officials familiar with the matter.The registration process commenced around 4pm, but the wait time was long as the portal experienced heavy traffic, with millions across the country trying to register on the portal at the same time. Health department officials said that after 5.30pm, the registration process was smoother with many Gurugram residents being able to log in and finish the registration process.Pravin Malik, a resident of Sare Homes and a social activist, said that he applied for the registration though Co-win application as the Aarogya Setu app was too slow. “I applied on the system and got an OTP after the portal sought my details and identity card details with a date of birth. I was registered for Rohtak, as the system was not accepting registration for Gururgam,” said Malik, adding that once he gets the slots he would have to go to Rohtak for vaccination. As per the directions of the union government, all residents above the age of 18 years are eligible for vaccination from May 1. The Haryana government has ordered five million doses of vaccines for the campaign, at a cost of ₹250 crore, the government said on Wednesday.In the run-up to this vaccination drive roll out in the district, Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that a meeting of the district task force would be convened within the next two days to chalk out a strategy for the mass inoculations.“The guidelines for vaccination and the entire plan will be shared by the state government and accordingly, implemented by us. The new arrangement would be different as vaccination at government centres and private hospitals will be separated. The hospitals can now obtain vaccines directly from manufacturers and we won’t supply the doses any more,” said Yadav.For the next two days, Yadav said the focus of the health department would be to use up all the doses available for vaccination, although the process would take place at fewer vaccine sites than usual due to low availability. “We are waiting for directions from the state government in this matter,” he said.Earlier in the day, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that registration data for the Covid-19 vaccination would be available by April 30.“This vaccination campaign will be conducted in hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, dispensaries, and other institutions. Those who register will get the vaccination date and venue message on their mobiles,” said Khattar.He also said that all the information related to Covid-19 can be obtained on the 1075 helpline number.Khattar also said that number of patients coming from Delhi had put pressure on hospitals in Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and even Ambala. He said that the number of patients coming from Delhi to the hospitals in the NCR districts of Haryana is adding to the problems faced by the hospitals. However, he said that the state government will not refuse treatment on ethical grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-above-18-years-register-for-covid-19-vaccinations-101619633439409.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital where four died on Sunday to shut operations within a week||The management of Kathuria Hospital on Khandsa Road, where four people died due to an oxygen shortage on Sunday afternoon, decided to shut its operations after patients currently undergoing treatment recover. New admissions were also stopped, said hospital officials, citing shortage of oxygen as the reason for shutting operations.Dr AK Kathuria, the owner of Kathuria Hospital, said that operating the facility without an assured supply of oxygen is not feasible as another tragedy could unfold. “We are getting help from the district administration but the shortage is still acute. We have decided to discharge all patients by next week when their condition improves. We will cease operations till the situation changes,” said Kathuria.On Tuesday, the hospital discharged six patients, while three were discharged on Wednesday. “We have 18 patients at present,” said Dr Kathuria.Officials responsible for the oxygen supply said that they were also facing difficulties in supplying oxygen to smaller hospitals as the capacity to hold oxygen is less and it was not possible to supply it every two hours. The hospital has a capacity of 30 beds, with a requirement of 40 oxygen cylinders per day.“We are assessing these hospitals and their cylinder capacity to hold oxygen. The hospitals should have oxygen storage capacity to manage operations for at least 10 hours. A call will be taken in this regard so that the entire dynamic of oxygen supply doesn’t get disturbed. This may reduce the number of beds but these will be increased where capacities are higher,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram.On Sunday afternoon, four critically ill Covid-19 patients died around 3pm after the hospital ran out of oxygen around 11am. A magisterial inquiry in the matter is also pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-where-four-died-on-sunday-to-shut-operations-within-a-week-101619633438725.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Five industrial tankers converted to transport oxygen, sent to Odisha plant||The regional transport authority (RTA), in a bid to smoothen oxygen supply in the district, converted five nitrogen and argon tankers into oxygen tankers to enable transportation of oxygen from a plant in Rourkela of Odisha.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said that the tankers are owned by private companies that supply nitrogen and argon to factories and private industries. “These tankers were sent to the Panipat industrial area and were converted by an agency overnight. It took six hours to get them cleaned and nozzles were changed to equip them to carry oxygen. A special team was deployed at Panipat cleaning station to check the oxygen level and pressure in these tankers for uninterrupted supply,” she said.Yadav said these tankers were sent to Rourkela by train from the Faridabad railway station and will return late Saturday or Sunday, with a supply of nearly 50 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen supply.At present, the district requires 70 MT of oxygen. Officials said that the 50 MT, coupled with the supply from plants in Bhiwadi and Panipat will ensure a smooth supply of oxygen to all hospitals.Several private hospitals in the city are facing an acute shortage of oxygen, as reported by HT over the past few days. Hospitals also took to social media over the past few days to send out distress calls to the district administration, to help them get oxygen.As the district is facing an oxygen shortage amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, the district administration is trying to arrange oxygen from other states. Officials said that a green corridor will be created from the Faridabad railway station to Gurugram to facilitate the movement of these tankers, along with a police escort.Yadav said they are coordinating with the Rourkela administration to ensure there is no delay in loading and transporting oxygen to Gurugram. “We have intensified our focus on transporting oxygen, which is a key challenge. The conversion of tankers for oxygen will increase the oxygen supply and the demands are likely to be met. We are also trying to arrange oxygen from other places to ensure regular supply for the private hospitals,” she said.Additional chief secretary TC Gupta on Tuesday formed a team of five officials to assess demand for oxygen, its transportation and distribution. The commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, (MCG) Vinay Pratap Singh, was appointed as the team leader along with additional deputy commissioner Prashant Pawar, deputy civil surgeon Anuj Garg and RTA secretary, Dhaarna Yadav. Amandeep Chauhan, the district drug controller, was designated the coordinator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-industrial-tankers-converted-to-transport-oxygen-sent-to-odisha-plant-101619633379940.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||91 large outbreak regions notified, lockdown-like curbs to be enforced||With no signs of the Covid-19 infection abating, the administration on Wednesday notified 91 large outbreak regions in the district and deployed police personnel to restrict the movement of public in these areas. Officials of the district administration said that lockdown-like curbs will be imposed to prevent a localised spread of infections.Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, who issued the directions on Wednesday, said that non-essential movement will be checked while those moving to and from the areas will undergo medical checks. Mandatory temperature checks will be done and symptomatic people will be tested using rapid antigen kits, Garg said. The use of the Aarogya Setu application will also be mandated, he said.According to the data shared by the district administration, a maximum number of the large outbreak regions (LORs) are concentrated in the condominiums along the Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, MG Road, Sohna Road and the Southern Peripheral Road. These areas fall under the jurisdiction of the primary health centres of Tigra, Chanderloke, Nathupur and Badshahpur. According to the district administration, a LOR is defined as an area where there are at least 15 Covid-19 cases, with a localised increase within a defined geographical area. The cases may not be linked epidemiologically but will be considered a LOR for operational purposes. Areas, where at least five Covid-19 cases have been reported, are classified as containment zones. However, officials said that most of the containment zones at present fall within the LORsResidents in LORs, who have taken permission from the subdivisional magistrates to hold social gatherings or other events would not be allowed to do so. Residents would have to reapply for permission and the same will be allowed outside restricted zones, the police said.Pradeep Kumar, SDM, Pataudi, said that all Covid-19 protocols and safeguards like social distancing will be enforced strictly in the LORs. “The enforcement of Section 144 of the CrPC would be strict to break the chain of infection,” he said.Officials of the Gurugram police department said that 400 police personnel were deployed in the LORs notified by the administration, to keep a check on public movement and ensure that markets remain closed, with Section 144 of the CrPC, restricting gathering of four people or more in public spaces, in force.“We have deployed police personnel police station wise and they are setting up barricades to restrict movement of people. They would also ensure that more than four people don’t gather at shops and markets remain closed in these LORs. No social gathering or function is allowed in these areas,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police department.The police said that personnel were also deployed across its east, west, south and Manesar police districts to enforce Covid-19 protocols.The police also appealed to residents to shut religious places inside containment zones, as gatherings of four people are not allowed. “The markets will remain closed in these areas and anyone coming out from these LORs would be tested for temperature and other symptoms by the health authorities,” a senior police official said, requesting anonymity.The health department is in the process of constituting teams for intensive testing, screening and contact tracing of people in LORs. “Multiple teams of health workers will visit isolated patients and assist them in treatment. Increasing testing in these areas and screening of people in large numbers will help in breaking the chain of infection,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Yadav said that they will also form teams to work on contact tracing of Covid-19 patients. The teams will be constituted based on the number of LORs under each public health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/91-large-outbreak-regions-notified-lockdown-like-curbs-to-be-enforced-101619633379258.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Only registered hospitals will get oxygen refill: MCG||Even as hospitals continue to grapple with oxygen short supply despite the district receiving 35 metric tonnes (MT) per day, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that only hospitals registered in Gurugram will be granted supply.In an order issued late on Tuesday, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh observed that hospitals and nursing homes located outside Gurugram district are sending their vehicles to oxygen refilling stations meant to service hospitals and nursing homes of Gurugram, thereby adding “undue pressure” on the oxygen quota allocated for the district. At least six people have died in the city since Sunday due to a shortage of oxygen, according to private hospitals.“In order to stop this practice (of nursing homes and hospitals outside Gurugram district availing of the services of the city’s three oxygen refilling stations), it has been decided that henceforth, only hospitals and nursing homes located in Gurugram district and registered on web portal covidharyana.in will be entitled to get gas cylinders filled at oxygen refilling stations registered with the district administration and in no circumstances will any outside hospitals or nursing homes be allowed access to oxygen refilling stations,” the order stated.A senior official of the MCG, privy to the matter, said, “We had received reports of hoarding of oxygen by small private companies, which was having an adverse effect on both the supply and demand. Many of these companies were selling oxygen to residents at exorbitant rates in black. Hence, over the past two days, we stopped entertaining requests from such companies or individuals and only hospitals and nursing homes were allowed procurement of oxygen from the three refilling stations. The MCG is also in the process of creating a mechanism of our own to ensure personal delivery of oxygen cylinders.”Singh directed the Gurugram police and executive magistrates to ensure that the directions are complied with and that all hospitals and nursing homes accessing the three filling stations are registered with the district administration.Further, the order stated that Gurugram-based hospitals will get the supply only if they update data regarding allocation of beds and occupancy on the state Covid-19 portal by 5pm every day. If registered hospitals or nursing homes fail to update the data, then the district administration will consider discontinuing or limiting the supply of oxygen.Gurugram has three oxygen refilling stations, two of which are in Manesar and one is in Sector 16. The district received 20 MT of oxygen from the INOX oxygen plant in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan and 15 metric tonnes from the Air Liquid Company in Panipat.KK Rao, the commissioner of Gurugram police, said that they have created green corridors for the oxygen tankers from Panipat and Bhiwadi to reach the city without delay and that personnel were deployed at all three refilling stations to ensure compliance with the orders issued by the MCG.“Our teams are escorting tankers to all the plants and teams have been deployed at the distribution plants as well, as identified by the district administration. We are also coordinating with the teams to ensure there is no ruckus created at these filling centres where long queues have been witnessed,” he said.The MCG, in its order, also stated that the civic body’s joint commissioner, Pradeep Ahlawat, has been designated as the nodal officer to ensure “equitable distribution as per requirement at oxygen refilling stations.” Singh said that Ahlwat and his team will ensure that the distribution is done on a token system and that the distributors do not indulge in profiteering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/only-registered-hospitals-will-get-oxygen-refill-mcg-101619633378713.html
28-04-2021||Gurugram||Cylinder blast at refill facility in Manesar causes panic||An oxygen cylinder exploded while being refilled at a facility in Manesar around 5.30pm on Tuesday, following which the plant, located in Sector 7, shut operations for two hours, the police said. Families of Covid-19 patients alleged that hospitals asked them to shift their relatives to other facilities as they did not have sufficient oxygen supply left.Even as officials of the district administration refuted allegations that the incident affected oxygen supply, hospital managements and residents said they were left in the lurch. No injuries were reported in the incident.Bharti Joshi, a resident of Sector 4, said that she received a call from Shri Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary Hospital located in Village Budhera around 5.30pm. “They asked me to take my husband as there was no oxygen supply due to an oxygen cylinder blast in Manesar. I told them that my husband will die if we remove him from oxygen support, they said he will die if they leave him here. No bed is available anywhere and my husband’s situation is critical,” she said.Officials at the SGT Hospital confirmed the incident and said they would run out of oxygen by 10.30pm. “We have asked the families to take their patients as we will not be able to provide oxygen support. We have run out of oxygen supply. We are trying to get the cylinders refilled from different plants as directed by the district administration,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.Dr Bijender Sindhu, the nodal officer of SGT Hospital, said that there were nearly 60 Covid-19 patients, all of whom were on oxygen support.“We are getting 18-20 cylinders a day but we need at least 90. The district administration is helping us but the supply is limited due to which we are facing an acute shortage for the last 10 days,” he said.People at the spot said the situation became tense after they were informed that oxygen might not be supplied on Tuesday night and the area was cordoned off, said a senior police officer privy to the matter. The plant, which refills cylinders for a majority of private hospitals, shut operations for two hours.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner, said that it was a small incident. “This incident has not impacted the oxygen supply of the city and if any hospital is asking families to shift patients, we will check the issue,” he said.Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said, “No injuries were reported and the supply was resumed soon after.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cylinder-blast-at-refill-facility-in-manesar-causes-panic-101619579310061.html
