03-05-2021||Business||Sensex ends 64 points down||Market benchmark Sensex staged a smart recovery from the day's low to end with marginal losses on Monday amid a negative trend in global equities. After plunging over 750 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to finish 63.84 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 48,718.52. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty closed 3.05 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 14,634.15. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, ONGC, ITC and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, HUL, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and NTPC were among the gainers. "Domestic equities recovered sharply from day's low despite weak global cues. While growing uncertainties about collection efficiency and asset quality of banks/NBFCs dragged heavy weight financials, strong buying in FMCG and Metals supported recovery in markets," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. While persistent rise in second wave of COVID-19 cases has weighed on investors' sentiments, steady corporate earnings with positive managements' commentaries offered support to markets, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,13,642 against 33,49,644 on Sunday, according to a Health Ministry update Monday morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. European markets were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 66.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 600 pts in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex plunged over 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a negative trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index tanked 607.32 points or 1.24 per cent to 48,175.04 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.45 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,478.65. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by SBI, ONGC, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HUL, IndusInd Bank and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex sank 983.58 points or 1.98 per cent to finish at 48,782.36, and Nifty fell 263.80 points or 1.77 per cent to 14,631.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,465.07 crore on Friday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. NDA's sub-par performance in West Bengal assembly election and possibility of emergence of strong opposition from alliance of regional parties to fight against NDA may weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, a persistent rise in the second wave of COVID-19 cases, increasing death cases and extended partial lockdown announced by several states are expected to keep economic momentum soft for May also, he added. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,13,642 against 33,49,644 on Sunday, according to a Health Ministry update this morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent lower at USD 66.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||We are altering our production pattern according to chip supply: MD of Maruti Suzuki India||Maruti Suzuki India is tweaking the production of variants to work around the current semi-conductor chip crisis. Marketing director Shashank Srivastava said, “Different variants require different series of chips. There is a shortage across all the series but certain series are available at certain times. We are making do with whatever is available.” The level of electronics goes up with the more luxurious variants with higher series chips in the infotainment system, digital speedometer display and GPS systems. Srivastava claims that Maruti is least affected because of its large portfolio. “We are altering our production pattern according to the chip supply. So, customers can take their pick. The Dzire has L and V variants. We are tweaking production of these two variants according to supply of chips.”. Ertiga has a waiting period of five to six weeks, while for the Brezza is four to six weeks. While both Maruti and Hyundai have a wider product portfolio, enabling its customers to opt for ones in production, companies with smaller portfolios like Nissan Magnite has a longer waiting period. Companies such as Ford, Mahindra and Ashok Leyland have raised flags over the short supply and indicated that it could impact the production in the coming months. The car industry is likely to see an impact by way of constraints in manufacturing new vehicles. Auto industry expects the issue to stay till the first half of 2021. Mahindra & Mahindra has already indicated that it would push the new product launches beyond Q1 of next fiscal due to the semiconductor shortage. The shortage of semiconductor chips was sparked by the global pandemic as countries went into a lockdown and auto companies shut factories. As the need for the chips dwindled in the auto segment, chip makers diverted their supplies to other sectors, including mobile phones and FMCGs. Now that the sector has bounced back to production, demand for chips has soared but the supply chain remains disrupted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Road ministry notifies changes in vehicle ownership transfer rules||The owner of a vehicle can now nominate a person in the registration certificate so that the vehicle can be registered or transferred to the nominee after the owner’s death. The name of the nominee may be included at the time of registration of the vehicles and at a later date through an online application. The process is otherwise quite cumbersome in the country. According to rules notified by the ministry of road transport and highways in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the owner of a vehicle has to submit proof of the identity of the nominee in case the nominee is mentioned. “If the owner of a motor vehicle dies, the person nominated in the certificate of registration or the person succeeding to the possession of the vehicle, as the case may be, may for a period of three months from the death of the owner, use the vehicle as if it has been transferred to him. “The nominee  has to inform the registering authority within 30 days of the death of the owner of his intention to use the vehicle,” the notification said. The nominee shall apply in Form 31 within three months from the death of the owner of the vehicle to the registering authority for transfer of ownership to his name. For a change in nominee in case of contingencies such as divorce or division of property, the owner may do so using an agreed standard operating procedure, it added. At present, in the case of death of a registered owner, the procedure of transferring the vehicle to a nominee requires complying with a raft of procedures and frequent visits to different offices. The ministry on November 27, 2020 had proposed to amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 to facilitate the owner of a vehicle for nominating a person in the registration certificate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Spike in digital fraud cases amid second wave of Covid pandemic||A Bangalore-based data analytics start-up anticipates a spike in digital fraud cases amid the second wave of the Covid pandemic as people turn to digital means of payments and transactions. “When Covid was at its peak last year, the number of complaints were 500-600 every single day. This came down to around 300-400 later in the year. Again it is picking up at 600-650 per day. This number is going to go up and we envisage this will grow up to 1,000 per day,” said Adhip Ramesh, founder, TrustCheckr. The three-year old start-up uses API (application programming interface) based solutions to enable businesses to detect frauds and fake profiles on digital platforms using data sourced from various fintech partners and social channels. “The flavour of the season is charity fraud using Covid as a reason. The story keeps on changing but the methodology remains the same,” said co-founder Shivraj Harsha. “The common thread of digital payment frauds is phone number and email address. We check fraud signals with phone/email, validate the customer authenticity using historical fraud trends and fraud data sets,” said Ramesh. The company collected around 350,000 data points over a 12-month period across different types of fraud during the Covid pandemic and estimated that social engineering frauds comprising CVV/OTP sharing, UPI phishing, frauds through digital payments links and QR codes on digital payments platform, fake cashbacks and screen sharing apps, KYC related frauds constituted majority of the overall frauds. Geographically, the eastern states of Bihar, Odisha and the northeastern states of Guwahati and bordering districts of Bangladesh constituted around 40 per cent of the fraud origination. The metro cities of NCR, Mumbai, Delhi and Calcutta constituted around 20 per cent. Ramesh added that the start-up is in discussions with NPCI, banks, NBFCs and other fintech operators, including digital payments platforms on the possibility of incorporating their solution into those platforms. “The objective is to stop a fraud occurring right at the point of origination. Our solution acts as an additional layer or firewall,” said Harsha. “If it sounds too good to be true, one should be careful about such transactions,” he added. Data from NPCI shows that UPI transactions have grown 78.37 per cent in volume and 92.5 per cent in value during 2020-21 compared with the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India to keep interest rates down to support economic growth||State Bank of India (SBI) will try to keep the interest rates benign as long as possible with a view to supporting the economic growth, its chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara has said. On the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on non-performing assets of the bank, the SBI chief said that as the lockdown was not pan-India, one will have to wait and watch to assess its impact on the banking sector. Observing that multiple variables, including inflation, have a bearing on the interest rates, he said, “Our effort is to support the growth initiatives. To ensure that happens, we will try to keep the soft interest rate regime for as long as possible.” Khara further said it is too early to give any colour to the likely scenario of NPAs because of the local restrictions. The impact of the lockdown differs from state to state as it is not uniform, he said, adding, “So, probably we can wait and watch for some more time before making any comment on the impact on the economy and NPA situation”. On the various initiatives of the country’s largest lender, Khara said, SBI has decided to set up makeshift hospitals with ICU facilities for Covid-19 patients in some of the worst affected states. The bank has already earmarked Rs 30 crore to set up makeshift hospitals for Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India to strengthen risk-based supervision of banks, NBFCs||The Reserve Bank has decided to review and strengthen the risk-based supervision (RBS) of the banking sector to enable financial sector players to address the emerging challenges. The RBI uses the RBS model, including both qualitative and quantitative elements, to supervise banks, urban co-operatives banks, non-banking financial companies and other financial institutions. “It is now intended to review the supervisory processes and mechanism in order to make the extant RBS model more robust and capable of addressing emerging challenges, while removing inconsistencies, if any,” the RBI said while inviting bids from technical experts/consultants to carry forward the process for banks. “It is intended to review the existing supervisory rating models under the CAMELS approach for improved risk capture in a forward looking manner and for harmonising the supervisory approach across all SEs,” it said. The annual financial inspection of UCBs and NBFCs is largely based on the CAMELS model (capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and systems & control). The government has appointed RBI executive director T. Rabi Sankar as the fourth deputy governor of the central bank. Sankar fills the vacancy created by the retirement of B. P. Kanungo on April 2, after completing one-year extension. In the case of UCBs and NBFCs, the expression of interest (EOI) for “consultant for review of supervisory models” said the supervisory functions pertaining to commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs are now integrated, with the objective of harmonising the supervisory approach based on the activities/size of the supervised entities (SEs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Blackstone increases bet on India||Wall Street major Blackstone is increasing its bets on India, promising to pump in more dollars than it has already invested in the past decade. For the American alternative investment management giant with close to $620 billion in assets under management globally, India is its most profitable market in terms of returns — its seed investment of around $25 billion is worth over $50 billion at present, according to co-founder, chairman and chief executive Stephen A Schwarzman. In the past decade, Blackstone has invested more than $22 billion in the country and some of its existing investments include Mphasis, Nexus Malls and edutech player Aakash. Mphasis is its largest investment so far with $2 billion already invested and an additional $2.8 billion committed. Other investments include largest specialty glass packaging maker Piramal Glass ($1 billion), global leader in recyclable packaging tubes Essel Propack and largest independent affordable housing finance company Aadhar. It also has two REITs, making it the largest owner of office, real estate and a leading player in the retail and logistics space. Last year, it launched Asia’s largest and the country’s first two REITs. India is the most successful investment destination for the firm. The company anticipates investing more in the next 10 years that it has already invested in the previous period, Schwarzman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Exports jump to $30.21 billion in April||India’s exports in April jumped nearly three-folds to $30.21 billion on account of a healthy growth in key sectors, including engineering, gems and jewellery, and petroleum products, even as trade deficit widened to $15.24 billion, according to the commerce ministry’s preliminary data released on Sunday. The country’s merchandise exports were to the tune of $10.17 billion in April 2020. Trade deficit in that month was $6.92 billion. Imports too rose by over three-folds to $45.45 billion last month against $17.09 billion in April 2020. “India’s merchandise exports in April 2021 were $30.21 billion, an increase of 197.03 per cent over $10.17 billion in April 2020 and an increase of 16.03 per cent over $26.04 billion in April 2019,” the ministry said in a statement. In percentage terms, the growth rate in exports and imports are at a record high, mainly because of the base-effect. Exports shrank by a record 60.28 per cent in April 2020 because of the pandemic induced lockdown. In March this year, exports grew 60.29 per cent to $34.45 billion. As many as 462 infrastructure projects, each worth Rs 150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns totalling more than Rs 4.36 lakh crore, according to a report. The ministry of statistics and programme implementation monitors infrastructure projects worth Rs 150 crore and above. Of the 1,737 such projects, 462 reported cost overruns and 557 were delayed. “Total original cost of implementation of the 1,737 projects was Rs 22,33,409.53 crore and their anticipated completion cost is likely to be Rs 26,69,649.35 crore, which reflects overall cost overruns of Rs 4,36,239.82 crore (19.53 per cent of original cost),” the ministry’s latest report for March 2021 said. The second wave of coronavirus has pummelled fuel sales in April as local restrictions have stifled demand. “At the end of April, overall fuel demand is down by about 7 per cent from pre-Covid level of April 2019,” Arun Singh, director for marketing and refineries at Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), said. India’s coal import is expected to be subdued in the coming months on account of various factors like prevailing Covid situation, high coal stock in the system and higher international prices, according to mjunction. Coal import fell 12.62 per cent to 215.92 million tonnes (MT) in 2020-21 from 247.10 MT in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
03-05-2021||Business||Government waives late fee for delayed filing of March, April GSTR-3B, tax payment||The government has waived the late fee for delayed filing of monthly return GSTR-3B and tax payment for the months of March and April and has also reduced the interest rate for late filers. The finance ministry in a statement said it has provided several relief measures in view of the challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting the statutory and regulatory compliances under the Goods & Services Tax (GST) law because the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore have been given 15 days extra time to file monthly summary return GSTR-3B and pay taxes without paying any late fees. They would be required to pay a lower 9 per cent interest for these 15 days, after which the rate would be 18 per cent. Businesses with a turnover of up to Rs 5 crore in the preceding financial year, have 30 days more time from their original due date for filing 3B returns for March and April, with a late fee waiver. The interest rate would be ‘Nil’ for the first 15 days, post which it would be a concessional 9 per cent rate. After 30 days, the normal 18 per cent interest would be levied. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on May 1 issued the notification, saying that these relaxations come into effect from April 18. Also the due date for filing April sales return GSTR-1 has been extended till May 26, from the original due date of May 11. For composition dealers filing sales return GSTR-4, the deadline for filing returns for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, has been extended by a month till May 31. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said owing to Covid induced exigencies, the government has introduced compliance-related reliefs for the block of two-month March and April, 2021. Every taxpayer of the country is eligible for some form of extension irrespective of the size of operations. “Large taxpayers will enjoy a full waiver of late fee, and partial relief in levy of interest wherein GSTR -3B filings are delayed up to 15 days. However, small taxpayers will enjoy similar benefits even if such filings are delayed up to 30 days,” Mohan added. While businesses file GSTR-1 of a particular month by the 11th day of the subsequent month, GSTR-3B is filed in a staggered manner between day 20 to 24 of the succeeding month. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain, said, “With the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in several parts of the country, many industry players would have struggled to meet the GST compliance deadlines. The extension in the deadlines would provide the much needed relief to the industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
03-05-2021||Business||Feast on funds: a checklist to help you pick new fund offers in the market||Food and funds make strange bedfellows but one cannot but think about the former when one scans the latest list of NFOs (New Fund Offers), which the securities regulator regularly updates. An eclectic feast seems to await the mutual fund investor, the one who is seeking new-age alternatives to old-fashioned fuddy-duddies. Laid neatly on the table is a multi-course smorgasbord —  a thaali comprising international funds, thematic funds and even exchange-traded funds based on indices that only the discerning few would be familiar with. So while you may nibble at an India-Taiwan equity proposal, and make a morsel of a Nasdaq 100 index idea, you may also relish a low-volatility investment theme, not to mention ETFs (exchange traded funds) that would mirror consumption and FMCG indices. Indeed, rarely was the asset management space in India so crowded in terms of sheer diversity of fresh propositions. The very nature of some of the NFOs proposed lately present investors with a stiff challenge — how would they exercise choice? Which among these really merit their attention? And why should they reject the others? Before I get to discuss these issues, let me quickly tell you that NFOs such as these reflect a definite willingness on the part of our fund houses to offer a greater variety of choices to the local investor fraternity. While this is especially true for equity (where variegation of proposals is quite easily achieved), the debt space is currently witnessing similar trends too. The days of only traditional and old-style products for the two most critical asset classes are truly over, it seems. Certain significant developments in the securities markets — many of these have already emerged as major international themes — have helped intensify the trend in India. For instance, ESG (environment, social and governance) is now an important force to reckon with globally; Indian fund houses have already started to adopt it. Sustainable investing, including themes focused on protection of climate or reduction of carbon footprint, is the other emerging space for our asset managers. Already, one of them has lined up a fund revolving around water. I do not wish to name specific fund houses here; let readers find out more if they wish. It is clear to me that a cascade of spiffy NFOs may well leave the average participant quite flummoxed. If you are keen on allocating to any of the new proposals, make sure that you address a few vital issues right at the beginning. This, it is time for you to consider the following: • Do your risk-return limitations allow the inclusion of an altogether fresh option? • Is the idea in line with your existing investment objectives? Will it be in sync with your current asset allocation? Or do you need to tweak your strategy significantly just to accommodate it? • How will the proposal add value to the portfolio you have at this juncture? What sort of securities is the new fund likely to acquire? Are you sure it is effectively not a me-too product in disguise? Remember, a completely novel proposition (especially if it is based on an exotic theme) may be a drag on your portfolio, at least in the initial phase, as the fund manager has to fully appreciate its rationale. So think about it in terms of longer-than-usual gestation period too. At any rate, he will need time to fully invest the amount mobilised from the new-offer market. Notions like climate protection and carbon reduction (both are bound to achieve great traction in the days to come) are very complex. Businesses that are getting generated worldwide (especially in emerging markets like ours) on the basis of these notions will not be easily comprehended by ordinary investors. The point is, there is need for greater vigilance with regard to NFOs, and only a careful investor will be able to understand their finer nuances. Simply put, he is well advised to carefully read the document in order to know an NFO’s true worth. Take the recent case of an ETF that has been worked out for the FANG market in the US. The fund will invest in stocks constituting the NYSE FANG+ index. The Facebook-Amazon-Netflix-Google (includes Apple too) combine has its own set of merits, and the fund manager concerned is leveraging on the same for his Indian clients. The fact that a popular “FANG index” already exists overseas makes it easier for the domestic fund. Not all NFOs will make wonderful additions to an investor’s existing holdings. Their core risks (which may potentially result in gross underperformance) must be understood by him. Further, he must also be aware of the fact that a number of systemic elements will be at play, particularly if the NFO is based on an international concept. Global dynamics can be very different from ours, and while many popular index funds/ETFs will mirror international trends, there will always be tracking errors as well as sundry costs and expenses. Also, foreign exchange movements will certainly be an influential factor for the markets, and no investor can afford to ignore these. Regulatory risks too are a constant threat for many smart investment ideas — ordinary investors are often too ignorant about these perils. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
