04-05-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 465 points to close below 49,000||Market benchmark Sensex tumbled 465 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Infosys despite a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 465.01 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 48,253.51, and the broader NSE Nifty slumped 137.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,496.50. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Sun Pharma, HDFC twins, Infosys, M&M and PowerGrid. On the other hand, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, TCS, Nestle India and SBI were among the gainers. "Domestic equities gave up gains towards the second half of the day and fell sharply as mounting uncertainty led by rise in second wave of COVID-19 cases weighed on investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring PSU banks, selling pressure was visible across the sectors with pharma witnessing steep correction. While a persistent increase in daily caseload in several states is still a matter of concern, visible modest decline in new cases in many parts like Maharashtra and Delhi offers comfort, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,47,133 against 34,13,642 on Monday, according to a Health Ministry update Tuesday morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.79 per cent higher at USD 68.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank amid a mixed trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index rose 242.57 points or 0.50 per cent to 48,961.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.05 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,712.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Bajaj Finance and NTPC. On the other hand, Titan, HUL, Reliance Industries, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex finished 63.84 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 48,718.52, and Nifty closed 3.05 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 14,634.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,289.46 crore on Monday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 552.92 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "This bull market, which has been climbing many walls of worries, is likely to remain resilient supported by positive news on the COVID front, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He noted that the latest data indicates plateauing of the COVID curve and a steady decline in COVID numbers in 13 states including Maharashtra. Daily numbers after peaking at 4.02 lakh on May 1, have been steadily declining and now stand near 3.5 lakh. "This can give further support to the 'hope trade' that is currently on, despite the grim health crisis. Q4 results continue to be good across sectors. The FIIs continue to be on the sell side but this is being neutralised by DII buying. IT, pharma, telecom are safe sectors in the context of the lockdowns during the second wave," he added. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,47,133 against 34,13,642 on Monday, according to a Health Ministry update this morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Equities on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 67.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Aramco may pick up a 20 per cent stake in Reliance's oil-to-chemicals business||Reliance Industries is reportedly in talks with Aramco under which the Saudi oil behemoth could pick up a 20 per cent stake in the oil-to-chemicals business that the Mukesh Ambani-owned conglomerate plans to spin off later this year. Aramco is believed to have offered to make the $15 billion investment through a mix of cash and its stock. RIL could be offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments — a proposal that the Ambanis are apparently baulking at as this could delay debt reduction plans in the O2C business. In its reorganisation plan for the oil-to-chemicals business that  was put out in February, RIL had provided for a long-dated loan of $25 billion “with repayment flexibility as an efficient mechanism to upstream cash to RIL from any strategic investment in O2C”. Reports suggest that Aramco is offering its shares as part payment which will come with a lock-in, effectively nixing plans for early debt repayment to the parent.
Sources said the talks between the two sides were on but it was still too early to say whether an agreement would be reached on a cash-and-stock payment mechanism.
They said during negotiations a number of proposals are tossed around without confirming whether that the cash-and-stock option was on the table. Rumours about a deal gained credence after the London-based Financial Times reported last week that the talks had revived in recent weeks. It said Aramco had offered to pay for the O2C stake with its shares initially and follow it up with cash payments over several years. The report, however, added that the proportion of shares versus cash was still up for debate and terms had yet to be finalised. The report has renewed optimism that Mukesh Ambani may have some great news for RIL shareholders that could be announced during the annual general meeting in July, or even earlier if the two sides can hammer out the rough contours of the deal. If it happens, it would be redolent of the deal-making flurry last year when RIL raised Rs 1.52 lakh crore by striking deals with a gaggle of investors including Facebook, Google and Abu Dhabi’s sovereign wealth funds — Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Mubadala Investment Company — by offering strategic stakes in its Jio Platforms. RIL raised another Rs 47,200 crore from global private equity funds in Reliance Retail Ventures. It also floated India’s largest-ever Rs 53,124 crore rights issue. The transactions were critical in turning RIL into a net debt-free company. Deal looms If everything goes right, there might be an encore this year —coincidentally at a time when the Indian economy is going through the second wave of the pandemic.
Last week, while announcing the results for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, RIL did not provide any update on the Aramco transaction which the market was eagerly waiting to hear about. Interest in the deal was re-ignited after Saudi Aramco announced in August last year that it was undertaking a due diligence exercise before picking up a stake in the oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. This has been an on-again, off-again sort of deal that Mukesh Ambani first announced in 2019 that Aramco would pick up a 20 per cent in its O2C business for an enterprise value (EV) of $75 billion. Since then, progress on the deal has been slow, blighted by the Covid crisis and Aramco’s failure to raise $100 billion in December 2019 from what was touted as the world’s biggest initial public offering(IPO). Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman recently hinted at talks to hawk a minority stake in the Saudi national oil company to an overseas investor. 
Though he did not disclose any details, he only pointed out that it would be “very important in strengthening Aramco’s sales in the country where this company resides”, which sparked speculation that he was talking about RIL. Higher valuation Interestingly, if Saudi Aramco offers a 1 per cent stake to RIL, the deal would be valued at well over $15 billion, which means that the sides are pencilling in a higher valuation for RIL’s 02C business than was determined two years ago. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that brokerages are now quoting an enterprise value of $50-60 billion for this business, based on a sum-of-the-parts valuation.
The O2C business straddles five business verticals: fuels, polymers, elastomers, aromatics and fibre intermediates, and polyesters. The O2C business accounted for segment revenue of Rs 320,008 crore — 51.9 per cent of the Rs 616,911 crore gross value of sales and services from all of RIL’s businesses in the year ended March 31. Analysts at Jefferies have said the benefits that RIL will derive from any deal with Aramco will depend on how it is structured. “If a significant part of the proceeds are in Aramco stock with a lock-in, and the cash payments are staggered over a few years, debt reduction would be delayed and RIL would be exposed to the volatility in Aramco’s stock price. However, if the O2C business is valued higher than the $75 billion indicated earlier to compensate for the lack of liquidity of Aramco’s stock, the deal could be NPV (net present value) neutral, in our view. If the consideration is liquid, then it would benefit RIL in the following ways: some parts would go to reduce debt on the standalone entity, and some parts would go into funding the new O2C cracker,” they added. “Our conversations with investors highlight current expectations of any O2C stake sale bringing in billions of dollars of cash into RIL, which it would either utilise for further reducing debt or for new business investments. If RIL were to accept an Aramco stake as consideration for an O2C stake sale, the implicit assumption would be that of oil prices surging from here over the next few years for any such structure to be value accretive,” analysts at JP Morgan said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank net profits rise 33 per cent for fourth quarter ended March 3||Kotak Mahindra Bank’s net profits rose 33 per cent for fourth quarter ended March 31 to Rs 1,682.37 crore from Rs 1,266.60 crore a year ago. However, this number came a tad below analyst estimates. Core net interest income grew 8 per cent at Rs  3,843 crore against Rs 3,560 crore in the year ago period. However, there was an improvement in its asset quality with the ratio of gross non-performing assets dropping to 3.25 per cent from 3.27 per cent in the preceding three months. Uday Kotak, managing director & CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, on Monday said his current term in the bank is till December 2023 and that the board will take a call on succession in due course. This comes after the RBI capped the tenure of CEOs in private sector banks at 15 years. Kotak has been at the helm for more than 17 years. “The tenure for me is up to December 31, 2023. So, you are going to see me around as CEO at least till then,” he said after announcing the results for the fourth quarter ended March. To a question on succession planning, he hinted that the board does not have to wait till the RBI puts a cap, and added that in the current times of Covid-19, it is all the more necessary. SBI Life SBI Life Insurance Company on Monday reported a flat net profit at Rs 532 crore for the March 2021 quarter. The life insurer had posted a net profit of Rs 531 crore a year ago.  Total income jumped to Rs 20,897 crore from Rs 5,675 crore in year-ago period. IDBI Bank LIC-owned IDBI Bank on Monday reported a nearly four-fold jump in its standalone profit after tax to Rs 512 crore in the March quarter compared with Rs 135 crore a year ago on the back of an impressive 38 per cent growth in its net interest income. The lender also turned profitable on an annual basis after five years as it reported a standalone profit of Rs 1,359 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal that ended in March against a loss of Rs 12,887 crore in FY20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Verizon near a deal to sell Yahoo and AOL to private equity firm Apollo Global Management||Verizon once saw media as the future, the linchpin of a strategy to give customers something they couldn’t get elsewhere at a time when all mobile offerings were essentially the same. It has a different vision for the future now. The phone giant, signaling that it has given up on its media business, is near a deal to sell Yahoo and AOL to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management, two people with knowledge of the matter said on Sunday. The transaction would be the latest turn in the history of two of the internet’s earliest pioneers. Yahoo used to be the front page of the internet, cataloging the furious pace of new websites that sprang up in the late 1990s. AOL was once the service that most people used to get online. But both were ultimately supplanted by nimbler start-ups, like Google and Facebook, though Yahoo and AOL still publish highly trafficked websites like Yahoo Sports and TechCrunch. The deal, which could be announced in the coming days, would value the brands at $4 billion to $5 billion and include Verizon’s advertising technology business as well. The people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks are confidential, cautioned that the talks could still fall apart. When Verizon bought AOL in 2015 for $4.4 billion, the company called AOL “a digital trailblazer”. Lowell McAdam, Verizon’s chief executive at the time, championed the deal as part of its “strategy to provide a cross-screen connection for consumers, creators and advertisers to deliver that premium experience.” Tim Armstrong, the head of AOL, was part of the package, and he soon persuaded Verizon executives to add to its media holdings. Armstrong orchestrated the 2017 purchase of Yahoo for $4.5 billion — a prize he had been pursuing for years. In the statement announcing the deal, Armstrong said, “We’re building the future of brands.” It was all in the pursuit of almighty “scale,” a business term of art that has almost become a religious mantra in Silicon Valley. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Slump in factory output sparks an 18-27 per cent drop in truck rentals on trunk routes during April||The slump in factory output has sparked an 18-27 per cent drop in truck rentals on trunk routes during April against the rates on a sequential basis in the open market. This has prompted truckers to seek relaxation in non-performing asset (NPA) norms and halting the seizure of vehicles as this could impact the transport of essential items.
“The truck rentals slumped as factory output fell 35-40 per cent because of production cuts and closures in many states triggered by the present wave of Covid, resulting in local lockdowns,” said S.P. Singh, senior fellow and coordinator, Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training. Also, there was 10-15 per cent drop in arrivals of fruits and vegetables in mandis (or Agricultural Price Marketing Committees). IFTRT projects the truck freight rentals and sales to remain timid for the current quarter and most likely for the next quarter of the current fiscal. As of now, there is no specific financial package for micro, small and medium enterprises in trade and manufacturing to lift the economy, the association said.
The road transport business consists of 90 per cent of small truck ownerships and has been hit hard, observed IFTRT based on 75 key truck and trade centres in the country. Separately, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC)— the transport union – has also sought moratorium in equal monthly instalments in the prevailing scenario and asked for relaxation of non-performing-asset NPA norms and halting the seizure of vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Stocks witness initial jolt as TMC's electoral victory weighed on investor sentiment||Stocks on Monday witnessed an initial jolt as the massive electoral victory by the TMC in Bengal weighed on investor sentiment. However, buying support in metals, FMCG and auto counters helped benchmark indices recover from their lows to close with marginal losses. The 30-share Sensex, which had collapsed more than 750 points during intra-day trade, recovered to finish with a drop of only 63.84 points. The broader Nifty closed 3.05 points, or 0.02 per cent higher at 14634.15. It was a weak beginning for stocks as the huge victory of the TMC in Bengal and the NDA’s poor performance in other states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala led to views that the ruling party in the Centre would face stiff challenge from regional parties. It also forced investors to re-assess the potent power of the BJP juggernaut, especially with polls due next year in Uttar Pradesh. However, stocks overcame these apprehensions and recovered from their lows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Opec’s share of India’s oil imports fall to the lowest in at least two decades||Opec’s share of India’s oil imports fell to the lowest in at least two decades in the year to the end of March as overall purchases by Asia’s third largest economy fell to a six-year low, data obtained from industry and trade sources showed. Total crude imports by the world’s third-biggest oil importer fell to 3.97 million barrels per day (bpd) in the 2021 fiscal year to March 31, down 11.8 per cent from a year earlier, the data showed. India bought more US and Canadian oil at the expense of that from Africa and the Middle East, reducing purchases from Opec members to around 2.86 million barrels per day and squeezing the group’s share of imports to 72 per cent from 80 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Pfizer in talks with Centre to expedite approval pathway for vaccine||Pfizer is in discussions with the Indian government for an expedited approval pathway to make Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available in the country, its chief Albert Bourla said on Monday, while stating that the firm is donating medicines worth $70 million (over Rs 510 crore) for treatment of Covid-19 patients in India. “We are deeply concerned by the critical Covid-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India,” he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he posted on linked.in. “Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines 
that the government of India has identified as part of its Covid treatment protocol,” Bourla said. “These medicines, valued at more than $70 million, will be made available immediately, and we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most,” Bourla said. Capgemini funds IT major Capgemini on Monday announced a Rs 50 crore fund to build Covid care ICU facilities, oxygen generation plants, other long-term medical infrastructure and provide relief operations during the pandemic. In addition, the French firm is also contributing Rs 5 crore to UNICEF to provide immediate support across India for critical Covid-19 response care, by setting up three oxygen generation plants and RT-PCR testing machines. FM caution Cautioning the global community against vaccine nationalism at this hour of the pandemic, India on Monday asked the developed nations to share technology and allow free movement of critical components and raw material needed for production of vaccines. “Countries will have to be open about sharing vaccine-based technologies. The TRIPS agreement will have to be looked at in the context of the pandemic,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. IGST waiver The government has waived Integrated GST (IGST) till June 30 on the import of Covid-related relief material donated or received free of cost from outside India for free distribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business|| India’s manufacturing sector steady despite mounting cases of Covid-19||India’s manufacturing sector remained steady despite mounting cases of Covid-19 amid the second wave. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index stood at 55.5 in April compared with 55.4 in March 2021, according to a media statement. That’s the eighth straight month of the index remaining in the expansion zone. A reading above 50 indicates economic expansion. “The PMI results for April showed a further slowdown in rates of growth for new orders and output, both of which eased to eight-month lows amid the intensification of the Covid crisis,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “the surge in Covid cases could dampen demand further when firms’ financials are already susceptible to the hurdle of rising global prices”.
The survey, however, noted that while output and sales increased at the slowest rates since last August, there was a faster upturn in international orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Covid: Economic impact of a V-shaped second wave worrying as pandemic closes in on rural India||The economic impact of a V-shaped second wave of the pandemic is worrying as Covid-19, till now considered to be an urban phenomenon, is closing in on rural India. The share of rural districts in new cases in April was 30 per cent, up from 21 per cent in March, a Crisil research report has said. The impact of state-announced curbs is being felt across high-frequency indicators, including retail and workplace 
mobility, power supply, GST e-way bill collection and power supply, which are trending down for the second consecutive week now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
04-05-2021||Business||Covid: CII urges govt to take 'strongest' steps, without impacting essential operations||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has urged the government to take the “strongest” national steps, including curtailment of economic activity, without impacting critical and essential operations. The industry association said economic activities can be restricted for two weeks to “break the chain”. It also advised its members to review operations and restrict the use of manpower outside home. “We need the highest response measures to break the chain; we must use this time rapidly to build capacity,” CII president Uday Kotak said. The CII’s advice comes amid reports that the Centre’s task force has also been pushing hard for a nationwide lockdown to break the chain of the virus as the country records an unprecedented caseload of 4.01 lakh Covid-19 cases and 3,523 deaths in the last 24 hours. “Curtail all non-essential economic activity requiring physical presence of employees at the workplace for the next two weeks. This is necessary to break the chain of transmission. All responsible corporates should strive to protect their employees and ensure that their employee balance sheet remains healthy,” Kotak added. Ficci suggestion Industry body Ficci has suggested the government a series of steps, including speeding up the vaccination drive and maintaining supply of essential medicines, in order to contain the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. In a letter to Sanjeeva Kumar, member secretary, National Disaster Management Authority, the chamber said there is an urgent need for a national criteria for hospital admissions for Covid-19 as it would help reduce the burden of non-essential Covid admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
