05-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 424 points on RBI announcements||Market benchmark Sensex rallied 424 points on Wednesday, led by gains in financial stocks after the RBI unveiled a slew of measures to support the economy facing strong headwinds amid peaking second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The 30-share BSE index jumped 424.04 points or 0.88 per cent to close at 48,677.55.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 121.35 points or 0.84 per cent to 14,617.85.

Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, Titan and TCS.

On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and HUL were the laggards.

"Domestic equities rebounded mainly supported by financials, IT and pharma. Notably, announcement of liquidity supports by the RBI's Governor to tackle the challenges coming from second wave of COVID-19 crisis aided financials to rebound," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Earlier in the day, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das announced a slew of support measures to help cushion the economic blow of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.

RBI has allowed certain individual and small borrowers more time to repay debt and allowed banks to give priority loans to vaccine makers, hospitals and COVID-related health infrastructure.

Barring FMCG, most key sectoral indices traded in green.

While elevated COVID-19 cases in several states and rising number of deaths are matters of concern, visible modest decline in new cases in many states including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat offers comfort, he said.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong ended on a negative note, while Seoul, Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays.

Equities in Europe were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.34 per cent higher at USD 69.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business|| RBI announces loan restructuring for small businesses hit by Covid||RBI on Wednesday allowed certain individual and small borrowers more time to repay debt and allowed banks to give priority loans to vaccine makers, hospitals and COVID-related health infrastructure as it announced support measures to cushion the pandemic's blow on the economy.

The moratorium of up to two years will be available to individuals and small and medium enterprises that did not restructure their loans in 2020 and were classified as standard accounts till March 2021, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das in an unscheduled address.

This facility will be available to borrowers with a total exposure of Rs 25 crore.

RBI will give Rs 50,000 crore of liquidity support to banks for providing fresh lending "to a wide range of entities including vaccine manufacturers; importers/suppliers of vaccines and priority medical devices; hospitals/dispensaries; pathology labs; manufactures and suppliers of oxygen and ventilators; importers of vaccines and COVID related drugs; logistics firms and also patients for treatment," he said.

These loans of up to 3 years tenor will be obtainable at repo rate and will be available till March 31, 2022.

He also announced a calendar for bond-buying.

Just as the economy appeared to be inching back to normalcy, India was hit by a second wave of infections in early April, prompting states and cities to restrict public movements and impose lockdowns, which have hit some businesses hard.

India added 3,82,315 virus cases over the last 24 hours to reach a total of 2.06 crore, while death rose by a record 3,780 to 226,188, health ministry data showed.

RBI has been meeting with bankers and shadow lenders (NBFCs) in recent weeks to discuss the economic situation, possible stress to balance sheets and credit flow in the system.

Bankers had reportedly asked the RBI for a three-month moratorium, particularly for retail and small borrowers, as the world's fastest rising pandemic curve began hurting businesses and jobs, with potential to inflate bad loans (defaults).

"The devastating speed with which the virus affects different regions of the country has to be matched by swift-footed and wide-ranging actions that are calibrated, sequenced and well-timed so as reach out to various sections of society and business, right down to the smallest and the most vulnerable," Das said.

RBI will buy Rs 35,000 crore of bonds under 'Government Securities Acquisition Programme' (G-SAP) -- India's version of quantitative easing -- on May 20. It has also allowed banks to dip into their floating provisions to set aside money for bad loans.

Das said the central bank sees outlook 'highly uncertain' and clouded with downside risks, but doesn't see a major change to inflation forecast.

"As the financial year 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) - the year of the pandemic - was drawing to a close, the Indian economy was advantageously poised, relative to peers. India was at the foothills of a strong recovery, having regained positive growth, but more importantly, having flattened the infection curve. In a few weeks since then, the situation has altered drastically," he said.

While a battle is mounted to deal with the unprecedented crisis, shoring up livelihoods and restoring normalcy in access to workplaces, education and incomes has become an imperative, he said.

"As in the recent past, the RBI will continue to monitor the emerging situation and deploy all resources and instruments at its command in the service of the nation, especially for our citizens, business entities and institutions beleaguered by the second wave."

On the economic outlook, the governor said the global economy is exhibiting incipient signs of recovery but activity remains uneven across countries and sectors.

In India, the record foodgrains production and buffer stocks in 2020-21 provide food security and support to other sectors of the economy in the form of rural demand, employment and agricultural inputs and supplies, including for exports. But aggregate demand conditions, particularly in contact-intensive services, are likely to see a temporary dip.

A normal south-west monsoon, as forecast by the IMD should help to contain food price pressures, especially in cereals and pulses, he said adding the inflation trajectory over the rest of the year will be shaped by the COVID-19 infections and the impact of localised containment measures on supply chains and logistics.

Das said under the Rs 50,000 crore term liquidity facility, banks are expected to create a COVID loan book under the scheme.

RBI will also conduct special three-year long-term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for small finance banks (SFBs) which will be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. This facility will be available till October 31, 2021.

Das also announced rationalisation of certain components of the extant KYC norms including extending the scope of video KYC for new categories of customers.

Other measures included relaxation in overdraft facility for state governments.

"The second wave, though debilitating, is not unsurmountable," Das said. "At the RBI, we stand in battle readiness to ensure that financial conditions remain congenial and markets continue to work efficiently. We will work in close coordination with the government to ameliorate the extreme travails that our citizens are undergoing in this hour of distress."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rose over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys ahead of the Reserve Bank chief's speech.

RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das will make an unscheduled announcement at 10 am.

The 30-share BSE index jumped 266.09 points or 0.55 per cent to 48,519.60 in initial deals.

Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 81.45 points or 0.56 per cent to 14,577.95.

ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining over 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Titan, Axis Bank and UltraTech Cement.

On the other hand, HDFC, Nestle India and HUL were among laggards.

In the previous session, Sensex ended 465.01 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 48,253.51, and Nifty slumped 137.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,496.50.

Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,772.37 crore on Tuesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 987.34 crore, according to provisional exchange data.

"RBI Governor's announcements on Wednesday are likely to influence markets, particularly certain segments like banking. Relief to MSMEs and retail borrowers might positively impact banks which have a higher proportion of such loans. The rally in PSU banks on Tuesday may be in anticipation of this," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.

The market is presently caught between fear from the economic fall out of the second wave of the pandemic and hope arising from the flattening of the COVID-19 curve, he said, adding that it will take some more time for clarity to emerge on which of the two will have a higher impact on markets.

"Going by the experiences of countries that went through the second wave, like the UK, hope will triumph over fear. GDP and earnings growth in Q1 FY 22 will take a hit, but is likely to recover in subsequent quarters, he noted.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading flat in mid-session deals, while Seoul, Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays.

Equities on Wall Street ended on a negative note in overnight trade.

Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.61 per cent higher at USD 69.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Jewellers miffed over exclusion of 24 karat gold from mandatory hallmarking||Jewellers are miffed over exclusion of 24 karat gold from mandatory hallmarking which is set to come into effect from June 2021. All India Gems and Jewellery Domestic Council on Tuesday said that Bureau of Indian Standards, by IS 1417:2016, which approves the standards for purity and fineness of gold articles, lays down that gold articles of only 14k, 18k and 22k karatages will be allowed in the mandatory hallmarking. However, this does not include sale, storage and exhibition of other karatages of gold jewellery or bars and coins. The council said this has imposed a fetter on freedom of jewellers to sell articles of different karatages. “In India, gold is bought and sold in many variants ranging from 1k to 24k. Different regions have unique demands for different karatages. It is common to find 23k and 24k gold items in Akola, Kolhapur, Solapur, Pune and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, while in Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, they usually sell 20k and 21k,” said Ashish Pethe, chairman, GJC. “Gold is also used as an investment option and especially gold coins of 23k and 24k are highly preferred by the customers in India. BIS should include 23k and 24k in the list of approved karatages,” Pethe said, adding that the restriction imposed must be viewed in line with the international standards which approve all types of karatages. “If the jeweller has the necessary machinery and expertise to manufacture articles and jewellery of 24 carat gold, he must not be denied his right to do so. The industry is already in crisis post Covid lockdown in 2020 and now with the second wave coming in, things will be even more difficult. While International standards approve all types of karatages, restriction in karatages will add fuel to the fire,” said Saiyam Mehra, vice-chairman of GJC. The matter has been brought to the notice of the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution. Meanwhile, jewellers in Bengal are in favour of a review of the restrictions imposed on retail store timings in the state to control the spread of Covid pandemic. Instead of two separate time slots (7-10 am and 3-5 pm), the jewellers are seeking one continuous slot from 12 noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||5G trials: Chinese players like Huawei and ZTE not among firms approved by govt||Chinese players such as Huawei and ZTE do not figure among the firms approved on Tuesday by the Modi government for the six month trials for use and application of 5G technology. “The applicant telecom service providers include Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea and MTNL. These TSPs have tied up with original equipment manufacturers and technology providers which are Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and C-DOT,” the ministry of communications said in a release. Reliance Jio will also conduct trials using its own indigenous technology. Globally 61 countries have commercially launched the services, clearly indicating that the country seems to have failed to capitalise on the initial adaptor advantage of the technology because of delays on various fronts, including spectrum pricing. Initially, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea had submitted proposals to carry out trials using Huawei’s technology. Later, they decided to conduct trials without using technologies from Chinese vendors. The government had imposed restrictions on certain Chinese firms and apps and investment from that country after the clashes in the Galwan region. The latest move indicates that the government may bar Chinese companies from participating in 5G rollout too. Telcos will have to conduct trials in rural and semi-urban settings also in addition to urban settings so that the benefit of 5G technology proliferates across the country and is not confined to urban areas. The telecom department has granted the permissions according to the priorities and technology partners identified by telecom service providers  themselves. “The experimental spectrum is being given in various bands, which include the mid-band (3.2 GHz to 3.67 GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25 GHz to 28.5 GHz) and in Sub-Gigahertz band (700 GHz).” The telecom companies will also be permitted to use the existing spectrum owned by them (800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500 MHz) for conduct of 5G trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||WB-HIRA: All eyes on Bengal follow-up action||The follow up action of the Bengal government after the Supreme Court struck down the state legislation on housing industry would determine if the developers, buyers and aggrieved consumers of existing projects are going to face any period of uncertainty. Even as the apex court clarified that the judgment will not have a retrospective effect, the real estate ecosystem would closely watch the next move of the Mamata Banerjee government, which would determine if the state is going to witness a seamless transition to the new regime. Legal experts and industry participants said the best outcome of Tuesday’s verdict would be if the state goes on to publish rules under central legislation RERA (Real Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016). Government sources said the legal department is examining the order which was uploaded on the SC website in the afternoon. “There should not be any worry for either the buyer or the builder,” an official assured this evening. The rule making power under RERA is vested with states and given that rules and regulations under WBHIRA (West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017) and RERA are mirror images in most aspects, there would not be big changes, the official explained. Registration of projects and real estate agents are now done under WBHIRA which also deals with complaints of aggrieved buyers of apartments. The WB HIRA Authority which came into being in June 2020, is dealing with close to 100 fresh project applications and at least 150 complaints. “Till such time the Bengal government does not publish the rules under RERA and establish the Authority in terms thereof, all proposed projects may be stalled for want of approval,” sais Sourav Bhagat, partner Fox & Mandal LLP. Moreover, the pending complaints filed with the Authority may not be processed unless clarified. The options before the state include filing review or curative petition in the apex court. It can also consider amending the existing Act or even frame a new one. Uncertainty would linger if any of these courses is taken, legal minds warned. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, expected realtors would comply with the new regulations. Jitendra Khaitan, managing director of Pioneer Property Management felt the Supreme Court decision could have a positive impact in the long run. “Financial institutions have limited exposure in Bengal because projects here are not registered under RERA. The central government supported fund ‘SWAMIH’ is not taking over any stressed or NPA projects here because they can only take over RERA approved projects,” he explained. If Bengal decides to frame rules under RERA, it would impact three major areas, viz. sale/allotment of car parks, definition of force majeure and compounding of offences. RERA only permits sale of garage which is covered by walls on three sides and a roof unlike WBHIRA which permitted sale of all kinds of car parking spaces such as cover car parking, open car parking   and basement car parking spaces, as were duly sanctioned by the appropriate sanctioning authority. This change will materially affect the ability of developers to  sell and/or allot open car parking spaces and any other car parking spaces which does not fall within the definition of a “garage” as defined by RERA, under the new regime. Second, RERA specifically   provides the force   majeure  events on which a builder   can   rely upon for non-performance. However, WBHIRA had modified the same with  the   addition “any   other   circumstances as may   be prescribed.” This additional umbrella provided by WBHIRA may no longer be available to   the builders under the new regime going forward. Third,   RERA   allows   compounding   of offences while WBHIRA has no such provision available. This will enable the Promoter to cut short the litigation period by payment of fine upfront to compound any offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Covid: Banks urge RBI to grant another three-month loan moratorium||Banks have urged the Reserve Bank of India to grant another loan moratorium for a period of three months to all borrowers in order to head off the prospect of loan defaults as the economy once again shudders under the effects of a second pandemic wave. The lenders have requested the banking regulator to at least extend the moratorium to retail borrowers and small and medium businesses that have been pushed to the brink because of the fresh outbreak of Covid-19. They have also asked for a standstill on the loan default recognition rules so that they do not have to declare them as bad loans that would automatically trigger strict provisioning on their books. Banking circles are optimistic that the RBI will announce some relief measures over the next few days. When the pandemic hit last year, the central bank had come up with a flurry of measures that included a moratorium on payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) and a one-time loan restructuring mechanism. The six-month loan moratorium had ended on August 31 last year. The demand for a fresh loan moratorium comes at a time when several states are mulling another bout of lockdowns that will severely impair economic activity. It has rekindled fears that this will hit micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), retail borrowers, retail shops, stockists and local contractors. With the infections expected to show a declining trend from June, the worry is that the current situation might not only lead to an increase in the banks’ non-performing assets (NPAs) — banking industry speak for bad loans — but also lead to greater requests for a loan moratorium from their customers. The RBI has also been monitoring the situation and governor Shaktikanta Das has held meetings with bank chiefs apart from CEOs of non-banking finance companies (NBFCS) and micro-finance institutions. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), which represents non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), has already informed the RBI that the industry may face severe stress if bad loans spike and severely compromise their ability to handle demands for loan restructuring from their existing and deserving customers. The FIDC has requested the RBI that the borrower accounts, irrespective of whether or not they had been restructured on an earlier occasion and which are deemed to be “standard” as on March 31 this year — which means there has been no default on the payment of interest and principal. The lenders want the central bank to allow them to classify restructured loans also as standard assets. Bankers have also asked the RBI to come up with a one-time restructuring scheme as it did in August last year. This scheme was announced to mitigate the financial stress faced by borrowers due to the pandemic. It allowed banks to extend the repayment or reschedule payment by borrowers by up to two years. Banks had to make a provision of 10 per cent in such cases. The bankers added that they have also sought the re-introduction of the liberalised working capital assessment which was done last year. The scheme was intended to provide additional finance and liquidity in order to provide relief to the customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business|| Supreme Court strikes down West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017||The Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017, deeming it “unconstitutional” since it not only encroached on the domain of Parliament which had passed a central legislation but had also failed to provide sufficient safeguards to home buyers. The central legislation — Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act — was passed in 2016. Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said there were two clear reasons why the state legislation should be set aside: first, the state government lacked the legislative competence to enact a state law that would override a central law on a concurrent subject and, second, it had failed to seek Presidential assent under Article 254 (2) of the Constitution. Exercising its extraordinary powers under Article 142, the apex court ruled that the decision to strike down the state legislation “...will not affect the registrations, sanctions and permissions previously granted under the legislation prior to the date of this judgment.” In its 190-page verdict, the court said a “significant and even overwhelmingly large part of WB-HIRA overlaps with the provisions of RERA. These provisions of the RERA have been lifted bodily, word for word and enacted into the State enactment.” “In doing so, WB-HIRA does not complement the RERA by enacting provisions which may be regarded as in addition to or fortifying the rights, obligations and remedies created by the Central enactment,” said Justice Chandrachud who authored the judgment. The verdict was handed down on a writ petition filed jointly by Forum for People’s Collective Efforts (FPCE) and another organisation challenging the constitutional validity of the state legislation. Citing inconsistencies of WB-HIRA with the Central legislation, the court pointed out that Section 71(1) of the RERA provides that the regulatory authority shall appoint adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging compensation under Sections 12, 14, 18 and 19. The adjudicating officer is required to be a person who is or has been a District Judge. However, WB-HIRA does not contain any provision for appointment of adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging compensation. Rather, Justice Chandrachud noted that under Section 40(3) of WB-HIRA, this power is entrusted to the regulatory authority and not to a judicial person or body. “The fact that an appeal against the orders of the regulatory authority lie to the Appellate Tribunal and thereafter to the High Court cannot gloss over the fact that the valuable safeguard of appointing judicial officers as adjudicating officers for determining compensation under the RERA has not been enacted in WBHIRA…” the bench said. The court further noted that Section 80(2) of the RERA provides that no court inferior to a metropolitan magistrate or a judicial first class magistrate shall try an offence punishable under the Act. But no such provision is contained in WB-HIRA. The State legislature, while enacting WB-HIRA, had replaced the Central Advisory Council, which has a major policy-making role, with the State Advisory Council. As a consequence, the advisory role of the Central government, based on the recommendations of the Central Advisory Council, has been completely eroded in the provisions of WB-HIRA. “…the above analysis clearly demonstrates that in material respects, WB-HIRA has failed to incorporate valuable institutional safeguards and provisions intended to protect the interest of home-buyers,” the court said.  “The silence of the State legislature in critical areas... indicates that important safeguards which have been enacted by Parliament in the public interest have been omitted in the State enactment," the ruling said. “There is, in other words, not only a direct conflict of certain provisions between the RERA and WB-HIRA but there is also a failure of the State legislature to incorporate statutory safeguards in WB-HIRA, which have been introduced in the RERA for protecting the interest of the purchasers of real estate. In failing to do so, the State legislature has transgressed the limitations on its power and has enacted a law which is repugnant to Parliamentary legislation on the same subject matter,” Justice Chandrachud noted. The court further said that it  is abundantly clear that the State of West Bengal would have had to seek the assent of the President before enacting WB-HIRA, where its specific repugnancy with respect to RERA and its reasons for enactment would have to be specified. “Evidently, this was not done. However, since we have already held WB-HIRA to be repugnant to RERA, this issue becomes moot…For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that WB-HIRA is repugnant to the RERA, and is hence unconstitutional,” the Apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
