06-05-2021||Business||How can you achieve your Financial Goals with Personal Loans?||Dreams are essential for all age groups as they motivate us to work hard in order to achieve them. They give our life purpose, direction, and meaning. They shape our life choices, help us build our future, and give a sense of hope. These dreams essentially encompass critical and emotionally fulfilling life goals related to ourselves, education, career, or family. As we strive hard towards achieving these life goals, we face many challenges, such as lack of support, too many goals to be achieved at the same time or simply a lack of focus. However, the biggest reason for most goals and dreams not being achieved is financial constraint. Most people face financial challenges because the monthly expenses are tend to be much higher than their income, which keeps going up due to inflation. However, there is often a simple solution which can help one achieve some of their life goals: personal loan. What is a Personal Loan? A personal loan is usually an unsecured loan which you can avail without pledging any collateral. Such a loan has easy eligibility criteria. The amount can be used for any purpose of your choice, be it a medical emergency or a foreign trip. The borrowed money is to be paid back over a period of time in equated monthly installments (EMIs). So let’s see what are the different goals in any person's life and how a personal loan can help in achieving those goals. Apart from these goals, a personal loan can help you achieve any other financial goal in life as it comes with no strings attached. If you are looking for a personal loan that offers attractive interest rates, flexible repayment options, quick disbursal and minimum paperwork, you could consider personal loan solutions from Tata Capital. With interest rates starting at 10.99 per cent, Tata Capital offers personal loans for all your goals and dreams with loan amount varying from Rs. 75 thousand to Rs. 25 lakh, and a loan tenure of up to six years. It also offers you flexible repayment options where you can choose from standard EMI option, flexi interest-only EMI option and step-up flexi EMI option. A standard EMI is one where you  pay off your principal loan amount inclusive of interest whereas a step-up flexi EMI is one where you can pay lower EMIs in the beginning and pay more gradually as your salary or income increases. A flexi interest-only EMI option is basically a pre-approved cash limit which you can withdraw from whenever you are in need of funds and pay interest only on the used amount, not on the total principal amount borrowed. You can also use the Tata Capital’s Personal Loan EMI calculator on their website to estimate the monthly EMI that you would need to pay for your chosen loan amount and tenure. So what are you waiting for? Log on to the Tata Capital website or Contact Tata Capital's customer support to avail the personal loan as per your requirement and fulfill your life goals and dreams. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
06-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty rise for 2nd consecutive day||Equity gauges Sensex and Nifty notched up gains for the second straight session on Thursday following hectic buying mainly in auto, financial and IT counters. The BSE benchmark Sensex closed higher by 272.21 points or 0.56 per cent at 48,949.76. In volatile trade, the index oscillated between a high of 49,011.31 and a low of 48,614.11 during the day. Similarly, the NSE Nifty ended with a gain of 106.95 points or 0.73 per cent at 14,724.80. On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Auto, HDFC, Infosys, Tech Mahindra and ICICI bank emerged as the prominent gainers. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, and NTPC were the major laggards. Of the Sensex constituents, 20 shares ended with gains. "The trend of positive news alternating with negative news continues. President Biden's decision to back waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines is a big positive. This will quicken the vaccination process enabling countries like India to come out of the pandemic faster," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. But data on daily infections indicate a rise, though mild, after five days of decline, he said adding lockdowns and restrictions on mobility are increasing, impacting the economic recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, barring China, bourses ended with gains as investors noted signs of economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic impact. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 13 paise higher at 73.78 against the US currency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rose over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ITC and Bajaj Finance amid largely positive cues from Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 174.54 points or 0.36 per cent higher at 48,852.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.05 points or 0.47 per cent to 14,686.90. Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, HDFC, Titan, Maruti and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel and PowerGrid were among laggards. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 424.04 points or 0.88 per cent to close at 48,677.55, while Nifty surged 121.35 points or 0.84 per cent to 14,617.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,110.50 crore on Wednesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 240.61 crore, according to provisional exchange data. The trend of positive news alternating with negative news continues, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "US President Joe Biden's decision to back waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines is a big positive. This will quicken the vaccination process enabling countries like India to come out of the pandemic faster. But data on daily infections indicate a rise, though mild, after five days of decline. Also, lockdowns and restrictions on mobility are increasing, impacting the economic recovery," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Equities on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.10 per cent higher at USD 69.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry permits experimental drone flight operations||The civil aviation ministry has permitted experimental drone flight operations, which would be beyond the visual line of sight (BVLOS), of SpiceJet, Dunzo Air Consortium, Skylark Drones, Swiggy and 17 other entities. The 17 other entities include Virginia Tech India, ShopX Omnipresent Consortium, Asteria Aerospace Private Ltd, Centillion Networks Pvt Ltd, Marut Dronetech Pvt Ltd and Sagar Defence Engineering Pvt Ltd, the ministry said. The ministry has granted a conditional exemption to these entities from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for “conducting the BVLOS experimental flights”, it said on Twitter. The exemption will be valid for a year or until further orders, it noted. The BVLOS drones are flown beyond the visual range of the operator, helping them to cover greater distances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors faces CCI probe||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Wednesday ordered an investigation into allegations that Tata Motors, the country’s top seller of trucks, abused its market position while supplying commercial vehicles to some of its dealers. The case centres around allegations from two former Tata dealers who claimed the company dictated the terms around the quantity and type of vehicles it should stock, and also worked in concert with affiliate firms while advancing credit. The CCI in its order said Tata Motors appears to have abused its dominant position and the case “requires an in-depth investigation”. The practice by Tata Motors to “coerce its dealers to order the vehicles according to its own whims and fancies” is anti-competitive, the CCI said in its 45-page order. The CCI’s investigation unit needs to submit the report within 60 days, but typically such probes last for months. Before the CCI, Tata Motors — part of the $100-billion Tata Group — denied all allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||RBI will buy bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore on May 20 in the second tranche of G-SAP||The Reserve Bank of India will buy bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore on May 20 in the second tranche of its G-Sec acquisition programme (G-SAP) which is designed to tame runaway bond yields . Under the G-SAP, the central bank has committed to purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter ended June 30. Last month, it conducted the first tranche under the bond buying programme for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the first auction had seen yields soften. Some measures were also announced to help state governments tide over a Covid-induced tight cash flow situation. The RBI has granted states an overdraft facility for 50 days in a quarter from 36 days earlier. States would be allowed to maintain a continuous overdraft for a period of 21 days instead of 14 days earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Telecom operators’ association urges govt to revisit 5G spectrum pricing issue||The COAI, a telecom operators’ association, has urged the government to revisit the 5G spectrum pricing issue as the department of telecom rolled out a six-month trial run for use and application of 5G technology. “We hope the government will also look into the industry’s call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P. Kochhar, directorate-general of the COAI, said. COAI is an industry body that represents the private telcos of India along with other multinational telecom companies from around the globe. Industry officials said the COAI is likely to write to the government to urge it to reconsider the pricing as the operators consider it to be too expensive. DoT sources have indicated that the 5G spectrum auction is likely to be held towards the end of this year or early next year. The reserve price for 5G spectrum has been set at Rs 492 crore per MHz of spectrum in the 3,300-3,600MHz bands, which are considered ideal for 5G telecom services. Trai had recommended the 5G spectrum base price in August 2018. The suggestions were then accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT, in the following year. Kocchar lauded the government’s decision to allow the operators to start with the 5G trials so that an early rollout of the next-generation technology can be ensured. Kocchar said the 5G trials would empower the operators to validate 5G technologies and its related use cases, including Industry 4.0 applications and Internet-of-Things. The telecom department has granted the permissions according to the priorities and technology partners identified by telecom operators. “The experimental spectrum is being given in various bands, which include the mid-band (3.2 GHz to 3.67 GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25 GHz to 28.5 GHz) and in the Sub-Gigahertz band (700 GHz).” The telcos will also be permitted to use the existing spectrum owned by them (800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500 MHz) to conduct 5G trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports after-tax profit of Rs 7,162 crore in the fourth quarter||Tata Steel reported after-tax profit of Rs 7,162 crore on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal on the back of an unprecedented surge in steel prices and margins. It had posted a loss of Rs 1,615 crore during the same period in the previous year. Turnover rose to Rs 49,997 crore on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter from Rs 36,009 a year ago, an increase of 38.8 per cent even as deliveries of steel grew by 1.5 per cent on a like-to-like basis, indicating a jump in net sales realisation. Tata Steel’s consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBIDTA), an indicator of underlying performance, reached Rs 13,933 crore, the highest-ever in a quarter. Despite the lockdown-related disruptions in the first quarter of the last fiscal, the steelmaker ended the year with a profit of Rs 8,190 crore, which was almost seven times more than the Rs 1,172-crore reported in the year before. Taking advantage of the strong free cash flow generated by the business, which stood at Rs 23,748 crore, the company reduced net debt by Rs 29,390 crore. The net debt of Tata Steel Group is now Rs 75,389 crore against Rs 104,779 crore a year ago. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of the company, said the Tata Steel Group would reduce debt by another $1 billion and also increase capital allocation for the expansion of the Kalinganagar plant. The company announced a dividend of Rs 25 a share. T.V. Narendran, managing director & CEO of Tata Steel Group, said the cold rolling mill and pellet plant would be completed in the next 12-18 months, which would further boost margins. “We have also restarted our 5-million-tonne expansion project which should be completed in FY24,” he added. However, it is expecting to raise domestic steel production by a million tonnes during this fiscal by debottlenecking exercises. Tata Steel does not foresee a cut in production as a result of lower liquid oxygen supplies. The company did not rule out the possibility of raising exports if India demand slackens due to the pandemic. The Indian operations once again underpinned the numbers even as Tata Steel Europe posted a positive EBIDTA in the fourth quarter. The company also decided to continue with the South East Asian operations and not put it up for sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Centre gives in-principle approval for strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank||The government has given an in-principle approval for the strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank along with transfer of management control, paving the way for both the government and Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) to reduce their shareholding in the lender. The government holds a 45.48 per cent stake in IDBI Bank, while LIC holds 49.24 per cent. LIC is now the promoter of IDBI Bank with management Control and the government is the co-promoter. However, the quantum of stake dilution of both the government and the insurer will be decided while structuring the deal, in consultation with the RBI, an official statement after the CCEA decision said. FDI in private banks has a ceiling of 74 per cent of the paid-up capital and 20 per cent FDI is allowed in PSU banks under the government approval route. The government will organise roadshows in the coming months and decide on the quantum of stake that would be sold to make the lender more lucrative for big domestic and foreign investors ahead of its privatisation. The decision of the LIC board is also in line with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India’s mandate to reduce its stake in IDBI Bank to below 15 per cent. The approval from the cabinet will give the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) the authority to move ahead with the divestment process, and appoint intermediaries for the sale. The strategic buyer will have to infuse funds, new technology and implement best management practices for the growth of IDBI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year paper tumble below 6-per-cent threshold||Yields on the benchmark 10-year paper tumbled below the 6-per-cent threshold even as stocks staged a smart rally, buoyed by measures announced by the RBI to ease the stress in various sectors of the economy. The yield on the 10-year G-Sec closed lower at 5.97 per cent against Tuesday’s close of 6.01 per cent after RBI governor Shaktikanta Das surprised the bond markets by announcing the second tranche of the G-SAP auction of Rs 35,000 crore on May 20. The bellwether Sensex closed with a gain of 424.04 points, or 0.88 per cent, at 48677.55 as investors loaded up on banking, pharmaceuticals and IT stocks. It had touched a high of 48742.72 soon after the announcement. Broking circles said bank stocks gained as the central bank did not grant a blanket moratorium. Pharma stocks spiralled upwards as the RBI opened a Rs 50,000-crore liquidity window to provide credit at an attractive rate to critical health infrastructure and service providers. The broader NSE Nifty surged 121.35 points, or 0.84 per cent, to 14617.85. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 5.94 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy’s, Titan and TCS. Only three index stocks closed in the red — Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and Hindustan Unilever — which fell up to 1.75 per cent. “Pharma gained the most as relief measures announced by the RBI involved provision of term liquidity facility of Rs 50,000 crore on priority basis for the healthcare sector. Apart from this, the announcements included a resolution framework 2.0 for individuals, small businesses and MSMEs, which lifted the banking stock,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Meanwhile, the rupee closed 6 paise lower at 73.91 against the US dollar because of outflows and a stronger greenback in the overseas markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||RBI re-opens one-time debt restructuring scheme for individual borrowers||The RBI on Wednesday re-opened a one-time debt restructuring scheme for individual borrowers under which banks can reschedule their payments or grant a moratorium for a maximum period of two years. This will not be a blanket moratorium as was granted last year. Banks will have the discretion to cherry pick borrowers who will be eligible for the loan restructuring. The period of the moratorium will also vary based on the bank's internal appraisal. The Resolution Framework 2.0 will cover consumer credit that include loans for consumer durables, credit card receivables, auto loans and personal loans. Similarly, banks can also work out a resolution plan for home loans, education loans, and loans given for investment in financial assets. In August last year, the RBI had announced its first loan restructuring programme that was open to borrowers with a credit exposure to lending institutions above Rs 25 crore as on March 31 last year. This time, however, the debt recast is being specifically targeted at borrowers with an aggregate outstanding at or below Rs 25 crore as on March 31 this year — which will broadly cover 90 per cent of all borrowers. Eligibility criteria A key criterion for eligibility is that the loan account will have to be classified as standard — which means there is no default in principal or interest — as on March 31. There was some relief to those borrowers who had opted for loan restructuring under the scheme as well. The RBI permitted the banks and lending entities to modify the plans and increase the moratorium period by another two years. Banks will be allowed to reschedule payments which could be in the form of lower EMIs, thereby stretching the repayment period. Banks can also convert any interest accrued or to be accrued into another credit facility. Moreover, they can grant a moratorium for a certain period. This will be based on an assessment of the borrower’s income streams. The RBI said in a notification that compromise settlements will not be permitted. Two-year breather If banks decide to grant a moratorium, it will be for a maximum period of two years, and shall come into force immediately upon implementation of the resolution plan. The residual tenor of the loan facilities could also be extended, with or without a payment moratorium. The overall cap on extension of residual tenor, inclusive of the moratorium period if any permitted, will be two years. The RBI has said that after banks receive a restructuring proposal from a borrower, they will have to take a decision on the application within 30 days. Resolution under the scheme will have to be invoked by September 30. This will happen when the lending institution and the borrower agree to work out a resolution plan. After this, the resolution plan should be finalised and implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation. Moody's Investor Services also said that the restructuring scheme was a milder measure than the blanket moratorium. "Nevertheless the need for this measure highlights the re-emergence of downside risks to banks' asset quality," said Srikanth Vadlamani,  vice president, Financial Institutions Group at Moody's.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Covid: RBI measures to soothe anxiety over credit repayments, liquidity, and bad loan recognition norms||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday responded to a rising clamour from banks and borrowers for relief against the second pandemic wave with a sweeping set of measures designed to soothe anxiety over credit repayments, liquidity in the financial system, and rigorous bad loan recognition norms that threaten to leave red splotches on bank balance sheets. In an unscheduled announcement, Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das announced a Rs 50,000-crore term liquidity facility to prop up emergency health services in the country, opened new credit pipelines for small and medium businesses, and laid out a fresh template for loan restructuring for all borrowers with credit exposures below Rs 25 crore. However, it stopped short of granting a blanket moratorium on repayments as the central bank had done last year. Banks have been allowed to create a so-called Covid loan book to provide fresh lending support to vaccine manufactures, hospitals, medical device makers, pathology labs as well as patients in need of treatment. The lenders will be able to tap into the Rs 50,000-crore liquidity facility at the repo rate of 4 per cent. As an incentive, banks have been permitted these credit facilities as priority sector loans. They will be able to park surplus liquidity existing under the Covid loan book with the RBI through the reverse repo window at 40 basis points higher than the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. Das also provided relief to individuals, small business and MSMEs facing financial stress from the second wave of the pandemic by announcing another loan restructuring scheme. This will apply to borrowers who have an aggregate exposure of up to Rs 25 crore. The central bank announced a special three-year long-term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore to small finance banks (SFBs) in order to support small businesses rocked by the second Covid wave. These lenders can raise funds at the repo rate from the RBI and on-lend to various borrowers up to a limit of Rs 10 lakh per borrower. The SFBs have been permitted to treat fresh lending to smaller micro finance institutions or MFIs as priority sector lending. While the pandemic has resulted in several bank customers being unable to visit branches to do the know your customer (KYC) requirements, the central bank said that regulated financial entities should not impose any punitive restriction against customers for failure to update KYC till December end. However, some observers were not impressed by the scale of the RBI’s response to the Covid crisis. “A Rs 50,000 crore term liquidity for healthcare sector is welcome but it is unlikely to benefit many listed players. Overall the Street may be disappointed with the financial impact of the announcement. ...Overall a welcome pro-active move by the RBI, though yeh dil mange more," said Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO at HDFC Securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
06-05-2021||Business||Covid: RBI announces series of steps to boost microcredit sector||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday announced a series of steps to boost the microcredit sector amid emerging concerns over the second wave of the Covid pandemic. RBI has decided to conduct special three year long term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at the repo rate for small finance banks (SFBs). This will be deployed by the SFBs for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. The facility will be available till October 31, 2021. Further, lending by SFBs to micro finance institutions is currently not classified as priority sector lending. RBI has now permitted SFBs to reckon fresh lending to smaller MFIs with asset size of up to Rs 500 crore for on-lending to individual borrowers as priority sector lending. This facility will be available up to March 31, 2022. The microcredit industry said that the decision of the RBI will soften the impact of the second wave on small borrowers but remained hopeful that additional relief measures will be considered following a meeting between RBI and sector officials earlier in the month. According to industry observers, 8 of the 11 SFBs were MFIs in their early avatar, which puts them in a better position to evaluate the credit profile of smaller MFIs and lend accordingly. “The SLTRO window for small finance banks will facilitate targeted delivery of credit to individuals and small businesses, the two segments most impacted by the second wave of the pandemic. The availability of SLTRO funds at the repo rate should encourage SFBs because their spreads can rise by 200-300 basis points versus cost of funds. The quantum of Rs 10,000 crore is also sizeable at around 10 per cent of aggregate advances of SFBs,” said Crisil Research in a note. “We welcome the announcement of RBI allowing lending by SFBs to smaller MFIs with asset size of less than Rs 500 crore under priority sector lending. The issue has been taken up constantly with RBI. We are hopeful that this will be allowed beyond 2022,” said P Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan. “Seeing the severity of the situation, RBI governor has proactively met sector representatives and followed it up with possible first steps. Liquidity is the key and I hope along with April announcement of Rs 50,000 crore support through AIFIs and today’s measure will help the sector. We also expect that with the changes in the evolving situation, RBI will keep introducing newer relief measures,” said Alok Misra, CEO, MFIN. “We welcome the timely and prudent announcement...which reflects the effort towards financial inclusion and access to liquidity in these times of stress,” said HP Singh, CMD, Satin Creditcare Network Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
