07-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 257 points to close above 49,000 mark ||Extending its winning run to the third session, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 257 points on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ITC and Bharti Airtel amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 256.71 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 49,206.47. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 98.35 points or 0.67 per cent to 14,823.15. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, M&M, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, UltraTech Cement and ONGC. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, Infosys and Kotak Bank were among laggards. "Domestic equities extended gains for third consecutive day mainly on favourable global cues and continued traction in financials (ex- PSU banks) and metals," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring, PSU banks, most key sectoral indices traded in green. Metals stocks remained in focus led by robust 4Q FY21 performance delivered by select metal companies and improved visibility of sustainable earnings momentum in coming quarters, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 67.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and TCS amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 416.43 points or 0.85 per cent higher at 49,366.19 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 121.10 points or 0.82 per cent to 14,845.90. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack and rose over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, HDFC Bank, SBI, TCS, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex closed higher by 272.21 points or 0.56 per cent at 48,949.76, and Nifty ended with a gain of 106.95 points or 0.73 per cent at 14,724.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 1,222.58 crore on Thursday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 632.51 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "There is a view among many market experts that the present resilience of the market (down only around 5 per cent from February highs) is irrational when viewed from the perspective of the health crisis and pain that the nation and the economy are going through, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Vijayakumar further said "while there is logic in this view, it is important to appreciate the fact that we are part of the global bull market and the resilience of the Indian market mainly arises from the 'hope trade' being fuelled by the expectation that the second wave will peak in May and the economy will quickly rebound." Moreover, Q4 results have been broadly above expectations. The market may continue to be resilient, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.57 per cent higher at USD 68.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors reviews CCI probe order||Tata Motors has said it is reviewing an order issued by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to probe an alleged abuse of dominant position by the company with regard to dealership agreements. “We understand that the CCI has passed a prima facie order and has not made any final or binding observations with regard to the allegations levelled against Tata Motors. “Tata Motors is reviewing the order available in the public domain and will consult its legal counsel to take necessary steps,” a spokesperson of the company said. The order came on two complaints filed against Tata Motors, Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd and Tata Motors Finance Ltd (called opposite parties in the complaint). “The Commission is of the view that prima facie a case of contravention of the provisions of Section 3(4) and Section 4 of the Act is made out against Tata Motors...and the matter requires to be investigated,’’ the CCI said in a 45-page order on May . The allegation was that as Tata Motors is a dominant entity in the commercial vehicles segment and enjoys an 85 per cent market share in North India especially Uttar Pradesh, every authorised dealer of Tata Motors is obligated to raise finance or loans from banks or NBFCs such as Tata Capital and Tata Motors Finance. The lawyer for the informant also alleged that to sustain and retain the market share, the Tata’s business model was both manufacturing and financing of commercial vehicles. The informant has also charged that such a model or arrangement is abusive, anti-competitive and detrimental to the financial health of the authorised dealer. “The informant has claimed that the finance facility was extended by Tata Capital and Tata Motors Finance to the authorised dealers according to the direction and desire of Tata Motors,’’ the order said. The commission said that the dealership provided a complete trail of the e-mails as evidence that “ex facie suggest that Tata Motors indulged in the practice of coercing the dealers to bill vehicles according to the company’s own needs and requirement,’’ the CCI said. The dealers have said the agreement with them provides that the former shall not start, acquire or indulge in any new business (of product or services) even if it is not related to the automobile industry. However, Tata Motors in its response has defended the clause saying it does not seek to impose a blanket restriction on the dealer for seeking an NOC. "However, looking at the overarching restriction and the actual implementation of such clauses, the Commission has no hesitation in holding that the same appears to be unduly restrictive and expansive in its coverage and interferes with the freedom of trade. Consequently, the Commission is prima facie of the opinion that such clause is an unfair imposition upon the dealers besides resulting in denial of market access to the dealers to other markets in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) and 4(2)(c) of the Act, respectively’", the CCI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||India’s fiscal response to Covid-19 so far conservative: Report||India’s fiscal response to the Covid-19 pandemic has so far been conservative, according to a report that recommended a Rs 5.5-lakh-crore stimulus package to deal with the crisis. The report, released by Azim Premji University, also suggested a slew of measures, including a cash transfer of Rs 5,000 for three months to as many vulnerable households as can be reached with the existing digital infrastructure, including but not limited to ‘Jan Dhan’ accounts. The impact of the second wave is still unfolding and may be as large or even larger than the first one. Further, coming as it does on the back of depleted savings, debt, and reduced fallback options, the second wave can lead to potentially larger impacts on work, incomes, food security, health and education. The states, which are at the forefront of the pandemic response in terms of containment as well as welfare, are severely strained in their finances. “Bold measures will be required to emerge stronger from the crisis,” said the report — State of Working India 2021: One Year of Covid-19. “There are thus compelling reasons for the Union government to undertake additional spending now,” it said. Grants to states The finance ministry has said it has released the second monthly installment of Post Devolution Revenue Deficit (PDRD) Grant of Rs 9,871 crore for the year 2021-22 to 17 states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Analysts raise questions on 5G viability||The commercial viability of 5G services would depend on the number of users willing to switch to 5G from 4G/2G and the incremental average revenue per user (ARPU) that they are willing to pay needs to be watched out for, analysts said. “With the current ARPU in the range of Rs 121-166 per user for a month, and more than 350 million subscribers still using voice only/2G services with significantly lower ARPU, the viability of 5G for the telcos remains to be seen,” India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a research report. Although 5G spectrum is yet to be auctioned, telcos have been allowed to perform testing in the mid band (3.2-3.67GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25-28.5GHz) and sub-gigahertz band (700GHz) along with their existing spectrum in the 800MHz, 900Mhz, 1,800MHz and 2,500MHz frequencies during this trial phase. The move will also help determine the viability of this new technology across the nation as the telcos are required to conduct trials not only in the urban areas but also in the rural and semi-urban areas. There are still a lot of variables and unknowns that need to be addressed for the successful implementation of 5G in India, the report said. The reserve prices for 5G auctions are too high. Although the 5G auctions are not yet announced, the reserve price could yield a return on capital employed of only 7 per cent. The extent of capex these telcos will incur on 5G over the coming years will also be a key monitorable, although the financial credit profile of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Bharti Airtel Limited is comfortable, it said. Chinese embassy in India has expressed concern over DoT’s decision not to include vendors from that country in the 5G trials. Chinese Embassy, Counselor Wang Xiaojian, said the Indian government's decision "to exclude Chinese telecommunications companies from the trials will not only harm their legitimate rights and interests, but also hinder the improvement of the Indian business environment, which is not conducive to the innovation and development of related Indian industries." Wang said that relevant Chinese companies have been operating in India for years, providing massive job opportunities and making contributions to India's infrastructure construction in the telecoms sector. Meanwhile, the US lawmakers have applauded India's decision to not allow Chinese telecom companies to conduct 5G trials in the country. "India's decision to exclude Huawei and ZTE from its 5G trials is good news for the people of India and the world," reporting quoting House Foreign Affairs Committee Lead Republican and China Task Force Chairman Michael McCaul said. "People's Republic of China law requires any Chinese company - including Huawei and ZTE - to work for the Chinese Communist Party if asked," McCaul said. The previous Trump administration had designated Chinese tech companies as posing a national security risk. The US is also asking its friends and allies not to opt for a technology that is controlled by the Communist Party of China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||AM/NS India, formerly Essar Steel, records nearly three-fold jump in underlying profitability||AM/NS India, formerly Essar Steel, has recorded a nearly three-fold jump in underlying profitability during the January-March quarter in line with its peers in the industry. The company recorded $403 million EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation) in the first quarter of 2021 compared with $140 million in the same period of 2020, translating into a 188 per cent jump. EBIDTA, an indicator of underlying health of the business, was up by 47 per cent quarter on quarter basis, growing from $274 million recorded in the last quarter of 2020. AM/NS India, a joint venture between ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel, produced 1.8 million crude steel in the first quarter, indicating an annualised production of 7.2 million tonne. The performance of the India JV powered the parent AM to record its strongest quarter in a decade globally with $3.2 billion in EBIDTA and $2.28 billion in net income, compared with a net loss of $1.12 billion and EBIDTA of $0.96 billion in Q1 of 2020. Aditya Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal said: “Operationally, we have had a very positive start to the year. We are seeing a continuation of the positive market dynamics of the fourth quarter and have been steadily bringing back production in-line with the demand recovery, which is supported by low inventory levels through the value chain.” Road ahead Laying out plans for the short term, the Indian JV said it would de-bottleneck existing operations to achieve 8.6 million tonne capacity while in the medium term, the steelmaking at Hazira (Gujarat) complex would reach 14 MT. On the east coast of the country, AM/NS will kick off a new 6MT pellet plant at Paradip (Odisha) to ensure a cheaper source of raw material. Dilip Oommen, CEO, AM/NS India, said: “Our business continues to grow strongly with demand generated from domestic and export markets. The steel industry in India remains attractive and increasing demand is giving the industry the required fillip.” ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel acquired Essar Steel through an insolvency process in December 2020 for Rs 42,000 crore and renamed it AM/NS India. The parent expects the expansion to be funded from the cash generation of the JV and on the strength of the balance sheet of the domestic business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Mahindra group announces setting up of advanced design centre in the UK||The Mahindra group on Thursday announced the setting up of an advanced design centre for mobility products in the UK. Mahindra Advanced Design Europe (MADE) is being set up in the West Midlands, and the new centre of excellence will be part of the Mahindra global design network that includes the Mahindra Design Studio in Mumbai, and Pininfarina Design in Turin (Italy), Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd said in a statement. It will be operational from July 1 and will also support the creation of highly skilled design roles, drawing from Coventry University, Royal College of Art, and other design colleges in the UK and Europe. Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd, said, “A key lever to make the business future-ready is to significantly strengthen design capability across the automotive, farm equipment and two-wheeler segments globally. MADE will contribute to all future automotive and mobility products, including Born EV SUVs, and be a resource available to Mahindra Group companies.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||LIC to have five working days from May 10||State-owned LIC will have five working days from May 10 as Saturdays have been declared as a holiday for the insurer. “Following a notification on April 15, 2021, wherein the central government had declared every Saturday as a public holiday for Life Insurance Corporation of India, all policyholders and other stakeholders are informed that with effect  May 10, all offices of LIC will work from Monday to Friday,” it said in a public notice. “Starting May 10, 2021, office hours from Monday to Friday would be 10am to 5:30pm,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Google to move to a hybrid work week||Google will move to a hybrid work week, where most Googlers spend approximately three days in the office and two days “wherever they work best”, according to a note by Google and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai. About 20 per cent of Google’s workforce will continue to work remotely after its offices reopen later this year, while about 60 per cent Googlers will come together in the office for a few days a week, Pichai said. “As in-office time will be focused on collaboration, your product areas and functions will help decide which days teams will come together in the office. There will also be roles that may need to be on site more than three days a week due to the nature of the work,” he added. The India-born executive also noted that the company will offer opportunities for employees to apply for completely remote work (away from team or office) based on their role and team needs. According to the financial details released in the first quarter of 2021, Google has 139,995 full-time employees worldwide. While Google doesn’t disclose country-specific headcount, the company is estimated to have over 4,000 people in India. Google has been investing in India as a strategic hub for its global product development. It has been expanding its employee base across product areas such as Search, Cloud, Payments, AI research and has presence in four cities — Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Gurugaon. “Before the pandemic, we had thousands of people working in locations separate from their core teams. I fully expect those numbers to increase in the coming months as we develop more remote roles, including fully all-remote sub teams,” Pichai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry puts out guidelines for vaccination of aviation staff ||The civil aviation ministry has put out guidelines for the vaccination of aviation staff across private and government companies. Priority for vaccination to be given to ATC, pilots, cabin crew and passenger facing staff. A dedicated vaccination facility will be established by the airport operators in their respective airports to facilitate expeditious vaccination of staff, the guidelines issued by the civil aviation ministry stated. “Priority during vaccination should be given to the air traffic controllers (ATCs), cockpit and cabin crew of the airlines as well as mission-critical and passenger-facing staff,” the ministry said. The guidelines stated that the operator should immediately contact the state governments or private service providers (hospitals), which are willing to set up Covid-19 vaccination centres at the airports. There can be more than one service provider at any airport depending on the number of personnel working in the aviation ecosystem,” it stated. The airport operators must establish facilities such as drinking water, helpdesks, ventilation, fans, washrooms, vaccination counters and segregated waiting areas, it said. The cost per vaccination dose can be decided by the airport operator with the service provider and it will be the same for the aviation personnel, it mentioned. The focus of the major airports could be on tying up with private service providers, it noted. “For the smaller airports — where the numbers to get vaccinated are less and private players do not find it viable — the airport operators can approach the district or local administration for the vaccination programme,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||IDBI Bank shares rally almost 7 per cent after Centre nod to divestment ||Shares of IDBI Bank on Thursday rallied almost 7 per cent after the Centre gave an in-principle approval for strategic divestment along with transfer of management control in the lender. The IDBI Bank’s share leapt 6.72 per cent or by Rs 2.55 to finish at Rs 40.50 on the BSE. During intra-day trades, it hit a high of Rs 43.50 — a rise of 14.62 per cent over the last close. Following the gains, the market cap of the lender rose to Rs 43,547 crore. Similarly on the NSE, the scrip finished at Rs 40.55 — 6.85 per cent higher than the last close. On Wednesday, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had approved the strategic sale of IDBI Bank. The central government and LIC own more than 94 per cent equity of the lender. LIC, currently the promoter of IDBI Bank with management control, has a 49.21 per cent stake. The government has said the extent of respective shareholding to be divested by it and LIC will be decided at the time of structuring of transaction in consultation with the RBI. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of public sector banks in the Union Budget for 2021-22. LIC had completed the acquisition of a 51 per cent controlling stake in IDBI Bank in January 2019. “LIC’s Board has passed a resolution to the effect that it may reduce its shareholding in IDBI Bank Ltd by divesting its stake along with a strategic stake sale envisaged by the government with an intent to relinquish management control and by taking into consideration price, market outlook, statutory stipulation and interest of policyholders,” the statement said. This decision of the LIC board is also consistent with the regulatory mandate to reduce its stake in the bank, it added. Tata Steel jumps Shares of Tata Steel on Thursday closed with a gain of 3 per cent after the firm posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 7,161.91 crore for the quarter ended March 2021. The stock jumped 5.59 per cent to its 52-week high of Rs 1,128.80 on the BSE. It closed at Rs 1,100.55, a gain of 2.96 per cent. On the NSE, it closed 3.06 per cent higher at Rs 1,103. During the day, it rallied 5.49 per cent to Rs 1,129 — its one-year high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year bond continue to remain below 6 per cent||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond continued to remain below 6 per cent for the second consecutive day as the markets reacted positively to the RBI’s announcement to purchase Rs 35,000 crore of securities on May 20. On Thursday, the 10-year bond closed at 5.97 per cent, unchanged from the last close. On Wednesday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had announced the second tranche of bond purchases under its G-Sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0. The central bank will purchase bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore which is higher than the Rs 25,000 crore done last month. Meanwhile, the Sensex and Nifty gained for the second straight session on Thursday. The Sensex closed up 272.21 points, or 0.56 per cent, at 48949.76. The Nifty ended with gains of 106.95 points, or 0.73 per cent, at 14724.80.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Covid second wave: Banks pitch for more reliefs||The stack of measures that the Reserve Bank of India announced on Wednesday to tackle a resurgent Covid-induced crisis has served to only whet the banking industry’s appetite for more. On Wednesday, the central bank had announced a series of measures, including a term liquidity facility of Rs 50,000 crore to boost funding towards healthcare infrastructure and services and a one-time restructuring mechanism for borrowers such as individuals, small business and MSMEs who have an aggregate exposure of Rs 25 crore. Experts feel that though it may alleviate some of the imminent stress, more measures may be needed to help some of the other segments that have been left out of the scope of the current relief measures. “One of our key demands is a restructuring mechanism like the one announced in August last year which has been accepted by the RBI. We do not rule out the possibility of RBI coming out with additional steps in the near future if the current crisis persists,” a senior official from a private sector bank said. Analysts at Jefferies said in a note that the package announced by the RBI does not cover the mid-corporate segment even if it belongs to the one of the affected sectors and the central bank may address this issue later. “We expect more targeted measures to follow as the situation evolves,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist at Emkay Global Financial Services. “While the financial conditions remain comfortable unlike the first Covid wave, the monetary response function has focused on reaffirming the current policy accommodation and, on the regulatory front, it has helped banks manage their asset quality and support the stressed borrowers, especially the MSMEs,” Arora added. Back in February, the RBI had allowed commercial banks to deduct credit disbursed to new borrowers from their deposits while calculating how much funds they needed to sequester under the cash reserve ratio (CRR). This exemption is now available for exposures up to Rs 25 lakh and has now been extended till December 31, 2021. However, MSMEs are not impressed by the steps announced by the central bank. “The MSME members have expressed a sense of disappointment over the RBI announcement. Entrepreneurs want immediate credit for those who have no existing credit especially in sectors which have been greatly impacted like food and beverages, retail vendors, hospitality and entrepreneurs in the start-up phase. Export focused MSMEs want an extension in lines of credit and waiver of interest for the period of the pandemic,” Kenny Ramanand, national general secretary of  All India Manufacturers Organisation, told The Telegraph. Crisil on Thursday said that half of mid-sized companies rated by it will be eligible for the restructuring window offered under the Resolution Framework 2.0 of the RBI. It currently rates about 6,800 mid-sized companies (excluding financial sector entities). Of these, around 3,500 are small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and have a loan exposure of up to Rs 25 crore. Crisil estimates that about 3,400 of them are standard accounts, which makes them eligible to avail of the restructuring. One suggestion is that the RBI could relax the bad loan recognition norms. “The RBI can provide forbearance (say for 30-90 days) on bad loan recognition which has been done in the past (post-demonetisation) and is relatively less disruptive,” Emkay Global said in a research report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
