08-05-2021||Business||Covid: Economic downside risks from second wave||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has posed a downside risk to economic activity in the April-June quarter of financial year 2021-22. However, the finance ministry said it expects a muted economic impact compared with the first wave. The finance ministry’s department of economic affairs (DEA) in its monthly economic review for April said: “The second wave has posed a downside risk to economic activity in the first quarter of 2021-22. However, there are reasons to expect a muted economic impact compared with the first wave. Learning to ‘operate with Covid-19’, as borne out by international experience, provides a silver lining of economic resilience amidst the second wave.” As cases have continued to soar since March, a number of independent economists, agencies and banks have cut real GDP forecasts for the current financial year, while more are expected to do the same in the coming days. Standard & Poor’s has cut its 2021-22 GDP forecast for India to 9.8 per cent from 11 per cent under its moderate scenario and to 8.2 per cent under the severe scenario. The IMF has said it will revisit its 12.5 per cent GDP growth forecast for the year. S&P Global Ratings said on Friday its outlook on India's sovereign debt remained stable, even though surging Covid-19 cases could threaten the strong economic recovery it has seen so far. “Our downside scenarios suggest a less robust recovery in government revenues, and the severe downside scenario may entail additional fiscal spending,” they added. “Our outlook on India’s sovereign rating remains stable...we do not expect there to be change in the rating level over the next two years. Currently that does remain the case,” said Andrew Wood, director, sovereign & international public finance ratings. Meanwhile, Fitch Solutions has said India is likely to breach its fiscal deficit target of 6.8 per cent this fiscal mainly due to revenue shortfall. “We at Fitch Solutions forecast the deficit to come in at 8.3 per cent of GDP in FY22... Revenue shortfall remains the main driver of our wider deficit view, as we expect the government to maintain its spending targets,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Covid: Bombay Chamber of Commerce asks for IPR waiver on Covaxin||At a time the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is preparing to hunker down to debate a contentious proposal to grant a waiver on intellectual property rights (IPR) on Covid-19 vaccines, the Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCCI) has injected an element of controversy at home by suggesting that the Modi government ought to explore the possibility of permitting the issue of compulsory licences so that other vaccine providers can produce Covaxin under the Indian Patent Act in order to boost its production. There have been reports of a severe shortage of Covaxin and the chamber’s proposal — which mirrors the position that India is going to adopt before the WTO — could open up a heated debate here as well. The chamber made the proposal in a presentation to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who had sought the industry’s suggestions to deal with a mounting Covid crisis. The Covid control measures suggested  by the chamber also include a special emphasis on how to immunise large parts of population. Section 92 of the Patents Act empowers the central government to grant compulsory licences “in respect of any patent in force in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency or in case of publicised non-commercial use”. Covaxin’s IP rights are shared between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR is funded by the government of India through the ministry of health and family welfare. BCCI has also said that the Centre should purchase vaccines on behalf of states also at a uniform price and that private players could buy it at a negotiated price. The industry body has also suggested that the government should develop and publish a state-wise distribution plan and ensure maximal number of places where vaccination can be provided to minimise queues, including large corporate blocks. However, some experts feel that a CL for Covaxin will not make much of a difference — at least in the short term. Some reports have suggested that the ICMR is willing to offer the technology to other firms to produce the drug. Last month, the Centre had also announced that three state-run firms were being supported to increase the capacity of vaccine production which include Haffkine Biopharmaceutical, Indian Immunologicals in Hyderabad, and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals at Bulandshahr. The government had said that they be supported to prepare their facility to provide 10-15 million doses per month by August - September 2021. “Essentially, India is left with the option of compulsory licensing of Covaxin, but this might not be the panacea to scale up the manufacture of the vaccine. The barrier is really the facilities required to manufacture Covaxin, which is a Biosafety level-3 production facility. Only Bharat Biotech and Panacea Biotech have that in India. This means it will take almost a year for the vaccine to roll out from there,” Ananth Krishna, a lawyer, said in his blog post. Leena Menghaney, global IP adviser to MSF Access Campaign, feels the waiver should extend to not only the Covid vaccine but various other medical products. “The waiver should also cover other medical products for Covid-19, as originally proposed by India and South Africa seven months ago.” India has shifted from the stand it took last October and now is ready to back the US plan to seek an IP waiver only for vaccines. There has been considerable opposition to the patent waiver proposal from the European nations, including Germany. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said she was willing to discuss US President Biden’s plans. Talks on the IP waiver are unlikely to start for another two months. Some suggest that an agreement is unlikely to be reached before the WTO ministerial meeting scheduled between November 30 and December 3. All 164 WTO member countries must reach consent on such decisions, with any one member able to block them, a Reuters report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries to consider equity issue||The board of Kesoram Industries will meet on May 14 to consider raising funds by way of equity with the aim to bring down high cost borrowing. A notice to the bourses said the capital raising could be in the form of rights issue/ follow on public offer or QIP apart from ADR/GDR and FCCB. The market expects the company, headed by Manjushree Khaitan, could raise up to Rs 600 crore in two tranches. The possibility of a rights issue appears to be strongest at this point, market participants noted, even as a QIP can not be ruled out either. The stock jumped by 7 per cent after the news hit the bourses and stock closed at Rs 78.35 a share. The capital raising by way of equity follows the company, flagship of Basant Kumar Birla Group, borrowing Rs 2060 crore by issuing bonds to institutions such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss, offering as much as 20.75 per cent interest. The high cost debt was taken to swap debts of a clutch of 11 Indian banks and infuse much needed working capital for optimum operation of the cement business. P. Radhakrishnan, whole time director & CEO of Kesoram, had then guided that the high cost borrowing was an interim arrangement and the company would look to repay it before the maturity with equity and cheaper debt. The company management believes that a debt level of Rs 1,400 crore would be optimum for the balance sheet if the operation manages to score Rs 400 crore odd of annual EBIDTA (earnings before interest depreciation, tax and amortisation).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Cairn Energy may try to seize the cash after an arbitration ruling in a tax dispute||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Indian steel mills are likely to benefit from China’s move to withdraw export rebates of 13 per cent on 146 steel products ||Indian steel mills are likely to benefit from China’s move to withdraw export rebates of 13 per cent on 146 steel products and remove import duty on crude steel, pig iron and scrap on April 28, an Icra report said. “Given the strong demand, export rebate cuts, the Chinese government’s intent to keep steel capacities under check and stricter production curbs imposed in the Tangshan region (which accounted for about 14 per cent of China’s crude steel production in calendar year 2020), China may not have excess steel volumes to divert to export markets. “As a result, international steel prices are expected to remain buoyant in the near term, which in turn would support India’s steel prices,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president & group head, corporate sector ratings, Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||HDFC estimates it clocked a 42 per cent growth||The largest mortgage lender in India on Friday topped analyst estimates as it clocked a 42 per cent growth in standalone net profits for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. HDFC posted a net profit of Rs 3,179.83 crore compared with Rs 2,232.53 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Ahead of the numbers, analysts had projected a net profit of around Rs 2,800 crore to the corporation. The strong numbers were supported by a jump in its core net interest income (NII). NII for the quarter stood at Rs 4,065 crore against Rs 3,564 crore in the previous year, a growth of 14 per cent. Inclusive of fees and income from assigned loans, the NII for the period stood at Rs 4,532 crore against Rs 3,846 crore in the previous year, representing a growth of 18 per cent. HDFC said the spread on loans over the cost of borrowings for the year ended March 31, 2021 was 2.29 per cent. The spread on the individual loan book was 1.93 per cent and on the non-individual book 3.22 per cent. HDFC disclosed that during the quarter ended March  2021, individual loan disbursements grew 60 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. According to the corporation, after the national lockdown imposed in March 2020 and up to early June, there was a substantial recovery, particularly in the second half of the financial year. However, there continues to be a great deal of uncertainty on the duration and intensity of the second wave and the resultant impact, it said. The board of directors has recommended a dividend of Rs 23 per share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp scraps privacy policy rule||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts. WhatsApp had faced a severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook. A WhatsApp spokesperson said no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update. “No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks,” the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday. The spokesperson added that while a “majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them”, some people have not had the chance to do so yet. However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far. In January this year, WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy through an in-app notification. Users were initially given time till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. According to WhatsApp, the key updates include more information about its service and how it processes user data; how businesses can use Facebook hosted services to store and manage their WhatsApp chats; and how WhatsApp partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the company products. WhatsApp has insisted that the acceptance of the privacy policy update does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook. However, user backlash over WhatsApp’s alleged sharing of user information with Facebook forced the company to postpone the February deadline to May 15. The WhatsApp spokesperson said the company has spent the last few months working to “clear up confusion and misinformation”. “This update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone. Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will hav in the future,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||RBI's Rs 32,000-crore bond auction sold out||A Rs 32,000-crore bond auction conducted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was fully sold even as the markets keenly awaited the second tranche of the GSAP purchase that will be done in almost two weeks from now. The bonds that were put up for sale included the 5.63 per cent GS 2026 for Rs 11,000 crore, the GoI floating rate bond 2033 for Rs 4,000 crore, 6.64 per cent GS 2035 for Rs 10,000 crore and 6.67 per cent GS 2050 for Rs 7,000 crore. While they were fully sold, the RBI set a cut off yield of 5.54 per cent for the 2026 bond, 4.87 per cent for the FRB 2033, 6.58 per cent for GS 2035 and 6.82 per cent for the 2050 bond. This came on a day yields on the benchmark 10 year bond inched up to 6.01 per cent. Bond yields have softened since the RBI took various measures to shield the economy from the second round of Covid-19. As part of the announcements, governor Shaktikanta Das had disclosed that the RBI will buy bonds of Rs 35,000 crore under its G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0 on May 20. Under the G-SAP, the RBI will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve. The RBI will purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the current quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||Refiners place Saudi Aramco orders||State-owned refiners on Thursday placed orders for regular supplies from Saudi Aramco for June, after reducing purchases this month, drawn by lower prices by the world’s top oil exporter, four sources said on Thursday. The refiners — Indian Oil Corp, Bharat Petroleum Corp, Hindustan Petroleum and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd — normally buy 14.8-15 million barrels of Saudi oil a month. “This time there is no direction from the ministry to cut imports in June and unlike last time they (Aramco) have reduced the prices as well,” said one of the sources. Saudi Arabia has cut the June official selling prices (OSPs) of all crude grades it sells to Asia. It set the June OSP for the flagship Arab light crude at $1.7 a barrel above the Oman/Dubai average for Asia, down 10 cents from May and its first price cut since December last year, sources said. Earlier this year New Delhi blamed cuts by the Saudis and other oil producers for driving up crude prices as its economy tries to cope with the pandemic and advised state refiners to cut purchases. India urged refiners to diversify crude sources to cut reliance on the Middle East and directed them to reduce intake of Saudi oil. The refiners cut purchases by over a third in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||Heat on China Wi-Fi devices||India has held up approvals for the import of Wi-Fi modules from China for months, driving companies such as US computer makers Dell and HP and China’s Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo to delay product launches in a key growth market, two industry sources said. Imports from China of finished electronic devices — such as bluetooth speakers, wireless earphones, smartphones, smartwatches and laptops — containing Wi-Fi modules are being delayed, the sources said. The communications ministry’s Wireless Planning and Coordination (WPC) Wing has withheld approvals since at least November, according to the sources, who were familiar with lobbying efforts by firms seeking clearance. More than 80 such applications by US, Chinese and Korean firms have been pending with the WPC since then, one of the sources said. Even applications from some Indian firms, which bring in some finished products from China, are awaiting WPC approval, the sources added. Dell, HP, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo did not respond to requests for comment. The communications ministry did not respond to a request for comment either. Both the sources said the government had still to respond to representations made by industry lobby groups and individual companies. India’s hard stance on Chinese imports comes amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for greater economic self-reliance. His nationalist policies have helped boost the growth of smartphone assembly in the South Asian nation, and the sources believe the government’s intention is to persuade companies to locate more of their production of electronic devices in India. “The government’s idea is to push companies to manufacture these products in India,” one of the sources said Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
