09-05-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank reports 80 per cent drop in Q4 net profit||Bandhan Bank on Saturday reported an 80 per cent drop in net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 as elevated provisions to cover for non-performing assets ate into the lender’s bottomline. Net profit during the January-March quarter was Rs 103 crore compared with Rs 517.3 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Gross non-performing assets of the bank saw a sharp rise to 6.8 per cent of the advances against 1.5 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Total provisions other than taxes during the quarter stood at Rs 1,594.3 crore, a growth of 92.7 per cent over the year ago period. The bank said it is also carrying an additional provision of Rs 388 crore on standard advances in the micro banking portfolio. The bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh said during the quarter, the bank had restructured accounts worth Rs 617 crore in the housing finance vertical. The bank’s collection efficiency, including written off and NPA accounts, during the quarter improved to 95 per cent from 92 per cent at the end of the December quarter. But the second wave of the Covid pandemic has raised fresh concerns. The bank anticipates a 3-5 per cent impact on the collection efficiency so far, but this is expected to improve over the next couple of months. The bank also said that the share of top-up loans (additional financing provided by the bank to its borrowers) has come down from 4.8 per cent of the pan-India portfolio in the September quarter to 0.5 per cent for the March quarter. “As the economy started opening up, and businesses started coming back, demand for top-ups naturally came down. As a policy we always believe in one loan and customers also prefer that. So, we don’t see a change in trend,” Sunil Samdani, CFO of Bandhan Bank, said, adding that such loans should not be seen as a way to avoid restructuring of dues. The bank also said that in Bengal and Assam, where it has a major presence, the collection efficiency stood at 95 per cent and 83 per cent, respectively. The bank’s total advances grew 21.2 per cent to Rs 87,042.9 crore as of March 2021 against Rs 71,846 crore as of March 2020. Total deposits increased 36.6 per cent to Rs 77,972.2 crore as of March 2021 compared with Rs 57,081.5 crore at the end of March 2020. The board of directors has proposed a dividend of Rs 1 per share for the year ended March 31, 2021. Kerala-based CSB Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 42.89 crore for the March 2021 quarter against a loss of Rs 59.68 crore in the year-ago period, largely helped by a write-back of standard asset provisioning and improvement in core income. Its core net interest income grew 75 per cent to Rs 275 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||Bengal government calls meeting with industry stakeholders on May 10 over Covid pandemic||The Bengal government has called a meeting on May 10 with stakeholders of industry, factories and tea gardens to ensure the protection of workers and continuity of business amidst the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic, sources said. The state government has restricted the number of workforce at a time to 50 per cent, including in tea gardens. However, in the case of jute mills, the number of workers in a single shift had been reduced further to 30 per cent. The virtual meeting will be presided by the principal secretary of the labour department. The effective role of the management in strictly implementing the various guidelines will also be discussed. The government has advised wearing of masks, maintaining physical distancing and following Covid-related health and hygiene protocols at all times. Sanitisation of offices, workplaces, industrial units, commercial establishments must be carried out at regular intervals. The state government has also instructed that all jute mills and other premises that had been occupied by central security forces during the election period, should be thoroughly sanitised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||United Airlines to halt Chicago-New Delhi service, delay Bangalore launch as India’s Covid cases surge||United Airlines said on Friday it is temporarily pausing service between Chicago and New Delhi in June and delaying the planned launch of flights between San Francisco and Bangalore as an explosion of Covid-19 cases hits demand. Until the Chicago-Delhi route is halted on May 31, United said will use its larger Boeing 777-300ER jets on seven roundtrip flights to accelerate the repatriation of citizens between the two countries and the delivery of vital medical supplies. It was previously using the Boeing 787-9. United, the only US carrier flying to India, will continue its daily flights to Delhi from Newark and San Francisco and to Mumbai from Newark. Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla on Saturday said the pandemic has brought in focus not just the role of governments but also of societies, companies and individuals in creating better outcomes for all. “The reality is that you can’t build businesses with spreadsheets. The most detailed business plans this year unravelled in the face of factory workers falling sick,” he said at the 56th convocation of IIM, Ahmedabad. Meanwhile, Adani Group has procured 48 cryogenic tanks capable of carrying 780 tonnes of liquid oxygen, while Tokio General Insurance has committed funds to improve oxygen supply. ICICI Lombard on Saturday said it will give up to two months’ gross salary in advance to all its Covid positive staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||Indian industry will welcome resumption of India-EU free-trade agreement talks: CII||The implementation of the proposed free-trade agreement between India and the European Union (EU) will benefit both the sides and domestic businesses will welcome the resumption of formal negotiations on the long-stalled pact, industry body CII said on Saturday. The proposed Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) has been stalled since May 2013 as both sides are yet to iron out differences over several issues. The BTIA is a kind of comprehensive free trade agreement being negotiated by the two sides. However, analysts said it would be interesting to see the tariff levels which could be considered, the stand on automobiles, spirits, data protection and a liberal visa regime. Speaking at the EU-India Business Roundtable, CII Director-General Chandrajit Banerjee said the BTIA will benefit the EU with better access to the huge and rapidly growing Indian market. India will gain from the access to technology and innovation. “Several rounds (of talks) were held until 2013, but the negotiations could not be completed as differences remain over some key issues. But Indian industry will welcome a resumption of formal negotiations for the BTIA and is ready to support the negotiations in any way possible,” he said. He said both the regions need to focus on investment facilitation and protection. Speaking at the function, Markus J. Beyrer, director-general of Business Europe Confederation of European Business, said he agreed with the CII director-general on resuming the FTA talks. Antonio Saraiva, president of the Confederation of Portuguese Business, said the CII has inked an MoU with them to increase business cooperation. However, analysts said negotiators from both sides could be staring at several practical problems. While the EU will say negotiations should continue from the tariff levels prevalent when negotiations started, India may insist on negotiating on the basis of the latest tariffs, which may be higher than in 2017 when the talks had started. Another talking point would be India’s stand on automobiles as it has started the PLI programme for the sector. Earlier, India was planning to give a quota to the EU at a much lower duty. On the data front, too, India has been seeking data security status from the EU, but unless India has a comprehensive policy on data that may not be easy to get. Experts feel the fundamental issues need to be resolved first. India’s exports to EU member countries stood at about $54 billion in 2019-20, while imports aggregated at $52 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||CBIC allows import, export of goods without furnishing bonds to Customs||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Saturday allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds to the customs authorities until June-end, a move aimed at ensuring no delay or disruption in trade because of Covid-19. In a circular, the CBIC said importers and exporters will have to furnish an undertaking to the Customs authorities in lieu of the bonds till June 30. The indirect tax body has received representations from traders to accept an undertaking in lieu of bonds in view of the constraints imposed in different regions of India. Last year too, the CBIC had allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
