10-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 296 points to close above 49,500||Extending its gains for the fourth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex surged about 296 points to recapture the key 49,500-level on Monday, led by intense buying in pharma and energy stocks. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 295.94 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 49,502.41. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 119.20 points or 0.80 per cent to 14,942.35. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, ONGC and M&M. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Infosys, Reliance Industries and HCL Tech were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to defy concerns of rising COVID-19 cases and extended mobility restrictions by several states by extending gains for the fourth consecutive trading day," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, sharp rebound in metals, pharma, auto and PSU banks supported market's rally. Most of key sectoral indices traded in green. "Favourable global cues, steady March quarter earnings along with favourable commentary, liquidity support announced by the RBI and absence of nationwide lockdown have aided domestic equities to shrug off rising COVID-19 cases in the country," Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 68.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
10-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 353.64 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 49,560.11 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 114.85 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,938. Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, HDFC, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 256.71 points or 0.52 per cent to finish at 49,206.47, and Nifty rose 98.35 points or 0.67 per cent to 14,823.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,142.75 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look good at the moment. Favourable global cues, steady March quarter earnings along with favourable commentary, liquidity support announced by the RBI and absence of nationwide lockdown have aided domestic equities to shrug off rising COVID-19 cases in the country," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, elevated daily caseload, higher positivity rate and rising COVID-19 cases in hinterlands of the country are expected to weigh on investors' sentiments and will prevent the market from taking any decisive upmove, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 68.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Strong balance sheet to drive Tata Steel future road map||Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel Group, speaks to The Telegraph after his company delivered record-breaking numbers in the fourth quarter. Chatterjee says the company will allocate Rs 7,500 crore for expansion at Kalinganagar, apart from deleveraging by at least $1 billion. He says the Europe sale is off for now and the business would benefit from higher spread in the next few quarters. ⦿ Tata Steel reduced debt by close to $4 billion in 2020-21. However, the company has guided a reduction of $1 billion this year. Why did you make such a conservative guidance? It’s not about being conservative or aggressive. If you remember, three years back, we had made a policy announcement that as part of our enterprise strategy we will reduce our debt by $1 billion a year, every year in the future. In the last financial year (2020-21), we have been very sharp and focused on our capital allocation and working capital management to generate free cash flows of Rs 24,000 crore. We used the cash flows to accelerate the resetting of the capital structure to reduce the net debt by 28 per cent. Therefore, our stated policy of de-leveraging and balance sheet strengthening will continue in the future. ⦿ Tata Steel prioritised debt reduction over growth capital in 2020-21. Will the direction continue this year? How much capex is outlined in this fiscal? Yes certainly, our priority continues to be the same as we look to strengthen the balance sheet to create the appetite for future strategic growth. While the current debt equity is now 0.98x and net debt/Ebidta is under 2.5x which is our long-term target across the cycle, we will continue to strengthen the balance sheet in the next year too. We have allocated around Rs 7,500 crore for the capex in India for the next 12 months, of which a substantial portion will be spent on the Kalinganagar expansion project in Odisha and various raw material expansion projects. We continue to prioritise our capital allocation on critical and strategic capex projects. ⦿ Do you expect Tata Steel Europe to make profit at the net level this quarter and this year? Will the company still pursue a sale of the business, in part or full? The spreads in Tata Steel Europe have started to expand only recently because the iron ore prices globally have been quite high and continue to be at elevated levels. In the fourth quarter, we have seen the spread increase and because Europe has a higher proportion of contracts, there is lag in the flow through effect of the spreads. We should see the positive impact of the spreads in the next few quarters in Tata Steel Europe’s performance. On the second part of your question, we are at present focused on the separation of the UK and the Netherlands business and also on the transformation journey to improve the fundamentals of the business. We are currently not pursuing any strategic process regarding the European business. ⦿ Is Tata Steel taking advantage of the buoyant export market to lift its average net sales realisation as steel prices in India are lower than many countries? Yes, international steel prices have been significantly higher than domestic prices for quite some time now. The same flows into the domestic prices with a time lag. Principally, we are more focused on the domestic market and have been strategically present in the international market for a very small quantum of our total volume. Last year, because of the national lockdown, we sold much higher volumes in exports in the first two quarters but reverted back to domestic sales as our domestic customers started production. So directionally, if the domestic market is open, we prefer to sell more domestically through our well established channels and to our long-term customers. ⦿ How much of Tata Steel’s sales are on long to medium-term contracts? How soon can you expect them to reflect the prevailing market price? Tata Steel India’s contracts are more shorter in duration than Europe. Hence, the Tata Steel India prices reflect the market prices more closely, and if you look at our realisations they track the market prices fairly closely, except for a certain time lag. ⦿ Tata Steel Group is in the process of reshaping operations under four verticals. How does The Tinplate Company Ltd, a downstream business, fit into the restructuring process? Tinplate or packaging products are an integral part of our downstream product portfolio. We have plans to grow our tinplate capacity in the future and the management of Tinplate Company works very closely with the Tata Steel leadership on business synergies and future development even though as a legal entity Tinplate continues as a separate entity. ⦿ Do you apprehend the second wave of Covid-19 a significant destructor of the underlying demand in India? This is an evolving situation which we continue to track very closely. Saving lives is the most important priority currently for every stakeholder in the country. As part of our integrated risk management systems, we assess risks and opportunities very intensely and are confident that we will continue to deliver good business performance in the year ahead as much as we will work hard to help and support the community in the fight to overcome the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||National Asset Reconstruction Company to be operational by June: IBA CEO||National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), the name coined for the bad bank announced in Union Budget 2021-22, is expected to be operational in June. Bad bank refers to a financial institution that takes over the bad assets of lenders and undertakes resolution. The new entity is being created in collaboration with both public and private sector banks, said Sunil Mehta, chief executive officer (CEO) of Indian Banks’ Association. “Various preparatory work is going on and we hope that it should be operational next month. The biggest advantage of NARCL would be aggregation of identified NPAs (non-performing assets). “This is expected to be more efficient in recovery as it will step into the shoes of multiple lenders who currently have different compulsions when it comes to resolving a bad loan,” he said. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders, Mehta said. He added that the lead bank with offer in hand of NARCL will go for a “Swiss Challenge”, where other asset reconstruction players will be invited to better the offer made by a chosen bidder for finding a higher valuation of an NPA on sale. The company will pick up those assets that are 100 per cent provided for by the lenders, he added. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Union Budget 2021-22 had announced that the high level of provisioning by PSU banks calls for measures to clean up the bank books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki partners with two NCR firms to boost production of oxygen generator plants||Maruti Suzuki India is partnering two companies in the National Capital Region (NCR) to ramp up their production of Oxygen PSA plants. Maruti is working with Airox Nigen Equipments Pvt Ltd and SAM Gas Projects Pvt Ltd, which are flooded with orders but have a capacity to manufacture just five to eight plants a month. India’s No. 1 car company started discussions with the companies from May 1 and quickly reached an understanding with them. “While technology, quality and performance, as well as all commercial matters, would remain the responsibility of the two companies, MSIL and its vendors would use their capabilities to rapidly scale up production. MSIL’s involvement would be on a no profit basis,” said a company spokesman. Two-wheeler market leader Hero MotoCorp on Sunday said it is extending the shutdown of its plants across India by another week till May 16. The shutdown also includes Hero’s Global Parts Center (GPC) in Neemrana and its R&D facility — the Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) in Jaipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition awaits UK High Court judge decision||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered last month by UK home secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has filed an application for permission to appeal against the order in the High Court in London. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) confirmed an appeal has been lodged but a high court judge who will make a decision on the matter is yet to be assigned. “The matter has not been sent to a judge for consideration on the papers,” the administrative division of the Royal Courts of Justice in London said this week. In the first instance, a high court judge will make a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal and determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the home secretary’s decision or the Westminster magistrates court February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. Following that decision, there is scope for the defence team to seek an oral hearing to plead their case. There are no certain time-frames for the legal processes involved, which could take months. “We are waiting to see if they do apply for permission to appeal. If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GoI (government of India),” a CPS spokesperson had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Morepen Laboratories gear up for a rapid growth in its diagnostic devices segment||Pharmaceutical and healthcare products firm Morepen Laboratories is gearing up for an exponential growth in its diagnostic devices business with self care growing in prominence because of the pandemic. The company is now looking to upgrade capacity at its plant in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, as the trend of diagnosing at home is only expected to become an habit across households. At present, the diagnostic devices business account for 27 per cent of its turnover. Morepen Laboratories has products such as blood pressure monitors, glucometers, blood glucose test strips, digital thermometer, nebulisers and oximeters in its portfolio. The surge in demand for such devices came particularly after the onset of Covid-19 as fears of contracting the virus and the lockdown led to people staying at home. Another factor that has contributed to their growth has been e-commerce or the online channel which has brought them only closer to the customers. “When we started selling glucometers in India, we were selling around 2,000-3,000 per month. We are now installing 1-1.5 lakh per month and have (cumulatively) done almost 50 lakh installations. However, looking at the fact that there are 75 million active diabetic patients in the country, we have not even touched the tip of the iceberg. What we are now witnessing is that amid Covid-19, glucometer testing at home has gone up further, and people are testing sugar levels even 3-4 times a day,” Sushil Suri, chairman, Morepen Laboratories, told The Telegraph. Its not in glucometers alone, where the company has seen such a solid growth. Even in blood glucose test strips which is an essential accompaniment, it has seen demand rising from 8-10 lakh strips a month around 5-6 years ago to around 1.5 crore now. For the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Morepen Laboratories saw a 99 per cent growth in glucometers while it stood at 210 per cent in the case of blood pressure monitors. Similarly, the turnover from the diagnostics devices business increased 104 per cent over the same period in the previous year. Overall, the nine-month revenue exceeded that of the previous full year. “We are now rightly placed as a brand…We are trying to gear up production of glucometers, BP monitors, thermometers, and oximeters. Morepen Laboratories also has a strong service network across the country. The trend that we are currently witnessing will sustain even in a post-Covid environment," Suri added, while hinting that as some of these products become more mainstream across households, their demand will continue to stay strong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank’s net interest margin drops to 6.8 per cent in Q4||The annualised net interest margin of Bandhan Bank fell to 6.8 per cent in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 against 8.1 per cent a year ago — which the bank attributed to a one-time interest reversal in its books. The bank recognised an interest reversal of Rs 525 crore during the quarter on account of non-performing asset recognition along with an interest on interest component amounting to Rs 13 crore. The microlender-turned-bank, however, does not expect pressure on margins to sustain. “NIM was impacted largely because of reversal of interest as accounts were marked as NPA. There was also a small portion of interest on interest and both put together Rs 538 crore is what we have reversed during the quarter from interest income. If we had not done that, our NIM would have been around 8.8 per cent,” said Sunil Samdani, CFO, Bandhan Bank. “It’s a one-time impact. We don’t see this as a pressure on margins. In fact the cost of funds has been coming down and we see a further reduction. So clearly margin is not a challenge,” he added. The cost of funds of the bank fell to 5.7 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 from 6.7 per cent a year ago. But the yields also contracted to 11.6 per cent from 13.8 per cent a year ago. As a result, the annualised spread was down to 6 per cent in the fourth quarter of last fiscal from 7 per cent a year ago. Annualised gross NPA (non-preforming asset) was at 6.8 per cent at the end of the January-March quarter against 1.5 per cent a year ago. Net NPA increased to 3.5 per cent against 0.6 per cent a year ago. Bandhan has increased its share of emerging entrepreneurs business — it is involved in micro-lending —  from states other than Bengal and Assam. There has been a reduction in the portfolio share of group and individual loans from Bengal and Assam with a corresponding increase in the other states where the bank is present. As much as 81 per cent of the newly added borrowers are in states other than Bengal and Assam. The bank’s MD and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh said that in the last fiscal, the bank was able to convert 11 per cent of its group microcredit borrowers to individual borrowers and the bank has set its sight to increase the share to 50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India initiates feasibility study for 12-MTPA steel project in Odisha||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India along with the Odisha government has initiated a feasibility study for its proposed 12-million-tonne per annum (mtpa) integrated steel plant in the Kendrapara district of the state. In March 2021, Gujarat-based ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India (AM/NS India) had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Odisha government to set up the greenfield project in Kendrapara with an investment of Rs 50,000 crore. AM/NS India is a 60:40 joint venture (JV) company between Mittal’s Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel of Japan. In an investor presentation, ArcelorMittal said, “AM/NS India is developing its longer term opportunities for growth and has signed an MoU with the government of Odisha to explore options for a greenfield integrated steel plant in the Kendrapara district. “The company has initiated, in coordination with the government of Odisha: a feasibility study, securing relevant permissions, land acquisition, developing logistics infrastructure and other enabling conditions to plan for the project construction.” It further said AM/NS India continues to develop its plans for future growth in both steel production as well as iron ore mining. The Thakurani iron ore mines, which AM/NS India had won in an auction process in Odisha, is now operating at full 5.5mt capacity. Its second pellet plant in Odisha is also expected to be completed in the April-June period, adding 6mt for a total 20mt of the company’s pellet making capacity, the presentation said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Centre releases Rs 8,923 crore to 25 states as grants for rural local bodies||The finance ministry on Sunday said it has released Rs 8,923 crore to 25 states to provide grants to the rural local bodies for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The department of expenditure, ministry of finance, on Saturday released an amount of Rs 8,923.8 crore to 25 states for providing grants to the rural local bodies (RLBs). The grants are meant for all the three tiers of Panchayati Raj Institutions — village, block and district, an official statement said. It may be utilised by the RLBs, among other things, for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, and will augment their resources. Domestic traders body CAIT on Sunday urged the Delhi government to give financial assistance to the traders community which has been hit by lockdown. “There is no inflow of money whereas the outflow of money continues in meeting family and establishment expenses,” the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Insurers seek cooling off period before underwriting new policy for Covid survivors||Insurers — both life and general — are insisting on a cooling off period and physical check-ups before underwriting a new policy for individuals affected by Covid. Cooling off period is the time taken or the deferment period that is required for a person to completely recover from an ailment and, thereby, fit to be insured. “Insurers are often asking for a three-month waiting period for a term life cover from the time the survivor has a negative report and they may also have to do a physical check-up. From an underwriter’s perspective, the second wave risk is different from what is seen in the past and there is also pressure from reinsurers,” said an executive of a private life insurer. Along with the proposal form, individuals would be asked to disclose their health conditions over the past six months to one year with medical records of the same. “The younger generation is also getting affected by Covid. As a result, automatically the answer to the question is turning out to be yes,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdhary, business head, term life insurance, Policybazaar.com. Depending on the case, underwriters are taking a call whether to issue a policy immediately or postpone, he added. “As a standard practice, cool-off periods are applied in all health policies. People, who have already contracted Covid-19, have to wait to buy health insurance till their symptoms fully recover and chance of relapse is minimised. This is important to ensure that the baseline health condition of the member is good from a risk assessment standpoint,” said Priya Deshmukh Gilbile, chief operating officer, Manipal Cigna Health Insurance. “The cooling off period essentially is a tool to ensure the customer’s health is evaluated fairly and accurately. It does not have a bearing on premium. While the vaccine is a preventive measure, members who have had a Covid infection may have a possibility of future complications. From that perspective, an already Covid positive person, who is getting vaccinated, will still undergo the cooling off period,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Switch for good: What is home refinancing and what does it entail||Interest rates continue to be low in the home financing market. In fact, the number of lenders offering home loans at 7 per cent or less has doubled to around 20 by May 2021. One of India’s largest lenders, State Bank of India, announced a fresh cut in home loan rates, taking their lowest rate to 6.70 per cent. Just before the start of the pandemic, home loan rates were trending between 7.50 per cent and 8 per cent. This steep reduction in home financing costs offers new buyers a chance to become homeowners. But it also provides existing owners a chance to refinance their loans at better terms and save lakhs of rupees. What is home refinancing, and what does it entail? Who should do it? What are the costs? Let’s take a look. Often, home loans taken in the distant past continue to attract a much higher interest rate compared with loans disbursed recently. As a borrower, you have the option to refinance your home. This is essentially pre-closing your current loan by paying it off with a new loan taken at better terms such as a lower interest rate. You could seek refinancing options either with your own lender or from another lender you wish to shift to. In the first option, the paperwork and costs are low, and you will be moved to a lower interest rate. In the second, the costs will be higher and may require a fresh scrutiny of your income, credit history and property documents. All loans are linked to a benchmark interest rate, the lowest rate at which any lender lends. Your home loan rate normally consists of the benchmark rate plus a premium based on lending risks calibrated according to your income, loan-to-value, credit score, gender and loan size. In 2019, the Reserve Bank of India mandated banks to adopt new, external benchmarks. Most banks picked the RBI-governed repo rate as their benchmark. Since the repo rate crashed in 2020, so did home loan rates. One must take stock of their home loans periodically to ascertain if the rate they are paying is based on market realities. Older loans linked to previous interest rate benchmarks may still be attracting a much higher rate. Refinancing then helps save money. For example, if you had borrowed Rs 50 lakh at 8.5 per cent for 20 years, your interest due after 60 EMIs would be Rs 34.04 lakh to be paid over 180 EMIs. At this point, if you refinanced to a 7 per cent loan, your interest over 180 EMIs would reduce to Rs 27.22 lakh, saving you nearly Rs 7 lakh. You can use an EMI calculator to understand your potential gains, net of refinancing costs such as processing fees, legal charges, MOD charges and other charges as applicable. The order to link interest to repo rate was given to the banks only. At present, both large-sized government and private banks offer among the lowest rates. However, smaller banks — including two foreign lenders — are also in the fray offering some of the lowest rates. Keeping with the competitive market, housing finance companies, too, have slashed their rates. The choice is really yours. Note that HFC loans are not linked to the repo rate even if they approximate the rate movements in the market. Bear in mind that the lowest rates — in this case, 6.49 per cent and above — are reserved only for eligible borrowers. Normally, income, gender, loan-to-value, loan size and credit score play a part. The lowest loan rates are normally reserved for salaried women with high credit scores. Try to have a credit score of 750 or above when you apply for a home loan. It will improve your chances of getting lower rates. It doesn’t. A home loan is a long-term relationship with the lender, and it should work to your expectations. Factors such as how you can operate your loan account, how close the branch is, what the terms of pre-payment and pre-closure are and the quality of customer service also matter. For example, two lenders offer you a loan at 7 per cent, but one requires you to pre-pay at least twice your EMI and only at the branch, whereas the other needs just one EMI which can be pre-paid via netbanking. Though the rates are similar, the first option will end up becoming costlier because of the barriers in payment. During a pandemic, it would also work to your benefit to have a lender who can digitally approve your loan and allow you to operate the account from the safety of your home instead of calling you to a crowded branch. Moreover, where you are in your loan tenure matters. Early on, somewhere in the first half, refinancing could save you lakhs. The costs of refinancing may pay for themselves within a year. But done later, it will make little sense. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
