11-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 341 points on weak global cues||Snapping its four-session rising streak, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 341 points on Tuesday, led by losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and TCS amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 340.60 points or 0.69 per cent lower at 49,161.81. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 91.60 points or 0.61 per cent to 14,850.75. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, HUL and Titan. On the other hand, NTPC, ONGC, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, UltraTech Cement and SBI were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, weak cues from global markets and selling pressure across the counters dragged benchmark indices. "Rising concerns over inflation globally due to sharp rise in commodity prices dragged Asian markets. Further, China inflation data also weighed on sentiments. However, domestic benchmark indices outperformed its Asian peers," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.66 per cent lower at USD 67.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
11-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 450 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 450 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 470.10 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 49,032.31 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 145.80 points or 0.98 per cent to 14,796.55. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, TCS, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, M&M and Maruti. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, NTPC, ONGC, ITC, Reliance Industries and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 295.94 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 49,502.41, and Nifty jumped 119.20 points or 0.80 per cent to 14,942.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 583.69 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be positive as of now on weak global cues. "US indices, especially S&P 500 and Nasdaq, fell sharply mainly on account of heavy selling pressure in high profile technology and growth stocks. While US equities have been gaining momentum consistently well supported by robust March quarter corporate earnings and loose monetary policy stance of the Federal Reserve, the bond market has been broadly muted in the last one month. This started weighing on investors' sentiments as any surge in bond yield will make valuations of technology or growth stocks quite expensive, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 67.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
11-05-2021||Business|| Car dealers seek relaxation of loan repayment terms from the RBI||Car dealers have sought relaxation in the terms of the repayment of their loans from the Reserve Bank of India, following a drop of 28 per cent in vehicle registration in April. The dealers have appealed to the Centre to direct the RBI to offer relief linked to the number of days of lockdown announced by each of the states. Vehicle registration fell 29.85 per cent to 1.5 crore units in 2020-21, the lowest in the last eight years, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations said on Monday. In 2019-20, the number of vehicles registered were much higher at 2.1 crore units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||India’s airlines under renewed pressure to raise cash or downsizing risks||India’s airlines are under renewed pressure to raise cash or face the risk of having to downsize, consolidate or have their planes repossessed by lessors as a surge of Covid-19 infections roil  travel. Passenger traffic fell nearly 30 per cent in April from a month before and has halved again so far in May, forcing even the country’s biggest and most cashed-up carrier, IndiGo, to act. IndiGo’s parent, Interglobe Aviation, on Monday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 3,000 crore through the sale of shares to institutional investors. With traffic plummeting, IndiGo’s cash burn is expected to rise to $3.4 million a day — a level last seen in September — from $2 million a day at the end of 2020, an analyst said. While IndiGo is seen as a survivor, the situation is worse for smaller carriers, particularly those without large backers, some of which were struggling before the novel coronavirus hit, analysts say. “India hasn’t provided much government assistance or support so the private airlines will need to turn to the private sector,” aviation analyst Brendan Sobie said. The cash call comes as Indian carriers are expected to report total losses of $4-4.5 billion in the financial year that ended on March 31 and will lose a similar amount this year, aviation consultancy CAPA India said in a note this week. SpiceJet and GoAir could come under pressure to reduce capacity, find partners or consolidate, particularly as aircraft lessors take a harder line. The airline is in talks with lenders for debt and private investors for further capitalisation, GoAir plans to raise up to Rs 25 billion through an initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Sebi comes out with fresh proposal for segregation and monitoring of collateral ||Market regulator Sebi on Monday came out with a fresh proposal for the segregation and monitoring of collateral at client level amid instances of misuse of client collateral by trading members. It has also proposed to build a mechanism for reporting, dissemination and use  of information pertaining to collateral other than securities collateral received by way of pledge or repledge mechanism. Issuing a consultation paper, Sebi said the proposed framework is aimed at ensuring the protection of client collateral. The proposal comes in the wake of the Karvy Stock Broking crisis where clients’ shares had been pledged illegally as collateral against loan. Segregation of client collateral refers to the procedures that enable identification and protection of client collateral from misuse by trading or clearing members and protection from default of such members or other clients. In the past, there have been instances of misuse of client collateral by trading members (TM) or clearing members (CM). This becomes even more accentuated at the time of default of a TM/CM, Sebi noted. In such a scenario, not only confidence of investors in market integrity is shaken, but it also brings disrepute to the entire ecosystem of trading, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Blackstone acquires Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy group||Blackstone has acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and realty firm Embassy group in a deal estimated at Rs 5,250 crore. Though the global investment firm did not disclose the value of the deal, it is one of the largest in the Indian logistics and warehousing segment. In 2015, Bangalore-based Embassy group had formed a joint venture with private equity firm Warburg Pincus to build industrial parks. Warburg Pincus held a 70 per cent stake in the joint venture firm — Embassy Industrial Parks — with the rest being held by the Embassy group. Blackstone on Monday said in a statement that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group. The deal will be concluded in two stages. In the first stage, Blackstone will buy Embassy Industrial Parks for around Rs 1,750 crore. In the second stage, Blackstone will buy a few land parcels directly from the Embassy group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp users not agreeing to policy update won't not be able to access their chat list||WhatsApp will not delete any account for not accepting its new privacy update, but users not agreeing to the controversial terms after “several weeks” will not be able to access their chat list, and eventually, will not be able to answer incoming phone or video calls over the app. Last week, the Facebook-owned company had said users not accepting its privacy policy update by its May 15 deadline will not face deletion or lose functionality of their accounts on the said date. WhatsApp, on its website, said it is continuing to remind those who haven’t had the chance to review and accept the terms, and after a period of several weeks, “the reminder (that) people receive will eventually become persistent”. It, however, did not divulge the timelines set for these reminders. Explaining the course of action after “persistent” reminders are sent to users, WhatsApp said: “At that time, you’ll encounter limited functionality on WhatsApp until you accept the updates”. “This will not happen to all users at the same time. You won’t be able to access your chat list, but you can still answer incoming phone and video calls. If you have notifications enabled, you can tap on them to read or respond to a message or call back a missed phone or video call,” it said. The messaging platform said after a few weeks of limited functionality, users, who still won’t accept the terms, “won’t be able to receive incoming calls or notifications and WhatsApp will stop sending messages and calls to your phone”. WhatsApp said it won’t delete the users’ accounts if they haven’t accepted the update but highlighted that its existing policy related to inactive users will apply. WhatsApp accounts are generally deleted after 120 days of inactivity, wherein inactivity refers to users not connecting to the messaging platform. While the company did not respond to specific queries around these reminders, how long they will run and other modalities, a WhatsApp spokesperson said: “We’ll continue to provide reminders to those users within WhatsApp in the weeks to come”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Eli Lilly inks voluntary licensing agreements with three Indian pharmaceutical firms||Eli Lilly and Company on Monday said it has inked voluntary licensing agreements with three Indian pharmaceutical firms — Sun Pharma, Cipla and Lupin — to expedite the availability of its arthritis drug Baricitinib for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the country. The company “has issued royalty-free, non-exclusive voluntary licences to the three firms, which are collaborating with Lilly to accelerate and expand the availability of Baricitinib in India”, Eli Lilly said. The company is also in discussions with several other Indian manufacturers for the potential grant of additional voluntary licences. Baricitinib is used in combination with Remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients requiring supplemental oxygen, invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Bull run in metals stokes inflation fear||Iron ore futures surged more than 10 per cent and copper jumped to a record amid growing bets they’ll be among the biggest winners from a commodities boom that’s stoking concerns about inflation around the world. Steel prices rose 6 per cent to hit a trading limit in China, while iron ore futures in Singapore jumped 10.3 per cent to a record above $226 a tonne, extending this year’s gain to about 40 per cent. While market participants struggled to pinpoint a trigger for Monday’s gains in iron ore, they cited several ongoing trends, including optimism that central banks will retain supportive policies even as the global economy recovers. Expectations that China will tighten environmental rules have added to the bull case for copper — seen as vital to the green energy transition — and fuelled speculation that steelmakers may front-load iron ore purchases before new curbs kick in. China announced a series of measures on Friday to tighten controls on steel capacity, in an effort to curb pollution in key areas as well as reduce “blind investments and disorderly constructions”. The most active iron ore futures contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange, for September delivery, soared to an all-time high of 1,326 yuan ($206.20) per tonne. “The surge of iron ore and steel prices were mostly boosted by speculative trading,” Tianfeng Futures analyst Wu Shiping said. While some steel mills have stopped buying materials at such high prices, traders are sweeping goods at spot market, Wu added. Meanwhile, reports suggest that NMDC is all set to raise iron ore prices by up to Rs 500 per tonne for May, on the back of the global uptrend. Panel will to meet in 2-3 days to decide on the extent of the increase. JSPL prepays A spike in world steel prices has enabled Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) to make a prepayment of Rs 2,462 crore to its term lenders as its aims to become a net debt-free firm. The JSPL share price touched a 52-week high of Rs 501.60 on Monday, rising more than 4 per cent intraday after the company announced the prepayment to the stock markets. In its regulatory filing, JSPL said it has reduced its debt by more than Rs 20,000 crore from a peak of approximately Rs 46,500 crore in the third quarter of 2016-17 to Rs 25,600 crore in the third quarter of the last fiscal.  The reduction of Rs 2,462 crore is over and above the annual committed debt reduction in the financial year 2020-2021, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Covid: PIL in SC seeks directions to Centre and RBI to provide loan moratorium||A PIL in the Supreme Court on Monday sought directions to the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide loan moratorium to individuals and stressed sectors on account of the second wave of the coronavirus that has caused a massive loss of jobs and livelihood. The PIL said the moratorium was necessary to protect the fundamental right to dignity and livelihood guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petition filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari urged the court to direct the government and the RBI to take “effective and remedial measures to redress and overcome the financial stress faced by the borrowers during the second wave of Covid-19 and lockdown in the form of fresh loan moratorium, extension of time period under the restructuring scheme”. Besides, the petition said banks should stop declaring non-performing assets till the situation returned to normal. The PIL said the second wave of the coronavirus has brought disaster to the economy, affecting the majority of the population such as daily wage earners, labourers, tea estate workers and even professionals. A large number of people have also lost their jobs because of the pandemic and the accompanying lockdown. As a result, people are unable to repay their loans, EMI and other liabilities. The PIL said the RBI on March 2020 had issued a circular offering a moratorium on loans for three months. Subsequently, the moratorium was extended till August.The petitioner said the second wave has seen the destruction not only of the economy but also of the healthcare sector. But neither the Centre nor the RBI has come forward to provide any succour to the people. It urged the top court to give appropriate direction to extend loans to all aggrieved persons in the country.“Such non-action and reluctance on the part of the respondents have violated the fundamental rights of livelihood and dignity and therefore requires the immediate intervention of this court in the interest of public justice,” the PIL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India trains guns on currency speculators||After cracking down on bond vigilantes, the Reserve Bank of India is training its guns on currency speculators. The central bank has opened up a new front against currency manipulators who are eager to drive the rupee down against the US dollar by intervening in the forex forward swap market and allowing the rupee to appreciate in the past few weeks. In the forward swap, the RBI has been selling the dollar to a bank and undertaking to buy it back at a premium. The upshot: the forward premia on the dollar has started to nudge up sharply, stymieing plans by the currency manipulators to hammer the rupee’s exchange value. The rupee has appreciated by 154 basis points between April 12 and May 7 and a report put out by the SBI Economic Research team theorises that the central bank has deliberately allowed this to occur because it wants to tamp down hard on any incipient signs of imported inflation — arising because of the recent spurt in metal and crude oil prices — before it snowballs into a major problem. Over the past few weeks, there has been an excess supply of dollars in both the merchant market (both spot and forward) as well as the inter-bank market. The SBI research report argues that the large supply of dollars will ensure that the rupee will appreciate from current levels and that this could potentially play to the advantage of the RBI in inflation management. The central bank’s calibrated play in the forward swap market also ensures that it does not lead to an alarming surge in rupee liquidity as the purchase of dollars from the spot market leads to the release of rupees into the system. The rise in inflows had also seen a spike in near-term dollar rupee forward premium. Last week, the one- month premium hit 10 per cent on an annualised basis. However, by the end of the week it had softened to 5.27 per cent. While the RBI’s strategy has been working for now —the jury is out on whether it can continue to “lean into the wind” and for how long. The SBI report suggests that the rising forward premia makes the carry trade (a strategy where an investor borrows funds in a country where interest rates are low and funnels it into a market where the interest rates are higher) lucrative and this would lead to continuation of strong inflows which again leads to further currency appreciation and, therefore, greater liquidity overhang. “In the end, there could be limits to sterilised intervention and rise in forward premia beyond a threshold,” the report said while adding that high premia also deters importers from hedging their dollar positions. “Looking at the data, it appears that the RBI has been intervening heavily in the forward market. From a net seller of dollar forward contracts in July 2020, it has turned into a net buyer of dollar forward contracts and its outstanding position is $47.3 billion in January 2021. The maturity breakdown shows that the RBI has the highest residual maturity in the more than 3 months and less than 1 year bracket of the amount equivalent to $44 billion,” says the report. Market mavens believe that the central bank will continue with its strategy to rein in the currency manipulators even though this could make things a little rough for exporters who would like to see a weaker rupee in order to price their goods competitive. Speaking to The Telegraph, Anindya Banerjee, DVP, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives at Kotak Securities, said that the RBI may have to continue intervening in the forward markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
