12-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 471 points to close below 49,000-mark||Extending its losses to the second session, equity benchmark Sensex slumped 471 points on Wednesday, dragged by selling in index majors ICICI Bank, HUL and Reliance Industries amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 471.01 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,690.80. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 154.25 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,696.50. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by HUL, ONGC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Titan, Maruti, PowerGrid, SBI and NTPC were among the gainers. "Indian indices extended its losses due to concerns over hike in global interest rates and bond yield due to rising commodity prices and inflationary pressure," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. All major indices closed in the negative terrain including metals while PSU banks and media stocks managed to stay afloat. International commodity prices will have to stabilise to provide sustenance in the equity market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent higher at USD 68.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
12-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 403.16 points or 0.82 per cent lower at 48,758.65 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 112.80 points or 0.76 per cent to 14,737.95. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, HUL, Nestle India, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, L&T, SBI and ONGC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 340.60 points or 0.69 per cent lower at 49,161.81, and Nifty slumped 91.60 points or 0.61 per cent to close at 14,850.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 336 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, global markets are now caught between two opposing forces - economic recovery and inflation fears. While the former is positive the latter is negative. Going forward, the market trend will depend on which of the two triumphs over the other. The year-on-year inflation in the US is expected to come around 3.6 per cent, pushed high mainly by the base effect and therefore may not sustain. But if the month-on-month inflation data shows a surge, the dovish Fed will be forced to take it seriously. The fact that the market is a bit apprehensive of rising inflation is reflected in the US 10-year yield rising above 1.6 per cent, he said. "So, this space has to be watched. Meanwhile in India Q4 results continue to be good with better than expected performance from mid-small-caps. Market action is likely to be stock specific based on results," he noted. Further, market participants will also keep an eye on domestic inflation and industrial production data, scheduled to be released later in the day, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. On Wall Street, indices ended in the red in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent lower at USD 68.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel records surprise dip in production for the month of April ||India’s leading private steel producer JSW Steel recorded a surprise dip in production for the month of April despite a strong demand for the alloy both in the domestic and international markets. The company attributed the blip to the raging pandemic. JSW Steel posted a 5 per cent decline in steel production in April over March in tandem with the deceleration in capacity utilisation. It produced 1.371 million tonnes of crude steel in the first month of the fiscal compared with 1.446 MT of crude steel in March. “The capacity utilisation was lower sequentially in April 2021 due to priority in supply of liquid oxygen for medical purposes over augmenting steel production. During April 2021, over 20,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen for medical purposes was supplied from the steel complexes of the company,” JSW said in a statement. On April 27, JSW chairman Sajjan Jindal had said the company may have to taper production because of the increased requirement of liquid oxygen. “Saving lives is more important than producing steel and production can suffer for as long as the country is in need of any resource available with the company,” Jindal had tweeted. The company had slowly ramped up supply of liquid oxygen to various states in which plants are located. It is now supplying about 1,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen a day. A steel plant using a blast furnace to produce the alloy requires oxygen in gaseous form, while liquid oxygen is kept as a buffer. Due to the configuration of the oxygen plant, production cannot be expanded beyond rated capacity. In a post result conference last week, Tata Steel management noted that impact due to supply of liquid oxygen on production would be 3-5 per cent, if at all. Liquid oxygen is sometimes needed when production peaks. However, the senior management noted that some of the customers of the company are struggling because they do not have liquid oxygen for industrial purposes. Some of the auto majors like Maruti Suzuki, major buyers of steel, had to cut production or shut units due to shortage. This in turn could dampen the demand of the commodity in the domestic market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Yes Bank anchor investor sells part of its stake in the bank||An anchor investor in Yes Bank has sold a part of its equity stake in the bank. Bay Tree India Holdings has sold a little over 2 per cent stake in Yes Bank in open market transactions, trimming its stake in the private sector lender by almost a third. According to a regulatory filing, Bay Tree India Holdings I LLC, which held a 7.48 per cent stake in Yes Bank, sold 52.15 crore shares representing 2.08 per cent of equity stake in multiple tranches between January 6 and May 6, 2021. After the sale, its stake in Yes Bank stood at 5.40 per cent or around 135.3 crore shares. In July last year, Yes Bank collected Rs 4,098 crore from anchor investors, before its follow-on public offering. Bay Tree India Holdings I, owned by Tilden Park, was the largest investor, infusing Rs 2,250 crore in the lender for an allocation of 187.5 crore shares or 7.48 per cent in the bank. Since its rescue last year, Yes Bank has improved its performance on the liabilities (deposits) front though its bad loans remain at elevated levels. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, while gross non performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms fell to Rs 28,609.53 crore from Rs 32,877.59 crore, the percentage of gross NPAs during the quarter stood at 15.41 per cent of assets against 16.80 per cent. Some of the brokerages continue to have a sell rating on the bank. PNB share dips Shares of Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Tuesday closed in the red after the PSU bank announced a qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue to raise funds. On the BSE, the PNB scrip ended lower by 1.40 per cent at Rs 35.10 after falling 5.20 per cent to an intra-day low of Rs 33.75. On Monday, PNB had announced that its board has approved raising equity capital from QIPs to enhance its capital base. Accordingly, it fixed a floor price of Rs 35.51 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds witness a net inflow for the second month running||Equity mutual funds witnessed a net inflow for the second month running in April of Rs 3,437 crore  despite headwinds such as the second Covid-19 wave and the spate of regional lockdowns. The inflow in March was, however, much higher at Rs 9,115 crore. According to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi), within equity schemes, sectoral or thematic funds led the preference list of investors as they witnessed an inflow of Rs 1,705.14 crore. They were followed by mid-cap funds at Rs 958.17 crore and large & mid-cap funds, Rs 708 crore. Some of the other segments which saw net inflows included focused funds and flexi-cap funds. Equity linked saving schemes (ELSS) witnessed a net outflow of Rs 137 crore. Equity schemes had consistently seen outflows for eight straight months from July 2020 to February 2021. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed an inflow of Rs 92,906 crore across all segments during the period compared with an outflow of Rs 29,745 crore in March. Income or debt oriented schemes faced an inflow of Rs 1,00,903 crore. They were led by liquid schemes which got an inflow of a little over Rs 41,507 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Apple iPhone 12 production at Foxconn factory slumps by more than 50 per cent ||Production of the Apple iPhone 12 at a Foxconn factory in India has slumped by more than 50 per cent because workers infected with Covid-19 have had to leave their posts, two sources told Reuters. The Foxconn facility in the southern state of Tamil Nadu produces iPhones specifically for India, the world’s No.2 smartphone market. Tamil Nadu is one of the worst hit states in the second coronavirus wave engulfing India. Officials imposed a full lockdown in the state from Monday, closing public transport and shuttering shops, to try slow surging infections. More than 100 Foxconn employees in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 and the company has enforced a no-entry ban at its factory in the capital of Chennai until late May, one of the sources said. “Employees are only allowed to leave but not to enter the facility since yesterday,” the person said. “Only a small part of the output is being kept.” More than 50 per cent of the plant’s capacity had been cut, both sources said, declining to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media. They did not specify the plant’s capacity and it was unclear how many workers were at the facility, which provides dormitory accommodation for employees. Taipei-based Foxconn, the world’s largest contract electronics maker and a major supplier to Apple, said a small number of employees at one of its facilities in India tested positive for Covid-19 and the company was providing them with support, including medical assistance. “Foxconn places the health and safety of our employees as our highest priority and that is why we have been working closely with local government and public health authorities in India to address the challenges that we and all companies are facing in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis,” it said in a statement to Reuters. Foxconn declined to comment on factory output or specific staffing levels. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business|| Moody’s lowers its growth forecast for India in the current fiscal to 9.3 per cent ||Moody’s Investor Service on Tuesday has lowered its growth forecast for India in the current fiscal to 9.3 per cent from 13.7 per cent because of the second wave of the coronavirus running amock in the country. Moody’s reiterated its lowest investment grade “Baa3” rating for the country with a negative outlook. “As of now, we expect the negative impact on economic output to be limited to the April-June quarter, followed by a strong rebound in the second half of the year. As a result, we have revised our real, inflation-adjusted GDP growth forecast down to 9.3 per cent from 13.7 per cent for fiscal 2021 and to 7.9 per cent from 6.2 per cent in fiscal 2022. Over the longer term, we expect growth of around 6 per cent thereafter,” Moody’s said. On the fiscal front, Moody’s expects the renewed surge in the virus to contribute to a marginal shortfall in revenue and a redirection of spending toward healthcare and virus response relative to what the government budgeted in February. Business activity drops to June 2020 levels Japanese brokerage Nomura on Tuesday cut India’s GDP growth estimate for the current 2021-22 fiscal to 10.8 per cent from the earlier 12.6 per cent, blaming the impact of the second wave-induced lockdowns. It said the activity levels have dropped further to 64.5 per cent of the pre-pandemic levels in the week to May 9 according to a proprietary index, after a further 5 percentage points drop in the week. The activity levels, at present, are on a par with those seen in June 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Sebi proposes to rationalise the definition of ‘promoter group’||Market regulator Sebi on Tuesday proposed to rationalise the definition of ‘promoter group’ and move to the concept of ‘person in control’ as well as reduce the minimum lock-in periods for promoters’ and other shareholders after an IPO. In a consultation paper, the watchdog has also suggested streamlining the disclosures requirement of group companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has sought comments on the proposals till June 10. With regard to lock-in period, Sebi has proposed that if the object of the issue involves offer for sale or financing other than for capital expenditure for a project, then the minimum promoters’ contribution of 20 per cent should be locked-in for one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer (IPO). The lock-in period is now three years. However, shares held by promoters should be exempt from lock-in requirements after six months from the date of allotment in the IPO, only towards the purpose of achieving compliance with minimum public shareholding norms. “Promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked in for a period of six months as opposed to the existing requirement of one year from the date of allotment in the IPO,” Sebi suggested. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters should be locked-in for six months from the date of allotment in the IPO against the current requirement of one year. In addition, the regulator has suggested rationalising the definition of ‘promoter group’ as the current definition focuses on capturing holdings by a common group of individuals or persons and often results in capturing unrelated companies with common financial investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Banks choking off access to crypto currency exchanges again||Banks are choking off access to crypto currency exchanges again. Crypto aficionados have started complaining that they are unable to shovel their money into digital crypto wallets, re-erecting a fresh hurdle for investors who have found an appetite for the mercurial asset that carries speculative risks but promises blowout returns. Crypto currency exchange have operated in India outside the pale of regulatory oversight. The Reserve Bank of India tried to pull the plug on the crypto world by issuing a circular back in 2018 ordering banks not to facilitate any transaction linked to a crypto currency trade. Last year, the Supreme Court struck down that circular and the crypto universe sprang to life once again. But last week, the party started to grind to a halt after banks — especially ICICI Bank and Axis Bank — started pushing payment processors to stop facilitating crypto transactions, despite the Supreme Court’s order. Although the Reserve Bank of India has not formally asked banks to desist from facilitating crypto transactions, it is understood to have asked a few lenders whether they had permitted such dealings. The banking regulator is apparently waiting for the Centre to come out with a final decision on whether to ban or legitimise private crypto currencies such as Bitcoin. Officials at crypto exchanges said the situation had turned messy after the banks stopped offering transactional facilities. The banks have their own concerns with crypto trades: they cannot fully vouch for the identity of the real investor behind the trade and guarantee that it isn’t furthering a money laundering racket using unaccounted cash. Banks have been worried by the risks that these transactions involve and the consequences that would follow if federal investigating agencies later uncover fraudulent transactions. “Every exchange in India has signed up to only allow Indian rupee transactions through banking channels. Before the RBI came up with a circular in April 2018, there were a few banks that had withdrawn their support quoting the risk profile of the exchanges. But there were others that provided the services and, hence, it was not a problem. Then the RBI circular to banks had to be fought out at Supreme Court till March 2020. Some of the banks started supporting the industry instantly but not every bank has done so,” said Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO at Unocoin. “Industry players have created their own self-regulatory system and ensured that every INR transaction is bank transfer based. But we still haven’t got the support from the financial institutions. The industry’s voice is not being heard,” added Vishwanath. “The whole crypto community right now is trying to get more clarity on the situation. Crypto currencies have become a global phenomenon. It doesn’t make sense for us to delay its adoption in India,” said Bitex founder and CEO, Monark Modi. WazirX CEO Nishal Shetty voiced his views on Twitter. “What do JP Morgan, Paypal, Square, Robinhood, MasterCard, Visa have in common? They’re fiat financial products that are going long on crypto. Unfortunately, Indian financial companies have no crypto domain knowledge. Don’t ignore crypto innovation!” he said. Zebpay and Coin DCX officials were not available for a comment. Meanwhile, the crypto exchanges have started to scout for alternative payment platforms to keep business buzzing. These include peer-to-peer transfers  where buyers and sellers can directly deal with each other, using existing funds in the crypto wallets to make fresh purchases, and liquidating a part of the holdings to carry out further trades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
