14-05-2021||Business||Sensex ends marginally higher to finish just below 49,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex ended marginally higher after a choppy session on Friday as concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of COVID-19 and pace of vaccination weighed on investor sentiment. While the 30-share BSE index ended 41.75 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 48,732.55, the broader NSE Nifty fell 18.70 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,677.80. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 8 per cent, followed by ITC, Nestle India, L&T, HUL and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Dr Reddy's, SBI and NTPC were among the laggards. "Indian equity markets remained largely range bound over the last week. The COVID situation in India is no doubt grim and hence the health issue is something that could keep markets volatile in the near term," said Shibani Kurian, Senior EVP & Head- Equity Research, Kotak Mahindra AMC. Going forward, market will likely track the pace of vaccinations, trajectory of active cases curve and management commentary of companies. Rollback of localised lockdowns and trend of inflation in many global commodities like crude oil and steel will be other key factors to watch out for, she noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.92 per cent higher at USD 67.67 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
14-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a positive note on Friday, but soon pared initial gains and dropped over 150 points, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS. The 30-share BSE index was trading 158.99 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 48,531.81. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 59.50 points or 0.40 per cent to 14,637. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, TCS, HDFC duo and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, TCS, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session on Wednesday, Sensex slumped 471.01 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at 48,690.80, and Nifty tumbled 154.25 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,696.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,260.59 crore, according to provisional exchange data. The domestic stock market was closed on Thursday for Id-Ul-Fitr. "Worse-than-expected inflation data from US (4.2 per cent in April YoY) led to sell-off in US markets with Dow, S&P and Nasdaq declining sharply by up to 2.7 per cent on Wednesday," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The US 10-year yield rose above 1.69 per cent. But this victory for the bond bears proved to be short-lived as equity bulls came roaring back on Thursday, he noted. "The market verdict, as of now, is that the high inflation print is transitory and, therefore, the Fed will continue on the ultra-loose monetary stance and the tapering of quantitative easing (QE) is far away. This is positive for markets globally. "Back home, COVID data continues to be grim and the consequent extensions of lockdowns in many states mean growth and earnings in Q1 FY22 will be lower than initial estimates," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.42 per cent lower at USD 66.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
14-05-2021||Business|| Ducati launches versions of Streetfighter V4 and V4 S in India||Italian superbike maker Ducati on Thursday launched versions of Streetfighter V4 and V4 S in India priced at Rs 19.99 lakh and Rs 22.99 lakh, respectively (ex-showroom Delhi). The two models now come with a BSVI compliant engine which churns out 208 HP of power. Ducati India managing director Bipul Chandra said: “The motorcycle was much awaited by Ducati fans. We are excited that it is finally available in India. The company said that bookings were open across all Ducati dealerships in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kochi, Calcutta, and Chennai and deliveries will begin as soon as lockdown restrictions are lifted. The Streetfighter’s design does a fantastic job of putting the nature of the bike right at the center. The Streetfighter weighs in at 180 kgs and has a Desmosedici Stradale engine. Norton Motorcycle rejig TVS Motor Company, owner of The Norton Motorcycle Co Ltd (Norton), on Thursday announced the appointment of Robert Hentschel as chief executive officer (CEO) and Vittorio Urciuoli as chief technical officer (CTO) of the Solihull- based motorcycle brand. Hentschel and Urciuoli will take up their new positions as John Russell steps down from his role as interim CEO. Sudarshan Venu, joint managing director of TVS Motors, said: “TVS has created a plan for Norton to transform into the future. The brand will retain its core values which will be interpreted in a modern way for the customers of today and tomorrow. As part of this we are excited to welcome on board a new management team led by Robert.” Meanwhile, Suzuki Motorcycle India has appointed Satoshi Uchida as its new company head as part of a global revamp by parent Suzuki Motor Corporation. Ola Electric in London Ola will launch an electric vehicle category in London on its ride hailing platform. The category, called Ola EV, is a global first for Ola and will be available across London from Thursday and over time will roll out to other cities around the world where Ola is operational. The Ola EV category will cost riders the same as a comfort category on the Ola app.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Vedanta reports consolidated profit of Rs 6,432 crore for March quarter||Vedanta on Thursday reported a consolidated profit of Rs 6,432 crore for March quarter 2020-21 on the back of various factors, including better volumes and lower cost of production. It had posted a loss (attributable to owners of Vedanta) of Rs 12,521 crore a year ago. The company’s income in the period under review increased to Rs 29,065 crore from Rs 20,382 crore in the same period a year ago. Vedanta Group CEO Sunil Duggal said the company’s businesses delivered record operational performance, maintaining the trajectory of cost and volumes, driven by structural integration and technology adoption. Vedanta Group deputy CFO Ajay Goel said: “Last year, we had taken one impairment in our oil and gas business...that is a one time non-cash charge that led the  bottomline to become red,” he said. “In the fourth quarter our volumes zinc and aluminium were record high. The cost of production is lower in almost all the portfolios.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||PC shipments jump 73.1 per cent year-on-year in January-March quarter||The shipments of PCs — comprising desktops, notebooks and workstations — jumped 73.1 per cent year-on-year in the January-March quarter, according to International Data Corporation. A total of 3.1 million PCs were shipped during the quarter, the highest ever first-quarter shipments in a calender year to India. Jaipal Singh of IDC India said, “PC vendors are staring at uncertainty for the next few months, with new lockdowns impacting consumer sales, delaying government projects and limiting supplies into the country.” He said the present Covid situation has also affected the field teams of vendors. Vendors will also use the time to plan their inventory for the coming quarters as there will be a surge in demand when the situation returns to normal, said Singh, associate research manager, client devices, IDC India. Notebooks — which have a three-fourth share of the PC market — reported the highest growth at 116.7 per cent in the first quarter of the calender year. The desktop category remained steady and showed initial signs of recovery. PCs witnessed an increase in demand as enterprises, SMBs, and consumers continued their purchases. However, availability has been inconsistent over the past few quarters even as demand continued to outstrip supply. Besides, the lower than usual shipments in the first quarter of 2020 calender year has made the data for the current year favourable because of the base effect. “Many companies remained fully remote or had adopted a hybrid working model to manage the growing concerns of the pandemic within the country. As cases continued to rise, a few large enterprises procured PCs in bulk to manage their workforces, adopting these new working models for the long haul,” said Bharath Shenoy , market analyst, PC devices, IDC India. He said the demand for virtual learning was still strong, alongside a stronger demand for affordable PCs. This is evident from the recovery of desktops in the consumer segment, which grew 49.5 per cent despite the growing trend of notebooks replacing desktops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Murdoch, Shankar venture to raise $300m||James Murdoch, son of media magnate Rupert Murdoch, and former Walt Disney executive Uday Shankar have incorporated a Cayman Islands entity called Seven islands Inc which is seeking to raise $ 300 million through a blank cheque company in the US. The sum will be used to "pursue an initial business combination in the media, entertainment, consumer technology, healthcare, and education industries in Southeast and South Asia, with a particular focus on India," the company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the US. The offer is for 30,000,000 units (or 34,500,000 units if the underwriters’ overallotment option is exercised in full), at $10 per unit. Each unit will consist of one Class A ordinary share; and onefourth of one redeemable warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one Class A ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment, and only whole warrants are exercisable. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the units and only whole warrants will trade, the filing said. There has been a lot of speculation in the past few months that Murdoch and Shankar would collaborate to start a media venture of their own with interests in India. The Cayman islands entity is sponsored by Seven Islands Capital LLC which is a subsidiary of Asia Initiatives Pte. Ltd., a joint venture incorporated in Singapore between Lupa Systems LLC and Uday Shankar, who are collectively to as the sponsors of the issue. "We anticipate structuring our initial business combination so that the posttransaction company in which our public shareholders own shares will own or acquire 100 per cent of the issued and outstanding equity interests or assets of the target business or businesses. We may, however, structure our initial business combination such that the posttransaction company owns or acquires less than 100 per cent of such interests or assets of the target," it added. "The Seven Islands team has an impressive track record of identifying and executing acquisitions that are ripe for growth and disruption across various industry sectors and business cycles," the filing says. Shankar had stepped down as chairman of The Walt Disney Company India and president of The Walt Disney Company Asia Pacific in December last year. He is the current Ficci president. Murdoch's Lupa Systems will be providing strong support to the new venture. "Lupa will be providing us with differentiated expertise in identifying highpotential business combination candidates, in addition to differentiated access to a deep network of potential partners and investors globally," the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Loss of gross value added seen at Rs 1.25trn||Brokerages continue to prune their growth estimates for India as the second wave of Covid-19 ravages the country and the vaccination process is proceeding at a disappointing pace. According to a report from Emkay Global, around Rs 1.25 trillion worth of gross output will be impacted based on one month of localised lockdowns or restrictions, of which close to 45 per cent will be from Maharashtra. Pointing out that any extension of these restrictions will result in a further loss of output from states, the brokerage forecast that this would lead to a monthly loss of gross value added (GVA) by 90 basis points for the overall domestic economy against the earlier estimated loss of 40 basis points. Emkay also cut the first-quarter growth estimate to 16.5 per cent from 22 per cent. “Assuming Covid-II peaks in May and restrictions ease by the second quarter, we mark down our 2021-22 GDP forecast to 9.9 per cent from 11 per cent... we expect first-quarter growth to be around 16.5 per cent versus 22 per cent plus estimated before the second wave,” it said. The report observed that the dramatic resurgence of Covid-19 in India risks disrupting prevailing macroeconomic trends. “It didn’t take too long for the macro narrative to change from a linear V-shaped economic super growth to talks of a lost quarter and a supposed W-shaped recovery," Emkay said. Its projection comes just two days after Moody’s Investors Service slashed India's growth forecast for the current financial year to 9.3 per cent, from the 13.7 per cent projected earlier, on account of the negative impact of the second wave of Covid-19. India is experiencing a severe second wave of coronavirus infections which will slow the near-term economic recovery and could weigh on longer-term growth dynamics, the rating agency said. “As of now, we expect the negative impact on economic output to be limited to the April-June quarter, followed by a strong rebound in the second half of the year," it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Nasscom urges govt to temporarily relax conditions of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act||Tech industry body Nasscom has urged the government to temporarily relax the conditions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to ensure overseas money can flow into the country to fight the second wave of the coronavirus. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nasscom sought the further liberalisation of vaccine import norms. Nasscom said data was a strategic ammunition available to manage the pandemic. Insights and analytics from Covid tracking and vaccination data could play a key role in decision making and to obtain early warning signals. All these steps will enable the industry to “do more and act faster to help the country navigate the second wave and be better prepared to deal with future waves”. The demand to ease FCRA comes at a time reports suggest the government is trying to closely regulate Covid fund flows into the country. The Nasscom letter to the Prime Minister says a temporary waiver of the FCRA Act and the amendments made in 2020 will “enable NGOs to transfer funds between two FCRA-approved NGOs and non-FCRA approved NGOs”. The FCRA, which was passed by Parliament in September 2020, regulates the acceptance and use of foreign contribution by individuals, associations and companies. The letter calls for “emergency use authorisation for all WHO-approved vaccines — Pfizer, Moderna, J&J and others — that have gone through stringent approval process globally, to ensure there is no vaccines divide in the country”. Nasscom also pressed for quick deployment of data and artificial intelligence to “ensure effective access to data for insights and planning, across all states and key departments, on a priority basis”. The FCRA amendments regulate the acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution by individuals, associations and companies. As per the Act foreign contribution cannot be transferred to any other person unless such person is also registered to accept foreign contribution or has obtained prior permission to obtain foreign contribution. The Bill amends this to prohibit the transfer of foreign contribution to any other person.  The term ‘‘person’’ under the Act includes an individual, an association or a registered company. Also, under the Act, a registered person must accept foreign contribution only in a single branch of a scheduled bank specified by them.  However, they may open more accounts in other banks for the utilisation of the contribution. The Bill amends this to state that foreign contribution must be received only in an account designated by the bank as “FCRA account” in such branch of the State Bank of India, New Delhi, as notified by the central government. No funds other than the foreign contribution should be received or deposited in this account.  The person may open another FCRA account in any scheduled bank of their choice for keeping or utilising the received contribution. Some reports have indicated that the home ministry which is responsible for the grant and renewal of FCRA licences is planning to relax the FCRA rules for NGOs after May 31 when NGOs apply for licence renewal. This will help the NGOs utilise foreign funding and donations to help Covid-19 patients during the nationwide public health emergency. The NGOs had been requesting the home ministry for such a waiver for the last six months, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Covid cloud on Air India, BPCL selloff||The second wave of the coronavirus is likely to delay the financial bids for sell-off bound BPCL and Air India till September as the travel restrictions are likely to delay the physical verification of the  assets of the two companies that will determine their net worth. Government officials are optimistic they will complete the sale process of the two PSUs by the end of the fiscal and beef up the sell-off proceeds for the fiscal. “Transaction advisers have informed that the bidders have sought extra time as Covid has affected the mobility of bidders’ representatives,” the officials said. The bidders have online access to the data room and the share purchase agreement  but they need to do a physical due diligence of the assets of the companies to get a better understanding of the assets and liabilities. “After bidders are comfortable and complete their due diligence, putting financial bids will not take much time,” the officials said. The government has lined up a host of companies for divestment, including the strategic sale of Bharat Petroleum, Air India and Shipping Corp of India Ltd and initial public offer of Life Insurance Corp of India Ltd. The government has already received preliminary bids from Vedanta Group and two international funds for its plan to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in Bharat Petroleum Corp. The Tata group was among the “multiple” suitors that had put in preliminary bids for the loss-making Air India. The listing of LIC is also likely to be pushed to the second half of the year because the insurance behemoth’s valuation, which involves assessing its real estate and art assets, is likely to be delayed. The officials said over the next few months only minority stakes will be sold in some PSUs, including Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. The Centre has sweetened the Air India deal by giving potential suitors the flexibility to bid on the basis of the enterprise value of the airline. The government’s failure to complete the initial public offer of LIC and the BPCL strategic disinvestment has led to the divestment targets going awry last year with collections at just Rs 32,385 crore against an estimated Rs 2.1 lakh crore. If the LIC float does not materialise this time as well, the government will miss the target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal by a huge margin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Maharashtra: Trucks from outside the state to have max two people with Covid negative reports||The Narendra Modi government isn’t the only one responsible for taking bizarre and capricious decisions while framing regulations to deal with a snowballing second Covid-19 wave. The Maharashtra regime, which decided on Thursday to extend its lockdown restrictions till 7am on June 1, has come up with its own ham-handed response that now threatens to disrupt the movement of goods and supplies to the state which prides itself on its contribution to 25 per cent of the country’s GDP. On Thursday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government said that truckers ferrying goods from anywhere outside the state would have to restrict the number of people in the vehicle to just two and they would have to carry Covid negative test reports issued no more than 48 hours before the vehicle rolled across the border. The first problem is that this could lead to massive tail-gating jams on the border as officials check the test reports of every individual in those trucks. Second, the state government said the test report would be valid for seven days which is likely to precipitate an unseemly scramble for vehicle turnaround. Most truckers have to wait for days before they can rustle up outbound cargo — proving once again that the whimsicality of such directives create more problems on the ground than they seek to solve. The announcement immediately sparked alarm with industry and truckers slamming the move as unwise and imprudent with potentially disastrous consequences for economic activity in the state which is already reeling under the impact of the fresh crisis. “The move is impractical and will cripple the supply chain for essential commodities in Maharashtra,” Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), told The Telegraph. Gupta said it would be difficult for each and every truck driver and his associate to undergo a test, especially at a time the country is battling a shortage of RT-PCR test kits. He said the order came at a time drivers were working under tremendous stress and it was hard to keep everyone motivated to ensure that the supply chain works smoothly. “The cargo carriers ferry essential commodities, FMCG products, medicines, critical medical equipment and oxygen tankers for hospitals, oxygen concentrators, cylinders, export-import cargo. If this rule is enforced, the entire supply chain will come to a stand-still and it will result in utter chaos. The manufacturing sector in the state will also be directly hit,” the AIMTC warned. Reacting to the decision, a senior official with a manufacturing firm said that it could hit cargo movement into Maharashtra, badly affecting sectors like fast moving consumer goods makers and added that the state government should review the order. Vijay Kalantri, president of the All India Association of Industries (AIAI), said retailers and industry as a whole were facing losses with no clarity on any relief from the federal and state government about any sort of relief in the form of lower or deferred taxes. He also slammed the latest directive requiring truck drivers entering the state to carry negative RT-PCR test reports, terming it as impractical. According to the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA), retailers in the state have lost Rs 50,000 crore during the 40 days since the latest lockdown restrictions were imposed and this is expected to swell by the end of the month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
