15-05-2021||Business||Cairn begins process to seize Indian overseas assets to recover USD 1.7 billion||UK's Cairn Energy Plc has brought a lawsuit in the US to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned flag carrier Air India so as to seize its overseas assets to recover USD 1.7 billion it has been awarded by an international arbitration tribunal for being taxed retroactively. The firm first moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government's Rs 10,247 crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. Now, the firm has begin bringing lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover the money awarded, three sources with direct knowledge of the development said. In the first instance, it filed a lawsuit on May 14 in the US District court for the Southern District of New York, seeking to make Air India liable for the judgment. The lawsuit argued that Air India as a state-owned company is "legally indistinct from the state itself". PTI had on March 28, 2021 reported that Cairn will bring lawsuits to pierce the corporate veil to establish that certain state-owned entities are India's alter ego under Bancec for enforcing the arbitration award. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit is similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm USD 1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. Sources in the government said India will take all necessary steps to defend against any such "illegal enforcement action". It will contest the move on grounds that the government has challenged the arbitration award in the appropriate court in The Hague and it is confident that the award will be set aside. Sources said the government has also engaged a counsel team which is ready to defend against any enforcement action. Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award, sources said. Cairn is pulling out all the stops to recover the damages, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. Cairn had previously said the money ultimately belongs to its shareholders -- which include large investors such as BlackRock, Fidelity and Franklin Templeton, and the ramifications of India not honouring the award will "run across the international investment community more widely". Its management team has held three rounds of face-to-face and one video conferencing discussions with top officials in the finance ministry. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the grounds that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the United Kingdom under which the case was filed, and therefore the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter, sources said. However, the appeal in the Dutch court does not bar Cairn from taking action in other jurisdictions to recover the full amount of the arbitral award which totals USD 1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. The company will seek to establish that state-owned entities/firms are India's alter ego under Bancec regulations, that is, to pierce the veil between the Indian government and them. 'Piercing the corporate veil' is a means of imposing liability on an underlying cause of action against a third-party which would not otherwise be liable. By this, Cairn will seek to pierce the veil in order to shift liability for payment of an existing judgment against the Republic of India to a third-party that is not otherwise liable, that is state-owned firms or banks. "Government/ PSU has not received any such notice. As and when any such notice is received, the government/concerned organisation shall take all necessary steps to defend against any such illegal enforcement action," a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
15-05-2021||Business||UK's anti-fraud agency probes Sanjeev Gupta-led GFG Alliance||The UK’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) said on Friday that it is investigating suspected fraudulent trading and money laundering related to companies within the Gupta Family Group Alliance (GFG), led by British-Indian businessman Sanjeev Gupta. GFG Alliance includes the embattled Liberty Steel business that continues to find alternative financing after its main backer, Greensill Capital, collapsed in March. The SFO said its investigation covers the company’s financial arrangements with Greensill Capital UK Ltd. “The SFO is investigating suspected fraud, fraudulent trading and money laundering in relation to the financing and conduct of the business of companies within the Gupta Family Group Alliance (GFG), including its financing arrangements with Greensill Capital UK Ltd,” an SFO statement said. “As this is a live investigation, the SFO can provide no further comment,” it said. The Gupta-led business has been the subject of much speculation over the past few weeks as it was feared thousands of jobs in Britain’s steel industry were under threat as a result of Greensill’s collapse. The finance company itself faces separate inquiries, including by the Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee which called in former British Prime Minister David Cameron on Thursday to give evidence related to his role as part-time adviser to the collapsed bank. The panel of cross-party MPs is among the three parliamentary committees that have launched inquiries into Greensill Capital following its collapse in March, including to probe the extent of Cameron’s lobbying of ministers in the lead up to its bankruptcy. The London-based lender supplied billions of dollars in loans to GFG, many of which were packaged and sold as funds. GFG Alliance said it would cooperate fully with the investigation and that it continues with its refinancing plans. “As these matters are the subject of an SFO investigation we cannot make any further comment. GFG Alliance continues to serve its customers around the world and is making progress in the refinancing of its operations which are benefitting from the operational improvements it has made and the very strong steel, aluminium and iron ore markets,” the spokesperson said. The company separately faces a legal action from Tata Steel over alleged missed payments from an acquisition in the UK dating back to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
15-05-2021||Business||Cipla profit up 73 per cent at Rs 412 crore in Q4||Drug major Cipla on Friday posted a 73 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 412 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 on the back of robust sales across markets. The Mumbai-based firm had reported a net profit of Rs 238 crore in January-March 2019-20. Total revenue from operations rose to Rs 4,606 crore from Rs 4,376 crore in the same period of 2019-20, Cipla said in a regulatory filing. For the entire 2020-21 financial year, Cipla reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,389 crore against Rs 1,500 crore in 2019-20. Total revenue from operations in the last fiscal rose to Rs 19,160 crore against Rs 17,132 crore in 2019-20. The company’s board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 5 per share (face value Rs 2 each) for 2020-21. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Friday reported a 29 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 557 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The Hyderabad-based drug major had posted a net profit of Rs 781 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20. Net sales rose to Rs 4,608 crore in the quarter under review from Rs 4,336.1 crore in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. Engineering and construction giant Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Friday reported an 11.3 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,820.16 crore for the March quarter of 2020-21 on the back of higher revenue from operations. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,430.10 crore in the year-ago period, L&T said in a filing to BSE. The income of the company during the January-March period increased to Rs 49,116.16 crore from Rs 44,905.76 crore in the year-ago period, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Reliance Jio announces free talk time offer for JioPhone users||Reliance Jio on Friday said it is working with Reliance Foundation to provide 300 free minutes of outgoing calls per month — or 10 minutes per day — for the entire period of the pandemic. It is learnt that Reliance’s CSR activities are largely done by the foundation. The offer comes at a time Jio has reported a drop in the average revenue per user. The scheme will be available to JioPhone users who have not been able to recharge because of the lockdowns imposed by states, the company said in a statement. Reliance Jio is the first company to announce free talk time for users in the second wave of the pandemic. In addition to the free talk time, every JioPhone plan recharged by a JioPhone user will get an additional recharge plan of the same value for free. However, these offers are not applicable on annual or JioPhone device bundled plans. Reliance has 415 million wireless subscribers against Airtel’s 348 million and Vodafone’s 282 million. It added 4.26 million subscribers in February against Airtel’s 3.7 million and Vodafone’s 652,625 subscribers during the month. However, data showed 97.5 per cent of all Airtel subscribers are active against 78.2 per cent of Jio and 90.6 per cent at Vodafone, according to the VLR data (Visitor Location Register) maintained by Trai. Analysts said the numbers indicate Airtel is more focused on adding quality and high-paying customers than Jio, which wants more subscribers. The drop in Jio’s quarterly ARPU (average revenue per user) is because it is losing high-paying subscribers and adding low-paying ones. ARPU is a key indicator of the performance of a telecom player. In the fourth quarter, Jio’s ARPU fell to Rs 138 per subscriber per month from Rs 151 in the December quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Go Airlines files DRHP for Rs 3,600 crore IPO||Wadias-owned-Go Airlines (India) Ltd has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to raise up to Rs 3,600 crore through a share float. GoAir proposes an initial public offer (IPO) through the 100 per cent book building process and the company will offer fresh equity shares aggregating up to Rs 3,600 crore. From the issue proceeds, GoAir proposes to use Rs 2,016 crore towards the repayment or scheduled repayment of all or a portion of certain outstanding borrowings, around Rs 279 crore towards replacement of letters of credit with cash deposit and Rs 255 crore as repayment of dues to IOC in part or full. The airline, which launched operations in 2005 as GoAir, has recently re-branded itself as “Go First” as it positions itself as an ultra low-cost carrier (ULCC) focused on maintaining low-unit costs and delivering compelling value to customers. The DRHP said that the new brand will better reflect its customer acquisition strategy of targeting young Indian leisure and MSME travellers. Once listed, it will be the third airline on the bourses after IndiGo (represented through parent Interglobe Aviation) and SpiceJet. Though Jet Airways is listed on the stock exchanges, it is yet to begin operations under the new owners. GoAir operates a fleet of 55 aircraft as on March 31, 2021, all of which are Airbus A320 aircraft. The company has agreed to purchase a balance of 98 Airbus A320 NEO aircraft, according to the aircraft delivery schedules under its purchase agreements with Airbus. It expects to add eight aircraft in the current fiscal, 14 in the next financial year and the rest after that. GoAir is the country’s third-largest airline by market share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors board to consider fund-raise proposal||Tata Motors on Friday said its board will meet next week to consider a proposal to raise funds through various means. While its board of directors will meet on May 18 to consider and approve the audited financial results for the quarter and financial year ended March 2021, they will also consider a proposal to raise funds. “The board in the said meeting would also consider a proposal for raising funds by way of issue of one or more instruments, including convertible securities of any description or debt securities, through preferential issue, private placements, rights issue or any other methods or combination thereof in the domestic and/or international markets,” Tata Motors said in a communication to the stock exchanges on Friday. However, the company did not disclose the timeline or the quantum that it intends to raise. Shares of the firm on Friday ended at Rs 312.35 on the BSE — a loss of 4.14 per cent over the previous close. At present, it has a market cap of Rs 1,03,709.81 crore. Last month, Tata Motors said it has set in motion a business plan to protect and serve the interests of its customers, dealers and suppliers as the lockdowns enforced in various parts of the country are expected to impact vehicle demand temporarily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Kesoram to launch Rs 200 crore rights issue||The board of Kesoram Industries has approved a Rs 200-crore rights issue as part of a plan to raise Rs 600-crore equity in phases as the company looks to reduce its debt burden. Kesoram, which declared a net profit of Rs 167 crore in 2020-21 compared with a loss of Rs 485 crore a year before, has a debt burden of around Rs 2,000 crore, much of which carries a high interest of 20 per cent per annum. The company has kept the options open for a private placement, follow-on public offer or QIP to raise the balance equity amount, which would strengthen the balance sheet. Return to profitability is likely to comfort the investors ahead of the share sale exercise. Cement manufacturers such as Kesoram were enjoying strong demand and a robust margin in the second half of the last year. In the fourth quarter, Kesoram posted a net profit of Rs 41.1 crore compared with a Rs 441.5-crore loss a year ago. The company has adjusted a deferred tax asset (net) amounting to Rs 263.18 crore, which helped it post a net profit. Total income went up to Rs 806.3 crore from Rs 498.8 in the fourth quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||India’s investment grade credit ratings hanging by a thread||India’s devastating Covid-19 crisis is making investors question more than ever whether after years of debt accumulation and patchy progress on reforms, a country touted as a future economic superpower still deserves its “investment grade” status. A spate of downgrades last year had already left India’s investment grade credit ratings hanging by a thread and the severity of the current virus wave is making the main agencies, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch agitated again. All three firms have either cut — or warned they could cut — the country’s growth forecasts in recent weeks and that government debt as a share of GDP will jump to a record 90 per cent this year. In that respect though, the world’s second most populous country has long been an anomaly. The median debt level for countries Fitch has in the BBB bracket — India is BBB- — and on a downgrade warning with both Fitch and Moody’s — is currently around 55 per cent and only 70 per cent even for those languishing at the lowest depths of “junk” grade. With Covid-19 pushing up debt almost everywhere and the ratings firms signalling they will wait for this latest wave to ease before any judgements, investors who buy rating-sensitive assets like bonds are making their own calls. “We still see India as investment grade,” said NN Investment Partners’ head of Asian debt, Joep Huntjens, who thinks the country’s economy will bounce back quickly. “But we do think there is at least a 50/50 chance that at least one rating agency downgrades, probably next year”. With calls growing for another national lockdown to tackle the new virus surge, plenty of others are wary too. JPMorgan says rating agencies are making “a leap of faith” by holding fire at the moment. M&G’s Eldar Vakhitov says his firm’s models have been flagging a downgrade, while UBS points out India will soon have the third highest debt level among big emerging markets after junk-rated Brazil and Argentina. UBS analysts estimate India needs to grow at least 10 per cent a year for public debt to stabilise and come down. It hasn’t got anywhere near that since 1988, World Bank data shows. Last year’s full lockdown saw the economy contract 24 per cent in the first quarter and Moody’s has said it expects growth to settle at around 6 per cent longer term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||FICCI calls upon industries to extend help in Covid fight||Business chamber Ficci has called upon industries to extend help to mitigate the challenges faced by Bengal in managing the pandemic. It has asked its members to provide supplies of masks, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, apart from re-skilling paramedics in life-saving medical devices such as ventilators. Several Calcutta-based business houses have already come up with support and more are expected to join, the chamber said. The interventions by the industry has so far been pivotal in easing the supply of medical oxygen, setting up first-level Covid care facilities and importing protective gears such as 3-ply masks. “The government is urging industry to step up oxygen production as well as seeking contribution to source supplies from other parts of the world. The first priority was to procure oxygen concentrators /cylinders. Members such as Neotia Group, ITC, Luxmi Tea, Dhunseri have come forward to donate concentrators to the state government,” Rudra Chatterjee, chairman of Ficci Bengal, said. Ambuja Neotia group is setting up a first-line Covid care hospital with 60 beds adjacent to Bhagirathi Neotia Woman & Child Care Centre at Rajarhat. “The facility should be ready by May 26 if all goes well,” Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia, said. He has also procured 30 oxygen concentrators for Calcutta Municipal Corporation. C.K. Dhanuka, managing director of Dhunseri Tea, said he would procure 1,000 oxygen cylinders for the state. “I will get more if need be, even though supply is tight,” he said. Luxmi Tea is importing 3-ply masks, designed by a professor of Stanford University in the US, from Bangladesh. It has also procured 100 concentrators from China, apart from sponsoring paramedics to receive training in operating ventilators in association with GE Medical System.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||India's private sector bore the brunt of income losses in 2020: Report||The private sector in India bore the brunt of the income losses in 2020 when the pandemic first broke out because the Modi government shrank from its obligation to come up with a credible fiscal support programme to guide the country out of the crisis. The private players will have to bear the burden of paying the cost for igniting an economic recovery this year as well as the government continues to sit on its haunches and counts up the pennies it saved by resisting a clamour for funds to jump start a moribund economy. A Motilal Oswal study pulls no punches in its withering analysis of the government’s ham-handed, twiddly-thumbed effort to assess and deal with the crisis — and makes a dire forecast for the current year during which an unequal burden sharing of costs by the private sector could make the economic recovery that much more difficult and flaky. It is arguably the first serious attempt by any brokerage in the country to examine how the crisis impacted income and savings across sectors and seeks to call a spade a spade by squarely apportioning blame where it deserves to be laid, abandoning a culture within the brokerage community of delivering unctuous, mealy-mouthed drivel to investors throughout the painful crisis. The study, which develops its own methodology to make its assessment in the absence of income and savings data by sectors on a regular basis, estimates that almost four-fifth of all income losses in calendar year 2020 were incurred by the private sector which is represented by the household and corporate sectors. In contrast, the Indian government assumed only 20 per cent of all income losses largely as a result of the limited fiscal stimulus it provided when the pandemic first engulfed the nation. The study makes an unflattering comparison with how other nations responded to the crisis. It reveals that countries such as Australia assumed 200 per cent of the nation’s income loss, while Canada and the US took on board 100 per cent each as they shovelled funds to the private sector. Even in Europe, the income loss suffered by the private sector ranged between 20 and 60 per cent. South Africa — the only emerging economy included in the study —  came up with a robust fiscal stimulus and compensated almost the entire private income loss in CY20, the study adds. The study found that “due to extremely low fiscal support in India, the income losses for the private sector (especially households) were much higher compared to other major nations”. It then goes on to make a disturbing forecast about the pace of economic recovery in India at a time when a number of international and domestic agencies have started to furiously back pedal on their growth projections for 2021-22. The study says: “Going forward, as the government sector in all countries, including India, will be taking a step back ....as Covid-19 subsides, the burden of stronger growth will fall entirely on the private sector.” It ominously adds: “With India’s private sector bearing such a large share of income losses in  we are sceptical of a strong rebound in growth, as and when it happens.” The Motilal Oswal report, prepared by research analysts Nikhil Gupta and Yaswi Agarwal, says that the study throws up an important nugget that the Modi government needs to chew on. “With India witnessing a much ferocious second Covid wave, the major lesson for the government is to loosen its purse strings and support the household sector directly via income transfer/employment guarantee. Without a strong household sector, the Indian economy may find it difficult to achieve a strong revival on a durable basis in a post-Covid era,” it said. The study comes with a caveat: it had to devise a specific methodology to estimate the extent of the income loss in India. Traditionally, there are two ways in which the income loss can be computed: either the national statistical agencies publish the gross disposable income (GDI) on a regular basis, or the government releases sectoral data on gross savings which can then be added to consumption spending to arrive at GDI. In the case of almost all the advanced economies, both sets of data were available. But in the case of India, "neither income nor savings data by sectors is available on a regular basis." The Central Statistics Office publishes sectoral income and savings data only on an annual basis and that too with a lag of 10 months. The data for fiscal year 2021 will only be available at the end of January 2022. The study admits that its estimates may not exactly match the official data whenever that becomes available. "However, we believe that the broad trends and conclusions are likely to stay intact," the researchers asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
