16-05-2021||Business||Exporters appeal to Bengal govt to bring their operations within the ambit of essential services||Exporters on Saturday appealed to the Bengal government to bring their operations within the ambit of essential services after the state ordered a shutdown of all industries and manufacturing units except for certain categories till the end of the month. The state government after a review of the Covid-19 pandemic further tightened restrictions in the state. Industries other than those related to medical supplies, Covid protective supplies, health and hygiene care products, oxygen cylinders, essential food and commodities, beverages including milk, poultry, fish and meat and continuous process industries will remain closed till May 30. The state government has also restricted the intra-state movement of trucks and goods carriers, except relating to medical supplies, oxygen, essential food commodities and beverages. Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton Industries Ltd, said he has already received calls and mails from worried customers from the US. “We have huge export commitments of engineering goods. The government should allow industries doing exports and located in SEZs to operate,” Budhia said The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Fieo) wrote to the state government that the export-import sector should be covered in the list of essential services so that the entire chain is able to function with at least 50 per cent staff strength during the lockdown while maintaining all necessary Covid-19 protocols. Moreover, support services for trade including custom houses, freight forwarders, liners should also be allowed to operate during the lockdown. Fieo has also appealed to the state to allow the movement of trucks, vehicles, containers carrying cargo both within the state and from other states. The exporter body had cited Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra which had allowed export oriented manufacturing units to function during the lockdown period by including them as part of essential services. Industry body EEPC India said in its communication to the state government that cargo ready for exports should be allowed to move to ports for onward shipment without which existing orders will be cancelled and exporters could lose their market share. Apparel exporters —  apparels is a labour intensive sector —  urged the government to allow manufacturing units in the state to operate with 70 per cent of the workforce during the lockdown period. Industry body Apparel Export Promotion Council said that many units depend on migrant labourers from other states and the closure of factories will make it difficult for get them back at the restart of operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||GST Council to meet on May 28||The GST Council will meet on May 28 and is likely to discuss tax rates on Covid-related drugs, oxygen equipment and vaccines. They will also discuss the compensation mechanism for states to cover the anticipated shortfall in revenues in the current fiscal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will chair the 43rd GST Council meeting via video conferencing on May 28, 2021. “The meeting will be attended by minister of state Anurag Thakur, besides the finance ministers of states & Union Territories and senior officers from the Union government & states,” the office of Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted. In a letter to Sitharaman earlier this week, Mitra had urged the Centre to convene a meeting to discuss enhanced compensation to the states in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic that has triggered partial lockdowns and other restrictions. The meeting of the Council is supposed to take place at least once every quarter of a financial year. However, the panel has not met since October 5 last year. Finance ministry officials have attributed the delay to elections in key states. Congress working president Sonia Gandhi had last month demanded that all life-saving drugs, equipment and instruments required to treat Covid-19 patients must be exempted from the GST. Sitharaman had, however, ruled out exempting Covid vaccines, medicines and oxygen concentrators from the GST, saying such an exemption will make the lifesaving items more costly for consumers as manufacturers will not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. At present, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent GST, while Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators attract a 12 per cent levy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank raises Rs 1,800cr via QIP||State-owned Punjab National Bank on Saturday said it has raised Rs 1,800 crore by selling 53 crore shares on a private placement basis to investors such as LIC and Societe Generale. Eligible qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) were given the share at an issue price of Rs 33.75 per unit, aggregating to Rs 1,799.99 crore, PNB said in a regulatory filing. The qualified institutional placement (QIP) closed on Friday with the bank fixing the issue price at a 5 per cent discount to the floor price of Rs 35.51 per unit. “Pursuant to the allotment of equity shares in the QIP, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank stands increased from Rs 2,095.54 crore comprising 10,47,76,82,225 equity shares to Rs 2,202.20 crore comprising 11,01,10,15,558 equity shares,” it said. Sharing the details of some of the large investors of the QIP, the bank said, Societe Generale of France picked up 23.22 per cent (12.3 crore shares) of the total share offering, followed by LIC which bought 22.2 per cent (11.8 crore shares). French firm BNP Paribas garnered 13.3 per cent (7.1 crore shares). Other big investors were Morgan Stanley Asia Fund (8.33 per cent), Kuner India Fund and Segantii India Mauritius (5.56 per cent each) and Vikasa India EIF (5 per cent). The bank had a headroom to raise about Rs 3,200 crore from the share sale, according to approval given by the board on July 9 and the shareholders on August 4, 2020. With this round of qualified institutional placement, the bank has a window to raise another Rs 1,400 crore from QIPs during the year. The board had given nod to mobilise Rs 7,000 crore from QIPs in one or more than one tranches. Of this, the bank had raised Rs 3,788.04 crore in December, following which government holding in the bank came to 76.87 per cent down from 85.59 per cent. During the last QIP, the bank issued 106.71 crore shares at an issue price of Rs 35.50 (at a discount of 4.95 per cent from floor price), aggregating to Rs 3,788.03 crore. The floor price of the last round of QIP was Rs 37.35 per share. On Friday, shares of the PNB closed at Rs 36.85 per unit, down 0.67 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||Cairn Energy files lawsuit against Air India in a US court||Cairn Energy has filed a lawsuit against Air India in a US court that could potentially lead to the seizure of the national carrier’s overseas assets as the British explorer goes on the overdrive to enforce a $1.7-billion arbitration award that it won in a tax dispute with the Indian government. The move could also hit the privatisation of Air India, which has been hit by the second wave of the coronavirus. A senior Indian government official said they have “not yet received a formal notice” from the suit filed by Cairn. They added that “as and when any such notice is received, an existing high-level Inter-Ministerial Group will decide India’s response and the next step to defend the sovereign and Air India will be taken against any such illegal enforcement action’’. The inter-ministerial group comprises senior officials from the finance ministry’s departments of economic affairs and revenue and from the external affairs and law ministries. Cairn on May 14 filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking declaration of Air India as the “alter ego of Indian government” by virtue of control and as a state-owned company it is “legally indistinct from the state itself,” according to a copy of the petition. If Cairn wins the case, it can potentially seek the attachment or seizure of its assets in the US such as airplanes, immovable assets and bank accounts to recover the amount it was awarded by the arbitration tribunal. The May 14 lawsuit seeks to make Air India liable for the discharge of the arbitration award against the Indian government. It said, “Air India is not a typical state-owned airline. By operation of its internal law and the Articles of Association under which Air India was created, India has full functional, administrative, and economic control over Air India and controls its operations through its Ministry of Civil Aviation”. Indian government officials said the government has “engaged a counsel team which is ready to defend against any enforcement action if and when initiated by Cairn anywhere in the world”. The Indian government official said the country has filed an appeal against the arbitration award, and expressed the confidence “that the award will be set aside”. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the ground that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the UK under which the case was filed and therefore, the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter. The arbitral award totals $1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. Air India did not comment on the development. The latest move by Cairn is not only an embarrassment to the government but could be a double whammy to Air India’s privatisation, which already looks challenging because of the devastating second wave of the coronavirus that has hit the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
