17-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 848 points to close well over 49,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed over 848 points on Monday, driven by strong buying in banking shares amid a reduction in daily domestic COVID-19 caseload. The 30-share BSE index ended 848.18 points or 1.74 per cent higher at 49,580.73, and the broader NSE Nifty soared 245.35 points or 1.67 per cent to 14,923.15. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 7 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, HDFC twins, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, L&T, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India, Sun Pharma and PowerGrid were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed strong rebound as robust Q4 FY21 earnings and early sign of decline in second wave of daily caseload bolstered investors' confidence. A consistent reduction in COVID-19 daily caseload, which fell below 3 lakh on Sunday, certainly augurs well for markets. It indicates that prediction of receding second wave of COVID-19 by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond Q1 FY22," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.06 per cent higher at USD 68.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys. The 30-share BSE index was trading 300.45 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 49,033. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 75.60 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,753.40. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Infosys. On the other hand, L&T, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma, Titan and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 41.75 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 48,732.55, while Nifty slipped 18.70 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,677.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,607.85 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are two macro numbers that will exert a big influence on the markets - externally, US inflation numbers; and internally, India's COVID data. "The jury is still out on the US inflation with the Fed claiming that the spike in inflation in April is transitory and many economists and market experts believing that inflation will continue to rise to force the Fed to taper earlier than expected. We will have to wait to see how the inflation scenario plays out. "The other number, India's COVID data, indicates steady improvement with fresh cases steadily declining and the latest number at 2.81 lakh is indeed very positive. And, the recovery numbers at 3.78 lakh indicate a steady decline in total caseload. This means the present increasing lockdowns will be a temporary phase which is likely to be ignored by the market," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.19 per cent higher at USD 68.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Airtel to offer Rs 49 recharge pack for free to 5.5 crore low income customers||Bharti Airtel on Sunday said it would offer a recharge pack of Rs 49 for free to as many as 5.5 crore low income customers to help them stay connected during the pandemic. Additionally, customers buying the Rs 79 recharge coupon will now get double the benefits, the company said. The Rs 49-pack offers a talktime of Rs 38 and 100 MB data for 28 days. On Friday, Reliance Jio said it would offer 300 free minutes, or 10 minutes per day, of outgoing calls per month to those Jio users who have failed to recharge because of the pandemic. In addition, users under the JioPhone plan who have recharged will get an additional recharge plan of the same value for free. Bharti said the scheme was worth Rs 270 crore, covering credit of the Rs 49 mobile plan. Both benefits — under the Rs 49- and the Rs 79-pack — will be available for Airtel pre-paid customers in the coming week, the company said. Data show 97.5 per cent of all Airtel subscribers active against 78.2 per cent of Jio, which is joining hands with Reliance Foundation for its scheme. Analysts said the foundation will partly fund the  300 minutes of free outgoing Jio calls. It is learnt that Reliance’s CSR activities are largely done  by the foundation. Jio has seen a sharp drop in its average revenue per user in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal to Rs 138 per user from 151 in the third quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Big Bazaar focuses on home deliveries following consumer preferences||Brick and mortar retailer Big Bazaar is focussing on home deliveries as it adapts to changing consumer preferences towards online shopping, accelerated by the lockdowns. The retailer plans to incorporate both walk-in store sales and home delivery channels in its business in the future. Big Bazaar expects around 40 per cent of its business from home delivery orders against a pre-Covid number of less than 5 per cent as it gears up to take on prominent e-tailers such as Big Basket and Grofers with the proposition to deliver within two hours of booking, leveraging on a countrywide network of 290 stores. The growth in home delivery orders according to Future group chief marketing officer Pawan Sarda is on account of consumer preference towards online purchases that have been accelerated by the lockdowns to prevent the spread of pandemic. “Customers are adopting to shopping online and we have to be where our customers are. The idea is if you cannot come to the store, the store will have to come to you. We initially started with three cities in terms of two-hour home delivery. Today we are present in 154 cities and this is no longer a metro phenomenon,” said Sarda. Big Bazaar launched online shopping and booking through WhatsApp and phone last year. “The idea is to get 40 per cent of Big Bazaar’s business through home delivery. We have 290 stores and all of them are doing this,” he added. It localises the experience which means that whatever the customer is used to shopping from Big Bazaar, that will be delivered,” said Sarda. The presence of the retailer in smaller cities gives it an edge in terms of inventory management and quick delivery. The retailer has seen online orders rise to Rs 1,400 on an average, twice that of its competitors According to Nasscom estimates, e-commerce in India growing at 3-4 times more than the offline business. By 2030, with more retailers moving to a hybrid online and offline models, there would be additional revenue of $640 billion and incremental GST earnings of $8 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Indian hotel industry takes over Rs 1.30 lakh crore revenue hit in FY21: FHRAI||The Indian hotel industry has taken a hit of over Rs 1.30 lakh crore in revenue for financial year 2020-21 because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) said on Sunday. The apex industry body said it has submitted a representation to the Prime Minister and a few other Union ministers urging immediate support from the government to save the hospitality sector from imminent collapse and has requested for several fiscal measures to bail them out. “The Indian hotel industry’s total revenue in 2019-20 stood at Rs 1.82 lakh crore. According to our estimates, in 2020-21, around 75 per cent of the industry’s revenues got wiped off. That is more than Rs 1.30 lakh crore revenue hit,” the FHRAI said in a statement. The businesses are steadily closing and non-performing assets (NPAs) are rising, it added. Since March 2020, the industry has been struggling to manage its statutory and capital expenditure obligations. Repayment of loans with interest is not just difficult but impossible under a more severe economic environment because of the present surge, FHRAI vice-president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said. Without a moratorium on EMIs and interest payments, the sector will completely crumble, he added. “We request the government to offer a sector-specific policy which can mitigate all the adverse financial impacts, including debt obligations accrued or to be accrued towards banks, financial institutions or any other entities,” Kohi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Automobile market recovery from Covid second wave to take more time: Fada||The recovery for the automobile market from the second wave of the coronavirus will take more time compared to last year's first wave as this time the pandemic has not only disrupted the urban markets but also the rural ones, according to the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (Fada). In the first wave last year, rural India remained by and large unaffected to lead the recovery in the auto sector which bounced back in the second half of the last fiscal. The only ray of hope this time is the timely arrival of the monsoon. It is likely to enter India through the southern coast around June 1. The country’s weather office has said India is expected to get average rains, raising expectations of a higher farm output, which is central to the country’s economy. This will lead to the faster recovery of the rural markets led by categories such as tractors and two-wheelers that will have a rub-off effect on the entire economy The auto dealers body expects to see recovery from the lows of the last fiscal but expects sales to reach the levels of 2018-19 only by the next fiscal. “India is facing one of its toughest times with the second wave of Covid creating a havoc in everyone’s life. This time, the spread is not only limited to urban markets but has also taken rural India in its grasp,” according to Fada president Vinkesh Gulati. Auto registrations in April crashed 28 per cent compared with the previous month as most of the Indian states started going under lockdown, partial as well as full, from April 5. Maharashtra was the first state to declare a lockdown followed by Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and the others, with Bengal declaring one from Sunday till the end of the month. Sales of most categories of vehicles fell in April compared with March: two-wheeler sales were down 28 per cent, three-wheelers by 43 per cent, passenger vehicles 25 per cent, tractors 45 per cent and commercial vehicles 24 per cent. Sales in the first nine days of May have been extremely lean because of the lockdowns with dealers which closed down their outlets reporting zero sales. Even where, dealerships are open, the walk-ins have dropped 30 per cent and customers delaying their purchases. Considering the rising number of cases, one can expect the peak in terms of infections for India as a whole at least a fortnight away. The just concluded elections in states such as Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, movement of migrant workers back to states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar can keep the curve rising. Overall, Fada expects sluggish sales this month. Inventories at the end of April for passenger vehicles ranged from 15 to 17 days and for two-wheelers, 30-35 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Gold import jumps to $6.3 billion in April||Gold imports, which have a bearing on the country’s current account deficit (CAD), zoomed to $6.3 billion in April because of a surge in domestic demand, according to commerce ministry data. Silver imports during the month, however, dipped 88.53 per cent to about $11.9 million. Gold imports stood at $2.83 million (Rs 21.61 crore) in April 2020, the data showed. The rise in gold imports pushed the country’s trade deficit to $15.1 billion in April 2021 against $6.76 billion in the same month a year ago. According to industry experts, increasing domestic demand is pushing up imports of gold. However, the second wave of Covid-19 may impact demand in the coming months. Akshaya Tritiya, a highly auspicious day to purchase gold, also saw muted sales with the new pandemic wave and resultant restrictions and partial lockdowns hitting consumer sentiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||NBFC body writes to RBI seeking to bring MSMEs under loan relief plan||Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have asked the Reserve Bank of India to extend the relief on working capital limits announced earlier this month to MSMEs as well. The RBI had announced a series of measures to help individual borrowers, small businesses and MSMEs to tide over the second wave of Covid-19. As part of these steps, the RBI had said that banks can recast the accounts of individual borrowers and small businesses who had restructured their loans under last year’s resolution framework. In such cases, banks have been permitted to modify these plans and they can increase the period of moratorium or extend the residual tenor up to a total of two years. According to the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), a body which represents NBFCs, the RBI’s circular is silent on whether such a relief will also apply to MSMEs. “We observe that this notification has not given the desired relief for extending the residual tenors for the MSME customers whose contracts have been restructured under Resolution Framework 1.0 as provided to individuals and small businesses,’’ the FIDC said in a letter to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. The industry body said that the second wave of Covid-19 has created new uncertainties in the country’s economic revival and MSMEs are the most affected category, particularly in sectors such as education (school and school bus operators), transport (staff bus and route bus operators) and tourism (taxi operators, travel operators). According to the FIDC, the earlier restructuring under Resolution Framework 1.0  was done for MSMEs based on expectations that market conditions would improve and should return to normal by March 2021. However, these customers, for whom the revival seemed promising in the past quarter, were substantially impacted by the second Covid wave. It, therefore, asked the RBI to provide relief to MSME customers whose contracts were restructured under Resolution Framework 1.0 so that banks can use the window to modify such plans and increase the period of moratorium or extend the residual tenor up to a total of two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Surging steel prices not to affect domestic demand, says Tata Steel CEO||The rising prices of steel — widely used in sectors such as construction, auto and consumer goods — will not affect demand in the domestic market, Tata Steel CEO and managing director T. V. Narendran has said. He also said that the current prices of steel in India are higher when compared with the rates that prevailed a few months back but the same are lower in comparison to the rates in the international markets. “Yes, prices are higher compared to what they were in the past but lower than anywhere in the world. I don’t think it should affect demand,” he said. The Tata Steel CEO further said if one takes a look at the prices of hot-rolled coil in the US, it is at $1,500/tonne, in Europe it’s close to 1,000 euros per tonne. “So, I think the steel users in India have the best available prices in the world.” The exporters of steel-intensive products are in a good position as the prices in India give them a chance to be competitive in the global market, he said. In India, steel is trading at an all-time high. In May 2021, the steel makers raised the prices of hot-rolled coil (HRC) by Rs 4,000 to Rs 67,000 per tonne and cold-rolled coil (CRC) by Rs 4,500 to Rs 80,000 per tonne. HRC and CRC are flat steel used in the steel-consuming industries such as auto, appliances and construction. The prices of vehicles, consumer goods, and construction costs are bound to be impacted by the rise in steel prices as steel is a raw material for these sectors, an expert said. Meanwhile, last week on Wednesday, the country’s largest iron ore miner NMDC also hiked the prices of lump ore by Rs 700 to Rs 7,650 a tonne and fines by Rs 1,500 to Rs 6,560 per tonne. Iron ore is a key raw material used in steel making. Any change in its prices has a direct impact on the rates of steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Cairn identifies $70 bn Indian assets for seizing to recover amount due from government||The UK’s Cairn Energy has identified $70 billion of Indian assets overseas for potential seizure to collect its $1.72 billion due from the government — a move if successful will put India in league with Pakistan and Venezuela which faced similar enforcement action over their failures to pay arbitration awards. The assets identified range from Air India’s planes to vessels belonging to the Shipping Corporation of India, and properties owned by state-owned banks to oil and gas cargoes of PSUs, three people familiar with the matter said. These assets are across several jurisdictions, they said without giving further details. Cairn plans to move courts in the US to Singapore for seizure of the assets following the Indian government’s refusal to honour an international arbitration award. “The Indian government naturally will challenge such seizure but to save the assets it may have to pawn money equivalent to the value of assets in some financial security such as bank guarantee. The court will return such a guarantee to India if it does not find merit in Cairn’s case. But the surety will be passed on to Cairn if the court finds that India had failed to honour its obligation,” a source said. Cairn has got an international arbitration award — which overturned the levy of retrospective taxes and ordered New Delhi to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover such taxes — registered in the US, the UK, France, the Netherlands, Singapore, Mauritius, Canada’s Quebec province, Japan and the UAE. Now it has started moving courts to get a declaration that state-owned entities are alter egos of India and they should be held liable for discharge of the arbitration award in the absence of the government making payments. Cairn on May 14 filed a lawsuit in a New York court to get Air India recognised as the alter ego of India and that “it should be held jointly and severally responsible for India’s debts, including from any judgment resulting from recognition of the award”. Once a court recognises Air India as the alter ego of the Indian government, Cairn can seek attachment or seizure of its assets in the US such as airplanes, immovable assets and bank accounts to recover the amount. The move is similar to a court in the British Virgin Islands ordering in December last year that hotels in New York and Paris owned by Pakistan International Airlines would be used to settle a claim against Pakistan’s government by a Canadian-Chilean copper company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Lockdown: Bengal firms seek leeway for trucks||Industries based in Bengal want the state government to ease the curbs on the movement of trucks within the state and from outside to maintain the supply chain and distribution for essential items, process industries and export-oriented units. In their formal and informal communications to the state government over the weekend, the industries have also sought administrative approval to continue with in-situ  (on site) operations at manufacturing units and real estate construction sites, albeit with a limited number of workers. The relaxations are being sought by the industries in the wake of the lockdown-like measures announced by the Bengal government, which came into effect from Sunday to rein in the surge in Covid cases. Industry is hoping that the state administration may review some of the guidelines following the representations made by them over the next few days. “We all realise and appreciate how critical it is for the state to break the chain and the first priority is to save lives. However, at the same time, it would help if the industry (essential and process) is given relaxation in material movement for domestic and export,” Peeyush Gupta, chairman of CII’s West Bengal Council, said this evening. The CII is looking at clarity on three issues, among others. The industry body will plead that inter- and intra-state movement of raw materials and finished goods be allowed, apart from to and fro movements to the ports at Haldia and Calcutta. The plea made by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industries are along similar lines. It pointed out that essential items cover many other products and such stoppages might lead to immediate larger problems. The notification issued by the state on Saturday read: “All intra-state movement of trucks and goods carriers shall be closed, except relating to medical supplies, oxygen, essential food commodities including milk, eggs, meat and fish, petrol/diesel and LPG.” “There are no specific carriers only for essential items. Hence, if truck movements are stopped, then it would severely hamper movement of all items with serious repercussions on economic activity,” BCCI&I president Deb A. Mukherjee said. The chamber also requested the state to carry out all agricultural and allied activities such as transportation, warehousing and distribution. Industry bodies are also requesting the state to allow the operations of manufacturing units where the workers stay at the site. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, said construction work on site with 50 per cent strength should be allowed. “We are also requesting the government that movement of essential construction materials such as sand, stone chips and ready-mix concrete within the state be allowed,” Mohta said. Credai has written to Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to point out that the completion of ongoing works such as foundation of a structure, basement must be completed before the onset of monsoon which will hit the state next month. Going a step further, the Indian Chamber of Commerce suggested that manufacturing industries where workers stay at the premises should be allowed. “States such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have allowed manufacturing units to function during the lockdown period considering export units/industries under essential services and continuous process industries,” Rajeev Singh, director- general of ICC, pointed out. He also suggested that the inter-state movement of trucks may be allowed if the transport worker carries Covid test negative reports. While the government has allowed tea gardens to operate with 50 per cent workers, the order passed on Saturday did not mention if tea auction houses in Calcutta and Siliguri can operate. The Calcutta Tea Traders Association has written to the chief secretary seeking clarity. The cash flows of the gardens would be hit in the absence of auctions as they are producing the crops. The auction centres at Guwahati were allowed to operate despite lockdown-like measures, the tea traders said in their letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Global platter: Spice up your portfolio with international funds||In India, international funds have seen record flows over the last 12 months. International investing has become a big theme and as more and more investors accept global diversification, it’s essential not to get caught up by the high returns generated. Let’s keep in mind that the high returns in the past in a particular asset class rarely continue over long-time periods. Investors who are jumping in today because they missed on returns in the past should be aware that their investments will not fare well over the long term. So, if they are not going to get high returns, why should one consider an investment overseas? Diversification of portfolio: Adding international funds lowers portfolio volatility for investors. How? History has shown that global markets move in a different direction from the Indian markets. Hence, when the Indian markets perform poorly, global markets keep our portfolios stable (even our emotions). It has been seen that an allocation of 50 per cent of our portfolio in a global portfolio can reduce volatility by 100 per cent. Dollar protection: Today, many investors spend their hard earned savings on vacations abroad and international products. Also, the number of students leaving India and going abroad has exploded over the last decade. Vacationers and school-goers have noticed that the dollar keeps on getting more and more expensive every year. In the last decade, the dollar used to cost around Rs 50. Today, it is close to Rs 80. International funds provide access to some of the world’s largest companies and give investors the ability to invest in dollars, thus protecting investors from future devaluation. International growth opportunities: Today, most investors buy and hold ITC, Hero Honda, HUL in their investment funds but buy Apple iPhones, Hyundai Cars, H&M clothes, Windows laptops, Adidas shoes and use Airbnb instead of hotels. The reality is that the world is more open, and buying Indian stocks is not enough to create wealth. International funds enable investors to participate in the world’s biggest companies and brands. Stocks of companies such as Facebook, Apple, Google can be easily accessed via international funds. So, how does one go about doing this? As the world becomes global and as Indians become more international spenders and vacationers, it’s important to diversify investments in the same way. A $1,000 smartphone is a $1,000 smartphone for an average American at all times. For an Indian, it was Rs 45,000 10 years ago; today it’s Rs 70,000 and tomorrow it will most probably be much more. In conclusion, investors who are looking for diversification opportunities should explore global investing. While India is a large and significant country, it remains less than 4 per cent of the worldwide GDP. Hence, Indian investors today are missing out on a major chunk of wealth creation opportunities outside India. The writer is head of passive funds business, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
