18-05-2021||Business||Sensex recaptures 50,000-level||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 613 points to settle above the 50,000-mark on Tuesday, driven by gains in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finance amid a positive trend in global markets. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index was quoted 612.60 points or 1.24 per cent higher at 50,193.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty went past the psychological 15,000-level, and closed 184.95 points or 1.24 per cent higher at 15,108.10. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid. Bharti Airtel, ITC, Dr Reddy's and SBI were the laggards. "Domestic equities extended gains as early sign of decline in COVID-19 daily caseload and improving prospects of faster economic recovery emboldened investors," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Strong cues from Asian markets also supported the rally, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.82 per cent higher at USD 70.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
18-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex soared over 600 points in early trade on Tuesday, led by gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. Topping the 50,000 mark in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 601 points or 1.21 per cent higher at 50,181.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 178.40 points or 1.20 per cent to 15,101.55. All Sensex components were trading in the positive terrain, with Bajaj Finance advancing over 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. In the previous session, Sensex zoomed 848.18 points or 1.74 per cent to end at 49,580.73; and Nifty surged 245.35 points or 1.67 per cent to settle at 14,923.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,255.84 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the positive trigger for the market now is the steadily declining fresh COVID cases and the steadily rising recovery rates. "The latest numbers (2.62 lakh fresh cases and 4.22 lakh recoveries) indicate a continuation of this positive trend. The market is discounting progressive lifting of the widespread lockdowns starting in early June. Even though growth and earnings will be impacted in Q1, smart recovery can be expected in the subsequent quarters," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 69.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Mumbai stops flights till 10pm for Cyclone Tauktae||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Monday suspended flight operations for a major part of the day till 10 pm as Cyclone Tauktae saw gusty winds and rains lashing Mumbai and adjoining areas. The airport first announced that as a precautionary measure it will suspend operations from 11:00 hrs to 14:00 hrs on Monday. It later extended this to 16:00 hrs, 18:00 hrs and 22:00 hrs. The suspension saw at least three city-bound flights operated by budget carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet getting diverted. Delhi shuts down T2 The Delhi international airport will shut down its T2 terminal from Monday as the number of flights has reduced significantly because of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All flight operations at Delhi Airport will be shifted to T3 effectively from May 18 at 00:01 hours. All passengers are required to complete their web check-in at home for a contactless journey.” Delhi airport said in a tweet. GoAir and IndiGo operate from T2 and from May 18, these two airlines will operate from T3 till further orders, the airport operator DIAL said. At present, the Delhi airport is handling around 325 flights per day. Before the pandemic, it used to handle around 1,500 flights per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Centre tells Delhi HC that new WhatsApp privacy policy violates India's IT laws||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi high court that it views the new privacy policy of WhatsApp as a violation of the country’s information technology laws and rules and sought directions to the social media platform to make it clear whether it was confirming to the same. The central government’s claim was made before a bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh during the hearing of several pleas challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, which according to the messaging platform has come into effect from May 15 and has not been deferred. WhatsApp told the bench that while its new privacy policy has come into effect from May 15, it would not start deleting accounts of those users who have not accepted it and would try to encourage them to get on board. The platform said there was no universal or uniform time limit after which it will start to delete accounts as each user would be dealt with it on case-to-case basis. The bench issued notices to the Centre, Facebook and WhatsApp and sought their stand on one of the pleas by a lawyer who has claimed that the new policy violates users’ right to privacy under the Constitution. During the hearing, the Centre said that according to it the policy was in violation of Indian IT laws and rules. It said it has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on the issue and a reply is awaited and therefore, there was a need to maintain status quo with regard to the implementation of the policy. WhatsApp, opposing the contention, said it was conforming to Indian IT law and rules. The court listed the matter for hearing on June 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||ONGC loses Farzad gas field contract||India on Monday lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran awarded a contract to develop the field to a local company. “The National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) has signed a contract worth $1.78 billion with Petropars Group for the development of Farzad B Gas Field in the Persian Gulf,” the Iranian oil ministry’s official news service Shana reported. “The deal was signed on Monday, May 17, in a ceremony held in the presence of the Iranian minister of petroleum Bijan Zangeneh in Tehran.” ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of Oil and Natural Gas Corp, had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to $11 billion for the development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. The NIOC had informed OVL of its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company in an apparent rejection of the Indian firm’s bid. After this, it kept sitting on OVL’s investment proposal for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Moglix raises $120 million in funding Falcon Edge Capital, HMC and others||Moglix on Monday said it has raised $120 million (about Rs 878.8 crore) in funding from Falcon Edge Capital, Harvard Management Company (HMC) and others, placing the industrial B2B e-commerce platform in the unicorn club. The series E round also saw participation from existing investors, Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India and Venture Highway. “We started six years ago... We had the trust of stalwarts like Ratan Tata, and a mission to enable the creation of a $1-trillion manufacturing economy in India. Today, as we enter the next stage of our evolution, we feel this financing milestone is a testimony to our journey of innovation and disruption,” Moglix founder and CEO Rahul Garg said. Falcon Edge, with its deep roots in West Asia and Europe and an understanding of public companies, will guide Moglix through the next phase of its journey, he added. Navroz D. Udwadia, co-founder of Falcon Edge Capital, said Moglix’s distinctive customer value proposition and return on investment are visible in its customer and revenue retention numbers. Tiger Global, which participated in the series D round in 2019, has also invested in the latest round. “Moglix is a market leader and we expect they will grow rapidly with high returns on capital,” Scott Shleifer, partner at Tiger Global Management, said. Founded in 2015, Moglix provides solutions to more than 5 lakh SMEs and 3,000 manufacturing plants across India, Singapore, the UK and the UAE. It has a supply chain network of over 16,000 suppliers and more than 35 warehouses and logistics infrastructure. The latest round — which pegs the valuation of Moglix at $1 billion — takes the total funding raised by the company to $220 million. Accel Partners, Jungle Ventures and Venture Highway have been the earliest investors in the company. Subsequently, it has received investments from Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India, International Finance Corporation and Composite Capital among others. Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata invested in Moglix in 2016. The company has also receiving funding from other industry leaders such as  Kalyan Krishnamurthy (Flipkart CEO) and Shailesh Rao (former Google executive).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||EU agrees to partial truce with the US in dispute over metal tariffs||The European Union has agreed to a partial truce with the United States in a dispute over metal tariffs imposed by former president Donald Trump and to start discussions on global overcapacity and China’s “trade-distorting” policies. The European Commission, which oversees EU trade policy, said on Monday it would suspend a planned hike of retaliatory tariffs for up to six months. These would have added US products from lipstick to sports shoes and doubled to 50 per cent duties on US bourbon whiskey, motorbikes and motor boats on June 1. In a joint statement, Brussels and Washington said that, as allies, they could promote high standards, address shared concerns “and hold countries like China that support trade-distorting policies to account”. The discussions would seek solutions to the issue of global steel and aluminium overcapacity. A month ahead of a visit to Brussels by US President Joe Biden, one EU diplomat said it would have been “terrible optics” if the bloc had raised tariffs on Harley Davidson bikes and products of other US firms. Bernd Lange, head of the trade committee of the European Parliament, said the US needed to come to a EU-US summit with a “tangible commitment to reciprocate the EU gesture. Otherwise, tariff hikes would be justified. The US will maintain its tariffs of 25 per cent on steel and 10 per cent on aluminium, which also apply to imports from China, India, Norway, Russia, Switzerland and Turkey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel posts consolidated net profit of Rs 759 crore for Jan-March quarter||Bharti Airtel on Monday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 759 crore for the January-March quarter of 2020-21. The company had posted a loss of Rs 5,237 crore in the same period a year ago. Analysts had estimated the company to post a profit of around Rs 958.8 crore in the fourth quarter. Sequentially, the consolidated net profit declined 11 per cent and its average revenue per user (ARPU) also declined despite adding regularly paying customers. The consolidated revenue of Bharti Airtel increased 11.9 per cent to Rs 25,747 crore during the reported quarter compared with Rs 23,019 crore in the year-ago period. For the year ended March  2021, Bharti Airtel narrowed the loss to Rs 15,084 crore from Rs 32,183 crore in 2019-20. Though the ARPU has fallen from Rs 166 in the third quarter to Rs 145 in the January-March period, it continues to remain the best in industry. The company continues to garner a strong share of the 4G net additions in the market. Its 4G data customers increased 31.5 per cent year-on-year to 179.3 million, an addition of around 43 million customers over the last four quarters. The average data usage per customer was 16.4 GB per month, while voice usage was at 1,053 minutes per customer every month. The annual revenue of Bharti Airtel crossed Rs 1 lakh crore in financial year 2020-21. Jio submarine cable Reliance Jio has said it is building the largest international submarine cable system centred on India. In conjunction with several key global partners and world-class submarine cable supplier SubCom, Jio is deploying two next-generation cables to support the data demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Covid: Government mulling another round of stimulus measures||The Modi government is mulling another round of stimulus measures, which could include direct benefit transfer, higher infrastructure spending, including speeding up the implementation of the National Infrastructure Pipeline, among the fiscal options. Finance ministry officials said they were keeping a close watch as the effect of the pandemic in the second wave was different from last year and the response would also have to match the needs of the time. However, an official said, “It is early days to estimate quantum and the kind of measures to be undertaken.” The first wave was largely an urban phenomenon, but with cases now appearing in rural areas, the impact could be serious. The rural economy accounts for 46 per cent of the country’s national income. Analysts said providing rations and direct benefit transfers could soften the blow. Middle-class families have spent large sums on medical treatment and safety measures against Covid. The government should extend a helping hand on these costs, they said. Sources said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and finance ministry officials were working on new relief measures for stressed borrowers in case the lockdowns are prolonged. With the goods and services tax collections going up, the government could also consider lowering tax rates on some items. The issue is likely to figure in the GST Council meet later this month. Moody’s prediction Moody’s Investors Service on Monday said if the second wave of the pandemic does not decline to more manageable levels and results in a prolonged and wider lockdown, it will have a more severe effect on companies’ earnings recovery. Earnings have seen a rising trend since October 2020 following the easing of national and state-level lockdowns. But renewed restrictions in many states will weaken demand for goods and services, and disrupt the recent recovery trajectory. However, according to an article, authored by RBI deputy governor M.D. Patra and other officials, the resurgence of Covid-19 has dented but not debilitated economic activities in the first half of Q1 of the current fiscal even though caseload of infections is much higher than before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year bond continue to trade below 6-per-cent mark||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond continued to trade below the 6-per-cent mark at the start of a week that will see the RBI undertaking the second tranche of the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0). The 5.85 per cent 2030 bond on Monday closed at 5.97 per cent over the previous close of 5.98 per cent. It is for the second consecutive trading session that the paper is trading below the 6-per-cent mark. The bond markets are eagerly awaiting the Rs 35,000-crore auction that will be conducted on May 20. Experts feel that the 10 year bond is likely to stay in the 5.97-6.04 band over the course of this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 848 points as a fall in Covid cases generates optimism||Equities opened with a bang on Monday with the benchmark Sensex zooming over 848 points as a fall in Covid-19 cases generated optimism that states are unlikely to tighten restrictions further, allowing the economy to reclaim its recovery path. Latest data showed that the daily additions of Covid-19 cases fell below the 3 -lakh-mark for the first time since April 21, an indication that the second wave may be tapering off. “The market expects a rapid fall in daily reported Covid cases that helped to ease concerns over extended lockdowns and sharp correction in 2021-22 estimates,’’ said Vinod Nair, head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, there are others who feel that one must not jump the gun to conclude that the second wave is on the wane. An analyst with a local brokerage said apart from the high number of cases, the slow progress of vaccination is another worry. The Sensex opened in the green at 48990.70 and rose almost 896 points to touch an intra-day high of 49628.42. It finally ended 848.18 points, or 1.74 per cent higher at 49580.73. The NSE surged 245.35 points to 14923.15. Shyam Metalics IPO Calcutta-based Shyam Metalics and Energy Ltd has received market regulator Sebi’s approval to raise Rs 1,107 crore through an initial public offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||AT&T to spin off WarnerMedia group and merge it with Discovery Inc||AT&T, the wireless carrier that thundered its way into the media business three years ago with grand visions of streaming video on millions of its customers’ cellphones, has agreed to spin off its WarnerMedia group and merge it with its rival programmer Discovery Inc, the companies announced on Monday. The $43-billion transaction will combine HBO, Warner Bros studios, CNN and several other cable networks with a host of reality-based cable channels from Discovery, including Oprah Winfrey’s OWN, HGTV, The Food Network and Animal Planet. The company will join together two of the largest media businesses in the country. AT&T’s WarnerMedia group includes the sports-heavy cable networks TNT and TBS. In addition to Discovery’s strong lineup of reality-based cable channels, the company has a large international sports business. The merger would also be a significant about-face for AT&T, a telecommunications giant better known for servicing fiber lines and cell towers than producing entertainment and courting Hollywood. Industry experts questioned AT&T’s daring $85-billion purchase of Time Warner at a time cord-cutting was only accelerating. The spinoff indicates a failed acquisition strategy. WarnerMedia is run by Jason Kilar, 50, one of the early pioneers of streaming and the first chief executive of Hulu. Discovery has been led for 14 years by David Zaslav, 60, who helped it grow into a reality behemoth. Zaslav will lead the new business. The companies said they expected the deal, which must be approved by Discovery shareholders and regulators, to be finalised in the middle of next year. The companies anticipate they will cut annual costs by $3 billion as a result of the transaction. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
18-05-2021||Business||Wholesale price index based inflation comes in at 10.49 per cent||Inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) came in at 10.49 per cent in April — an 11-year high — against market expectations of 8.97 per cent inflation. In April 2020, WPI fell 1.57 per cent. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said the record WPI inflation during the month can be ascribed to rising fuel and power prices which have shot up to a 49-month high, persistent inflationary pressures in the manufacturing segment and a low base effect. “WPI will remain elevated in the months to come for two reasons: rising global commodity prices and low base effect,” he said. The latest price data released by the government on Monday showed that food prices rose to 4.92 per cent in April, along with a surge in the price of manufacturing products at 9.01 per cent. Fuel and power inflation stood at nearly 21 per cent led by higher petrol and diesel prices. The prices of primary articles, which account for more than a fifth of the entire WPI, grew 10.16 per cent in April from -1.08 per cent a year ago, driven by inflation in fruits, eggs and meat. Prices of pulses rose 10.74 per cent, fruits and eggs 27.43 per cent and meat and fish rose 10.88 per cent. Core WPI inflation — which is inflation stripped of the fuel and food components — rose to 7.5 per cent against 6.1 per cent a month ago. The wholesale price index (WPI) rose to 7.39 per cent in March, while inflation for February was revised to 4.83 per cent from 4.17 per cent. Also, the low base of April last year contributed to the spike in inflation last month. Inflation in April based on the consumer price index stood at 4.29 per cent. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said wholesale food inflation rose 3.8 per cent on a sequential basis compared with just 1 per cent for retail food inflation,  suggesting a greater impact of supply chain disruptions at the wholesale level. “The likely trajectory of the WPI inflation supports our view that there is no space for rate cuts to support the faltering growth momentum, even as we expect the monetary stance to remain accommodative,” she said. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research,  said the commodities group have a 44 per cent weight in the wholesale price index. “Since the global prices of these items are mostly a pass through into domestic prices, a surge in global commodity prices have put significant pressure on the headline wholesale inflation.” Expenditure shift Spending patterns are starting to change as the second wave of the Covid progresses — a trend that industry needs to look at closely in the near term. An analysis by the SBI Economic Research team shows  health expenditure —  at 5 per cent of overall private final consumption expenditure — could increase at least 11 per cent from the current level as rising health costs start to show “meaningful impact in rural areas’’. The SBI study says health expenditure in the country which stood at Rs 6 lakh crore in 2019-20 could increase Rs 66,000 crore in ths fiscal. This is expected to squeeze discretionary consumer spending and have a major impact on FMCG companies. Discretionary spending could also be affected by rising fuel costs, the report said. “Item-wise inflation of Health CPI shows persistent month-on-month increase in inflation of non-institutional medicine, and X-ray, ECG, pathological tests. Even hospital and nursing home charges have increased in April 2021,” the SBI research team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
